{"id": "3467768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3467768", "title": "Agricultural spiritualism", "text": "Agricultural spiritualism\n\nAgricultural spiritualism or the Spirit of Agriculture refers to the idea that the concepts of food production and consumption and the essential spiritual nature of humanity are linked. It assumes that spirituality is inherent to human consciousness, is perhaps a product of it, and is accessible to all who cultivate it. The association with agriculture includes such agricultural metaphors as \"cultivate\" in language used by most mystics across history.\n\nFollowers of this idea state the following reasons to justify this link:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32772868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32772868", "title": "Allegory of the long spoons", "text": "Allegory of the long spoons\n\nThe allegory of the long spoons is a parable that shows the difference between heaven and hell by means of people forced to eat with long spoons. It is attributed to Rabbi Haim of Romshishok, as well as other sources.\n\nIn hell the people are unable to lift food to their mouths using such unwieldy cutlery, and are starving. In heaven, the diners feed one another across the table and are sated. The story can encourage people to be kind to each other. There are various interpretations of the fable including its use in sermons and in advice to lonely people.\n\nThe story suggests that people have the opportunity to use what they are given (the long spoons in this allegory) to help nourish each other, but the problem, as Haim points out, lies in how the people treat each other.\n\nGiven the same level playing field one group of people who treat each other well will create a pleasant environment. Whereas another group of people, given exactly the same tools to work with, can create unpleasant conditions simply by how they treat each other. Writer Dawn Eden suggests that this is a simple truth which can be easily forgotten by lonely people unable to see their situation clearly. She argues that such situations can be improved by reaching out to others.\n\nThe long spoons allegory has become part of the folklore of several cultures, for example: Jewish, Hindu, Buddhist, Oriental and Christian. In medieval Europe, the food in the story is a bowl of stew; in China, it is a bowl of rice being eaten with long chopsticks.\n\nIn some versions of the story the diners are using regular cutlery but are unable to bend their arms, with a story attributed to Rabbi Haim of Romshishok describing how \"both arms were splinted with wooden slats so he could not bend either elbow to bring the food to his mouth\".\n\nDuring conflict resolution in non-Western cultures communicating difficult truths is better through a third party who can make suggestions through such stories.\n\nWhile the parable itself is seldom depicted in art, it is well known and used in sermons when referring to hell, where the fashion for depicting hell in terrible, painful, gruesome terms is fading in recent times.\n\nThe parable is told by Norman McCay in the novelization of \"Kingdom Come\". In the 2011 Boardwalk Empire episode, \"Under God's Power She Flourishes\", Father Brennan tells Margaret the Allegory of the Long Spoons while Emily is fitted for leg braces. A scene in the 2013 thriller \"The East\" draws strong comparisons to the allegory when protagonist Sarah is depicted as selfish for neglecting to feed her adjacent diner, whilst in a straitjacket. It is also retold in Barbara Kingsolver's novel, \"The Bean Trees\".\n\nIn Scotland, it is often said \"It taks a lang spoon tae sup wi a Fifer\".\n\nCaritas made an animation video based on this allegory for their campaign \"One human family, food for all\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2471134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2471134", "title": "Bocheonism", "text": "Bocheonism\n\nBocheonism (Korean: 보천교 \"Bocheongyo\" or \"Pochonkyo\", \"religion of the vault of heaven/firmament\") was one among more than 100 new religious movements of Korea of the family of religions called Jeungsanism, rooted in Korean shamanism and recognizing Gang Il-sun (Kang Jeungsan) as the incarnation of Sangje, the Supreme God. It was founded by Cha Gyeong-seok (1880-1936) on Ibam Mountain in Daeheung-ri, Ibam-myeon, Jeongeup, Jeollabuk-do, in the year 1911. Today this site is part of Naejangsan National Park.\nCha Gyeong-seok was originally a Donghak (Cheondoist) priest, who converted to Jeungsanism after meeting Gang Il-Sun. After Gang's death, Goh Pan-Lye (Subu, literally “Head Lady,” 1880-1935, although in Kang's circle there was more than one \"Subu\"), a female disciple of Kang Jeungsan, around September 1911 gathered around her a number of Kang's followers. Cha Gyeong-seok was Goh’s male cousin and became the leader of Goh's branch. Dissatisfied with this situation, Goh separated from Cha in 1919 and established her own new religion. Cha continued under the name Bocheon-gyo, which was adopted in 1921, at a great ritual held in Hamyang County, Gyeongsangnam-do.\nEventually, Bocheonism became the largest Korean new religious movement and possibly the largest religion in Korea, with some six million followers, including leading activists in the Korean independence movements. Bocheonism, however, declined rapidly after Cha's death in 1936, and fragmented into several competing group, as did Goh's organization. The largest among these branches is Jeung San Do.\nCha prophesied that the unification of the world would take place beginning in Korea. Branches of Bocheonism are also credited with encouraging local culture in the Jeongeup region, including the pungmulgut performance tradition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "497380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=497380", "title": "Chosen people", "text": "Chosen people\n\nThroughout history, various groups of people have considered themselves to be chosen people by a deity for a purpose, such as to act as the deity's agent on earth. In monotheistic faiths references to God are used in constructs such as \"God's Chosen People\". The phenomenon of a \"chosen people\" is particularly common in the\nIsraelite tradition, where it originally referred to the Israelites—in fact Jews refer to this as a burden to spread the message of one God. Some claims of chosenness are based on parallel claims of Israelite ancestry, as is the case for the Christian Identity and Black Hebrew sects—both which claim themselves (and not Jews) to be the \"true Israel\". Others claim a \"spiritual\" chosenness, including most Christian denominations, who traditionally believe the church has replaced Israel as the People of God.\n\nAnthropologists commonly regard claims of chosenness as a form of ethnocentrism.\n\nIn Judaism, \"chosenness\" is the belief that the Jews, via descent from the ancient Israelites, are the chosen people, i.e. chosen to be in a covenant with God. The idea of the Israelites being chosen by God is found most directly in the Book of Deuteronomy as the verb \"bahar\" (), and is alluded to elsewhere in the Hebrew Bible using other terms such as \"holy people\". Much is written about these topics in rabbinic literature. The three largest Jewish denominations—Orthodox Judaism, Conservative Judaism and Reform Judaism—maintain the belief that the Jews have been chosen by God for a purpose. Sometimes this choice is seen as charging the Jewish people with a specific mission—to be a light unto the nations, and to exemplify the covenant with God as described in the Torah.\n\nIn Mormonism, all Latter Day Saints are viewed as covenant, or chosen, people because they have accepted the name of Jesus Christ through the ordinance of baptism. In contrast to supersessionism, Latter Day Saints do not dispute the \"chosen\" status of the Jewish people.\nMost practicing Mormons receive a patriarchal blessing that reveals their lineage in the House of Israel. This lineage may be blood related or through \"adoption;\" therefore, a child may not necessarily share the lineage of her parents (but will still be a member of the tribes of Israel). It is a widely held belief that most members of the faith are in the tribe of Ephraim or the tribe of Manasseh.\n\nThe Christian Identity movement sees the Anglo-Saxon, Germanic, Nordic and kindred peoples of the world as both the descendants of the ancient Israelites and the physical descendants of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Christian Identity, though not organized as a religion, comprises certain individuals, churches and some prison gangs with a white supremacist theology\nthat promotes a racial interpretation of Christianity. Christian Identity beliefs were primarily developed and promoted by two authors who regarded Europeans as the \"chosen people\" and Jews as the cursed offspring of Cain. White supremacist sects and gangs later adopted many of these teachings.\n\nBased on Jewish biblical tradition and Ethiopian legend via Kebra Nagast, Rastas believe that Israel's King Solomon, together with Ethiopian Queen of Sheba, conceived a child which began the Solomonic line of kings in Ethiopia, rendering the Ethiopian people as the true children of Israel, and thereby chosen. Reinforcement of this belief occurred when Beta Israel, Ethiopia's ancient Israelite First Temple community, were rescued from Sudanese famine and brought to Israel during Operation Moses in 1985.\n\nSun Myung Moon taught that Korea is the chosen nation, selected to serve a divine mission and was \"chosen by God to be the birthplace of the leading figure of the age\" and was the birthplace of \"Heavenly Tradition\", ushering in God's kingdom.\n\nThe NOI teaches that black people constitute a nation and that through the institution of the Atlantic slave trade they were systematically denied knowledge of their history, language, culture, and religion and, in effect, lost control of their lives. Founder Elijah Muhammad called for the establishment of a separate nation for black Americans and the adoption of a religion based on the worship of Allah and on the belief that blacks were his chosen people.\n\n"}
{"id": "185692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185692", "title": "Civil religion", "text": "Civil religion\n\nCivil religion, also referred to as a civic religion, is the implicit religious values of a nation, as expressed through public rituals, symbols (such as the national flag), and ceremonies on sacred days and at sacred places (such as monuments, battlefields, or national cemeteries). It is distinct from churches, although church officials and ceremonies are sometimes incorporated into the practice of civil religion. Countries described as having a civil religion include France, South Korea, and the former Soviet Union. As a concept, it originated in French political thought and became a major topic for U.S. sociologists since its use by Robert Bellah in 1960.\n\nJean-Jacques Rousseau coined the term in chapter 8, book 4 of \"The Social Contract\" (1762), to describe what he regarded as the moral and spiritual foundation essential for any modern society. For Rousseau, civil religion was intended simply as a form of social cement, helping to unify the state by providing it with sacred authority. In his book, Rousseau outlines the simple dogmas of the civil religion:\nThe Italian historian Emilio Gentile has studied the roots and development of the concept and proposed a division of two types of religions of politics: a civil religion and a political religion.\n\nIn the sociology of religion, civil religion is the folk religion of a nation or a political culture.\n\nCivil religion stands somewhat above folk religion in its social and political status, since by definition it suffuses an entire society, or at least a segment of a society; and is often practiced by leaders within that society. On the other hand, it is somewhat less than an establishment of religion, since established churches have official clergy and a relatively fixed and formal relationship with the government that establishes them. Civil religion is usually practiced by political leaders who are laypeople and whose leadership is not specifically spiritual.\n\nSuch civil religion encompasses such things as:\nand similar religious or quasi-religious practices.\n\nProfessional commentators on political and social matters writing in newspapers and magazines sometimes use the term civil religion or civic religion to refer to ritual expressions of patriotism of a sort practiced in all countries, not always including religion in the conventional sense of the word.\n\nAmong such practices are the following:\n\nThese two conceptions (sociological and political) of civil religion substantially overlap. In Britain, where church and state are constitutionally joined, the monarch's coronation is an elaborate religious rite celebrated by the Archbishop of Canterbury. In France, secular ceremonies are separated from religious observances to a greater degree than in most countries. In the United States, a president being inaugurated is told by the Constitution to choose between saying \"I do solemnly swear...\" (customarily followed by \"so help me God\", although those words are not Constitutionally required) and saying \"I do solemnly affirm...\" (in which latter case no mention of God would be expected).\n\nPractically all the ancient and prehistoric reigns suffused politics with religion. Often the leaders, such as the Pharaoh or the Chinese Emperor were considered manifestations of a Divinity. Tribal world-view was often Pantheistic, the tribe being an extension of its surrounding nature and the leaders having roles and symbols derived from the animal hierarchy and significant natural phenomena (such as storm).\n\nThe religion of the Athenian polis was a secular polytheism focused on the Olympian Gods and was celebrated in the civic festivals. Religion was a matter of state and the Athenian Ecclesia deliberated on matters of religion. Atheism and the introduction of foreign gods were forbidden in Athens and punishable by death. For example, the Athenian ecclesia charged that Socrates worshiped gods other than those sanctioned by the polis and condemned him to death.\n\nRome also had a civil religion, whose first Emperor Augustus officially attempted to revive the dutiful practice of classical paganism. Greek and Roman religion were essentially local in character; the Roman Empire attempted to unite its disparate territories by inculcating an ideal of Roman piety, and by a syncretistic identifying of the gods of conquered territories with the Greek and Roman pantheon. In this campaign, Augustus erected monuments such as the \"Ara Pacis\", the Altar of Peace, showing the Emperor and his family worshiping the gods. He also encouraged the publication of works such as Virgil's \"Æneid\", which depicted \"pious Æneas\", the legendary ancestor of Rome, as a role model for Roman religiosity. Roman historians such as Livy told tales of early Romans as morally improving stories of military prowess and civic virtue. The Roman civil religion later became centered on the person of the Emperor through the Imperial cult, the worship of the \"genius\" of the Emperor.\n\nThe phrase \"civil religion\" was first discussed extensively by Jean-Jacques Rousseau in his 1762 treatise \"The Social Contract\". Rousseau defined \"civil religion\" as a group of religious beliefs he believed to be universal, and which he believed governments had a right to uphold and maintain: belief in a deity; belief in an afterlife in which virtue is rewarded and vice punished; and belief in religious tolerance. He said the dogmas of civil religion should be simple, few in number, and stated in precise words without interpretations or commentaries. Beyond that, Rousseau affirmed that individuals' religious opinions should be beyond the reach of governments. For Rousseau civil religion was to be constructed and imposed from the top down as an artificial source of civic virtue.\n\nWallace studies Émile Durkheim (1858–1917), the French sociologist who analysed civil religion, especially in comparative terms, and stressed that the public schools are critical in implementing civil religion. Although he never used the term he laid great stress on the concept.\n\nSecular states in Europe by the late 19th century were building civil religion based on their recent histories. In France's case, Baylac argues, the French government:\nIn contemporary South Korea, the predominating civil religion has been described as consisting of anti-Japanese sentiment coupled with a pan-Korean racial nationalism. This has been criticized by some scholars as being detrimental to South Korean national security as it encourages North Korean provocations against the country in the guise that South Koreans will not adequately defend their country's security as they feel a certain racial and ethnic solidarity with North Korea. One scholar argued that South Korea should retire this sort of racialized civil religion for one more rooted in civic principles, like was found in West Germany during the 20th century.\n\nThe Soviet Union made Marxism–Leninism into a civil religion, with sacred texts and many statues of Marx, Lenin, and Stalin. Stalin personally supervised the cult of Lenin and his own cult, which took advantage of the historic semi-religious adulation Russian peasants had shown toward the tsars. The Lenin icons were put into storage when communism fell in 1991. The Stalin statues had been removed in the 1950s and mention of him was erased from encyclopedias and history books. However under Vladimir Putin in the 21st century the memory of Stalin has been partly rehabilitated in search of a strong leader who made the nation powerful. For example, school textbooks were rewritten to portray \"the mass terror of the Stalin years as essential to the country's rapid modernization in the face of growing German and Japanese military threats, and amid the inaction or duplicity of the Western democracies.\"\n\nCivil religion is an important component of public life in America, especially at the national level for its celebration of nationalism. Sociologists report that its \"feast days\" are Thanksgiving, Veterans Day, and Memorial Day. Its rituals include salutes to the flag and singing \"God Bless America\". Soldiers and veterans play a central role of standing ready to sacrifice their lives to preserve the nation. Bellah noted the veneration of veterans. The historian Conrad Cherry called the Memorial Day ceremonies \"a modern cult of the dead\" and says that it \"affirms the civil religious tenets.\"\n\nThe American Revolution was the main source of the civil religion that has shaped patriotism ever since. According to the sociologist Robert Bellah:\nAlbanese argues that the American Revolution was the main source of the non-denominational American civil religion that has shaped patriotism and the memory and meaning of the nation's birth ever since. Battles are not central (as they are for the Civil War) but rather certain events and people have been celebrated as icons of certain virtues (or vices). As historians have noted, the Revolution produced a Moses-like leader (George Washington), prophets (Thomas Jefferson, Tom Paine) and martyrs (Boston Massacre, Nathan Hale), as well as devils (Benedict Arnold), sacred places (Valley Forge, Bunker Hill), rituals (Boston Tea Party), emblems (the new flag), sacred holidays (July 4) and a holy scripture whose every sentence is carefully studied and applied in current law cases (the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, and the Bill of Rights).\n\nAlthough \"God\" is not mentioned in the Constitution of the United States of America, mention is specifically made of \"Nature's God\" in the opening sentence of the Declaration of Independence.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, scholars such as Robert N. Bellah and Martin E. Marty studied civil religion as a cultural phenomenon, attempting to identify the actual tenets of civil religion in the United States, or to study civil religion as a phenomenon of cultural anthropology. Within this American context, Marty wrote that Americans approved of \"religion in general\" without being particularly concerned about the content of that faith, and attempted to distinguish \"priestly\" and \"prophetic\" roles within the practice of American civil religion, which he preferred to call the \"public theology\". In the 1967 essay \"Civil Religion in America\", Bellah wrote that civil religion in its priestly sense is \"an institutionalized collection of sacred beliefs about the American nation.\" Bellah describes the prophetic role of civil religion as challenging \"national self-worship\" and calling for \"the subordination of the nation to ethical principles that transcend it in terms of which it should be judged.\" Bellah identified the American Revolution, the Civil War, and the Civil Rights Movement as three decisive historical events that impacted the content and imagery of civil religion in the United States.\n\nThe application of the concept of civil religion to the United States was in large part the work of sociologist Robert Bellah. He identified an elaborate system of practices and beliefs arising from America's unique historic experience and religiosity. Civil religion in the US was originally Protestant but brought in Catholics and Jews after World War II. Having no association with any religious sect, Civil religion was used in the 1960s to justify civil rights legislation. Americans ever since the colonial era talk of their obligation both collective and individual to carry out God's will on earth. George Washington was a sort of high priest, and the documents of the Founding Fathers have been treated as almost sacred texts. With the Civil War, says Bellah, came a new theme of death, sacrifice and rebirth, as expressed through Memorial Day rituals. Unlike France, the American civil religion was never anticlerical or militantly secular.\n\nThis assertive civil religion of the United States is an occasional cause of political friction between the US and Europe, where the literally religious form of civil religion has largely faded away in recent decades. In the United States, civil religion is often invoked under the name of \"Judeo-Christian ethics\", a phrase originally intended to be maximally inclusive of the several religions practiced in the United States, assuming that these faiths all share the same values. Alvin J. Schmidt argues that since the 1700s, expressions of civil religion in the United States have shifted from a deistic to a polytheistic stance.\n\nSome scholars have argued that the American flag can be seen as a main totem of a national cult, while others have argued that modern punishment is a form of civil religion. Arguing against mob violence and lynching, Abraham Lincoln declared in his 1838 Lyceum speech that the Constitution and the laws of the United States ought to become the \"political religion\" of each American.\n"}
{"id": "14804462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14804462", "title": "Clergy of the Church of England database", "text": "Clergy of the Church of England database\n\nThe Clergy of the Church of England database (CCEd) is an online database of clergy of the Church of England between 1540 and 1835. \n\nThe database project began in 1999 with funding from the Arts and Humanities Research Council, and is ongoing as a collaboration between King's College London, the University of Kent and Durham University. As of September 2014, the database contained nearly 1.5 million evidential records about the careers of Church of England clergy, and the public version of the database had information on over 155,000 individuals.\n\nThe CCEd has had three joint-directors since 1999:\n\n"}
{"id": "5104141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5104141", "title": "Criticism of Judaism", "text": "Criticism of Judaism\n\nCriticism of Judaism refers to criticism of Jewish religious doctrines, texts, laws and practices. Early criticism originated in inter-faith polemics between Christianity and Judaism. Important disputations in the Middle Ages gave rise to widely publicized criticisms. Modern criticisms also reflect the inter-branch Jewish schisms between Orthodox Judaism, Conservative Judaism, and Reform Judaism.\n\nBaruch Spinoza, Mordecai Kaplan, and prominent atheists have criticized Judaism because its theology and religious texts describe a personal God who has conversations with important figures from ancient Israel (Moses, Abraham, etc.) and forms relationships and covenants with the Jewish people. Spinoza and Kaplan instead believed God is abstract, impersonal, or a force of nature. Theologian and philosopher Franz Rosenzweig suggested that the two viewpoints are both valid and are complementary within Judaism.\n\nMost branches of Judaism consider Jews to be the \"chosen people\" in the sense that they have special role to \"preserve God's revelations\" or to \"affirm our common humanity\". This attitude is reflected, for example, in the policy statement of Reform Judaism which holds that Jews have a responsibility to \"cooperate with all men in the establishment of the kingdom of God, of universal brotherhood, Justice, truth and peace on earth.\" Some secular and critics affiliated with other religions claim the concept implies favoritism or superiority, as have some Jewish critics, such as Baruch Spinoza. \nMany Jews find the concept of chosenness problematic or an anachronism, and such concerns led to the formation of Reconstructionist Judaism, whose founder, Mordecai Kaplan, rejected the concept of the Jews as the chosen people and argued that the view of the Jews as the chosen people was ethnocentric.\n\nConservative Judaism is criticized by some leaders of Orthodox Judaism for not properly following Halakha (Jewish religious law). It is also criticized by some leaders of Reform Judaism for being at odds with the principles of its young adult members on issues such as intermarriage, patrilineal descent, and the ordination of homosexuals — all issues that Conservative Judaism opposes and Reform Judaism supports. (The Conservative movement has since moved in the direction of allowing for gay rabbis and the \"celebration of same-sex commitment ceremonies.\")\n\nThe reform movement grew out of dissatisfaction with several aspects of traditional Judaism or Rabbinic Judaism, as documented in polemics and other 19th- and early-20th-century writings. Louis Jacobs, a prominent Masorti Rabbi, described the polemics between the Orthodox and the Reform movements as follows: \nDavid Einhorn, an American Reform rabbi, calls Reform Judaism a \"liberation\" of Judaism : \n\nThe criticisms of traditional Judaism included criticisms asserting that the Torah's laws are not strictly binding; criticisms asserting that many ceremonies and rituals are not necessary; criticisms asserting that Rabbinical leadership is too authoritarian; criticisms asserting that there was too much superstition; criticisms asserting that traditional Judaism leads to isolation from other communities; and criticisms asserting that traditional Judaism over-emphasized the exile.\n\nSome of these criticisms were anticipated in a much earlier time, by philosopher Uriel da Costa (1585–1640) who criticized the Rabbinic authorities and the Talmud for lack of authenticity and spirituality.\n\nPaul criticizes Jews for their failure to believe that Jesus was the Messiah (Romans 9:30–10:13) and for their view about their favored status and lack of equality with gentiles (Roman 3:27). In Romans 7–12, one criticism of Judaism made by Paul is that it is a religion based in law instead of faith. In many interpretations of this criticism made prior to the mid 20th century, Judaism was held to be fundamentally flawed by the sin of self-righteousness. The issue is complicated by differences in the versions of Judaism extant at the time. Some scholars argue that Paul's criticism of Judaism are correct, others suggest that Paul's criticism is directed at Hellenistic Judaism, the forms with which Paul was most familiar, rather than Rabbinic Judaism, which eschewed the militant line of Judaism which Paul embraced prior to his conversion. There is also the question as to whom Paul was addressing. Paul saw himself as an apostle to the Gentiles, and it is unclear as to whether the text of Romans was directed to Jewish followers of Jesus (as was Paul), to Gentiles, or to both. If adherence to Jewish law were a requirement for salvation, then salvation would be denied to Gentiles without a conversion to Judaism. Krister Stendahl argues along similar lines that according to Paul, Judaism's rejection of Jesus as a savior is what allows salvation of non-Jews, that this rejection is part of God's overall plan, and that Israel will also be saved (per Romans 11:26–27).\nSome scholars argue that the fundamental issue underlying Paul's criticism of Judaism hinges on his understanding of Judaism's relationship to Jewish law. E. P. Sanders, for example, argues that the view held by many New Testament scholars from Weber on, represent a caricature of Judaism and that this interpretation of Paul's criticism is thus flawed by the misunderstanding of the tenets of Judaism. Sanders' interpretation asserts Judaism is instead best understood as a \"covenantal nominism\", in which God's grace is given and affirmed in the covenant, to which the appropriate response is to live within the bounds established in order to preserve the relationship. James Dunn agrees with Sanders' view that Paul would not have criticized Judaism for claiming that salvation comes from adherence to the law or the performance of good works, since those are not tenets of Judaism, but argues against Sanders that Paul's criticism of Judaism represents a rebuttal of the \"xenophobic\" and ethnocentric form of Judaism to which Paul had previously belonged. Dunn argues that Paul does not see his position as a betrayal of Judaism, but rather represents development of an open Judaism. A similar argument is presented by George Smiga, who claims that criticism of Judaism found in the New Testament are best understood as varieties of religious polemic, intended as a call to conversion rather than criticism in the sense of common usage.\n\nThe idea that Judaism, and the Jewish people collectively, are responsible for the death of Jesus, often represented in the claim that \"Jews killed Jesus\", figures prominently in anti-Semitic writings. It was initially stated by Paul in the New Testament (). The Roman Catholic church formally disavowed its long complicity in anti-Semitism by issuing a proclamation in 1965 repudiating the notion that the Jewish people bore any guilt for Jesus's death.\n\nA prominent place in the Qur'anic polemic against the Jews is given to the conception of the religion of Abraham. The Qur'an presents Muslims as neither Jews nor Christians but followers of Abraham who was in a physical sense the father of the Jews and the Arabs and lived before the revelation of Torah. In order to show that the religion practiced by the Jews is not the pure religion of Abraham, the Qur'an mentions the incident of worshiping of the calf, argues that Jews do not believe in part of the revelation given to them, and that their taking of usury shows their worldliness and disobedience of God. Furthermore, the Quran claims they attribute to God what he has not revealed. According to the Qur'an, the Jews exalted a figure named Uzair as the \"son of God\" (see the Quranic statements about perceived Jewish exaltation). The character of Ezra, who was presumed to be the figure mentioned by the Qur'an (albeit with no corroborative evidence to suggest Ezra and Uzair to be the same person) became important in the works of the later Andalusian Muslim scholar Ibn Hazm, who explicitly accused Ezra of being a liar and a heretic who falsified and added interpolations into the Biblical text. In his polemic against Judaism, Ibn Hazm provided a list of what he said were chronological and geographical inaccuracies and contradictions; theological impossibilities (anthropomorphic expressions, stories of fornication and whoredom, and the attributing of sins to prophets), as well as lack of reliable transmission (tawatur) of the text. Heribert Busse writes \"The only explanation is the presumption that Muhammad, in the heat of debate, wanted to accuse the Jews of heretical doctrine on a par with the heresy of the Christian doctrine that teaches the divine nature of Jesus. In doing so, he could take advantage of the high esteem granted Ezra in Judaism.\"\n\nPhilosophical criticism of Judaism is either part of religious criticism in general, or specifically focused on aspects unique to the Jewish religion. Immanuel Kant is an example of the latter. Kant believed that Judaism fails to \"satisfy the essential criteria of [a] religion\" by requiring external obedience to moral laws, having a secular focus, and lacking a concern for immortality.\n\nKosher slaughter has historically attracted criticism from non-Jews as allegedly being inhumane and unsanitary, in part as an antisemitic canard that eating ritually slaughtered meat caused degeneration, and in part out of economic motivation to remove Jews from the meat industry. Sometimes, however, these criticisms were directed at Judaism as a religion. In 1893, animal advocates campaigning against kosher slaughter in Aberdeen attempted to link cruelty with Jewish religious practice. In the 1920s, Polish critics of kosher slaughter claimed that the practice actually had no basis in scripture. In contrast, Jewish authorities argue that the slaughter methods are based directly upon (), and that \"these laws are binding on Jews today.\"\n\nMore recently, kosher slaughter has attracted criticism from some groups concerned with animal welfare, who contend that the absence of any form of anesthesia or stunning prior to the severance of the animal's jugular vein causes unnecessary pain and suffering. Calls for the abolition of kosher slaughter have been made in 2008 by Germany's federal chamber of veterinarians, and in 2011 by the Party for Animals in the Dutch parliament. In both incidents, Jewish groups responded that the criticisms were attacks against their religion.\n\nSupporters of kosher slaughter counter that Judaism requires the practice precisely because it is considered humane. Research conducted by Temple Grandin and Joe M. Regenstein shows that, practiced correctly with proper restraint systems, kosher slaughter results in little pain and suffering, and notes that behavioral reactions to the incision made during kosher slaughter are less than those to noises such as clanging or hissing, inversion or pressure during restraint.\n\nThe Jewish practice of brit milah, or circumcision of infant males, has been criticized in both ancient and modern times as painful and cruel, or tantamount to genital mutilation due to its being conducted without the boy's consent.\n\nHellenistic culture found circumcision to be repulsive, circumcision was regarded as a physical deformity, and circumcised men were forbidden to participate in the Olympic Games. Some Hellenistic Jews practised epispasm. In the Roman Empire, circumcision was regarded as a barbaric and disgusting custom. According to the Talmud, the consul Titus Flavius Clemens was condemned to death by the Roman Senate in 95 CE for circumcising himself and converting to Judaism. The emperor Hadrian (117-138) forbade circumcision.\nPaul expressed similar sentiments about circumcision, calling it \"mutilation\" in Philippians 3. \"Watch out for those dogs, those evildoers, those mutilators of the flesh.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9831038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9831038", "title": "Declaration of faith", "text": "Declaration of faith\n\nA declaration of faith is a phrase that is said by a member of any religion to show either to themselves, their God or other members of the religion their belief and faith in the religion. Notable declarations of faith include the Sign of the Cross in Christianity, the Shahadah in Islam and the Shema Yisrael in Judaism.\n\nThere are numerous other declarations of faith, typically performed during religious rituals in many faiths. Often, the declaration of faith is led by the leader of the congregation and followers respond in kind.\n\n"}
{"id": "5530157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5530157", "title": "Deconsecration", "text": "Deconsecration\n\nDeconsecration is the act of removing a religious blessing from something that had been previously consecrated by a minister or priest of that religion. The practice is usually performed on churches to be rendered to non-religious (secular) use or demolished.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19395812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19395812", "title": "Disputationes", "text": "Disputationes\n\nDisputationes (full title: Disputationes de Controversiis Christianae Fidei adversus hujus temporis Haereticos, also referred to as De Controversiis) is a work on dogmatics by Robert Bellarmine. It has been described as \"the definitive defence of papal power\". After its publication, Bellarmine was regarded as Rome's foremost apologist on doctrine and papal power.\n\nIt was written while Bellarmine was lecturing at the Roman College, and was first published at Ingolstadt in three volumes (1581, 1582, 1593) or four. This work was the earliest attempt to systematize the various controversies of the time, and made an immense impression throughout Europe, the strength of its arguments against Protestantism so acutely felt in Germany and England that special chairs were founded in order to provide replies to it. Thomas Hobbes, Theodore Beza and John Rainolds were among those who wrote counter-arguments against the work.\n\nThe first volume treats of the Word of God, of Christ, and of the pope; the second of the authority of ecumenical councils, and of the Church, whether militant, suffering, or triumphant; the third of the sacraments; and the fourth of Divine grace, free will, justification, and good works.\n\nAs much as Protestants disliked Bellarmine's theories, he was in fact moderate in his defence of papal power. In 1590, Pope Sixtus V had, or very nearly had, the first volume placed on the Index Librorum Prohibitorum for denying temporal hegemony to the papacy. Bellarmine's reasoning was that though the pope is the vicar of Christ, since Christ did not \"exercise\" his temporal power, nor may the pope.\n\nThe most important part of the work is contained in the five books regarding the pope. In these, after a speculative introduction on forms of government in general, holding monarchy to be relatively the best, Bellarmine says that a monarchical government and the related temporal power are necessary for the Church, to preserve unity and order in it.\n\nSuch power Bellarmine considers to have been established by the commission of Christ to Saint Peter. He then proceeds to demonstrate that this power has been transmitted to the successors of Peter, admitting that a heretical pope may be freely judged and deposed by the Church since by the very fact of his heresy he would cease to be pope, or even a member of the Church.\n\nThe third section discusses the Antichrist. Bellarmine gives in full the theory set forth by the Church Fathers, of a personal Antichrist to come just before the end of the world and to be accepted by the Jews and enthroned in the Temple in Jerusalem—thus endeavoring to dispose of the Protestant exposition which saw in the pope the Antichrist.\n\nThe fourth section sets forth the pope as the supreme judge in matters of faith and morals, though making the concessions that the pope may err in questions of fact which may be known by ordinary human knowledge, and also when he speaks as a mere unofficial theologian. Bellarmine took in particular the example of Pope Honorius I, who had been anathemized by the Third Council of Constantinople as holding to monothelitism. He claimed that although monothelitism had been rightly condemned, Honorius was however orthodox as he had not really held these views, and that papal authority did not extend itself to the factual interpretation of what was to be found in Honorius or not.\n\nThough several books of this work have been translated into English in the past, only recently is it seeing its first complete translation project in full, in an English translation made by Ryan Grant. Several parts of the work have been translated, and the whole project will be resumed to after the translation project of Theologia Moralis by Saint Alphonsus Liguori is completed.\n"}
{"id": "212485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212485", "title": "Earth religion", "text": "Earth religion\n\nEarth religion is a term used mostly in the context of neopaganism.\n\nEarth-centered religion or nature worship is a system of religion based on the veneration of natural phenomena. It covers any religion that worships the earth, nature, or fertility deity, such as the various forms of goddess worship or matriarchal religion. Some find a connection between earth-worship and the Gaia hypothesis. Earth religions are also formulated to allow one to utilize the knowledge of preserving the earth.\n\nAccording to Marija Gimbutas, pre-Indo-European societies lived in small-scale, family-based communities that practiced matrilineal succession and goddess-centered religion where creation comes from the woman. She is the Divine Mother who can give life and take it away. In Irish mythology she is Danu, in Slavic mythology she is Mat Zemlya, and in other cultures she is Pachamama, Ninsun, Terra Mater, Nüwa, Matres or Shakti.\n\nIn the late 1800s, James Weir wrote an article describing the beginnings and aspects of early religious feeling. According to Boyer, early man was forced to locate food and shelter in order to survive, while constantly being directed by his instincts and senses. Because man's existence depended on nature, men began to form their religion and beliefs on and around nature itself. It is evident that man's first religion would have had to develop from the material world, he argues, because man relied heavily on his senses and what he could see, touch, and feel. In this sense, the worship of nature formed, allowing man to further depend on nature for survival.\n\nNeopagans have tried to make claims that religion started in ways that correspond to earth religion. In one of their published works, \"The Urantia Book\", another reason for this worship of nature came from a fear of the world around primitive man. His mind lacked the complex function of processing and sifting through complex ideas. As a result, man worshiped the very entity that surrounded him every day. That entity was nature. Man experienced the different natural phenomena around him, such as storms, vast deserts, and immense mountains. Among the very first parts of nature to be worshiped were rocks and hills, plants and trees, animals, the elements, heavenly bodies, and even man himself. As primitive man worked his way through nature worship, he eventually moved on to incorporate spirits into his worship. Although these claims may have some merit, they are nonetheless presented from a biased position that cannot be authenticated by traditional and reliable sources. Therefore, their claims can not be relied upon.\n\nThe origins of religion can be looked at through the lens of the function and processing of the human mind. Pascal Boyer suggests that, for the longest period of time, the brain was thought of as a simple organ of the body. However, he claims that the more information collected about the brain indicates that the brain is indeed not a \"blank slate.\" Humans do not just learn any information from the environment and surroundings around them. They have acquired sophisticated cognitive equipment that prepares them to analyze information in their culture and determine which information is relevant and how to apply it. Boyer states that \"having a normal human brain does not imply that you have religion. All it implies is that people can acquire it, which is very different.\" He suggests that religions started for the reasons of providing answers to humans, giving comfort, providing social order to society, and satisfying the need of the illusion-prone nature of the human mind. Ultimately, religion came into existence because of our need to answer questions and hold together our societal order.\n\nAn additional idea on the origins of religion comes not from man's cognitive development, but from the ape. Barbara J. King argues that human beings have an emotional connection with those around them, and that that desire for a connection came from their evolution from apes. The closest relative to the human species is the African ape. At birth, the ape begins negotiating with its mother about what it wants and needs in order to survive. The world the ape is born into is saturated with close family and friends. Because of this, emotions and relationships play a huge role in the ape's life. Its reactions and responses to one another are rooted and grounded in a sense of belongingness, which is derived from its dependence on the ape's mother and family. Belongingness is defined as \"mattering to someone who matters to you ... getting positive feelings from our relationships.\" This sense and desire for belongingness, which started in apes, only grew as the hominid (a human ancestor) diverged from the lineage of the ape, which occurred roughly six to seven million years ago.\n\nAs severe changes in the environment, physical evolutions in the human body (especially in the development of the human brain), and changes in social actions occurred, humans went beyond trying to simply form bonds and relationships of empathy with others. As their culture and society became more complex, they began using practices and various symbols to make sense of the natural and spiritual world around them. Instead of simply trying to find belongingness and empathy from the relationships with others, humans created and evolved God and spirits in order to fulfil that need and exploration. King argued that \"an earthly need for belonging led to human religious imagination and thus to the otherworldly realm of relating to God, gods, and spirits.\"\n\nThe term \"earth religion\" encompasses any religion that worships the earth, nature or fertility gods or goddesses. There is an array of groups and beliefs that fall under earth religion, such as paganism, which is a polytheistic, nature based religion; animism, which is the worldview that all living entities (plants, animals, and humans) possess a spirit; Wicca, who hold the concept of an earth mother goddess as well as practice ritual magic; and druidism, which equates divinity with the natural world.\n\nAnother perspective of earth religion to consider is pantheism, which takes a varied approach to the importance and purpose of the earth, and man's relationship with the planet. Several of their core statements deal with the connectivity humans share with the planet, declaring that \"all matter, energy, and life are an interconnected unity of which we are an inseparable part\" and \"we are an integral part of Nature, which we should cherish, revere and preserve in all its magnificent beauty and diversity. We should strive to live in harmony with Nature locally and globally\".\n\nThe earth also plays a vital role to many Voltaic peoples, many of whom \"consider the Earth to be Heaven’s wife\", such as the Konkomba of northern Ghana, whose economic, social and religious life is heavily influenced by the earth. It is also important to consider various Native American religions, such as Peyote Religion, Longhouse Religion, and Earth Lodge Religion.\n\nApril 22 was established as International Mother Earth Day by the United Nations in 2009, but many cultures around the world have been celebrating the Earth for thousands of years. Winter solstice and Summer solstice are celebrated with holidays like Yule and Dongzhi in the winter and Tiregān and Kupala in the summer.\n\nAnimism is practiced among the Bantu peoples of Sub-Saharan Africa. The Dahomey mythology has deities like Nana Buluku, Gleti, Mawu, Asase Yaa, Naa Nyonmo and Xevioso.\n\nIn Baltic mythology, the sun is a female deity, Saule, a mother or a bride, and Mēness is the moon, father or husband, their children being the stars. In Slavic mythology Mokosh and Mat Zemlya together with Perun head up the pantheon. Celebrations and rituals are centered on nature and harvest seasons. Dragobete is a traditional Romanian spring holiday that celebrates \"the day when the birds are betrothed.\"\n\nIn Hindu philosophy, the yoni is the creative power of nature and the origin of life. In Shaktism, the yoni is celebrated and worshipped during the Ambubachi Mela, an annual fertility festival which celebrates the Earth's menstruation.\n\nAlthough the idea of earth religion has been around for thousands of years, it did not fully show up in popular culture until the early 1990s. \"The X-Files\" was one of the first nationally broadcast television programs to air witchcraft and Wicca (types of earth religion) content. On average, Wiccans - those who practice Wicca - were more or less pleased with the way the show had portrayed their ideals and beliefs. However, they still found it to be a little \"sensationalistic\". That same year, the movie \"The Craft\" was released - also depicting the art of Wicca. Unfortunately, this cinematic feature was not as happily accepted as \"The X-Files\" had been.\n\nA few years later, programs showcasing the aforementioned religious practices - such as \"Charmed\" and \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" - became widely popular. Although \"Charmed\" focused mostly on witchcraft, the magic they practiced very closely resembled Wicca. Meanwhile, \"Buffy\" was one of the first shows to actually cast a Wiccan character. However, since the shows focus was primarily on vampires, the Wiccan was depicted as having supernatural powers, rather than being in-tuned with the Earth.\n\nOther movies and shows throughout the last few decades have also been placed under the genre of Earth Religion. Among them are two of director Hayao Miyazaki's most well known films - \"Princess Mononoke\" and \"My Neighbor Totoro\". Both movies present human interaction with land, animal, and other nature spirits. Speakers for Earth Religion have said that these interactions suggest overtones of Earth Religion themes.\n\nSome popular Disney movies have also been viewed as Earth Religion films. Among them are \"The Lion King\" and \"Brother Bear\". Those who practice Earth Religion view \"The Lion King\" as an Earth Religion film mainly for the \"interconnectedness\" and \"Circle of Life\" it shows between the animals, plants, and life in general. When that link is broken, viewers see chaos and despair spread throughout the once bountiful land. Congruently, \"Brother Bear\" portrays interactions and consequences when humans disobey or go against the animal and Earth spirits.\n\nOther earth religion movies include \"The 13th Warrior\", \"The Deceivers (film)\", \"Sorceress (1982 film)\", \"Anchoress (film)\", \"Eye of the Devil\", \"Agora (film)\", and \"The Wicker Man (1973 film)\". These movies all contain various aspects of earth religion and nature worship in general.\n\nMany religions have negative stereotypes of earth religion and neo-paganism in general. A common critique of the worship of nature and resources of \"Mother Earth\" is that the rights of nature and ecocide movements are inhibitors of human progress and development. This argument is fueled by the fact that those people socialized into 'western' world views believe the earth itself is not a living being. Wesley Smith believes this is “anti-humanism with the potential to do real harm to the human family.” According to Smith, earth worshipers are hindering large-scale development, and they are viewed as inhibitors of advancement.\n\nA lot of criticism of earth religion comes from the negative actions of a few people who have been chastised for their actions. One such negative representative of earth religion is Aleister Crowley. He is believed to be \"too preoccupied with awakening magical powers\" instead of putting the well-being of others in his coven. Crowley allegedly looked up to \"Old George\" Pickingill, who was another worshipper of nature who was viewed negatively. Critics regarded Pickingill as a Satanist and \"England’s most notorious Witch\".\n\nCrowley himself was \"allegedly expelled from the Craft because he was a pervert.\" He became aroused by torture and pain, and enjoyed being \"punished\" by women. This dramatically damaged Crowley’s public image, because of his lifestyle and actions. Many people regarded all followers of earth religion as perverted Satanists.\n\nFollowers of earth religion have suffered major opprobrium over the years for allegedly being Satanists. Some religious adherents can be prone to viewing religions other than their religion as being wrong sometimes because they perceive those religions as characteristic of their concept of Satan worship. To wit, Witchcraft, a common practice of Wiccans, is sometimes misinterpreted as Satan worship by members of these groups, as well as less-informed persons who may not be specifically religious but who may reside within the sphere-of-influence of pagan-critical religious adherents. From the Wiccan perspective, however, earth religion and Wicca lie outside of the phenomenological world that encompasses Satanism. An all-evil being does not exist within the religious perspective of western earth religions. Devotees worship and celebrate earth resources and earth-centric deities. Satanism and Wicca \"have entirely different beliefs about deity, different rules for ethical behavior, different expectations from their membership, different views of the universe, different seasonal days of celebration, etc.\"\n\nNeo-pagans, or earth religion followers, often claim to be unaffiliated with Satanism. Neo-pagans, Wiccans, and earth religion believers do not acknowledge the existence of a deity that conforms to the common Semitic sect religious concept of Satan. Satanism stems from Christianity, while earth religion stems from older religious concepts.\n\nSome earth religion adherents take issue with the religious harassment that is inherent in the social pressure that necessitates their having to distance themselves from the often non-uniform, Semitic sect religious concept of Satan worship. Having to define themselves as \"other\" from a religious concept that is not within their worldview implies a certain degree of outsider-facilitated, informal, but functional religious restriction that is based solely on the metaphysical and mythological religious beliefs of those outsiders. This is problematic because outsider initiated comparisons to Satanism with the intent of condemnation, even when easily refuted, can have the effect of social pressure on earth religion adherents to conform to outsider perception of acceptable customs, beliefs, and modes of religious behavior.\n\nTo illustrate, a problem could arise with the \"other\" than Satanism argument if an earth centered belief system adopted a holiday that a critic considered to be similar or identical to a holiday that Satanists celebrate. Satanists have historically been prone to adopting holidays that have origins in various pagan traditions, ostensibly because these traditional holidays are amongst the last known vestiges of traditional pre-Semitic religious practice in the west. Satanists are, perhaps irrationally, prone to interpreting non-Semitic holidays as anti-Christian and therefore as implicitly representative of their worldview. This is not surprising given the fact that this is, in fact, how many Christians interpret holidays such as Samhain. In spite of any flawed perceptions or rationale held by any other group, earth centered religion adherents do not recognize misinterpretation of their customs made by outside religious adherents or critics inclusive of Satan worshippers.\n\nOrganized Satan worship, as defined by and anchored in the Semitic worldview, is characterized by a relatively disorganized and often disparate series of movements and groups that mostly emerged in the mid-20th century. Thus, their adopted customs have varied, continue to vary, and therefore this moving target of beliefs and customs can not be justifiably nor continuously accounted for by earth centered religious adherents. Once a Satanist group adopts a holiday, social stigma may unjustifiably taint the holiday and anyone who observes it without discrimination as to whence and for what purpose it was originally celebrated. Given these facts, many earth centered religion devotees find comparisons to Satanism intrinsically oppressive in nature. This logic transfers to any and all religious customs to include prayer, magic, ceremony, and any unintentional similarity in deity characteristics (an example is the horned traditional entity Pan having similar physical characteristics to common horned depictions of Satan).\n\nThe issue is further complicated by the theory that the intra and extra-biblical mythology of Satan that is present throughout various Semitic sects may have originally evolved to figuratively demonize the heathen religions of other groups. Thus, the concept of Satan, or \"the adversary\", would have been representative of all non-Semitic religions and, by extension, the people who believed in them. Although, at times, the concept of the \"other\" as demonic has also been used to characterize competing Semitic sects. Amongst other purposes, such belief would have been extraordinarily useful during the psychological and physical process of cleansing Europe of traditional tribal beliefs in favor of Christianity. This possibility would account for the historical tendency of Christian authorities, for example, to deem most pagan customs carried out in the pagan religious context as demonic. By any modern standard, such current beliefs would violate western concepts of religious tolerance as well as be inimical to the preservation of what remains of the culture of long-persecuted religious groups.\n\nBecause of the vast diversity of religions that fall under the title of \"earth religion\" there is no consensus of beliefs. However, the ethical beliefs of most religions overlap. The most well-known ethical code is the Wiccan Rede. Many of those who practice an earth religion choose to be environmentally active. Some perform activities such as recycling or composting while others feel it to be more productive to try and support the earth spiritually. These six beliefs about ethics seem to be universal.\n\n\"An [if] it harm none, do what ye will.\" Commonly worded in modern English as \"if it doesn't harm anyone, do what you want.\" This maxim was first printed in 1964, after being spoken by the priestess Doreen Valiente in the mid-20th century, and governs most ethical belief of Wiccans and some Pagans. There is no consensus of beliefs but this rede provides a starting point for most people's interpretation of what is ethical. The rede clearly states to do no harm but what constitutes as harm and what level of self-interest is acceptable is negotiable. Many Wiccans reverse the phrase into \"Do what ye will an it harm none,\" meaning \"Do what you want if it doesn't harm anyone.\" The difference may not seem significant but it is. The first implies that it is good to do no harm but does not say that it is necessarily unethical to do so, the second implies that all forms of harm are unethical. The second phrase is nearly impossible to follow. This shift occurred when trying to better adapt the phrase into modern English as well as to stress the \"harmlessness\" of Wiccans. The true nature of the rede simply implies that there is personal responsibility for your actions. You may do as you wish but there is a karma reaction from every action. Even though this is the most well-known rede of practice, it does not mean that those that choose not to follow it are unethical. There are many other laws of practice that other groups follow.\n\nThe Threefold Law is the belief that for all actions there is always a cause and effect. For every action taken either the good or ill intention will be returned to the action taker threefold. This is why the Wiccan Rede is typically followed because of fear of the threefold return from that harmful action.\n\nThis term is what Emma Restall Orr calls reverence for the earth in her book \"Living with Honour: A Pagan Ethics\". She separates the term into three sections: courage, generosity and loyalty, or honesty, respect and responsibility. There is no evil force in Nature. Nothing exists beyond the natural, therefore it is up to the individual to choose to be ethical not because of divine judgment. All beings are connected by the earth and so all should be treated fairly. There is a responsibility toward the environment and a harmony should be found with nature.\n\nThe following was written by the Church of All Worlds in 1988 and was affirmed by the Pagan Ecumenical Conferences of Ancient Ways (California, May 27–30) and Pagan Spirit Gathering (Wisconsin, June 17). The Pagan Community Council of Ohio then presented it to the Northeast Council of W.I.C.C.A.\n\n\"We, the undersigned, as adherents of Pagan and Old and Neo-Pagan Earth Religions, including Wicca or Witchcraft, practice a variety of positive, life affirming faiths that are dedicated to healing, both of ourselves and of the Earth. As such, we do not advocate or condone any acts that victimize others, including those proscribed by law. As one of our most widely accepted precepts is the Wiccan Rede's injunction to \"harm none,\" we absolutely condemn the practices of child abuse, sexual abuse and any other form of abuse that does harm to the bodies, minds or spirits of the victims of such abuses. We recognize and revere the divinity of Nature in our Mother the Earth, and we conduct our rites of worship in a manner that is ethical, compassionate and constitutionally protected. We neither acknowledge or worship the Christian devil, \"Satan,\" who is not in our Pagan pantheons. We will not tolerate slander or libel against our Temples, clergy or Temple Assemblers and we are prepared to defend our civil rights with such legal action as we deem necessary and appropriate.\"\n"}
{"id": "32043296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32043296", "title": "Ehi (spirit)", "text": "Ehi (spirit)\n\nEhi is the name of a personal spirit in some West African religious beliefs, especially in southwestern Nigeria and Benin. Ehi means \"genius\", but it also means \"angel\" in some Nigerian languages and refers to a spirit possessing a man, similar to a guardian angel.\n\n\"Ehi\" is a component of a person that remains with the supreme deity Osa. A person's \"ehi\" guides them through their life in the \"agbon\", or material world, while interacting with other spirits in the \"erinmwin\", or spirit world.\nThe \"ehi\" remains with the person during the day, and returns to report to Osa at night.\n\"Ehi\" is viewed as a cult in parts of western Africa with a \"moderated initiative\" where many believe that lack of success can be blamed on the \"Ehi\" possessing a man. The \"Ehi\" is said to be \"constantly sacrificed\" in gratitude for success or for guidance in difficult times. Bradbury says of it, \"Close as a man and his \"ehi\" are they are yet thought of as being independent agents and so there is a possibility of conflict between them. Ehi must, therefore, be propritiated in much the same way as other supernatural entities and failure to do this results in trouble.\n"}
{"id": "47604834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47604834", "title": "Far future in religion", "text": "Far future in religion\n\nDiscussions of the far future are of major importance both in theology and folk religion. Many Christian authors have welcomed the scientific theory of the heat death of the universe as the ultimate fate of the universe as it was first proposed, while atheists and materialists back then commonly opposed the theory in favour of the idea that the universe and life in it would exist eternally. Nonetheless, in modern days, nontheists have largely come to accept the theory, while Christian eschatology is in conflict with the idea that entropy will be the predominant factor in determining the state of the far future, instead predicting God's creation of the New Earth and its existence into the far future. According to Mahayana Buddhism, an emanation of the Buddha-nature will appear in the material world in the far future.\n\nIn Hinduism, Brahma, the creator god, will live for 100 years, with each day of these years made up of two \"kalpas\", and each \"kalpa\" lasting 4.32 billion human years. The lifetime of Brahma, and thus the universe, is therefore predicted to last 315.36 trillion years.\n\nMayan religion often cites incredibly long time periods. Stela 1 at Coba marks the date of creation as in the Mesoamerican Long Count. According to Linda Schele, these 13s represent \"the starting point of a huge odometer of time\", with each acting as a zero and resetting to 1 as the numbers increase. Thus this inscription anticipates the current universe lasting at least 20×13×360 days, or roughly 2.687×10 years; a time span equal to 2 quintillion times the age of the universe as determined by cosmologists. Others have suggested, however, that this date marks creation as having occurred after that time span.\n\n"}
{"id": "48099658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48099658", "title": "Fraternal delegates", "text": "Fraternal delegates\n\nFraternal delegates are official delegates, who attend major assemblies of a friendly body as a formal expression of the fraternal bonds.\n\nIn politics, that is customary among fraternal parties.\n\nIn religion, it happens between churches engaged in an ecumenical process. Thus the Holy See invited to Rome for the Roman Catholic Church's 14th Ordinary General Assembly of the Synod of Bishops in October 2015, on family, 'fraternal' delegates from Orthodox churches (the Greek-Orthox Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople, Russian-Orthodox Patriarchate of Moscow, Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria, Syriac-Orthodox Patriarchate of Antioch and All the East, Serbian Orthodox Church, Orthodox Church of Romania and Orthodox Church of Albania) and Protestant churches (Anglican Communion, World Lutheran Federation, Ecumenical Council of Churches, World Evangelical Alliance, World Methodist Council, Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) and World Baptist Alliance).\n"}
{"id": "17051032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17051032", "title": "Hermetic Definitions", "text": "Hermetic Definitions\n\nHermetic Definitions was a text written in Armenian about Hermetic Alchemy. It consists of a long list of defined terms on God, the World, heaven, mind and soul, earth, and the elements. It is considered of the founding Hermetic texts (The \"Corpus Hermeticum\"), and was originally titled Definitions of Hermes Trismegistos for Asclepius. Versions can be found online in Greek, Latin and English.\n"}
{"id": "13929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13929", "title": "History of religion", "text": "History of religion\n\nThe history of religion refers to the written record of human religious experiences and ideas. This period of religious history begins with the invention of writing about 5,200 years ago (3200 BCE). The prehistory of religion involves the study of religious beliefs that existed prior to the advent of written records. One can also study comparative religious chronology through a timeline of religion. Writing played a major role in standardizing religious texts regardless of time or location, and making easier the memorization of prayers and divine rules. The case of the Bible involves the collation of multiple oral texts handed down over the centuries.\n\nThe concept of \"religion\" was formed in the 16th and 17th centuries, despite the fact that ancient sacred texts like the Bible, the Quran, and others did not have a word or even a concept of religion in the original languages and neither did the people or the cultures in which these sacred texts were written.\n\nThe word \"religion\" as used in the 21st century does not have an obvious pre-colonial translation into non-European languages. The anthropologist Daniel Dubuisson writes that \"what the West and the history of religions in its wake have objectified under the name 'religion' is ... something quite unique, which could be appropriate only to itself and its own history\". The history of other cultures' interaction with the \"religious\" category is therefore their interaction with an idea that first developed in Europe under the influence of Christianity.\n\nThe school of religious history called the \"Religionsgeschichtliche Schule\", a late 19th-century German school of thought, originated the systematic study of religion as a socio-cultural phenomenon. It depicted religion as evolving with human culture, from primitive polytheism to ethical monotheism.\n\nThe \"Religionsgeschichtliche Schule\" emerged at a time when scholarly study of the Bible and of church history flourished in Germany and elsewhere (see higher criticism, also called the \"historical-critical method\"). The study of religion is important: religion and similar concepts have often shaped civilizations' law and moral codes, social structure, art and music.\n\nThe 19th century saw a dramatic increase in knowledge about a wide variety of cultures and religions, and also the establishment of economic and social histories of progress. The \"history of religions\" school sought to account for this religious diversity by connecting it with the social and economic situation of a particular group.\n\nTypically, religions were divided into stages of progression from simple to complex societies, especially from polytheistic to monotheistic and from extempore to organized. One can also classify religions as circumcising and non-circumcising, proselytizing (attempting to convert people of other religion) and non-proselytizing. Many religions share common beliefs.\n\nThe earliest evidence of religious ideas dates back several hundred thousand years to the Middle and Lower Paleolithic periods. Archaeologists refer to apparent intentional burials of early \"Homo sapiens\" from as early as 300,000 years ago as evidence of religious ideas. Other evidence of religious ideas include symbolic artifacts from Middle Stone Age sites in Africa. However, the interpretation of early paleolithic artifacts, with regard to how they relate to religious ideas, remains controversial. Archeological evidence from more recent periods is less controversial. Scientists( generally interpret a number of artifacts from the Upper Paleolithic (50,000-13,000 BCE) as representing religious ideas. Examples of Upper Paleolithic remains associated with religious beliefs include the lion man, the Venus figurines, cave paintings from Chauvet Cave and the elaborate ritual burial from Sungir.\n\nIn the 19th century researchers proposed various theories regarding the origin of religion, challenging earlier claims of a Christianity-like urreligion. Early theorists Edward Burnett Tylor (1832-1917) and Herbert Spencer (1820-1903) proposed the concept of animism, while archaeologist John Lubbock (1834-1913) used the term \"fetishism\". Meanwhile, religious scholar Max Müller (1823-1900) theorized that religion began in hedonism and folklorist Wilhelm Mannhardt (1831-1880) suggested that religion began in \"naturalism\", by which he meant mythological explanation of natural events. All of these theories have since been widely criticized; there is no broad consensus regarding the origin of religion.\n\nPre-pottery Neolithic A (PPNA) Göbekli Tepe, the oldest religious site yet discovered anywhere includes circles of erected massive T-shaped stone pillars, the world's oldest known megaliths decorated with abstract, enigmatic pictograms and carved animal reliefs. The site, near the home place of original wild wheat, was built before the so-called Neolithic Revolution, i.e., the beginning of agriculture and animal husbandry around 9000 BCE. But the construction of Göbekli Tepe implies organization of an advanced order not hitherto associated with Paleolithic, PPNA, or PPNB societies. The site, abandoned around the time the first agricultural societies started, is still being excavated and analyzed, and thus might shed light to the significance it had had for the region's older, foraging communities, as well as for the general history of religions. \n\nThe Pyramid Texts from ancient Egypt are the oldest known religious texts in the world, dating to between 2400-2300 BCE.\n\nSurviving early copies of complete religious texts include: \n\nThe Dead Sea Scrolls, representing complete texts of the Hebrew Tanakh; these scrolls were copied approximately 2000 years ago. \n\nComplete Hebrew texts, also of the Tanakh, but translated into the Greek language (Septuagint 300-200 BC), were in wide use by the early 1st century CE. \n\nOrganized religion emerged as a means of providing social and economic stability to large populations through the following ways:\n\nHistorians have labelled the period from 900 to 200 BCE as the \"axial age\", a term coined by German-Swiss philosopher Karl Jaspers (1883-1969). According to Jaspers, in this era of history \"the spiritual foundations of humanity were laid simultaneously and independently... And these are the foundations upon which humanity still subsists today.\" Intellectual historian Peter Watson has summarized this period as the foundation time of many of humanity's most influential philosophical traditions, including monotheism in Persia and Canaan, Platonism in Greece, Buddhism and Jainism in India, and Confucianism and Taoism in China. These ideas would become institutionalized in time - note for example Ashoka's role in the spread of Buddhism, or the role of platonic philosophy in Christianity at its foundation.\n\nThe historical roots of Jainism in India date back to the 9th-century BCE with the rise of Parshvanatha and his non-violent philosophy.\n\nWorld religions of the present day established themselves throughout Eurasia during the Middle Ages by:\n\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, Muslims came into conflict with Zoroastrians during the Islamic conquest of Persia (633-654); Christians fought against Muslims during the Byzantine-Arab Wars (7th to 11th centuries), the Crusades (1095 onward), the Reconquista (718-1492), the Ottoman wars in Europe (13th century onwards) and the Inquisition; Shamanism was in conflict with Buddhists, Taoists, Muslims and Christians during the Mongol invasions (1206-1337); and Muslims clashed with Hindus and Sikhs during the Muslim conquest of the Indian subcontinent (8th to 16th centuries).\n\nMany medieval religious movements emphasized mysticism, such as the Cathars and related movements in the West, the Jews in Spain (see Zohar), the Bhakti movement in India and Sufism in Islam. Monotheism reached definite forms in Christian Christology and in Islamic Tawhid. Hindu monotheist notions of Brahman likewise reached their classical form with the teaching of Adi Shankara (788-820).\n\nEuropean colonisation during the 15th to 19th centuries resulted in the spread of Christianity in Sub-Saharan Africa, and to the Americas, Australia and the Philippines. The invention of the printing press in the 15th century played a major role in the rapid spread of the Protestant Reformation under leaders such as Martin Luther (1483-1546) and John Calvin (1509-1564). Wars of religion broke out, culminating in the Thirty Years War which ravaged central Europe between 1618 and 1648. The 18th century saw the beginning of secularisation in Europe, gaining momentum after the French Revolution of 1789 and following. By the late 20th century religion had declined in most of Europe.\n\nIn the 20th century, the regimes of Communist Eastern Europe and of Communist China were anti-religious. A great variety of new religious movements originated in the 20th century, many proposing syncretism of elements of established religions. Adherence to such new movements is limited, however, remaining below 2% worldwide in the period 2000-2009. Adherents of the classical world religions account for more than 75% of the world's population, while adherence to indigenous tribal religions has fallen to 4%. , an estimated 14% of the world's population identifies as nonreligious.\n\nBy 2001 people began to use the internet to discover or adhere to their religious beliefs. In January 2000 the website beliefnet was established, and the following year, every month it had over 1.7 million visitors.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26726634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26726634", "title": "Importance of religion by country", "text": "Importance of religion by country\n\nThis page charts a list of countries by importance of religion.\n\nThe table below is based upon global Gallup Poll in 2009 research which asked \"Is religion important in your daily life?\". Percentages for \"yes\" and \"no\" answers are listed below; they often do not add up to 100% because some answered \"don't know\" or did not answer.\n\n\nGeneral:\n"}
{"id": "47102500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47102500", "title": "List of fictional theocracies", "text": "List of fictional theocracies\n\nDepictions of a fictional theocratic societies recur in science fiction, speculative fiction and fantasy. Such depictions are mostly dystopian, and in some cases humorous or satirical; positively presented theocracies are very much the exception.\n\nSome fictional theocracies are based on a future or alternate history development of actual religions, whilst in others the religions depicted are wholly fictional.\n\nThe following table is sorted by time of publication (for series, time of earliest publication).\n\n"}
{"id": "38963391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38963391", "title": "List of foods with religious symbolism", "text": "List of foods with religious symbolism\n\nThe list of foods with religious symbolism provides details, and links to articles, of foods which are used in religious communities or traditions to symbolise an aspect of the faith, or to commemorate a festival or hero of that faith group. Many such foods are also closely associated with a particular date or season. As with all religious traditions, some such foods have passed into widespread secular use, but all those on this list have a religious origin. The list is arranged alphabetically and by religion.\n\nMany religions have a particular 'cuisine' or tradition of cookery, associated with their culture (see, for example, List of Jewish cuisine dishes). This list is \"not\" intended for foods which are merely part of the cultural heritage of a religious body, but \"specifically\" those foods that bear religious symbolism in the way they are made, or the way they are eaten, or both.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "742964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=742964", "title": "List of religious populations", "text": "List of religious populations\n\nThis is a list of religious populations by number of adherents and countries.\n\nAdherents.com says \"Sizes shown are approximate estimates, and are here mainly for the purpose of ordering the groups, not providing a definitive number\".\n\nCountries with the greatest proportion of Christians from Christianity by country ():\n\n\nCountries with the greatest proportion of Muslims from Islam by country () (figures excluding foreign workers in parenthesis):\n\nRemarks: Saudi Arabia does not include other religious beliefs in their census, the figures for these other religious groups could be higher than reported in the nation. While conversion \"to\" Islam is among its most supported tenets, conversion \"from\" Islam to another religion is considered to be the sin of apostasy and could be subject to the death penalty in the country.\n\nCountries with the greatest proportion of people without religion (including agnostics and atheists) from Irreligion by country ():\n\nRemarks: Ranked by mean estimate which is in brackets. Irreligious includes agnostic, atheist, secular believer, and people having no formal religious adherence. It does not necessarily mean that members of this group don't belong to any religion. Some religions have harmonized with local cultures and can be seen as a cultural background rather than a formal religion. Additionally, the practice of officially associating a family or household with a religious institute while not formally practicing the affiliated religion is common in many countries. Thus, over half of this group is theistic and/or influenced by religious principles, but nonreligious/non-practicing and not true atheists or agnostics. See \"Spiritual but not religious\".\n\nCountries with the greatest proportion of Hindus from Hinduism by country ():\n\n\nCountries with the greatest proportion of Buddhists from Buddhism by country ():\n\n\nAs a spiritual practice, Taoism has made fewer inroads in the West than Buddhism and Hinduism. Despite the popularity of its great classics the I Ching and the Tao Te Ching, the specific practices of Taoism have not been promulgated in America with much success; these religions are not ubiquitous worldwide in the way that adherents of bigger world religions are, and they remain primarily an ethnic religion. Nonetheless, Taoist ideas and symbols such as Taijitu have become popular throughout the world through Tai Chi Chuan, Qigong, and various martial arts.\n\n\nThe Chinese traditional religion has 184,000 believers in Latin America, 250,000 believers in Europe, and 839,000 believers in North America .\n\nAll of the below come from the U.S. Department of State 2009 International Religious Freedom Report, based on the highest estimate of people identified as indigenous or followers of indigenous religions that have been well-defined. Due to the syncretic nature of these religions, the following numbers may not reflect the actual number of practitioners.\n\n\nCountries with the greatest proportion of Sikhs:\n\nThe Sikh homeland is the Punjab state, in India, where today Sikhs make up approximately 61% of the population. This is the only place where Sikhs are in the majority. Sikhs have emigrated to countries all over the world – especially to English-speaking and East Asian nations. In doing so they have retained, to an unusually high degree, their distinctive cultural and religious identity.\nSikhs are not ubiquitous worldwide in the way that adherents of larger world religions are, and they remain primarily an ethnic religion. But they can be found in many international cities and have become an especially strong religious presence in the United Kingdom and Canada.\n\nNote that all these estimates come from a single source. However, this source gives a relative indication of the size of the Spiritist communities within each country.\n\nCountries with the greatest proportion of Jews ():\n\nCountries with the greatest proportion of Bahá'ís () with a national population ≥200,000:\n\n\n\nLargest Christian populations ():\n\nLargest Hindu populations (as of 2010):\n\nLargest Muslim populations (as of 2017):\n\nLargest Buddhist populations\n\nLargest Sikh populations\n\n\nLargest Jewish populations ():\n\nLargest Bahá'í populations () in countries with a national population ≥200,000:\n\n\n\nReligions:\n\n"}
{"id": "15854986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15854986", "title": "List of religious titles and styles", "text": "List of religious titles and styles\n\nThis is an index of religious honorifics from various religions.\n\nThere are many kinds of people who deal with magic. They include paranormal magicians, fantasy magicians, shamans, kalku, and the magi. In Shamanic magic, the Seid plays a role, as does the Warlock and Witch in Paganism. In history, magic in the Greco-Roman world was common. There are also the Onmyou Mystic and the Bomoh.\n\n"}
{"id": "15625048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15625048", "title": "List of satanic ritual abuse allegations", "text": "List of satanic ritual abuse allegations\n\nDuring the 1980s and 1990s a moral panic about alleged Satanic ritual abuse (SRA) occurred, mainly in parts of the English-speaking world. This was propagated by certain psychotherapists, social workers, Christian fundamentalists and law enforcement officials. Some of the cases ended in prosecution and imprisonment. Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States have had several incidents of alleged SRA which received national and international news coverage. Other countries have also had isolated events in which abuse or murder took place with Satanic ritual elements, including Argentina and Brazil.\n\nIn 1991, police in Perth linked Scott Gozenton, a self-professed Satanist, with organised child sexual abuse. His lawyer claimed 13 Satanic covens existed in the area, holding bizarre orgies involving children, and that Gozenton had been followed and threatened by \"coven\" members throughout the court proceedings.\n\nIn 2001, the Melbourne diocese of the Catholic Church acknowledged as \"substantially true\" allegations that a Melbourne priest took part in Satanic ritual abuse in which a number of deaths occurred in the 1960s, and paid compensation to a surviving victim.\n\nIn 1999, two journalists from the Sun-Herald claimed to have seen evidence of the ritual abuse of children. They interviewed six mothers whose children had disclosed experiences of SRA and organised abuse in New South Wales. The children's disclosures were corroborating, although they had never met one another, and they had been able to draw representations of \"Satanic\" ritual sites which were similar to ritual sites uncovered by police on the central coast of New South Wales. One mother stated that her sons remembered being drugged and hypnotised. \"He said they dressed in black robes and had eye and mouth pieces cut out,\" she said. \"I know they're dangerous people. I have had warnings outside the house telling me to stop investigations. We're fearful for our lives. The boys never want me out of their sight.\"\n\nDuring the investigation of the Belgian serial killer Marc Dutroux, a number of women approached police claiming to be adult survivors of a network of sexual offenders. One witness described satanic ceremonies with a goal of disorienting new victims, causing them to doubt the reality of their memories and prevent disclosure.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Superior Universal Alignment, an Argentinian-based international cult, was implicated in the ritualistic murders of several children. One of the leaders of the group, Osvaldo Marcineiro, confessed to murdering a number of young children in Satanic rituals in which the children were tortured and their body parts cannibalised. A number of prominent citizens were arrested in relation to the murders, and it later emerged that they had paid the cult to conduct the murderous ceremonies. A search of cult member's houses turned up cult registers, guns, hooded cloaks, 100 videotapes of cult ceremonies and satanist publications, including a 200-page book by cult leader Valentina de Andrade called \"God, the Great Farce\". Brazilian authorities suggested that the cult was connected to Satanic groups internationally.\n\nIn 2003, five members of the Superior Universal Alignment cult in the Amazonian town of Altamira were convicted for the ritualistic murders of three children and the castration of two others. The victims were aged between eight and thirteen years, and they were kidnapped, tortured or killed between 1989 and 1993. Their genitals were removed and used in Satanic rituals by 75-year old village clairvoyant, Valentina de Andrade, the leader of the Superior Universal Alignment cult. De Andrade had previously been sought by police in Argentina and Uruguay prior to her arrest in Brazil on suspicion of involvement in other satanic ritual killings.\n\nFollowing the castration of victims, two doctors involved in the sect removed the victim's other organs for sale on the international black market. Other people sentenced in relation to the murders included a former police officer, a businessman and the son of an influential landowner. The charges related to the murders of three young children and the attempted murder of another, however, victim's families say that there were at least nineteen other murdered children. The cult is based in Argentina and has branches in Holland.\n\nOne of the earliest claims of SRA was made in the book \"Michelle Remembers\" co-written by Canadian psychiatrist Lawrence Pazder and Michelle Smith, later Pazder's wife. The book detailed a Satanic cult that allegedly operated in Victoria, British Columbia.\n\nA protracted child custody case contested in family court in Hamilton, Ontario, from 1985-1987, centred on allegations of Satanic ritual abuse; it was later documented in a book written by a Globe and Mail reporter who was assigned to cover the case.\n\nThe Martensville Satanic sex scandal occurred in Martensville, Saskatchewan in 1992, where an allegation of day care sexual abuse hysteria escalated into claims of satanic ritual abuse.\n\nIn 2007, a jury at Dublin Country Coroner's court unanimously ruled that an infant found stabbed to death over three decades ago was the daughter of Cynthia Owen (then 'Sindy Murphy'). The infant was alleged to have been murdered by the infant's grandmother. The Minister of Justice had previously rejected a request by Cynthia Owen to have the body of the child exhumed, a decision Ms. Owen did not contest. The inquest was prohibited from assigning blame due to the Coroners Act of 1962 and therefore returned an open verdict. Also, the jury was instructed that the standard of proof was not the \"beyond a reasonable doubt\" benchmark of criminal trials, but rather the lesser standard of determining whether Owen's claims were true based \"on the balance of probabilities\". Ms. Owen made claims about a stillborn second child buried in the family garden, but police found no human remains after digging up the plot. Owen's parents, as well as her older siblings, denied her allegations of abuse.\n\nDuring the trial, Owen provided her account of incest, organised abuse, and satanic ritual abuse orchestrated by her parents involving at least nine other men and her account was supported by her psychologist. She claimed that her brother, Michael, and sister, Theresa, were also abused, a charge that was denied by her older brother and father. One of the alleged abusers is Cynthia Owen's older brother, Peter Murphy Junior, while the father, Peter Murphy Senior, is also an alleged abuser. One brother, Martin, committed suicide in 1995 after revealing he had been sodomised in his family home, while another brother, Michael, disappeared in 2002 and sister Theresa committed suicide shortly after the discovery of his body in 2005; Theresa's detailed 37-paged suicide note corroborated Cynthia's account. A friend of Theresa's testified at the trial, stating that Theresa had spoken to him at length about her sexual abuse in childhood. Theresa Murphy committed suicide on February 24, 2005 as a result of childhood sexual abuse, this finding was supported by police evidence. Theresa was the child of her older sister, Margaret Murphy.\n\nFollowing the findings of the Coroner's Court, Owen has raised questions regarding the disposal of her daughter's body and the failure of the police to investigate the murder. In particular, she has highlighted the fact that no blood or tissue samples were kept, that the bag and sanitary towels found alongside the murdered child have gone missing, that the records of the first inquest into the murder have gone missing, and that her daughter was buried in a mass grave alongside other infants. Owen claimed that the police knew about the murder and did nothing. She also stated that she felt robbed of justice by her mother's natural and peaceful death.\n\nOwen's father, Peter Murphy Senior, and three of her sisters won the right to appeal the findings of the inquest from the High Court. The family claimed that the coroner was biased toward Owen, shielded her when giving evidence and was selective in the evidence presented to the jury. The case of the murdered child was reported in 2008, and in 2013, to be the subject of an ongoing investigation by the Garda Síochána. \n\nPeter Murphy Senior has since died.\n\nIn 1998, six adults in Emilia-Romagna were arrested with allegations of prostituting their children and the production of child pornography. The children were also reported to be involved in Satanic rituals. In 2002, four people were arrested for \"Satanism and paedophilia\" in Pescara. Police believed that the group may have abused dozens of children in rituals involving bodies stolen from ceremonies. In April 2007, six people were arrested for sexually abusing fifteen children in Rignano Flaminio. The suspects were accused of filming the children engaged in sexual acts with 'Satanic' overtones.\n\nIn 1989 a group of parents published allegations in a conservative magazine that their children had witnessed SRA and had been ritually abused from May, 1987 until October 1988 in Oude Pekela, a city in the north-eastern province of Groningen, the Netherlands. During the initial investigation, only the non-ritual aspects were reported in the press and investigated by the authorities and the allegations were unconfirmed. In 1989 the conservative Christian news program \"Tijdsein\" reported allegations that included Satanic ritual abuse, to which there was no official response. After attending a conference in which the concept of satanic ritual abuse was discussed, Oude Pekela general practitioners Fred Jonker and Ietje Jonker-Bakker alleged that several children had been abused by unknown men in the context of Satanic rituals. This was first reported in a lecture at the Institute of Education of London University and later published in several academic journals in both English and Dutch, but their findings were heavily criticised by American and Dutch scholars. National authorities were informed in 1991 and 1992 of the allegations, though no action was taken until the press was informed. The State Secretary of Justice responded to the allegations by appointing the \"Werkgroep Ritueel Misbruik\" multidisciplinary workgroup to study SRA in the Netherlands, which produced a report in 1994. The report concluded that it was unlikely SRA had occurred or the allegations were factually true, suggested the allegations were a defence mechanism produced in part by suggestive questioning by 'believing' therapists, and that the stories were contemporary legends dispersed through a network of therapists and patients who were concerned with dissociative identity disorder.\n\nIn 1990, Gert van Rooyen and his accomplice were accused of murdering several young girls, ultimately committing suicide while running from the police. One of the accused's sons was later himself accused of murdering a Zimbabwean girl in 1991; the same son claimed his father's victims were involved in international child pornography rings, slavery and Satanism rituals, but no evidence of this was found. The case was so similar to crimes committed by Marc Dutroux that multiple agencies investigated a possible international smuggling ring in prostituted children and body parts.\n\nThere have been a number of cases in the United Kingdom in which SRA has been alleged. Some of these cases have garnered significant media attention, and they are listed below.\n\nThe National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children documented allegations of ritual abuse in 1990, with the publication of survey findings that, of 66 child protection teams in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, 14 teams had received reports of ritual abuse from children and seven of them were working directly with children who had been ritually abused, sometimes in groups of 20. An investigation into SRA allegations by the British government produced over two hundred reports, of which only three were substantiated and proved to be examples of pseudosatanic, in which sexual abuse was the actual motivation and the rituals were incidental.\n\nThe Cleveland child abuse scandal featured allegations of satanic ritual abuse.\n\nIn 1990 there was a case in Rochdale which around twenty children were removed from their homes by social services who alleged the existence of SRA after discovering 'Satanic indicators'. No evidence was found of Satanic apparatus, and charges were dismissed when a court ruled the allegations were untrue. The children who were removed from their homes sued the city council in 2006 for compensation and an apology.\n\nIn 1990-1991 nine children suspected of being sexually abused by their families and an alleged child abuse ring were removed by social services in Orkney. The abuse was also alleged to involve \"ritualistic elements\". The parents approached the media and made the case national and international news. In April 1991, a sheriff ruled that the evidence was seriously flawed and the children were returned home.\n\nIn June, social services appealed the sheriff's ruling but the appeal was overturned and an official inquiry was established in August 1991, which after 9 months' investigation at a cost of £6 million, published its report in October 1992. It described the dismissal of the first judgment as \"most unfortunate\" and criticized all those involved, including the social workers, the police, and the Orkney Islands Council. Social workers' training, methods, and judgment were given special condemnation, and the report stated that the concept of \"ritual abuse\" was \"not only unwarrantable at present but may affect the objectivity of practitioners and parents\". A 1994 government report based on three years of research found that there was no foundation to any of the Satanic abuse claims.\n\nIn October 1987 children were removed from their families in Nottingham, and in February 1989 a Broxtowe family was charged with multigenerational child sexual abuse and neglect. A 600-page report on the incident concluded that there was no evidence of the SRA claims made by children or corroborating adults. Though the children may have been 'sadistically terrorized', allegations of organized Satanic abuse were found to be baseless and the indicators used by the Social Services department were without validity.\n\nIn 2003 allegations by three children in Lewis, Scotland resulted in the arrest of eight people for sexual abuse occurring between 1990 and 2000. A 2005 investigation by the Social Work Inspection Agency found extensive evidence of sexual, physical and emotional abuse and neglect. Police investigation resulted in allegations of an island-wide \"Satanic paedophile ring\", though charges were dropped nine months later following an inconclusive investigation.\n\nA key witness who had implicated her family in the abuse and whose evidence was \"vital\" to the case of satanic abuse recanted her testimony in 2006 and the media raised questions about the nature of the police interviewing techniques. with a police spokesperson replying that the witness was questioned appropriately and that allegations were made by numerous witnesses.\n\nIn March 2011, four adults who lived in a cul-de-sac in the Welsh town of Kidwelly were convicted of multiple sex offences against children and young adults. The group led by Colin Batley was described by the media as a \"Satanic sex cult\", a \"quasi-religious sex cult\" and a \"paedophile cult\" however the group members were not followers of Satanism. The prosecution said they practised \"free sex\" and were influenced by Aleister Crowley, a practitioner of ceremonial magic who founded the belief system of Thelema. They dressed in hoods and read from Crowley's \"The Book of the Law\", the central text of Thelema and some victims were made to wear inverted crosses. Members of the cult were initiated in a ceremony involving sex with an adult, and they were threatened with being killed if they did not take part in the ceremony. Some of the victims were forced into prostitution. The abuse also took place outside of a ritual context, such as Batley taking victims to a caravan to rape, in line with Jean La Fontaine's findings and her conclusion that sexual gratification, not religion, is the motive of abusers.\n\nIn the United States, major allegations of Satanic ritual abuse occurred in the Kern County child abuse cases, McMartin preschool trial and the West Memphis 3, which garnered world-wide media coverage. It was eventually determined that no satanic abuse ever took place in these cases due to false testimony and police misconduct. There have been countless, debunked allegations of SRA in the United States; of which the most recent allegation was Pizzagate; a speculated pedophile ring in the Washington D.C area at supposed ping pong themed restaurant, Comet Ping Pong. In the allegations, Hillary Clinton was an avid supporter and member in the pedophilia ring, with various sources of selected evidence pointing to her possible involvement and the possible involvement of Clinton's associations. \n\nThe first such case occurred in Jordan, Minnesota, in 1983, where several children made allegations against an unrelated man and their parents. The man confessed and then identified a number of the children’s parents as perpetrators. Ultimately twenty-four adults were charged with child abuse though only three went to trial with two acquittals and one conviction. Despite strong medical findings of sexual assault, all other charges were dropped after the young child witnesses decompensated under the duress of the criminal trial.\n\nDuring the investigation, the children made allegations regarding the manufacturing of child pornography, ritualistic animal sacrifice, coprophagia, urophagia and infanticide, at which point the Federal Bureau of Investigation was alerted. No criminal charges resulted from the FBI investigation, and in his review of the case, the Attorney General noted that the initial investigation by the local police and county attorney was so poor that it had destroyed the opportunity to fully investigate the children’s allegations.\n\nJudge Antonin Scalia referred to the Minnesota case in his summation on a later case, and stated, \"[t]here is no doubt that some sexual abuse took place in Jordan; but there is no reason to believe it was as widespread as charged,\" and cited the repeated, well-intentioned but coercive techniques used by the investigators as damaging to the investigation. The bizarre allegations of the children, the ambiguities of the investigation and the unsuccessful prosecutions were widely covered by the media. A number of accused parents confessed to sexually abusing their children, received immunity, and underwent treatment for sexual abuse, while parental rights for six other children in the case were terminated.\n\nIn December 2007, Austin Trey Bernard was found guilty of raping his son and daughter, convicted on the basis of three previous confessions and a detailed diary of his actions although he pleaded not guilty. The allegations came to light upon the confession of one of the defendants. Bernard confessed the sexual abuse of his children as well as claiming to have participated in satanically-themed ritualistic abuse including the use of animal parts and blood.\n\n"}
{"id": "43424443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43424443", "title": "Lists about skepticism", "text": "Lists about skepticism\n\nScientific skepticism (also spelled scepticism) is the practice of questioning whether claims are supported by empirical research and have reproducibility, as part of a methodological norm pursuing \"the extension of certified knowledge\". Scientific skepticism, or skepticism for short, manifests itself since the 20th century as a societal phenomenon involving several individuals and more or less organised groups through several different media, commonly referred to as \"the skeptical movement\". This is a compilation of the various lists about skepticism with articles in Wikipedia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4451083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4451083", "title": "Machi (shaman)", "text": "Machi (shaman)\n\nA machi is a traditional healer and religious leader in the Mapuche culture of Chile and Argentina. Machis play significant roles in Mapuche religion. In contemporary Mapuche culture women are more commonly machis than men.\n\nAs a religious authority, a machi leads healing ceremonies, called Machitun. During the machitun, the machi communicates with the spirit world. Machies also serve as advisors, and oracles for their community. In the past, they advised on peace and warfare.\n\nThe term is sometimes interchangeable with the word \"kalku\", however, \"kalku\" has a usually evil connotation whereas \"machi\" is usually considered good; this, however, is not always true since in common use the terms may be interchanged.\n\nThe Mapuches live in southern South America mostly in central Chile (Araucanía and Los Lagos) and the adjacent areas of Argentina.\n\nTo become a machi, a Mapuche person has to demonstrate character, willpower, and courage, because initiation is long and painful. Usually a person is selected in infancy, based upon the following:\n\nMachiluwun is the ceremony to consecrate a new machi. The chosen child will live six months with a dedicated machi, where he or she learns the skills to serve as a machi.\n\nThe machi is a person of great wisdom and healing power and is the main character of Mapuche medicine. The machi has detailed knowledge of medicinal herbs and other remedies, and is also said to have the power of the spirits and the ability to interpret dreams, called \"pewma\" (IPA pronunciation: ) in Mapudungun. Machis are also said to help communities identify witches or other individuals who are using supernatural powers to do harm.\n\nMapuche traditional medicine is gaining more acceptance in the broader Chilean society.\n\nBecoming a Machi is a spiritual transformation that also fosters a place where people can flow between spectrums of gender. Within Machi rituals and ceremonies, gender is fluid and dynamic. The majority of Machi are female, but males can also be Machis. The Machi power is usually passed down from the maternal grandmother. Gender is not determined by sex, as it typically is in Chilean society, but rather by identity and spirituality and is ambiguous among Machi. Some scholars have coined this as \"cogender\", which is a partly feminine and partly masculine identity. Most of this research has focused on males and femininity versus females and masculinity, but all forms of gender fluidity are present within Machi culture. During some ceremonies gender is transcended and transformed spiritually, where binaries between genders do not exist and new gender identities are explored.\n\nWithin Machi culture, plants and spirits are given gender. Usually these assigned genders are based upon perceptions of masculinity and femininity. E.g. Laurel is a feminine plant because it is regarded as soothing and soft, whereas Triwe is masculine because it has protective powers. These genders are fixed and do not change. Machi, however, transcend static gender and dynamically flow between them. For example, during healing ceremonies Machis can flow between male, female, and cogendered identities in order to balance the spirit of the person they are healing. As \"Shamans of the Foye Tree\" says, “gender of spirits remain permanent, whereas Machi move between gender identities”. This is because in Machi cosmology, the Nguchen, or the giver of life, is balanced by 4 identities; the man, the woman, the young man and the young woman. Therefore, during ceremonies Machis embody some or all of these identities at different times or simultaneously in order to heal. When someone is sick, Machis believe it is because the 4 are out of balance. Thus within Mapuche culture, there are “well defined notions of gender, but Machis are able to manipulate them”. Thus, gender exists in two realities, the earthly where gender is fixed and spiritual where gender in fluid. Machis are able to flow between both realities freely.\n\nWhile the Machis accept many different and even conflicting identities, Chilean society does not. Transgender Machi women who do not fit into traditional gender roles face a lot of discrimination and transphobia. Homophobia and transphobia are rampant in Chilean and Mapuche culture. The Machis are respected, but also shunned. Machi women are not viewed fully as women by Mapuche society because of their “masculine power” and Machi men are not viewed fully as male because of their femininity.\n\nMale machis, also called the Machi Weye, face discrimination from other Mapuches. Males are perceived as weak for taking upon a feminized role but are simultaneously regarded as more powerful than female machis. Yet other people view them as “not possessing as many powers as the [female] machis” because “females are more connected to nature”. Some people view male machis as more powerful and adept than female machis due to traditional gender stereotypes of women inherently being weaker. One Mapuche person states that while he discriminates against Machi men that “when [he] is sick, when [he] needs a ngillatun, [he] goes begging to the male machi”. As a result of the gendered perception of Machis i.e. that they are usually female, many male machi face discrimination from fellow Mapuche and Chilean society as a whole. Since they do not fit conventional gender stereotypes, these feminine male Machis are out-casted and called derogatory names. One Mapuche states “they [male machi] may be stronger, but they wear women’s clothes...He must like pigs legs”. Many male Machi dress in women’s clothing as this is perceived to be more pious and connected to nature. Machismo in Chilean society plays a large role in such discrimination as men are out-casted from circles because they are seen as “too feminine”. In this way patriarchal culture simultaneously outcasts male Machi but also reinforces stereotypes that males are more powerful than females. As a result many male Machi have reinvented themselves as “celibate priests” or “spiritual warriors” in order to avoid further criticism and protect their masculinity. In some healing ceremonies and rituals male Machis are not permitted to participate because “they are not close enough to nature” and “[women] are more patient with the sick and know more about herbs…the spirits get along with women better”. Therefore, patriarchal culture works in multiple ways. It leads to discrimination and misogyny against male and female machi and also creates complicated power dynamics where in some circles women are perceived as inferior and in other circles perceived as more powerful.\n\nMachi women are sometimes out-casted from traditional Mapuche gender roles. Machi women are revered and feared. Masculine female machi are called derogatory terms such as \"bruja\" (witch) \"mujer de la calle\" (woman of the street) or \"marica\" (derogatory term of homosexual). One Machi describes that Machi women are given a higher status than Mapuche women because “they are sent here [earth] by god” and are therefore divine. She says for example “she is served before other people [at meals]”. In this way the Machi regulate their own gender norms but are also combatted with traditional gender norms of Mapuche and Chilean society. This further complicates the notion of gender within the society.\n\nGender in Machi culture is filled with contradictions, paradoxes, and complications because they simultaneously exist within the gender binary and defy it. “Whereas male Machi legitimate their sexuality as celibate priests, most female Machi gain status and virtue by marrying and having children”. Thus Machi still abide by the gender roles and norms of Mapuche culture, but then fight against them during spiritual ceremonies and rituals where they challenge traditional roles and perceptions of gender and embrace cogendered identities. \nThe gender identity and construction of the Machi is nuanced and complex. Machi are able to fluidly move between genders throughout different ceremonies, but then face discrimination from Chilean society and fellow Machis themselves. One Machi states, “Here people don’t talk much about homosexuality because it is looked down upon”. Some Machis are concerned about the way the West portrays Machis, afraid that they are only perceived as homosexuals or \"brujas\" “witches”. One Machi states “Why do anthropologists always say who we are? Why don’t they ask us?” Ana Bacigalupo, a distinguished anthropologist in the field of Machi gender roles, urges people to see the nuances in Machi gender identity and allow complexity to exist.” Machis gendered identities and practices can be experienced and interpreted endlessly along different paths and for different purposes that simultaneously bind people together and draw them apart”\n\nA modern ritual human sacrifice occurred during the devastating earthquake and tsunami of 1960 by a machi of the Mapuche in the Lago Budi community. The victim, five-year-old José Luis Painecur, had his arms and legs removed by Juan Pañán and Juan José Painecur (the victim's grandfather), and was stuck into the sand of the beach like a stake. The waters of the Pacific Ocean then carried the body out to sea. The sacrifice was rumored to be at the behest of local machi, Juana Namuncurá Añen. The two men were charged with the crime and confessed, but later recanted. They were released after two years. A judge ruled that those involved in these events had \"acted without free will, driven by an irresistible natural force of ancestral tradition.\" The arrested men's explanation was: \"We were asking for calm in the sea and on the earth.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "37737694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37737694", "title": "Mun (religion)", "text": "Mun (religion)\n\nMun or Munism (also called Bongthingism) is the traditional polytheistic, animist, shamanistic, and syncretic religion of the Lepcha people. It predates the seventh century Lepcha conversion to Lamaistic Buddhism, and since that time, the Lepcha have practiced it together with Buddhism. Since the arrival of Christian missionaries in the nineteenth century, Mun traditions have been followed alongside that religion as well. The traditional religion permits incorporation of Buddha and Jesus Christ as deities, depending on household beliefs.\n\nThe exonym \"Mun\" derives from the traditional belief in spirits called \"mun\" or \"mung\". Together with \"bongthing\" (also \"bungthing\" or \"bóngthíng\"), \"mun\" comprise a central element in the religion. These terms are also used to describe the shaman priesthood that officiates the respective spirits.\n\nThe Mun religion and its priesthood are in decline. Conversion to other religions is attributed to economic pressure, as traditional practices are immensely expensive to the ordinary practitioner. It has, however, regained interest among Lepcha as ecological encroachment becomes a growing concern. The environment is so deeply intertwined with Mun beliefs that religious leaders have offered direct opposition to development in areas including the Rathong Chu and Teesta Rivers.\n\nThe traditional Lepcha belief system is rich in oral myths, legends, fables, and fairy-tales collectively called \"lúngten sung\".\n\nAccording to Mun mythology, the ancestors of the Lepcha were created by Itbu Rum, who molded them from the pure snows of mount Kangchenjunga. They thus share a lineage with the natural environment and share the cosmos with non-human spirits.\n\nThe spirit of the legendary Thekong Thek delivers reproaches to the Lepcha chief through \"mun\" or \"bongthing\" shamans.\n\nThe belief system of Mun is animist, and the natural environment provides much of its basis. Naturally occurring spirits are an object of ceremonial dedication, and they reside in objects such as trees, rocks, and rivers. It is also a syncretic religion that has coexisted with Mahayana Buddhism since its arrival in the seventh century, with practitioners following both religions at the same time. Traditional beliefs may have influenced Lepcha Buddhist scriptures. Modern religious life in a Lepcha village is centered on the \"gumpa\", or Buddhist monastery.\n\nMany Lepcha were converted to Christianity by Scottish missionaries in the 19th century, however Buddhism and the traditional religion have retained important roles in Lepcha religious life. Many Christian Lepcha who have lost their Lepcha language have also distanced themselves from these traditional aspects of Lepcha religion.\n\nMun religion includes a belief in heaven, called \"rumlyang\".\n\nThe Mun religion is polytheistic and syncretic: it acknowledges several deities, including those of other religions, namely Buddhism and Christianity.\n\nThe chief goddess of the Lepcha religion is Nozyongnyu. The mother-creator is a female earth deity, It Bunoo (also Itbu-moo). Two other female deities are the chief of the \"mun\" spirits.\n\nTraditional Lepcha beliefs include deities governing family, clan (or lineage, \"putsho\"), village, region, and wider levels. Clan deities may be named after mountain peaks or rivers, while regions are home to deities associated with Kangchenjunga such as \"Chyu-rum-fat\". The traditional religion also incorporates Buddha and Jesus Christ as a deities, depending on household beliefs.\n\n\"Mun\" spirits are of two general types: the benevolent, or white magician, \"taung-li mun\", and the malevolent, or black magician, \"mung-sek mun\" or \"mung\". The latter reside in trees, bushes, rocks, and rivers. The spirits are further subdivided into seven classes: \"avor mun\", \"pildon mun\", \"angan mun\", \"tungli mun\", \"munjyum mun\", \"mun mook mun\" and \"lyang-eet mun\". \"Mun\" spirits, and witchcraft, are believed to be the invariable culprit of illness.\n\nCeremonies are usually performed for one or several households, and consist of two parts. The \"rum\" portion is an offering to devils. The second, \"tsandong\", is for offerings to the deity Kangchenjunga, to \"Chyu rum fat\", and to the plains. Ceremonies generally seek to appease these spirits. \"Bongthing\" rituals generally include prayers, herbs, and amulets, and may also include directed breathing or spitting by the priest. Ritual prayers are sometimes in the form of glossolalia.\n\nSpirit possession occurs in a variety of manners: from a subtle headache to violent, uncontrollable madness. Generally symptoms are the manifestation of \"mung\" spirits feeding off the flesh, blood, internal organs, or life energy of the host. Ritual paraphernalia include the \"ghanta\" bell, \"damaru dru\" necklaces, and consecrated cup filled with \"chi\".\n\nThe religion practices animal sacrifice, especially of goats and pigs.\n\nMun priests are traditionally present at Lepcha celebrations for birth, marriage, and death. Among the Lepcha, Mun officiants are the only obligatory aspect of a commoner's funeral. The funerary ceremony, called \"dek flee\", is accompanied by the sacrifice of a goat and a hen three days after death. It is also performed at the home of people who die elsewhere, for fear of the spirit's return. Auspicious locations and days, particularly in rural settings, may be required of rituals to address more severe ailments or threatening afflictions.\n\nFestivals are also a central aspect of the religion.\n\nThe priesthood consists of two types of shaman, corresponding to the spirits they manifest. \"Mun\" undergo spirit possession, manifesting supernatural entities bodily, can be male or female. While \"bongthing\" are only male, where they have to learn and practice rituals. It is said that Bongthing came before Mun, so as to show respect, the Mun needs to learn both the Bongthing way and the Mun way. Mun undergo spirit possession, manifesting supernatural entities bodily. Their main functions are to ward off misfortunes and illness, perform exorcisms, and guide souls to the afterlife. Some also adjudicate theft cases. Although the priesthood exists, the religion considers true knowledge to be a divine revelation through meditation or dreams, as opposed to a learned talent.\n\nBoth the \"mun\" and \"bongthing\" priesthoods are hereditary, although they do not pass strictly patrilineally. Trained disciples of existing masters are often recruited to service at times of crisis as an election by ancestors or shamanic gods. It is possible for a \"bongthing\" to advance to \"mun\" status.\n\n\"Padem\" are a male hereditary junior priesthood. A \"padem\" is usually an initiate on the path to becoming a \"mun\" shaman, and has the right to offer sacrifice.\n\nThe traditional priesthood also plays a role in the indigenous medical system, as they learn therapeutic knowledge and healing rituals.\n\n"}
{"id": "62984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62984", "title": "Nun", "text": "Nun\n\nA nun is a member of a religious community of women, typically living under vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience in the enclosure of a monastery. Communities of nuns exist in numerous religious traditions, including Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Jainism, and Taoism.\n\nIn the Buddhist tradition, female monastics are known as Bhikkhuni, and take several additional vows compared to male monastics (bhikkhus). Nuns are most common in Mahayana Buddhism, but have more recently become more prevalent in other traditions.\n\nWithin Christianity, women religious, known as nuns or religious sisters, are found in Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Anglican, and Lutheran traditions among others. Though the terms are often used interchangeably, \"nuns\" historically take solemn vows and live a life of prayer and contemplation in a monastery or convent, while \"sisters\" take simple vows and live an active vocation of prayer and charitable works in areas such as education and healthcare. Examples include the monastic Order of Saint Clare founded in 1212 in the Franciscan tradition, or the Missionaries of Charity founded in 1950 by Mother Teresa to care for people living in grave poverty.\n\nAll Buddhist traditions have nuns, although their status is different among Buddhist countries. The Buddha is reported to have allowed women into the \"sangha\" only with great reluctance, predicting that the move would lead to Buddhism's collapse after 500 years, rather than the 1,000 years it would have enjoyed otherwise. (This prophecy occurs only once in the Canon and is the only prophecy involving time in the Canon, leading some to suspect that it is a late addition.) Fully ordained Buddhist nuns (\"bhikkhunis\") have more \"Patimokkha\" rules than the monks (\"bhikkhus\"). The important vows are the same, however.\n\nAs with monks, there is quite a lot of variation in nuns' dress and social conventions between Buddhist cultures in Asia. Chinese nuns possess the full \"bhikkuni\" ordination, Tibetan nuns do not. In Theravada countries it is generally believed that the full ordination lineage of \"bhikkunis\" died out, though in many places they wear the \"saffron\" colored robes, observing only ten precepts like novices.\n\nIn Thailand, a country which never had a tradition of fully ordained nuns (\"bhikkhuni\"), there developed a separate order of non-ordained female renunciates called \"mae ji\". However, some of them have played an important role in dhamma-practitioners' community. There are in Thai Forest Tradition foremost nuns such as Mae Ji Kaew Sianglam, the founder of the Nunnery of Baan Huai Saai, who is believed by some to be enlightened as well as Upasika Kee Nanayon. At the beginning of the 21st century, some Buddhist women in Thailand have started to introduce the \"bhikkhuni sangha\" in their country as well, even if public acceptance is still lacking. Dhammananda Bhikkhuni, formerly the successful academic scholar Dr. Chatsumarn Kabilsingh, established a controversial monastery for the training of Buddhist nuns in Thailand.\n\nThe relatively active roles of Taiwanese nuns were noted by some studies. Researcher Charles Brewer Jones estimates that from 1952 to 1999, when the Buddhist Association of the ROC organized public ordination, female applicants outnumbered males by about three to one. He adds:\n\nWei-yi Cheng studied the Luminary (Hsiang Kuang 香光) order in southern Taiwan. Cheng reviewed earlier studies which suggest that Taiwan's Zhaijiao tradition has a history of more female participation, and that the economic growth and loosening of family restriction have allowed more women to become nuns. Based on studies of the Luminary order, Cheng concluded that the monastic order in Taiwan was still young and gave nuns more room for development, and more mobile believers helped the order.\n\nThe August 2007 International Congress on Buddhist Women's Role in the Sangha, with the support of H. H. XIVth Dalai Lama, reinstated the Gelongma (Dharmaguptaka vinaya bhikkhuni) lineage, having been lost, in India and Tibet, for centuries. Gelongma ordination requires the presence of ten fully ordained people keeping exactly the same vows. Because ten nuns are required to ordain a new one, the effort to establish the Dharmaguptaka bhikkhu tradition has taken a long time.\n\nIt is permissible for a Tibetan nun to receive bhikkhuni ordination from another living tradition, e.g., in Vietnam. Based on this, Western nuns ordained in Tibetan tradition, like Thubten Chodron, took full ordination in another tradition.\n\nThe ordination of monks and nuns in Tibetan Buddhism distinguishes three stages: rabjung-ma, getshül-ma and gelong-ma. The clothes of the nuns in Tibet are basically the same as those of monks, but there are differences between novice and \"gelong\" robes.\n\nHokke-ji in 747 was established by the consort of the Emperor. It took charge of provincial convents, performed ceremonies for the protection of the state, and became the site of pilgrimages. Aristocratic Japanese women often became Buddhist nuns in the premodern period. Originally it was thought they could not gain salvation because of the Five Hindrances, which said women could not attain Buddhahood until they changed into men. However, in 1249, 12 women received full ordination as priests.\n\nIn the Roman Catholic tradition, there are a large number of religious institutes of nuns and sisters (the female equivalent of male monks or friars), each with its own charism or special character. Traditionally, nuns are members of enclosed religious orders and take solemn religious vows, while sisters do not live in the papal enclosure and formerly took vows called \"simple vows\".\n\nAs monastics, nuns living within an enclosure historically commit to recitation of the full Liturgy of the Hours throughout the day in church, usually in a solemn manner. They were formerly distinguished within the monastic community as \"choir nuns\", as opposed to lay sisters who performed upkeep of the monastery or errands outside the cloister. This last task is still often entrusted to women, called \"externs\", who live in the monastery, but outside the enclosure. They were usually either oblates or members of the associated Third Order, often wearing a different habit or the standard woman's attire of the period.\n\nIn general, when a woman enters a religious order or monastery, she first undergoes a period of testing the life for six months to two years called a postulancy. If she, and the order, determine that she may have a vocation to the life, she receives the habit of the order (usually with some modification, normally a white veil instead of black, to distinguish her from professed members) and undertakes the novitiate, a period (that lasts one to two years) of living the life of the religious institute without yet taking vows. Upon completion of this period she may take her initial, temporary vows. Temporary vows last one to three years, typically, and will be professed for not less than three years and not more than six. Finally, she will petition to make her \"perpetual profession\", taking permanent, solemn vows.\n\nIn the branches of the Benedictine tradition, (Benedictines, Cistercians, Camaldolese, and Trappists, among others) nuns take vows of stability (that is, to remain a member of a single monastic community), obedience (to an abbess or prioress), and conversion of life (which includes poverty and celibacy). In other traditions, such as the Poor Clares (the Franciscan Order) and the Dominican nuns, they take the threefold vows of poverty, chastity and obedience. These are known as the ‘evangelical counsels’ as opposed to ‘monastic vows’ proper. Most orders of nuns not listed here follow one of these two patterns, with some Orders taking an additional vow related to the specific work or character of their Order (for example, to undertake a certain style of devotion, praying for a specific intention or purpose).\n\nCloistered nuns (Carmelites, for example) observe \"papal enclosure\" rules, and their nunneries typically have walls separating the nuns from the outside world. The nuns rarely leave (except for medical necessity or occasionally for purposes related to their contemplative life) though they may receive visitors in specially built parlors, often with either a grille or half-wall separating the nuns from visitors. They are usually self-sufficient, earning money by selling jams, candies or baked goods by mail order, or by making liturgical items (such as vestments, candles, or hosts to be consecrated at Mass for Holy Communion).\n\nThey often undertake contemplative ministries — that is, a community of nuns is often associated with prayer for some particular good or supporting the missions of another order by prayer (for instance, the Dominican nuns of Corpus Christi Monastery in the Bronx, New York, pray in support of the priests of the Archdiocese of New York). Yet religious sisters can also perform this form of ministry, e.g., the Maryknoll Missionary Sisters have small houses of contemplative sisters, some in mission locations, who pray for the work of the priests, brothers and other sisters of their congregation, and since Vatican II have added retreat work and spiritual guidance to their apostoloate; the Sister Disciples of the Divine Master are also cloistered sisters who receive visitors and pray in support of their sister congregation, the Daughters of St. Paul in their media ministry.\n\nA canoness is a nun who corresponds to the male equivalent of canon, usually following the Rule of S. Augustine. The origin and rules of monastic life are common to both. As with the canons, differences in the observance of rule gave rise to two types: the canoness regular, taking the traditional religious vows, and the secular canoness, who did not take vows and thus remained free to own property and leave to marry, should they choose. This was primarily a way of leading a pious life for the women of aristocratic families and generally disappeared in the modern age, except for the modern Lutheran convents of Germany.\n\nA nun who is elected to head her religious house is termed an abbess if the house is an abbey, a prioress if it is a monastery, or more generically may be referred to as \"Mother Superior\" and styled \"Reverend Mother\". The distinction between abbey and monastery has to do with the terms used by a particular order or by the level of independence of the religious house. Technically, a convent is any home of a community of sisters — or, indeed, of priests and brothers, though this term is rarely used in the United States. The term \"monastery\" is often used by The Benedictine family to speak of the buildings and \"convent\" when referring to the community. Neither is gender specific. ‘Convent’ is often used of the houses of certain other institutes.\n\nThe traditional dress for women in religious communities consists of a tunic, which is tied around the waist with a cloth or leather belt. Over the tunic some nuns wear a scapular which is a garment of long wide piece of woolen cloth worn over the shoulders with an opening for the head. Some wear a white wimple and a veil, the most significant and ancient aspect of the habit. Some Orders – such as the Dominicans – wear a large rosary on their belt. Benedictine abbesses wear a cross or crucifix on a chain around their neck.\n\nAfter the Second Vatican Council, many religious institutes chose in their own regulations to no longer wear the traditional habit and did away with choosing a religious name. Catholic Church canon law states: \"Religious are to wear the habit of the institute, made according to the norm of proper law, as a sign of their consecration and as a witness of poverty.\" \n\nAlthough usage has varied throughout church history, typically \"nun\" (Latin: \"monialis\") is used for women who have taken solemn vows, and \"sister\" (Latin: \"soror\") is used for women who have taken simple vows.\n\nDuring the first millennium, nearly all religious communities of men and women were dedicated to prayer and contemplation. These monasteries were built in remote locations or were separated from the world by means of a precinct wall. The mendicant orders, founded in the 13th century, combined a life of prayer and dedication to God with active works of preaching, hearing confessions, and service to the poor, and members of these orders are known as friars rather than monks. At that time, and into the 17th century, Church custom did not allow women to leave the cloister if they had taken religious vows. Female members of the mendicant orders (Dominican, Augustinian and Carmelite nuns and Poor Clares) continued to observe the same enclosed life as members of the monastic orders.\nOriginally, the vows taken by profession in any religious institute approved by the Holy See were classified as solemn. This was declared by Pope Boniface VIII (1235–1303). The situation changed in the 16th century. In 1521, two years after the Fourth Lateran Council had forbidden the establishment of new religious institutes, Pope Leo X established a religious Rule with simple vows for those tertiaries attached to existing communities who undertook to live a formal religious life. In 1566 and 1568, Pope Pius V rejected this class of congregation, but they continued to exist and even increased in number. After at first being merely tolerated, they afterwards obtained approval. Finally in the 20th century, Pope Leo XIII recognized as religious all men and women who took simple vows. Their lives were oriented not to the ancient monastic way of life, but more to social service and to evangelization, both in Europe and in mission areas. Their number had increased dramatically in the upheavals brought by the French Revolution and subsequent Napoleonic invasions of other Catholic countries, depriving thousands of religious of the income that their communities held because of inheritances and forcing them to find a new way of living the religious life. But members of these new associations were not recognized as \"religious\" until Pope Leo XIII's Constitution \"Conditae a Christo\" of 8 December 1900.\n\nThe 1917 Code of Canon Law reserved the term \"nun\" (Latin: \"monialis\") for religious women who took solemn vows or who, while being allowed in some places to take simple vows, belonged to institutes whose vows were normally solemn. It used the word \"sister\" (Latin: \"soror\") exclusively for members of institutes for women that it classified as \"congregations\"; and for \"nuns\" and \"sisters\" jointly it used the Latin word \"religiosae\" (women religious). The same religious order could include both \"nuns\" and \"sisters\", if some members took solemn vows and others simple vows.\n\nThe new legal code of the Catholic Church which was adopted in 1983, however, remained silent on this matter. Whereas previously the code distinguished between orders and congregations, the code now refers simply to religious institutes.\n\nSince the code of 1983, the Vatican has addressed the renewal of the contemplative life of nuns. It produced the letter \"Verbi Sponsa\" in 1999, the apostolic constitution \"Vultum Dei quaerere\" in 2016, and the instruction \"Cor Orans\" in 2018 \"which replaced the 1999 document \"Verbi Sponsa\" and attempted to bring forward the ideas regarding contemplative life born during the Second Vatican Council\". \n\n Nuns and sisters played a major role in American religion, education, nursing and social work since the early 19th century. In Catholic Europe, convents were heavily endowed over the centuries, and were sponsored by the aristocracy. There were very few rich American Catholics, and no aristocrats. Religious orders were founded by entrepreneurial women who saw a need and an opportunity, and were staffed by devout women from poor families. The numbers grew rapidly, from 900 sisters in 15 communities in 1840, 50,000 in 170 orders in 1900, and 135,000 in 300 different orders by 1930. Starting in 1820, the sisters always outnumbered the priests and brothers. Their numbers peaked in 1965 at 180,000 then plunged to 56,000 in 2010. Many women left their orders, and few new members were added. Since the Second Vatican Council the sisters have directed their ministries more to the poor, working more directly among them and with them.\n\nNuns have played an important role in Canada, especially in heavily Catholic Quebec. Outside the home, Canadian women had few domains which they controlled. An important exception came with Roman Catholic nuns, especially in Québec. Stimulated by the influence in France, the popular religiosity of the Counter Reformation, new orders for women began appearing in the seventeenth century. In the next three centuries women opened dozens of independent religious orders, funded in part by dowries provided by the parents of young nuns. The orders specialized in charitable works, including hospitals, orphanages, homes for unwed mothers, and schools.\n\nEarly Modern Spain\n\nPrior to women becoming nuns during early modern Spain, aspired nuns underwent a process. The process was ensured by the Council of Trent, which King Philip II (1556-1598) adopted within Spain. King Phillip II acquired the aid of the Hieronymite order to ensure that monasteries abided by the decrees of the Council of Trent. This changed the way in which nuns would live. One edict of the Council of Trent was that female monasteries be enclosed in order to limit nuns' relationship with the secular world. Enclosure of monasteries during this time was associated with chastity. Another decree issued by the Council of Trent was that religious devotion be \"true and voluntary\". A male clergy member would ask the aspiring nuns if whether or not their vocation was \"true and voluntary\" in order to ensure no enforced conversion.\n\nTo be considered as a nun, one must have the economic means to afford the convent dowry. During this time convent dowries were affordable, compared to secular marriages between a man and a woman. Typically during early modern Spain a large number of nuns were from elite families who had the means to afford the convent dowry and \"maintenance allowances\", which were annual fees. Monasteries were economically supported through convent dowries. Convent dowries could be waived if the aspiring nun had an artistic ability benefiting the monastery.\n\nOnce an aspiring nun has entered the convent and has the economic means to afford the dowry, she undergoes the process of apprenticeship known as the novitiate period. The novitiate period typically lasts 1–2 years, and during this time the aspiring nun lives the life of a nun without taking the official vows. As she lives in the convent she is closely monitored by the other women in the community to determine if her vocation is genuine. This would be officially determined by a vote from the choir nuns. If the aspiring nun passes the scrutiny of the women of the religious community, she then can make her solemn vows. Prior to making the vows, the family of the nun is expected to pay the convent dowry. Nuns were also expected to denounce their inheritance and property rights.\n\nReligious class distinctions: \n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church there is no distinction between a monastery for women and one for men. In Greek, Russian, and other Eastern European languages, both domiciles are called \"monasteries\" and the ascetics who live therein are \"monastics\". In English, however, it is acceptable to use the terms \"nun\" and \"convent\" for clarity and convenience. The term for an abbess is the feminine form of abbot (\"hegumen\") – Greek: \"hegumeni\"; (\"Igumanija\"); Russian: игумения, (\"igumenia\"). Orthodox monastics do not have distinct \"orders\" as in Western Christianity. Orthodox monks and nuns lead identical spiritual lives. There may be slight differences in the way a monastery functions internally but these are simply differences in style (Gr. \"typica\") dependent on the abbess or abbot. The abbess is the spiritual leader of the convent and her authority is absolute (no priest, bishop, or even patriarch can override an abbess within the walls of her monastery.) There has always been spiritual equality between men and women in the Orthodox Church (). Abbots and Abbesses rank in authority equal to bishops in many ways and were included in ecumenical councils. Orthodox monasteries are usually associated with a local synod of bishops by jurisdiction, but are otherwise self-governing. Abbesses hear confessions (but do not absolve) and dispense blessings on their charges, though they still require the services of a presbyter (i.e., a priest) to celebrate the Divine Liturgy and perform other priestly functions, such as the absolution of a penitent.\n\nOrthodox monastics, in general have little or no contact with the outside world, especially family. The pious family whose child decides to enter the monastic profession understands that their child will become \"dead to the world\" and therefore be unavailable for social visits.\n\nThere are a number of different levels that the nun passes through in her profession:\n\nAfter the Protestant Reformation, some monasteries in Lutheran lands (such as Amelungsborn Abbey near Negenborn and Loccum Abbey in Rehburg-Loccum) and convents (such as Ebstorf Abbey near the town of Uelzen and Bursfelde Abbey in Bursfelde) adopted the Lutheran Christian faith. Other convents, especially those in Reformed areas, closed after the Reformation, with some sisters deciding to marry.\n\nA modern resurgence of the early Christian Deaconess office for women began in Germany in the 1840s and spread through Scandinavia, Britain and the United States, with some elements of the religious life, such as simple vows, and a daily obligation of prayer. Lutherans were especially active, and within both Lutheranism and Anglicanism some Deaconesses formed religious communities, with community living, and the option of life vows in religion. The modern movement reached a zenith about 1910, then slowly declined as secularization undercut religiosity in Europe, and the professionalization of nursing and social work offered better career opportunities for young women. A small movement still exists, and its legacy is seen in the names of numerous hospitals.\n\nThe example of the Deaconess communities eventually led to the establishment of religious communities of monks and nuns within some Protestant traditions, particularly those influenced by the more liturgical Protestant reformers (such as Martin Luther) rather than the more extreme reformers (such as John Calvin). This has allowed for communities of nuns (or, in some cases, mixed communities of nuns and monks) to be re-established in some Protestant traditions. Many of these are within the episcopal Lutheran tradition and the closeness of Lutheranism with Anglicanism its belief and practice has led to local arrangements of inter-Communion between the two traditions, such as the Porvoo Communion.\n\nReligious communities throughout England were destroyed by King Henry VIII when he separated the Church of England from papal authority during the English Reformation (see Dissolution of the Monasteries). Monasteries and convents were deprived of their lands and possessions, and monastics were forced to either live a secular life on a pension or flee the country. Many Roman Catholic nuns went to France.\nAnglican religious orders are organizations of laity or clergy in the Anglican Communion who live under a common rule. The term \"religious orders\" is distinguished from Holy Orders (the sacrament of ordination which bishops, priests, and deacons receive), though many communities do have ordained members.\n\nThe structure and function of religious orders in Anglicanism roughly parallels that which exists in Roman Catholicism. Religious communities are divided into orders proper, in which members take solemn vows and congregations, whose members take simple vows.\n\nWith the rise of the Oxford Movement in Anglicanism in the early 19th century came interest in the revival of \"religious life\" in England. Between 1841 and 1855, several religious orders for nuns were founded, among them the Community of St. Mary at Wantage and the Community of St. Margaret at East Grinstead.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, the founding of Anglican religious orders of nuns began in 1845 with the Sisterhood of the Holy Communion (now defunct) in New York.\n\nWhilst there is no single central authority for all religious orders, and many member churches of the Anglican Communion have their own internal structures for recognising and regulating religious orders, some central functions are performed by the Anglican Religious Communities Department at Church House, Westminster, the headquarters of the Church of England's Church Commissioners, General Synod, Archbishops' Council, and National Society. This department publishes the bi-annual \"Anglican Religious Life\", a world directory of religious orders, and also maintains an official Anglican Communion website for religious orders. \"Anglican Religious Life\" defines four categories of community.\n\nIn the United States (only), there is a clear distinction between \"orders\" and \"communities\", as the Episcopal Church has its own two-fold definition of \"religious orders\" (equivalent to the first two groups above) and \"Christian communities\" (equivalent to the third group above). The \"Anglican Religious Life\" directory affirms this, stating \"This distinction in not used in other parts of the Anglican Communion where 'communities' is also used for those who take traditional vows.\"\nIn some Anglican orders, there are sisters who have been ordained and can celebrate the Eucharist.\n\nThere are a plethora of religious orders within the Lutheran Churches, such as the Order of Lutheran Franciscans and Daughters of Mary.\n\nThe Evangelical Sisterhood of Mary, an order of Lutheran nuns, operates a guesthouse for Holocaust survivors in Jerusalem.\n\nThe Saint Brigid of Kildare Benedictine Monastery is a United Methodist double monastery with both monks and nuns.\n\nNuns play an important role in the public's image of religious symbolism. A list of notable works in which nuns play a major part ranges from \"A Time for Miracles\", which is hagiography, to realistic accounts by Kathryn Hulme and Monica Baldwin, to the blatant nunsploitation of \"Sacred Flesh\". Works can include those which portray Catholic nuns or non-Catholic such as \"Black Narcissus\" (Anglican), and \"Minsara Kanavu\" (church of south India).\n\nMany stories that have depicted nuns have gone on to critical and audience acclaim such as \"Sister Act\", \"\", and \"The Sound of Music\". These stories have been reproduced in both stage and film. Other examples of nuns in television and film include Sally Field in \"The Flying Nun\", Stephanie Beacham in \"Sister Kate\" and Meryl Streep in \"Doubt\". Miss Clavel in the \"Madeline\" books and TV series is the nun of a French catholic boarding school.\n\nNuns have been used as antagonists in stories including Jessica Lange as Sister Jude in \"American Horror Story\" or Vanessa Redgrave in \"The Devils\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3064022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3064022", "title": "Outline of the creation–evolution controversy", "text": "Outline of the creation–evolution controversy\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to the creation–evolution controversy.\n\n\n\n\n\nSupporters of evolution:\n\nSupporters of creation or intelligent design\n\n\n\nCreation and evolution in public education\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25042", "title": "Prayer", "text": "Prayer\n\nPrayer is an invocation or act that seeks to activate a rapport with an object of worship, typically a deity, through deliberate communication. In the narrow sense, the term refers to an act of supplication or intercession directed towards a deity, or a deified ancestor. More generally, prayer can also have the purpose of thanksgiving or praise, and in comparative religion is closely associated with more abstract forms of meditation and with charms or spells.\n\nPrayer can take a variety of forms: it can be part of a set liturgy or ritual, and it can be performed alone or in groups. Prayer may take the form of a hymn, incantation, formal creedal statement, or a spontaneous utterance in the praying person.\n\nToday, most major religions involve prayer in one way or another; some ritualize the act, requiring a strict sequence of actions or placing a restriction on who is permitted to pray, while others teach that prayer may be practised spontaneously by anyone at any time.\n\nThe English term \"prayer\" is from Medieval Latin \"precaria\" \"petition, prayer\". The Vulgate Latin is \"oratio\", which translates Greek προσευχή in turn the Septuagint translation of Biblical Hebrew \"tĕphillah\".\n\nVarious spiritual traditions offer a wide variety of devotional acts. There are morning and evening prayers, graces said over meals, and reverent physical gestures. Some Christians bow their heads and fold their hands. Some Native Americans regard dancing as a form of prayer. Some Sufis whirl. Hindus chant mantras. Jewish prayer may involve swaying back and forth and bowing. Muslims practice \"salat\" (kneeling and prostration) in their prayers. Quakers keep silent. Some pray according to standardized rituals and liturgies, while others prefer extemporaneous prayers. Still others combine the two.\n\nFriedrich Heiler is often cited in Christian circles for his systematic \"Typology of Prayer\" which lists six types of prayer: primitive, ritual, Greek cultural, philosophical, mystical, and prophetic. Some forms of prayer require a prior ritualistic form of cleansing or purification such as in ghusl and wudhu.\n\nPrayer may be done privately and individually, or it may be done corporately in the presence of fellow believers. Prayer can be incorporated into a daily \"thought life\", in which one is in constant communication with a god. Some people pray throughout all that is happening during the day and seek guidance as the day progresses. This is actually regarded as a requirement in several Christian denominations, although enforcement is not possible nor desirable. There can be many different answers to prayer, just as there are many ways to interpret an answer to a question, if there in fact comes an answer. Some may experience audible, physical, or mental epiphanies. If indeed an answer comes, the time and place it comes is considered random.\nSome outward acts that sometimes accompany prayer are: anointing with oil; ringing a bell; burning incense or paper; lighting a candle or candles; See, for example, facing a specific direction (i.e. towards Mecca or the East); making the sign of the cross. One less noticeable act related to prayer is fasting.\n\nA variety of body postures may be assumed, often with specific meaning (mainly respect or adoration) associated with them: standing; sitting; kneeling; prostrate on the floor; eyes opened; eyes closed; hands folded or clasped; hands upraised; holding hands with others; a laying on of hands and others. Prayers may be recited from memory, read from a book of prayers, or composed spontaneously as they are prayed. They may be said, chanted, or sung. They may be with musical accompaniment or not. There may be a time of outward silence while prayers are offered mentally. Often, there are prayers to fit specific occasions, such as the blessing of a meal, the birth or death of a loved one, other significant events in the life of a believer, or days of the year that have special religious significance. Details corresponding to specific traditions are outlined below.\n\nAnthropologically, the concept of prayer is closely related to that of surrender and supplication. \nThe traditional posture of prayer in medieval Europe is kneeling or supine with clasped hands, in antiquity more typically with raised hands. The early Christian prayer posture was standing, looking up to heaven, with outspread arms and bare head. This is the pre-Christian, pagan prayer posture (except for the bare head, which was prescribed for males in Corinthians 11:4, in Roman paganism, the head had to be covered in prayer). Certain Cretan and Cypriote figures of the Late Bronze Age, with arms raised, have been interpreted as worshippers. Their posture is similar to the \"flight\" posture, a crouching posture with raised hands, observed in schizophrenic patients and related to the universal \"hands up\" gesture of surrender. The kneeling posture with clasped hands appears to have been introduced only with the beginning high medieval period, presumably adopted from a gesture of feudal homage.\n\nAlthough prayer in its literal sense is not used in animism, communication with the spirit world is vital to the animist way of life. This is usually accomplished through a shaman who, through a trance, gains access to the spirit world and then shows the spirits' thoughts to the people. Other ways to receive messages from the spirits include using astrology or contemplating fortune tellers and healers. \n\nSome of the oldest extant literature, such as the Sumerian temple hymns of Enheduanna (c. 23th century BC) are liturgy addressed to deities and thus technically \"prayer\". The Egyptian Pyramid Texts of about the same period similarly contain spells or incantations addressed to the gods. In the loosest sense, in the form of magical thinking combined with animism, prayer has been argued as representing a human cultural universal, which would have been present since the emergence of behavioral modernity, by anthropologists such as Sir Edward Burnett Tylor and Sir James George Frazer.\n\nReliable records are available for the polytheistic religions of the Iron Age, most notably Ancient Greek religion (which strongly influenced Roman religion). These religious traditions were direct developments of the earlier Bronze Age religions.\nCeremonial prayer was highly formulaic and ritualized. \n\nIn ancient polytheism, ancestor worship is indistinguishable from theistic worship (see also Euhemerism).\nVestiges of ancestor worship persist, to a greater or lesser extent, in modern religious traditions throughout the world, most notably in Japanese Shinto and in Chinese folk religion. The practices involved in Shinto prayer are heavily influenced by Buddhism; Japanese Buddhism has also been strongly influenced by Shinto in turn. Shinto prayers quite frequently consist of wishes or favors asked of the \"kami\", rather than lengthy praises or devotions. The practice of votive offering is also universal, and is attested at least since the Bronze Age. In Shinto, this takes the form of a small wooden tablet, called an \"ema\".\n\nPrayers in Etruscan were used in the Roman world by augurs and other oracles long after Etruscan became a dead language. The Carmen Arvale and the Carmen Saliare are two specimens of partially preserved prayers that seem to have been unintelligible to their scribes, and whose language is full of archaisms and difficult passages.\n\nRoman prayers and sacrifices were often envisioned as legal bargains between deity and worshipper. The Roman principle was expressed as \"do ut des\": \"I give, so that you may give.\" Cato the Elder's treatise on agriculture contains many examples of preserved traditional prayers; in one, a farmer addresses the unknown deity of a possibly sacred grove, and sacrifices a pig in order to placate the god or goddess of the place and beseech his or her permission to cut down some trees from the grove.\nCeltic, Germanic and Slavic religions are recorded much later, and much more fragmentarily, than the religions of classical antiquity. They nevertheless show substantial parallels to the better-attested religions of the Iron Age. In the case of Germanic religion, the practice of prayer is reliably attested, but no actual liturgy is recorded from the early (Roman era) period. An Old Norse prayer is on record in the form of a dramatization in skaldic poetry. This prayer is recorded in stanzas 2 and 3 of the poem \"Sigrdrífumál\", compiled in the 13th century \"Poetic Edda\" from earlier traditional sources, where the valkyrie Sigrdrífa prays to the gods and the earth after being woken by the hero Sigurd.\nA prayer to Odin is mentioned in chapter 2 of the \"Völsunga saga\" where King Rerir prays for a child. In stanza 9 of the poem \"Oddrúnargrátr\", a prayer is made to \"kind wights, Frigg and Freyja, and many gods In chapter 21 of \"Jómsvíkinga saga\", wishing to turn the tide of the Battle of Hjörungavágr, Haakon Sigurdsson eventually finds his prayers answered by the goddesses Þorgerðr Hölgabrúðr and Irpa.\nFolk religion in the medieval period produced syncretisms between pre-Christian and Christian traditions. An example is the 11th-century Anglo-Saxon charm \"Æcerbot\" for the fertility of crops and land, or the medical \"Wið færstice\". The 8th-century Wessobrunn Prayer has been proposed as a Christianized pagan prayer and compared to the pagan \"Völuspá\" and the Merseburg Incantations, the latter recorded in the 9th or 10th century but of much older traditional origins.\n\nIn Australian Aboriginal mythology, prayers to the \"Great Wit\" are performed by the \"clever men\" and \"clever women\", or \"kadji\". These Aboriginal shamans use maban or mabain, the material that is believed to give them their purported magical powers. The Pueblo Indians are known to have used prayer sticks, that is, sticks with feathers attached as supplicatory offerings. The Hopi Indians used prayer sticks as well, but they attached to it a small bag of sacred meal.\n\nThe most common form of prayer is to directly appeal to a deity to grant one's requests. Some have termed this as the social approach to prayer.\n\nAtheist arguments against prayer are mostly directed against petitionary prayer in particular. Daniel Dennett argued that petitionary prayer might have the undesirable psychological effect of relieving a person of the need to take active measures.\n\nThis potential drawback manifests in extreme forms in such cases as Christian Scientists who rely on prayers instead of seeking medical treatment for family members for easily curable conditions which later result in death.\n\nChristopher Hitchens (2012) argued that praying to a god which is omnipotent and all-knowing would be presumptuous. For example, he interprets Ambrose Bierce's definition of prayer by stating that \"the man who prays is the one who thinks that god has arranged matters all wrong, but who also thinks that he can instruct god how to put them right.\"\n\nIn this view, prayer is not a conversation. Rather, it is meant to inculcate certain attitudes in the one who prays, but not to influence. Among Jews, this has been the approach of Rabbenu Bachya, Rabbi Yehuda Halevi, Joseph Albo, Samson Raphael Hirsch, and Joseph B. Soloveitchik. This view is expressed by Rabbi Nosson Scherman in the overview to the Artscroll Siddur (p. XIII).\n\nAmong Christian theologians, E.M. Bounds stated the educational purpose of prayer in every chapter of his book, \"The Necessity of Prayer\". Prayer books such as the Book of Common Prayer are both a result of this approach and an exhortation to keep it.\n\nIn this view, the ultimate goal of prayer is to help train a person to focus on divinity through philosophy and intellectual contemplation (meditation). This approach was taken by the Jewish scholar and philosopher Maimonides and the other medieval rationalists. It became popular in Jewish, Christian, and Islamic intellectual circles, but never became the most popular understanding of prayer among the laity in any of these faiths. In all three of these faiths today, a significant minority of people still hold to this approach.\n\nIn this approach, the purpose of prayer is to enable the person praying to gain a direct experience of the recipient of the prayer (or as close to direct as a specific theology permits). This approach is very significant in Christianity and widespread in Judaism (although less popular theologically). In Eastern Orthodoxy, this approach is known as hesychasm. It is also widespread in Sufi Islam, and in some forms of mysticism. It has some similarities with the rationalist approach, since it can also involve contemplation, although the contemplation is not generally viewed as being as rational or intellectual. Christian and Roman Catholic traditions also include an experiential approach to prayer within the practice of Lectio Divina, historically a Benedictine practice in which scripture is read aloud; actively meditated upon using the intellect (but not analysis) possibly using the mind to place the listener within a relationship or dialogue with the text that was read; a prayer spoken; and finally concludes with , a more passive experiential approach than the previous meditation, which is characterized by the Catechism of the Catholic Church as an experience of consciously being attentive, and having a silent love toward God, which the individual experiences without demanding to receive an experience. The experience of God within Christian mysticism has been contrasted with the concept of experiential religion or mystical experience because of a long history or authors living and writing about experience with the divine in a manner that identifies God as unknowable and ineffable, the language of such ideas could be characterized paradoxically as \"experiential\", as well as without the phenomena of experience.\n\nThe notion of \"religious experience\" can be traced back to William James, who used a term called \"religious experience\" in his book, \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\". The origins of the use of this term can be dated further back.\n\nIn the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries, several historical figures put forth very influential views that religion and its beliefs can be grounded in experience itself. While Kant held that moral experience justified religious beliefs, John Wesley in addition to stressing individual moral exertion thought that the religious experiences in the Methodist movement (paralleling the Romantic Movement) were foundational to religious commitment as a way of life.\n\nWayne Proudfoot traces the roots of the notion of \"religious experience\" to the German theologian Friedrich Schleiermacher (1768–1834), who argued that religion is based on a feeling of the infinite. The notion of \"religious experience\" was used by Schleiermacher and Albert Ritschl to defend religion against the growing scientific and secular critique, and defend the view that human (moral and religious) experience justifies religious beliefs.\n\nSuch religious empiricism would be later seen as highly problematic and was — during the period in-between world wars — famously rejected by Karl Barth. In the 20th century, religious as well as moral experience as justification for religious beliefs still holds sway. Some influential modern scholars holding this liberal theological view are Charles Raven and the Oxford physicist/theologian Charles Coulson.\n\nThe notion of \"religious experience\" was adopted by many scholars of religion, of whom William James was the most influential.\n\nThe notion of \"experience\" has been criticised. Robert Sharf points out that \"experience\" is a typical Western term, which has found its way into Asian religiosity via western influences. The notion of \"experience\" introduces a false notion of duality between \"experiencer\" and \"experienced\", whereas the essence of kensho is the realisation of the \"non-duality\" of observer and observed. \"Pure experience\" does not exist; all experience is mediated by intellectual and cognitive activity. The specific teachings and practices of a specific tradition may even determine what \"experience\" someone has, which means that this \"experience\" is not the \"proof\" of the teaching, but a \"result\" of the teaching. A pure consciousness without concepts, reached by \"cleaning the doors of perception\", would be an overwhelming chaos of sensory input without coherence.\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible prayer is an evolving means of interacting with God, most frequently through a spontaneous, individual, unorganized form of petitioning and/or thanking. Standardized prayer such as is done today is non-existent, although beginning in Deuteronomy, the Bible lays the groundwork for organized prayer, including basic liturgical guidelines, and by the Bible's later books, prayer has evolved to a more standardized form, although still radically different from the form practiced by modern Jews.\n\nIndividual prayer is described by the Tanakh two ways. The first of these is when prayer is described as occurring, and a result is achieved, but no further information regarding a person's prayer is given. In these instances, such as with Isaac, Moses, Samuel, and Job, the act of praying is a method of changing a situation for the better. The second way in which prayer is depicted is through fully fleshed out episodes of prayer, where a person's prayer is related in full. Many famous biblical personalities have such a prayer, including every major character from Hannah to Hezekiah.\n\nIn the New Testament prayer is presented as a positive command (; ). The People of God are challenged to include Christian prayer in their everyday life, even in the busy struggles of marriage () as it brings people closer to God.\n\nJesus encouraged his disciples to pray in secret in their private rooms, using the Lord's Prayer, as a humble response to the prayer of the Pharisees, whose practices in prayer were regarded as impious by the New Testament writers ().\n\nThroughout the New Testament, prayer is shown to be God's appointed method by which we obtain what He has to bestow (; ; . Further, the Book of James says that the lack of blessings in life results from a failure to pray (). Jesus healed through prayer and expected his followers to do so also (; ).\n\nObservant Jews pray three times a day, Shacharit, Mincha, and Ma'ariv with lengthier prayers on special days, such as the Shabbat and Jewish holidays including Musaf and the reading of the Torah. The siddur is the prayerbook used by Jews all over the world, containing a set order of daily prayers. Jewish prayer is usually described as having two aspects: \"kavanah\" (intention) and \"keva\" (the ritualistic, structured elements).\n\nThe most important Jewish prayers are the Shema Yisrael (\"Hear O Israel\") and the Amidah (\"the standing prayer\").\n\nCommunal prayer is preferred over solitary prayer, and a quorum of 10 adult males (a \"minyan\") is considered by Orthodox Judaism a prerequisite for several communal prayers.\nThere are also many other ritualistic prayers a Jew performs during their day, such as washing before eating bread, washing after one wakes up in the morning, and doing grace after meals.\n\nIn this view, the ultimate goal of prayer is to help train a person to focus on divinity through philosophy and intellectual contemplation. This approach was taken by Maimonides and the other medieval rationalists. One example of this approach to prayer is noted by Rabbi Steven Weil, who was appointed the Orthodox Union's Executive-Vice President in 2009. He notes that the word \"prayer\" is a derivative of the Latin \"precari\", which means \"to beg\". The Hebrew equivalent \"tefilah\", however, along with its root \"pelel\" or its reflexive \"l’hitpallel\", means the act of self-analysis or self-evaluation. This approach is sometimes described as the person praying having a dialogue or conversation with God.\n\nIn this view, prayer is not a conversation. Rather, it is meant to inculcate certain attitudes in the one who prays, but not to influence. This has been the approach of Rabbenu Bachya, Yehuda Halevy, Joseph Albo, Samson Raphael Hirsch, and Joseph Dov Soloveitchik. This view is expressed by Rabbi Nosson Scherman in the overview to the Artscroll Siddur (p. XIII); note that Scherman goes on to also affirm the Kabbalistic view (see below).\n\nKabbalah uses a series of \"kavanot\", directions of intent, to specify the path the prayer ascends in the dialog with God, to increase its chances of being answered favorably. Kabbalists ascribe a higher meaning to the purpose of prayer, which is no less than affecting the very fabric of reality itself, restructuring and repairing the universe in a real fashion. In this view, every word of every prayer, and indeed, even every letter of every word, has a precise meaning and a precise effect. Prayers thus literally affect the mystical forces of the universe, and repair the fabric of creation.\n\nAmong Jews, this approach has been taken by the Chassidei Ashkenaz (German pietists of the Middle-Ages), the Arizal's Kabbalist tradition, Ramchal, most of Hassidism, the Vilna Gaon, and Jacob Emden.\n\nChristian prayers are quite varied. They can be completely spontaneous, or read entirely from a text, like the Anglican Book of Common Prayer. The most common prayer among Christians is the Lord's Prayer, which according to the gospel accounts (e.g. ) is how Jesus taught his disciples to pray. The Lord's Prayer is a model for prayers of adoration, confession and petition in Christianity. In medieval England, prayers (particularly the \"paternoster\") were frequently used as a measure of time in medical and culinary recipe books.\n\nChristians generally pray to God or to the Father. Some Christians (e.g., Catholics, Orthodox) will also ask the righteous in heaven and \"in Christ,\" such as Virgin Mary or other saints to intercede by praying on their behalf (intercession of saints). Formulaic closures include \"through our Lord Jesus Christ, Your Son, who lives and reigns with You, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, God, through all the ages of ages,\" and \"in the name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit.\"\n\nIt is customary among Protestants to end prayers with \"In Jesus' name, Amen\" or \"In the name of Christ, Amen.\" However, the most commonly used closure in Christianity is simply \"Amen\" (from a Hebrew adverb used as a statement of affirmation or agreement, usually translated as \"so be it\").\n\nIn the Western or Latin Rite of the Roman Catholic Church, probably the most common is the Rosary; In the Eastern Church (the Eastern rites of the Catholic Church and Orthodox Church), the Jesus Prayer. The Jesus Prayer is also often repeated as part of the meditative hesychasm practice in Eastern Christianity.\n\nRoman Catholic tradition includes specific prayers and devotions as acts of reparation which do not involve a petition for a living or deceased beneficiary, but aim to repair the sins of others, e.g. for the repair of the sin of blasphemy performed by others.\n\nOther forms of prayer among Catholics would be meditative prayer, contemplative prayer and infused prayer discussed at length by Catholic Saints St. John of the Cross and St. Theresa of Jesus.\n\nIn Pentecostal congregations, prayer is often accompanied by speaking in an unknown tongue, a practice now known as glossolalia. Practitioners of Pentecostal glossolalia may claim that the languages they speak in prayer are real foreign languages, and that the ability to speak those languages spontaneously is a gift of the Holy Spirit. Some people outside of the movement, however, have offered dissenting views. George Barton Cutten suggested that glossolalia was a sign of mental illness. Felicitas Goodman suggested that tongue speakers were under a form of hypnosis. Others suggest that it is a learned behaviour. Some of these views have allegedly been refuted.\n\nChristian Science teaches that prayer is a spiritualization of thought or an understanding of God and of the nature of the underlying spiritual creation. Adherents believe that this can result in healing, by bringing spiritual reality into clearer focus in the human scene. The world as it appears to the senses is regarded as a distorted version of the world of spiritual ideas. Prayer can heal the distortion. Christian Scientists believe that prayer does not change the spiritual creation but gives a clearer view of it, and the result appears in the human scene as healing: the human picture adjusts to coincide more nearly with the divine reality. Christian Scientists do not practice intercessory prayer as it is commonly understood, and they generally avoid combining prayer with medical treatment in the belief that the two practices tend to work against each other. Prayer works through love: the recognition of God's creation as spiritual, intact, and inherently lovable.\n\nThe Arabic word for prayer is \"salah\". In Islam, there are five daily obligatory prayers that are considered as one of the pillars of the religion. The command to ritual prayer occurs repeatedly in the Quran. The prayer is performed by the person while they are facing the Kaaba in Mecca. There is the \"call for prayer\" (\"adhan\"), where the \"muezzin\" calls for all the followers to stand together for the prayer. The prayer consists of actions such as glorifying and praising God (such as mentioning ‘Allāhu Akbar’ (God is Great)) while standing, recitation of chapters of the Quran (such as the opening chapter of the book (\"Al-Fatiha\")), bowing down then praising God, prostrating (\"sujud\") then again praising God and it ends with the words: \"Peace be with you and God’s mercy\". During the prayer, a Muslim cannot talk or do anything else besides pray. Once the prayer is complete, one can offer personal prayers or supplications to God for their needs that are known as \"dua\". There are many standard invocations in Arabic to be recited at various times (\"e.g.\" after the prayer) and for various occasions (\"e.g.\" for one's parents) with manners and etiquette such as before eating. Muslims may also say \"dua\" in their own words and languages for any issue they wish to communicate with God in the hope that God will answer their prayers. Certain Shi'a sects pray the five daily prayers divided into three separate parts of the day, providing several Hadith as supporting evidence; although according to Shia Islam, it is also permissible to pray at five times.\n\nBahá'u'lláh, the Báb, and `Abdu'l-Bahá wrote many prayers for general use, and some for specific occasions, including for unity, detachment, spiritual upliftment, and healing among others. Bahá'ís are also required to recite each day one of three obligatory prayers composed by Bahá'u'lláh. The believers have been enjoined to face in the direction of the Qiblih when reciting their Obligatory Prayer. The longest obligatory prayer may be recited at any time during the day; another, of medium length, is recited once in the morning, once at midday, and once in the evening; and the shortest can be recited anytime between noon and sunset. Bahá'ís also read from and meditate on the scriptures every morning and evening.\n\nIn both Buddhism and Hinduism, the repetition of mantras is closely related to the practice of repetitive prayer in Western religion (rosary, Jesus prayer). Many of the most widespread Hindu and Buddhist mantras are in origin invocations of deities, e.g. Gayatri Mantra dedicated to Savitr, Pavamana Mantra to Soma Pavamana, and many of the Buddhist Dhāraṇī originate as recitations of lists of names or attributes of deities. Most of the shorter Buddhist mantras originate as the invocation of the name of a specific deity or \"bodhisattva\", such as \"Om mani padme hum\" being in origin the invocation of a \"bodhisattva\" called \"Maṇipadma\". However, from an early time these mantras were interpreted in the context of mystical sound symbolism. The most extreme example of this is the om syllable, which as early as in the Aitareya Brahmana was claimed as equivalent to the entire Vedas (collection of ritual hymns).\n\nIn the earliest Buddhist tradition, the Theravada, and in the later Mahayana tradition of Zen (or Chán), prayer plays only an ancillary role. It is largely a ritual expression of wishes for success in the practice and in helping all beings.\n\nThe skillful means (Sanskrit: \"upāya\") of the transfer of merit (Sanskrit: \"pariṇāmanā\") is an evocation and prayer. Moreover, indeterminate buddhas are available for intercession as they reside in awoken-fields (Sanskrit: \"buddha-kshetra\").\n\nThe \"nirmānakāya\" of an awoken-field is what is generally known and understood as a mandala. The opening and closing of the ring (Sanskrit: \"maṇḍala\") is an active prayer. An active prayer is a mindful activity, an activity in which mindfulness is not just cultivated but \"is\". A common prayer is \"May the merit of my practice, adorn Buddhas' Pure Lands, requite the fourfold kindness from above, and relieve the suffering of the three life-journeys below. Universally wishing sentient beings, Friends, foes, and karmic creditors, all to activate the bodhi mind, and all to be reborn in the Pure Land of Ultimate Bliss.\" (願以此功德 莊嚴佛淨土 上報四重恩 下濟三途苦 普願諸眾生 冤親諸債主 悉發菩提心 同生極樂國)\n\nThe Generation Stage (Sanskrit: \"utpatti-krama\") of Vajrayana involves prayer elements.\n\nThe Tibetan Buddhism tradition emphasizes an instructive and devotional relationship to a guru; this may involve devotional practices known as guru yoga which are congruent with prayer. It also appears that Tibetan Buddhism posits the existence of various deities, but the peak view of the tradition is that the deities or \"yidam\" are no more existent or real than the continuity (Sanskrit: \"santana\"; refer mindstream) of the practitioner, environment and activity. But how practitioners engage \"yidam\" or tutelary deities will depend upon the level or more appropriately \"yana\" at which they are practicing. At one level, one may pray to a deity for protection or assistance, taking a more subordinate role. At another level, one may invoke the deity, on a more equal footing. And at a higher level one may deliberately cultivate the idea that one has become the deity, whilst remaining aware that its ultimate nature is \"śūnyatā\". The views of the more esoteric \"yana\" are impenetrable for those without direct experience and empowerment.\n\nPure Land Buddhism emphasizes the recitation by devotees of prayer-like mantras, a practice often called \"Nembutsu\". On one level it is said that reciting these mantras can ensure rebirth into a \"Sambhogakāya\" land (Sanskrit: \"buddha-kshetra\") after bodily dissolution, a sheer ball spontaneously co-emergent to a buddha's enlightened intention. According to Shinran, the founder of the Pure Land Buddhism tradition that is most prevalent in the US, \"for the long haul nothing is as efficacious as the Nembutsu.\" On another, the practice is a form of meditation aimed at achieving realization.\n\nBut beyond all these practices the Buddha emphasized the primacy of individual practice and experience. He said that supplication to gods or deities was not necessary. Nevertheless, today many lay people in East Asian countries pray to the Buddha in ways that resemble Western prayer—asking for intervention and offering devotion.\n\nHinduism has incorporated many kinds of prayer (Sanskrit: \"prārthanā\"), from fire-based rituals to philosophical musings. While chanting involves 'by dictum' recitation of timeless verses or verses with timings and notations, \"dhyanam\" involves deep meditation (however short or long) on the preferred deity/God. Again the object to which prayers are offered could be a persons referred as \"devtas\", trinity or incarnation of either \"devtas\" or trinity or simply plain formless meditation as practiced by the ancient sages. These prayers can be directed to fulfilling personal needs or deep spiritual enlightenment, and also for the benefit of others. Ritual invocation was part and parcel of the Vedic religion and as such permeated their sacred texts. Indeed, the highest sacred texts of the Hindus, the Vedas, are a large collection of mantras and prayer rituals. Classical Hinduism came to focus on extolling a single supreme force, Brahman, that is made manifest in several lower forms as the familiar gods of the Hindu pantheon. Hindus in India have numerous devotional movements. Hindus may pray to the highest absolute God Brahman, or more commonly to its three manifestations, a creator god called Brahma, a preserver god called Vishnu and a destroyer god (so that the creation cycle can start afresh) Shiva, and at the next level to Vishnu's avatars (earthly appearances) Rama and Krishna or to many other male or female deities. Typically, Hindus pray with their hands (the palms) joined together in \"pranam\". The hand gesture is similar to the popular Indian greeting \"namaste\".\n\nThe \"Ardās\" (Punjabi: ਅਰਦਾਸ) is a Sikh prayer that is done before performing or after undertaking any significant task; after reciting the daily \"Banis\" (prayers); or completion of a service like the \"Paath\" (scripture reading/recitation), \"kirtan\" (hymn-singing) program or any other religious program. In Sikhism, these prayers are also said before and after eating. The prayer is a plea to God to support and help the devotee with whatever he or she is about to undertake or has done.\n\nThe \"Ardas\" is usually always done standing up with folded hands. The beginning of the \"Ardas\" is strictly set by the tenth Sikh Guru, Guru Gobind Singh. When it comes to conclusion of this prayer, the devotee uses words like \"Waheguru please bless me in the task that I am about to undertake\" when starting a new task or \"Akal Purakh, having completed the hymn-singing, we ask for your continued blessings so that we can continue with your memory and remember you at all times\", etc. The word \"Ardās\" is derived from Persian word 'Arazdashat', meaning a request, supplication, prayer, petition or an address to a superior authority.\n\nArdās is a unique prayer based on the fact that it is one of the few well-known prayers in the Sikh religion that was not written in its entirety by the Gurus. The Ardās cannot be found within the pages of the Guru Granth Sahib because it is a continually changing devotional text that has evolved over time in order for it to encompass the feats, accomplishments, and feelings of all generations of Sikhs within its lines. Taking the various derivation of the word Ardās into account, the basic purpose of this prayer is an appeal to Waheguru for his protection and care, as well as being a plea for the welfare and prosperity of all mankind, and a means for the Sikhs to thank Waheguru for all that he has done.\n\nWiccan prayers can include meditation, rituals and incantations. Prayers are seen as a form of communication with the God and Goddess. This may include prayers for \"esbat\" and \"sabbat\" celebrations, for dinner, for pre-dawn times or for your own or others safety, for healing or for the dead.\n\nIn Raëlism rites and practises vary from initiation ceremonies, to sensual meditation. An initiation ceremony usually involves a Raelian putting water on the forehead of a new member. Such ceremonies are performed on certain special days on the Raelian calendar. Sensual meditation techniques include breathing exercises and various forms of erotic meditation.\n\nIn Eckankar, one of the basic forms of prayer includes singing the word \"HU\" which is pronounced as \"hue\", a holy name of God. This can be done with eyes closed or open, aloud or silently. Practitioners may experience the divine ECK or Holy Spirit.\n\nPractitioners of Theurgy and Western esotericism may practice a form of ritual which utilizes both pre-sanctioned prayers and names of God, and prayers \"from the heart\" that, when combined, allows the participant to ascend spiritually, and in some instances, induce a trance in which God or other spiritual beings may be realized. Very similar to Hermetic Qabalah, and orthodox Kabbalah, it is believed that prayer can influence both the physical and non-physical worlds. The use of ritualistic signs and names are believed to be archetypes in which the subconscious may take form as the Inner God, or another spiritual being, and the \"prayer from the heart\" to be that spiritual force speaking through the participant.\nIn Thelema (which includes both theist as well as atheist practitioners) adherents share a number of practices that are forms of individual prayer, including basic yoga; (asana and pranayama); various forms of ritual magick; rituals of one's own devising (often based upon a syncretism of religions, or Western Esotericism, such as the Lesser Banishing Ritual of the Pentagram and Star Ruby); and performance of Liber Resh vel Helios (aka Liber 200), which consists of four daily adorations to the sun (often consisting of 4 hand/body positions and recitation of a memorized song, normally spoken, addressing different godforms identified with the sun).\n\nWhile there is no dogma within Thelema that expresses the purpose behind any individual aspirant who chooses to perform \"Resh\", it may be noted that the practice of \"Resh\" is not a simple petition toward the sun, nor a form of \"worshiping\" the celestial body that we call the Sun, but instead uses the positioning of that source of light, which enables life on our planet, as well as uses mythological images of that solar force, so that the individual can perform the prayer, possibly furthering a self-identification with the sun, so \"that repeated application of the Liber Resh adorations expands the consciousness of the individual by compelling him to take a different perspective, by inducing him to 'look at things from the point of view of the Sun'.\n\nPrayer is often used as a means of faith healing in an attempt to use religious or spiritual means to prevent illness, cure disease, or improve health. \n\nScientific studies regarding the use of prayer have mostly concentrated on its effect on the healing of sick or injured people. Meta-studies have been performed showing evidence only for no effect or a potentially small effect. For instance, a 2006 meta analysis on 14 studies concluded that there is \"no discernable effect\" while a 2007 systemic review of studies on intercessory prayer reported inconclusive results, noting that 7 of 17 studies had \"small, but significant, effect sizes\" but the review noted that the most methodologically rigorous studies failed to produce significant findings. Some studies have indicated increased medical complications in groups receiving prayer over those without. \n\nThe efficacy of petition in prayer for physical healing to a deity has been evaluated in numerous other studies, with contradictory results. There has been some criticism of the way the studies were conducted.\n\nSome attempt to heal by prayer, mental practices, spiritual insights, or other techniques, claiming they can summon divine or supernatural intervention on behalf of the ill. Others advocate that ill people may achieve healing through prayer performed by themselves. According to the varied beliefs of those who practice it, faith healing may be said to afford gradual relief from pain or sickness or to bring about a sudden \"miracle cure\", and it may be used in place of, or in tandem with, conventional medical techniques for alleviating or curing diseases. Faith healing has been criticized on the grounds that those who use it may delay seeking potentially curative conventional medical care. This is particularly problematic when parents use faith healing techniques on children.\n\nIn 1872, Francis Galton conducted a famous statistical experiment to determine whether prayer had a physical effect on the external environment. Galton hypothesized that if prayer was effective, members of the British Royal family would live longer, given that thousands prayed for their wellbeing every Sunday. He therefore compared longevity in the British Royal family with that of the general population, and found no difference. While the experiment was probably intended to satirize, and suffered from a number of confounders, it set the precedent for a number of different studies, the results of which are contradictory.\n\nTwo studies claimed that patients who are being prayed for recover more quickly or more frequently although critics have claimed that the methodology of such studies are flawed, and the perceived effect disappears when controls are tightened. One such study, with a double-blind design and about 500 subjects per group, was published in 1988; it suggested that intercessory prayer by born again Christians had a statistically significant positive effect on a coronary care unit population. Critics contend that there were severe methodological problems with this study. Another such study was reported by Harris et al. Critics also claim that the 1988 study was not fully double-blinded, and that in the Harris study, patients actually had a longer hospital stay in the prayer group, if one discounts the patients in both groups who left before prayers began, although the Harris study did demonstrate the prayed for patients on average received lower course scores (indicating better recovery).\n\nOne of the largest randomized, blind clinical trials was a remote \"retroactive\" intercessory prayer study conducted in Israel by Leibovici. This study used 3393 patient records from 1990–96, and blindly assigned some of these to an intercessory prayer group. The prayer group had shorter hospital stays and duration of fever.\n\nSeveral studies of prayer effectiveness have yielded null results. A 2001 double-blind study of the Mayo Clinic found no significant difference in the recovery rates between people who were (unbeknownst to them) assigned to a group that prayed for them and those who were not. Similarly, the MANTRA study conducted by Duke University found no differences in outcome of cardiac procedures as a result of prayer. In another similar study published in the \"American Heart Journal\" in 2006, Christian intercessory prayer when reading a scripted prayer was found to have no effect on the recovery of heart surgery patients; however, the study found patients who had knowledge of receiving prayer had slightly higher instances of complications than those who did not know if they were being prayed for or those who did not receive prayer. Another 2006 study suggested that prayer actually had a significant negative effect on the recovery of cardiac bypass patients, resulting in more frequent deaths and slower recovery time for those patient who received prayers.\n\nMany believe that prayer can aid in recovery, not due to divine influence but due to psychological and physical benefits. It has also been suggested that if a person knows that he or she is being prayed for it can be uplifting and increase morale, thus aiding recovery. (See Subject-expectancy effect.) Many studies have suggested that prayer can reduce physical stress, regardless of the god or gods a person prays to, and this may be true for many worldly reasons. According to a study by Centra State Hospital, \"the psychological benefits of prayer may help reduce stress and anxiety, promote a more positive outlook, and strengthen the will to live.\" Other practices such as yoga, t'ai chi, and meditation may also have a positive impact on physical and psychological health.\n\nOthers feel that the concept of conducting prayer experiments reflects a misunderstanding of the purpose of prayer. The previously mentioned study published in the \"American Heart Journal\" indicated that some of the intercessors who took part in it complained about the scripted nature of the prayers that were imposed to them, saying that this is not the way they usually conduct prayer: \n\nOne scientific movement attempts to track the physical effects of prayer through neuroscience. Leaders in this movement include Andrew Newberg, an Associate Professor at the University of Pennsylvania. In Newberg's brain scans, monks, priests, nuns, sisters and gurus alike have exceptionally focused attention and compassion sites. This is a result of the frontal lobe of the brain’s engagement (Newberg, 2009). Newburg believes that anybody can connect to the supernatural with practice. Those without religious affiliations benefit from the connection to the metaphysical as well. Newberg also states that further evidence towards humans' need for metaphysical relationships is that as science had increased spirituality has not decreased. Newburg believes that at the end of the 18th century, when the scientific method began to consume the human mind, religion could have vanished. However, two hundred years later, the perception of spirituality, in many instances, appears to be gaining in strength (2009). Newberg's research also provides the connection between prayer and meditation and health. By understanding how the brain works during religious experiences and practices Newberg's research shows that the brain changes during these practices allowing an understanding of how religion affects psychological and physical health (2009). For example, brain activity during meditation indicates that people who frequently practice prayer or meditation experience lower blood-pressure, lower heart rates, decreased anxiety, and decreased depression.\n\nSome modalities of alternative medicine employ prayer. A survey released in May 2004 by the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine, part of the National Institutes of Health in the United States, found that in 2002, 43% of Americans pray for their own health, 24% pray for others' health, and 10% participate in a prayer group for their own health.\n"}
{"id": "19720856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19720856", "title": "Prayer walk", "text": "Prayer walk\n\nA prayer walk is an activity that consists in walking and praying at the same time. It's done not for the physical benefit but for the spiritual exercise, either publicly functioning also as a demonstration or rally (to let other people know the group is praying), or quietly in sight of the subject. For instance, a person or group may be praying for a town or city, and walk the streets of the city while praying, either out loud, or in silence.\n\n"}
{"id": "24805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24805", "title": "Prophet", "text": "Prophet\n\nIn religion, a prophet is an individual regarded as being in contact with a divine being and said to speak on that entity's behalf, serving as an intermediary with humanity by delivering messages or teachings from the supernatural source to other people. The message that the prophet conveys is called a prophecy.\n\nClaims of prophethood have existed in many cultures through history, including Judaism, Christianity, Islam, in ancient Greek religion, Zoroastrianism, Manichaeism, and many others.\n\nIn Hebrew, the word נָבִיא (\"nāvî\"), \"spokesperson\", traditionally translates as \"prophet\". The second subdivision of the Hebrew Bible, TaNaKh (for \"Torah, Nevi'im, Ketuvim\"), is devoted to the Hebrew prophets. The meaning of \"navi\" is perhaps described in Deuteronomy 18:18, where God said, \"...and I will put My words in his mouth, and he shall speak unto them all that I shall command him.\" Thus, the \"navi\" was thought to be the \"mouth\" of God. The root nun-bet-alef (\"navi\") is based on the two-letter root nun-bet which denotes hollowness or openness; to receive transcendental wisdom, one must make oneself \"open\". Cf. Rashbam's comment to Genesis 20:7.\n\nIn addition to writing and speaking messages from God, Israelite or Jewish nevi'im (\"spokespersons\", \"prophets\") often acted out prophetic parables in their life. For example, in order to contrast the people’s disobedience with the obedience of the Rechabites, God has Jeremiah invite the Rechabites to drink wine, in disobedience to their ancestor’s command. The Rechabites refuse, wherefore God commends them. Other prophetic parables acted out by Jeremiah include burying a linen belt so that it gets ruined to illustrate how God intends to ruin Judah's pride. Likewise, Jeremiah buys a clay jar and smashes it in the Valley of Ben Hinnom in front of elders and priests to illustrate that God will smash the nation of Judah and the city of Judah beyond repair. God instructs Jeremiah to make a yoke from wood and leather straps and to put it on his own neck to demonstrate how God will put the nation under the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. In a similar way, the prophet Isaiah had to walk stripped and barefoot for three years to illustrate the coming captivity, and the prophet Ezekiel had to lie on his side for 390 days and eat measured food to illustrate the coming siege.\n\nThe prophetic assignment is not always portrayed as positive in the Hebrew Bible, and prophets were often the target of persecution and opposition. God’s personal prediction for Jeremiah, \"Attack you they will, overcome you they can't,\" was performed many times in the biblical narrative as Jeremiah warned of destruction of those who continued to refuse repentance and accept more moderate consequences. In return for his adherence to God’s discipline and speaking God’s words, Jeremiah was attacked by his own brothers, beaten and put into the stocks by a priest and false prophet, imprisoned by the king, threatened with death, thrown into a cistern by Judah’s officials, and opposed by a false prophet. Likewise, Isaiah was told by his hearers who rejected his message, \"Leave the way! Get off the path! Let us hear no more about the Holy One of Israel!\" The life of Moses being threatened by Pharaoh is another example.\n\nAccording to I Samuel 9:9, the old name for navi is \"ro'eh\", רֹאֶה, which literally means \"Seer\". That could document an ancient shift, from viewing prophets as seers for hire to viewing them as moral teachers. Allen (1971) comments that in the First Temple Era, there were essentially seer-priests, who formed a guild, divined, performed rituals and sacrifices, and were scribes, and then there were canonical prophets, who did none of these (and were against divination) and had instead a message to deliver. The seer-priests were usually attached to a local shrine or temple, such as Shiloh, and initiated others as priests in that priesthood: it was a mystical craft-guild with apprentices and recruitment. Canonical prophets were not organised this way. The similar term \"ben-navi\" (\"son of the prophet\") means \"member of a seer-priest guild\".\n\nSome examples of prophets in the Tanakh include Abraham, Moses, Miriam, Isaiah, Samuel, Ezekiel, Malachi, and Job. In Jewish tradition Daniel is not counted in the list of prophets.\n\nA Jewish tradition suggests that there were twice as many prophets as the number which left Egypt, which would make 1,200,000 prophets. The Talmud recognizes the existence of 48 male prophets who bequeathed permanent messages to mankind. According to the Talmud there were also seven women who are counted as prophetesses whose message bears relevance for all generations: Sarah, Miriam, Devorah, Hannah (mother of the prophet Samuel), Abigail (a wife of King David), Huldah (from the time of Jeremiah), and Esther. The Jewish Rabbi Rashi points out that Rebecca, Rachel, and Leah were also prophets.\nIsaiah 8:3-4refers he married \"the prophetess\", which conceived and gave to him a son, named by God Mahèr-salàl-cash-baz. Her name isn't elsewhere specified.\n\nProphets in Tanakh are not always Jews. The story of Balaam in Numbers 22 describes a non-Jewish prophet. According to the Talmud, Obadiah is said to have been a convert to Judaism.\n\nThe last nevi'im (\"spokespersons\", \"prophets\") mentioned in the Jewish Bible are Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi, all of whom lived at the end of the 70-year Babylonian exile. The Talmud (Sanhedrin 11a) states that Haggai, Zachariah, and Malachi were the last prophets, and nowadays only the \"Bath Kol\" (בת קול, lit. \"daughter of a voice\", \"voice of God\") exists.\n\nIn Christianity a prophet (or seer) is one inspired by God through the Holy Spirit to deliver a message for a specific purpose. God's calling of someone as a prophet does not have the purpose of to elevating an individual for their own glory, but for the glory of God and to turn people to him. Some Christian denominations limit a prophet's message to words intended only for the entire church congregation, excluding personal messages not intended for the body of believers; but in the Bible on a number of occasions prophets were called to deliver personal messages. The reception of a message is termed revelation and the delivery of the message is termed prophecy.\n\nThe term \"prophet\" applies to those who receive public or private revelation. Public revelation, in Catholicism, is part of the Deposit of faith, the revelation of which was completed by Jesus; whereas Private Revelation does not add to the Deposit. The term \"deposit of faith\" refers to the entirety of Jesus Christ's revelation, and is passed to successive generations in two different forms, sacred scripture (the Bible) and sacred tradition.\n\nThe Bible terms anyone who claims to speak God's words or to teach in his name without being a prophet a false prophet. One Old Testament text in the Deuteronomy contains a warning against those who prophesy events which do not come to pass and says they should be put to death. Elsewhere a false prophet may be someone who is purposely trying to deceive, is delusional, under the influence of Satan or is speaking from his own spirit.\n\nSome Christians who believe in dispensationalism believe prophecy ended (along with the rest of the sign gifts) shortly after the coming of Jesus, who delivered the \"fullness of the law\". Within this group, many Protestants believe that prophecy ended with the last of the Hebrew prophets of the Hebrew Bible, leaving a gap of about 400 years between then and the life of Jesus. The majority of Christians, including the Eastern Orthodox, allow an exception for John the Baptist as a prophet contemporary with Jesus.\n\nNew Testament passages that explicitly discuss prophets existing after the death and resurrection of Christ include Revelation 11:10, Matthew 10:40–41 and 23:34, John 13:20 and 15:20 and Acts 11:25–30, 13:1 and 15:32. Christians believe that the Holy Spirit leads people to faith in Jesus and gives them the ability to lead a Christian life and to give gifts (i.e. abilities) to Christians. These may include the charismatic gifts such as prophecy, tongues, miraculous healing ability, and clairsentience. Christians holding a view known as cessationism believe that these gifts were given only in New Testament times and that they ceased after the last apostle died.\n\nThe \"Didache\" gives extensive instruction in how to distinguish between true and false prophets, as well as commands regarding tithes to prophets in the church. Irenaeus, wrote of 2nd-century believers with the gift of prophecy, while Justin Martyr argued in his \"Dialogue with Trypho\" that prophets were not found among the Jews in his time, but that the church had prophets. \"The Shepherd of Hermas\" describes revelation in a vision regarding the proper operation of prophecy in the church. Eusebius mentions that Quadratus and Ammia of Philadelphia were both prominent prophets following the age of the Twelve Apostles. Tertullian, writing of the church meetings of the Montanists (to whom he belonged), described in detail the practice of prophecy in the 2nd-century church.\n\nA number of later Christian saints were claimed to have powers of prophecy, such as Columba of Iona (521-597), Saint Malachy (1094-1148) or Padre Pio (1887-1968). Marian apparitions like those at Fatima in 1917 or at Kibeho in Rwanda in the 1980s often included prophetic predictions regarding the future of the world as well as of the local areas they occurred in.\n\nProphetic movements in particular can be traced throughout the Christian Church's history, expressing themselves in (for example) Montanism, Novatianism, Donatism, Franciscanism, Anabaptism, Camisard enthusiasm, Puritanism, Quakerism, Quietism, Lutheranism and Pietism. Modern Pentecostals and Charismatics, members of movements which together comprised approximately 584 million people , believe in the contemporary function of the gift of prophecy, and some in these movements allow for idea that God may continue to gift the church with some individuals who are prophets. \n\nSome Christians also believe that the title \"prophet\" encompasses others than those who receive visions from God. A more modern definition of prophet is someone who spreads God's truths. These can be revealed in a number of ways, not only visions.\n\nSome Christian sects recognize the existence of a \"modern-day\" prophet. One such denomination is The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), which teaches that God still communicates with mankind through prophecy.\n\nThe Quran identifies a number of men as \"Prophets of Islam\" ( \"nabī\"; pl. \"anbiyāʾ\"). Muslims believe such individuals were assigned a special mission by God to guide humanity. Besides Muhammad, this includes prophets such as Abraham (\"Ibrāhīm\"), Moses (\"Mūsā\") () and Jesus (\"ʿĪsā\").\nAlthough only twenty-five prophets are mentioned by name in the Qur'an, a hadith (no. 21257 in \"Musnad Ahmad ibn Hanbal\") mentions that there were (more or less) 124,000 prophets in total throughout history. Other traditions place the number of prophets at 224,000. Some scholars hold that there are an even greater number in the history of mankind, and only God knows. The Qur'an says that God has sent a prophet to every group of people throughout time, and that Muhammad is the last of the prophets, sent for the whole of humankind. The message of all the prophets is believed to be the same. In Islam, all prophetic messengers are prophets (such as Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, and Muhammad) though not all prophets are prophetic messengers. The primary distinction is that a prophet is required to demonstrate God's law through his actions, character, and behavior without necessarily calling people to follow him, while a prophetic messenger is required to pronounce God's law (i.e. revelation) and call his people to submit and follow him. Muhammad is distinguished from the rest of the prophetic messengers and prophets in that he was commissioned by God to be the prophetic messenger to all of mankind. Many of these prophets are also found in the texts of Judaism (The Torah, the Prophets, and the Writings) and Christianity.\n\nMuslims often refer to Muhammad as \"the Prophet\", in the form of a noun. Jesus is the result of a virgin birth in Islam as in Christianity, and is regarded as a prophet.\n\nTraditionally, four prophets are believed to have been sent holy books: the Torah (\"Tawrat\") to Moses, the Psalms (\"Zābūr\") to David, the Gospel to Jesus, and the Qur'an to Muhammad; those prophets are considered \"Messengers\" or \"rasūl\". Other main prophets are considered messengers or \"nabī\", even if they didn't receive a Book from God. Examples include the messenger-prophet Aaron| (\"Hārūn\"), the messenger-prophet Ishmael (\"Ismāʿīl\")) and the messenger-prophet Joseph (\"Yūsuf\").\n\nAlthough it offers many incidents from the lives of many prophets, the Qur'an focuses with special narrative and rhetorical emphasis on the careers of the first four of these five major prophets. Of all the figures before Muhammad, Moses is referred to most frequently in the Qur'an. As for the fifth, the Qur'an is frequently addressed directly to Muhammad, and it often discusses situations encountered by him. Direct use of his name in the text, however, is rare. Rarer still is the mention of Muhammad's contemporaries.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith refers to what are commonly called prophets as \"Manifestations of God\" who are directly linked with the concept of Progressive revelation. Bahá'ís believe that God expresses this will at all times and in many ways, including through a series of divine messengers referred to as \"Manifestations of God\" or \"divine educators\". In expressing God's intent, these Manifestations are seen to establish religion in the world. Thus they are seen as an intermediary between God and humanity.\n\nThe Manifestations of God are not seen as incarnations of God, and are also not seen as ordinary mortals. Instead, the Bahá'í concept of the Manifestation of God emphasizes simultaneously the humanity of that intermediary and the divinity in the way they show forth the will, knowledge and attributes of God; thus they have both human and divine stations.\n\nIn addition to the Manifestations of God, there are also minor prophets. While the Manifestations of God, or major prophets, are compared to the Sun (which produces its own heat and light), minor prophets are compared to the Moon (which receives its light from the sun). Moses, for example, is taught as having been a Manifestation of God and his brother Aaron a minor prophet. Moses spoke on behalf of God, and Aaron spoke on behalf of Moses (Exodus 4:14–17). Other Jewish prophets are considered minor prophets, as they are considered to have come in the shadow of the dispensation of Moses to develop and consolidate the process he set in motion.\n\nIn modern times the term \"prophet\" can be somewhat controversial. Many Christians with Pentecostal or charismatic beliefs believe in the continuation of the gift of prophecy and the continuation of the role of prophet as taught in Ephesians 4. The content of prophecies can vary widely. Prophecies are often spoken as quotes from God. They may contain quotes from scripture, statements about the past or current situation, or predictions of the future. Prophecies can also 'make manifest the secrets' of the hearts of other people, telling about the details of their lives. Sometimes, more than one person in a congregation will receive the same message in prophecy, with one giving it before another.\n\nOther movements claim to have prophets. In France, Michel Potay says he received a revelation, called \"The Revelation of Arès\", dictated by Jesus in 1974, then by God in 1977. He is considered a prophet by his followers, the Pilgrims of Arès.\n\nA number of modern catholic saints have been claimed to have powers of prophecy, such as Padre Pio and Alexandrina Maria da Costa.\n\nIn addition to this many modern Marian apparitions included prophecies in them about the world and about the local areas. The Fátima apparition in 1917 included a prophecy given by Mary to three children, that on October 13, 1917 there would be a great miracle for all to see at Fátima, Portugal, and on that day tens of thousands of people headed to Fátima to see what would happen including newspaper journalists. Many witnesses, including journalists, claimed to see the sun \"dance\" in the sky in the afternoon of that day, exactly as the visionaries had predicted several months before. The Kibeho apparition in Rwanda in the 1980s included many prophecies about great violence and destruction that was coming, and the Rwandan genocide only ten years later was interpreted by the visionaries as the fulfilment of these prophecies \n\nSeveral miracles and a vision of the identity of the last 112 Popes were attributed to Saint Malachy, the Archbishop of Armagh (1095–1148).\n\nJehovah's Witnesses do not consider any single person in their modern-day organization to be a prophet. Their literature has referred to their organization collectively as God's \"prophet\" on earth; this is understood, however, in the sense of declaring their interpretation of God's judgments from the Bible along with God's guidance of His Holy Spirit. Their publishing company, Watch Tower, and official position magazine, \"The Watchtower\", have asserted: \"Ever since \"The Watchtower\" began to be published in July 1879 it has looked ahead into the future... No, \"The Watchtower\" is no inspired prophet, but it follows and explains a Book of prophecy the predictions in which have proved to be unerring and unfailing till now. \"The Watchtower\" is therefore under safe guidance. It may be read with confidence, for its statements may be checked against that prophetic Book.\" They also claim that they are God's one and only true channel to mankind on earth, and used by God for this purpose.\n\nThey have made many eschatological forecasts, some of which have led people (including followers) to incorrect assumptions. One example is \"The Watchtower's\" assertions that the end of the \"Gentile times\" or \"times of the nations\" would occur in 1914; even prominent Watch Tower representatives such as A. H. Macmillan incorrectly concluded and overstated their expectations. As a result, \"The Watchtower\" has acknowledged that Jehovah's Witnesses \"have made mistakes in their understanding of what would occur at the end of certain time periods.\" Concurrently with these exceptions, Jehovah's Witnesses in their literature and assemblies have taught their leadership was personally chosen by Jesus Christ in 1919 (a prophetic year in Jehovah's Witnesses eschatology) and that they are \"God's sole channel on earth,\" and \"Jehovah's spirit directed organization\".\n\nJoseph Smith, who established the Church of Christ in 1830, is considered a prophet by members of the Latter Day Saint movement, of which The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) is the largest denomination. Additionally, many churches within the movement believe in a succession of modern prophets (accepted by Latter Day Saints as \"prophets, seers, and revelators\") since the time of Joseph Smith. Russell M. Nelson is the current president and prophet of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.\n\nBaptist preacher William Miller is credited with beginning the mid-19th century North American religious movement now known as Adventism. He announced a Second Coming, resulting in the Great Disappointment.\n\nThe Seventh-day Adventist Church, established in 1863, believes Ellen G. White, one of the church's founders, was given the spiritual gift of prophecy.\n\nThe Branch Davidians sect evolved from the Seventh-Day Adventists Church. David Koresh, who died in the well-known Waco Siege in 1993, in 1983 claimed to be their final prophet and \"the Son of God, the Lamb\".\n\n\nThe Ahmadiyya movement in Islam believes that Mirza Ghulam Ahmad was a non law-bearing Prophet, who claimed to be a fulfillment of the various Islamic prophecies regarding the spiritual second advent of Jesus of Nazareth near the end times.\n\nNathan of Gaza was a theologian and author who became famous as a prophet for the alleged messiah, Sabbatai Zevi.\n\nThe Hindu concept of rishis is similar to the concept of prophets. The Sanskrit word \"rishi\" is loosely translated into English as \"seer\" (a prophet, a man who can foresee the future). Hinduism recognizes and reveres thousands of rishis, who can be thought of as the collective founders of the Hindu religion over many millennia. Of these, special importance is given to the Saptarshi (the Seven Sages), widely regarded as patriarchs of the Hindu religion, whose listing is different according to different texts. The Saptarshi and their clans are believed to have composed the hymns of the four Vedas by entering into communion with the Supreme Cosmic Spirit through meditation. For instance, Rigveda 1.1 is attributed to Rishi Madhucchandā Vaishwāmitra (i.e. Madhucchandā of the clan of Vishwamitra). Most rishikās were male, but some were female too. Lopamudra is the author of one hymn in the Rigveda, and Gargi Vachaknavi is described in the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad as a highly respected woman in the field of Brahmajñāna. Apart from the Vedas, various rishis are also credited with composing the several Smriti texts, like Veda Vyasa who composed the \"Mahābhārata\".\n\nDivination remains an important aspect of the lives of the people of contemporary Africa, especially amongst the usually rural, socially traditionalistic segments of its population. In arguably its most influential manifestation, the system of prophecy practiced by the Babalawos and Iyanifas of the historically Yoruba regions of West Africa have bequeathed to the world a corpus of fortune-telling poetic methodologies so intricate that they have been added by UNESCO to its official \"intangible cultural heritage of the World list\".\n\nTenrikyo's prophet, Nakayama Miki, is believed by Tenrikyoans to have been a messenger of God.\n\n\nNative American Great Peacemaker (Deganawidah) co-founded the Haudenosaunee league in pre-Columbian times. In retrospect, his prophecy of the boy seer could appear to refer to the conflict between natives and Europeans (white serpent).\n\nFrom 1805 until the Battle of Tippecanoe that falsified his predictions in 1811, the \"Shawnee prophet\" Tenskwatawa lead an Indian alliance to stop Europeans to take more and more land going west. He reported visions he had. He is said to have accurately predicted a solar eclipse. His brother Tecumseh re-established the alliance for Tecumseh's War, that ended with the latter's death in 1813. Tecumseh fought together with British forces that, in the area of the Great Lakes, occupied essentially today's territory of Canada.\n\nFrancis the Prophet, influenced by Tecumseh and Tenskwatawa, was a leader of the Red Stick faction of the Creek Indians. He traveled to England in 1815 as a representative of the \"four Indian nations\" in an unsuccessful attempt to get Great Britain to help them resist the expansionism of the white settlers.\n\n20 years later (1832), Wabokieshiek, the \"Winnebago Prophet\", after whom Prophetstown has been named, (also called \"White Cloud\") claimed that British forces would support the Indians in the Black Hawk War against the United States as 20 years earlier (based on \"visions\"). They did not, and no longer he was considered a \"prophet\".\n\nIn 1869, the Paiute Wodziwob founded the Ghost Dance movement. The dance rituals were an occasion to announce his visions of an earthquake that would swallow the whites. He seems to have died in 1872.\n\nThe Northern Paiute Wovoka claimed he had a vision during the solar eclipse of January 1, 1889, that the Paiute dead would come back and the whites would vanish from America, provided the natives performed Ghost Dances. This idea spread among other Native American peoples. The government were worried about a rebellion and sent troops, which lead to the death of Sitting Bull and to the Wounded Knee massacre in 1890.\n\nIn the late 20th century the appellation of \"prophet\" has been used to refer to individuals particularly successful at analysis in the field of economics, such as in the derogatory \"prophet of greed\". Alternatively, social commentators who suggest escalating crisis are often called \"prophets of doom.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35432202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35432202", "title": "Purépecha religion", "text": "Purépecha religion\n\nThe Purépecha religion is the religion of the Purépecha people.\n\n"}
{"id": "3805890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3805890", "title": "Religious name", "text": "Religious name\n\nA religious name is a type of given name bestowed for a religious purpose, and which is generally used in religious contexts. Different types of religious names may be in use among clergy of a religion, as well in some cases among the laity.\n\nIn baptism, Catholics are given a Christian name, which should not be \"foreign to Christian sentiment\" and is often the name of a saint. In East Asia, in Africa and elsewhere, the baptismal name is distinct from the traditional-style given name.\n\nIn some countries, it is common to adopt a confirmation name, in addition to the baptismal name.\n\nIn some religious institutes, a new member takes a religious name. In Italian, a religious figure is often referred to by their religious name and by their secular name or their \"\" name. A newly elected Pope also takes on a new name, called his regnal name or papal name.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church converts often take a new name at the time of their reception into the church, either by baptism or chrismation. A person's religious name is always the name of a saint, who then becomes that person's patron saint. When deciding on a name for their child, Orthodox parents will often name the child after a saint whose feast day falls on either the day of the child's birth or the day of its baptism. Traditionally, Orthodox Christians celebrate their \"name day\" (i.e., the feast day of their patron saint), rather than their birthday.\n\nOrthodox monks and nuns are often given a new monastic name at the time of their tonsure (i.e., when they take their monastic vows). A monastic name is usually the name of a prophet or a monastic saint. Sometimes, the monastic name will begin with the same initial as the individual's baptismal name.\n\nConverts to Judaism take a Hebrew name upon conversion. Born Jews generally have a patronymic Hebrew name which is used for religious purposes; this is frequently different from their legal name, especially when the latter is of gentile or non-Hebrew origin.\n\nMany Buddhist sects also practice this, with newly ordained sangha often given new names by their master. Lay Buddhists are also given Dharma names during their refuge ceremony.\n\nMembers of ISKCON and some other Gaudiya Vaishnava organisations are given a \"spiritual name\" by their guru upon initiation. This name ends in \"Das\" or \"Dasa\" for men and \"Dasi\" for women (meaning \"servant\"), and generally begins with the same letter as the devotee's given name.\n\nIn Wicca, a craft name is often used.\n\nIt is usual for a Discordian Episkopos to adopt a faux-mystical and bizarre name for the duration of the Episkoposity; such names are not immutable and are frequently adapted over time. The same is true for the clergy of the related Church of the SubGenius.\n\n"}
{"id": "286805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=286805", "title": "Religious philosophy", "text": "Religious philosophy\n\nReligious philosophy is philosophical thinking that is inspired and directed by a particular religion. It can be done objectively, but may also be done as a persuasion tool by believers in that faith.\n\nThere are different philosophies for each religion such as those of:\n"}
{"id": "55293002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55293002", "title": "Retribution principle", "text": "Retribution principle\n\nThe retribution principle (often abbreviated RP) is a term used in Ancient Near East studies and Old Testament studies to refer to various forms of the belief that the righteous will prosper while the wicked will suffer.\"\n"}
{"id": "4393502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4393502", "title": "Sacred architecture", "text": "Sacred architecture\n\nSacred architecture (also known as religious architecture) is a religious architectural practice concerned with the design and construction of places of worship or sacred or intentional space, such as churches, mosques, stupas, synagogues, and temples. Many cultures devoted considerable resources to their sacred architecture and places of worship. Religious and sacred spaces are amongst the most impressive and permanent monolithic buildings created by humanity. Conversely, sacred architecture as a locale for meta-intimacy may also be non-monolithic, ephemeral and intensely private, personal and non-public.\n\nSacred, religious and holy structures often evolved over centuries and were the largest buildings in the world, prior to the modern skyscraper. While the various styles employed in sacred architecture sometimes reflected trends in other structures, these styles also remained unique from the contemporary architecture used in other structures. With the rise of Abrahamic monotheisms (particularly Christianity and Islam), religious buildings increasingly became centres of worship, prayer and meditation.\n\nThe Western scholarly discipline of the history of architecture itself closely follows the history of religious architecture from ancient times until the Baroque period, at least. Sacred geometry, iconography, and the use of sophisticated semiotics such as signs, symbols and religious motifs are endemic to sacred architecture.\n\nSacred or religious architecture is sometimes called sacred space.\n\nArchitect Norman L. Koonce has suggested that the goal of sacred architecture is to make \"transparent the boundary between matter and mind, flesh and the spirit.\" In discussing sacred architecture, Protestant minister Robert Schuller suggested that \"to be psychologically healthy, human beings need to experience their natural setting—the setting we were designed for, which is the garden.\" Meanwhile, Richard Kieckhefer suggests that entering into a religious building is a metaphor for entering into spiritual relationship. Kieckhefer suggests that sacred space can be analyzed by three factors affecting spiritual process: longitudinal space emphasizes the procession and return of sacramental acts, auditorium space is suggestive of proclamation and response, and new forms of communal space designed for gathering and return depend to a great degree on minimized scale to enhance intimacy and participation in worship.\n\nSacred architecture spans a number of ancient architectural styles including Neolithic architecture, ancient Egyptian architecture and Sumerian architecture. Ancient religious buildings, particularly temples, were often viewed as the dwelling place, the \"temenos\", of the gods and were used as the site of various kinds of sacrifice. Ancient tombs and burial structures are also examples of architectural structures reflecting religious beliefs of their various societies. The Temple of Karnak at Thebes, Egypt was constructed across a period of 1300 years and its numerous temples comprise what may be the largest religious structure ever built. Ancient Egyptian religious architecture has fascinated archaeologists and captured the public imagination for millennia.\n\nAround 600 BCE the wooden columns of the Temple of Hera at Olympia were replaced by stone columns. With the spread of this process to other sanctuary structures a few stone buildings have survived through the ages. Greek architecture preceded Hellenistic and Roman periods (Roman architecture heavily copied Greek). Since temples are the only buildings which survive in numbers, most of our concept of classical architecture is based on religious structures. The Parthenon which served as a treasury building as well as a place for veneration of deity, is widely regarded as the greatest example of classical architecture.\n\nIndian architecture is related to the history and religions of the time periods as well as to the geography and geology of the Indian subcontinent. India was crisscrossed by trading routes of merchants from as far away as Siraf and China as well as weathering invasions by foreigners, resulting in multiple influences of foreign elements on native styles. The diversity of Indian culture is represented in its architecture. Indian architecture comprises a blend of ancient and varied native traditions, with building types, forms and technologies from West, Central Asia, and Europe.\n\nBuddhist architecture developed in South Asia beginning in the third century BCE. Two types of structures are associated with early Buddhism: viharas and stupas.\nOriginally, Viharas were temporary shelters used by wandering monks during the rainy season, but these structures later developed to accommodate the growing and increasingly formalized Buddhist monasticism. An existing example is at Nalanda (Bihar).\n\nThe initial function of the stupa was the veneration and safe-guarding of the relics of the Buddha. The earliest existing example of a stupa is in Sanchi (Madhya Pradesh). In accordance with changes in religious practice, stupas were gradually incorporated into chaitya-grihas (stupa halls). These reached their highpoint in the first century BCE, exemplified by the cave complexes of Ajanta and Ellora (Maharashtra).\n\nThe pagoda is an evolution of the Indian stupa that is marked by a tiered tower with multiple eaves common in China, Japan, Korea, Nepal and other parts of Asia.\nBuddhist temples were developed rather later and outside South Asia, where Buddhism gradually declined from the early centuries CE onwards, though an early example is that of the Mahabodhi Temple at Bodh Gaya in Bihar. The architectural structure of the stupa spread across Asia, taking on many diverse forms as details specific to different regions were incorporated into the overall design. It was spread to China and the Asian region by Araniko, a Nepali architect in the early 13th century for Kublai Khan.\n\n \nHindu temple architecture is based on \"Sthapatya Veda\" and many other ancient religious texts like the \"Brihat Samhita\", \"Vastu Shastra\" and \"Shilpa Shastras\" in accordance to the design principles and guidelines believed to have been laid by the divine architect Vishvakarma. It evolved over a period of more than 2000 years. The Hindu architecture conforms to strict religious models that incorporate elements of astronomy and sacred geometry. In Hindu belief, the temple represents the macrocosm of the universe as well as the microcosm of inner space. While the underlying form of Hindu temple architecture follows strict traditions, considerable variation occurs with the often intense decorative embellishments and ornamentation.\n\nA basic Hindu temple consists of an inner sanctum, the \"garbhagriha\" or womb-chamber, a congregation hall, and possibly an antechamber and porch. The sanctum is crowned by a tower-like \"shikhara\". The Hindu temple represents Mount Meru, the axis of the universe. There are strict rules which describe the themes and sculptures on the outer walls of the temple buildings.\n\nThe two primary styles that have developed are the Nagara style of Northern India and the Dravida style of Southern India. A prominent difference between the two styles are the elaborate gateways employed in the South. They are also easily distinguishable by the shape and decoration of their shikharas. The Nagara style is beehive-shaped while the Dravida style is pyramid-shaped.\n\nByzantine architecture evolved from Roman architecture. Eventually, a style emerged incorporating Near East influences and the Greek cross plan for church design. In addition, brick replaced stone, classical order was less strictly observed, mosaics replaced carved decoration, and complex domes were erected. One of the great breakthroughs in the history of Western architecture occurred when Justinian's architects invented a complex system providing for a smooth transition from a square plan of the church to a circular dome (or domes) by means of squinches or pendentives. The prime example of early Byzantine religious architecture is the Hagia Sophia in Istanbul.\n\nByzantine architecture had a great influence on early Islamic architecture with its characteristic round arches, vaults and domes. Many forms of mosques have evolved in different regions of the Islamic world. Notable mosque types include the early Abbasid mosques, T-type mosques, and the central-dome mosques of Anatolia.\nThe earliest styles in Islamic architecture produced \"Arab-plan\" or \"hypostyle\" mosques during the Umayyad Dynasty. These mosques follow a square or rectangular plan with enclosed courtyard and covered prayer hall. Most early hypostyle mosques had flat prayer hall roofs, which required numerous columns and supports. The Mezquita in Córdoba, Spain was constructed as a hypostyle mosque supported by over 850 columns. Arab-plan mosques continued under the Abbasid dynasty.\n\nThe Ottomans introduced \"central dome mosques\" in the 15th century that have a large dome centered over the prayer hall. In addition to having one large dome at the center, there are often smaller domes that exist off-center over the prayer hall or throughout the rest of the mosque, in areas where prayer is not performed. The Dome of the Rock mosque in Jerusalem is perhaps the best known example of a central dome mosque.\n\n\"Iwan mosques\" are most notable for their domed chambers and \"iwans\", which are vaulted spaces open out on one end. In \"iwan\" mosques, one or more iwans face a central courtyard that serves as the prayer hall. The style represents a borrowing from pre-Islamic Iranian architecture and has been used almost exclusively for mosques in Iran. Many \"iwan\" mosques are converted Zoroastrian fire temples where the courtyard was used to house the sacred fire. Today, iwan mosques are no longer built. The Shah Mosque in Isfahan, Iran is a classic example of an \"iwan\" mosque.\nA common feature in mosques is the minaret, the tall, slender tower that usually is situated at one of the corners of the mosque structure. The top of the minaret is always the highest point in mosques that have one, and often the highest point in the immediate area. The first mosques had no minarets, and even nowadays the most conservative Islamic movements, like Wahhabis, avoid building minarets, seeing them as ostentatious and unnecessary. The first minaret was constructed in 665 in Basra during the reign of the Umayyad caliph Muawiyah I. Muawiyah encouraged the construction of minarets, as they were supposed to bring mosques on par with Christian churches with their bell towers. Consequently, mosque architects borrowed the shape of the bell tower for their minarets, which were used for essentially the same purpose — calling the faithful to prayer.\n\nDomes have been a hallmark of Islamic architecture since the 7th century. As time progressed, the sizes of mosque domes grew, from occupying only a small part of the roof near the mihrab to encompassing all of the roof above the prayer hall. Although domes normally took on the shape of a hemisphere, the Mughals in India popularized onion-shaped domes in South Asia and Persia.\n\nThe prayer hall, also known as the musalla, has no furniture; chairs and pews are absent from the prayer hall. Prayer halls contain no images of people, animals, and spiritual figures although they may be decorated with Arabic calligraphy and verses from the Qur'an on the walls.\n\nUsually opposite the entrance to the prayer hall is the \"qibla wall\", which is the visually emphasized area inside the prayer hall. The \"qibla\" wall is normally set perpendicular to a line leading to Mecca. Congregants pray in rows parallel to the \"qibla\" wall and thus arrange themselves so they face Mecca. In the \"qibla\" wall, usually at its center, is the mihrab, a niche or depression indicating the \"qibla\" wall. Usually the \"mihrab\" is not occupied by furniture either. Sometimes, especially during Friday prayers, a raised minbar or pulpit is located to the side of the \"mihrab\" for a khatib or some other speaker to offer a sermon (khutbah). The mihrab serves as the location where the imam leads the five daily prayers on a regular basis.\n\nMosques often have ablution fountains or other facilities for washing in their entryways or courtyards. However, worshippers at much smaller mosques often have to use restrooms to perform their ablutions. In traditional mosques, this function is often elaborated into a freestanding building in the center of a courtyard. Modern mosques may have a variety of amenities available to their congregants and the community, such as health clinics, libraries and gymnasiums.\n\nThe religious architecture of Christian churches in the Middle Ages featured the Latin cross plan, which takes the Roman Basilica as its primary model with subsequent developments. It consists of a nave, transepts, and the altar stands at the east end (see \"Cathedral diagram\"). Also, cathedrals influenced or commissioned by Justinian employed the Byzantine style of domes and a Greek cross (resembling a plus sign), centering attention on the altar at the \"center\" of the church. The Church of the Intercession on the Nerl is an excellent example of Russian orthodox architecture in the Middle Ages. The Urnes stave church (Urnes stavkyrkje) in Norway is a superb example of a medieval stave church.\n\nGothic architecture was particularly associated with cathedrals and other churches, which flourished in Europe during the high and late medieval period. Beginning in 12th century France, it was known as \"the French Style\" during the period. The style originated at the abbey church of Saint-Denis in Saint-Denis, near Paris. Other notable gothic religious structures include Notre Dame de Paris, the Cathedral of Our Lady of Amiens, and the Chartres Cathedral.\n\nThe Renaissance brought a return of classical influence and a new emphasis on rational clarity. Renaissance architecture represents a conscious revival of Roman Architecture with its symmetry, mathematical proportions, and geometric order. Filippo Brunelleschi's plan for the Santa Maria del Fiore as the dome of the Florence Cathedral in 1418 was one of the first important religious architectural designs of the Italian renaissance.\n\nEvolving from the renaissance style, the baroque style was most notably experienced in religious art and architecture. Most architectural historians regard Michelangelo's design of St. Peter's Basilica in Rome as a precursor to the Baroque style. Baroque style can be recognized by broader interior spaces (replacing long narrow naves), more playful attention to light and shadow, extensive ornamentation, large frescoes, focus on interior art, and frequently, a dramatic central exterior projection. The most important early example of the baroque period was the Santa Susanna by Carlo Maderno. Saint Paul's Cathedral in London by Christopher Wren is regarded as the prime example of the rather late influence of the Baroque style in England.\n\nTemples of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints offer a unique look at design as it has changed from the simple church like structure of the Kirtland Temple built in the 1830s, to the castellated Gothic styles of the early Utah temples, to the dozens of modern temples built today. \nEarly temples, and some modern temples, have a priesthood assembly room with two sets of pulpits at each end of the room, with chairs or benches that can be altered to face either way. Most, but not all temples have the recognizable statue of the Angel Moroni atop a spire. The Nauvoo Temple and the Salt Lake Temple are adorned with symbolic stonework, representing various aspects of the faith.\n\nModern architecture spans several styles with similar characteristics resulting in simplification of form and the elimination of ornament. The most influential modernist architects in the early to mid 20th century include Dominikus Böhm, Rudolf Schwarz, and Auguste Perret. While secular structures clearly had the greater influence on the development of modern architecture, several excellent examples of modern architecture can be found in religious buildings of the 20th century. For example, Unity Temple in Chicago is a Unitarian Universalist congregation designed by Frank Lloyd Wright. The United States Air Force Academy Cadet Chapel, started in 1954 and completed in 1962, was designed by Walter Netsch and is an excellent example of modern religious architecture. It has been described as a \"phalanx of fighters\" turned on their tails and pointing heavenward. In 1967, Architect Pietro Belluschi designed the strikingly modern Cathedral of St. Mary of the Assumption (San Francisco), the first Catholic cathedral in the United States intended to conform to Vatican II.\n\nPost-modern architecture may be described by unapologetically diverse aesthetics where styles collide, form exists for its own sake, and new ways of viewing familiar styles and space abound. The Temple at Independence, Missouri was conceived by Japanese architect Gyo Obata after the concept of the chambered nautilus. The Catholic Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels (Los Angeles) was designed in 1998 by Jose Rafael Moneo in a post-modern style. The structure evokes the area's Hispanic heritage through the use of adobe coloring while combining stark modern form with some traditional elements. The Basilica of Our Lady of Licheń on the other hand is a much more traditional edifice. Designed by Barbara Bielecka and built between 1994 and 2004, its form includes references to a number of Polish structures. The columns possess a slenderness and delicacy inspired by those of the Renaissance court of Wawel Castle in Kraków, while the huge 420-foot spire that will be erected next to the basilica bears more than an accidental resemblance to the Baroque spire that adorns the Jasna Gora monastery of Czestochowa, home of the Black Madonna.\n\nShaker communities were semiotically architectured upon the crux of the compass rose.\n\n\n</div>\n\n"}
{"id": "23924111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23924111", "title": "Shi (personator)", "text": "Shi (personator)\n\nThe shi () was a ceremonial \"personator\" who represented a dead relative during ancient Chinese ancestral sacrifices. In a \"shi\" ceremony, the ancestral spirit supposedly would enter the descendant \"corpse\" personator, who would eat and drink sacrificial offerings and convey messages from the spirit. James Legge (1895 IV:135), an early translator of the Chinese classics, described \"shi\" personation ceremonies as \"grand family reunions where the dead and the living met, eating and drinking together, where the living worshipped the dead, and the dead blessed the living.\" In modern terms, this ancient Chinese \"shi\" practice would be described as necromancy, mediumship, or spirit possession.\n\nThe word \"shi\" 尸 \"corpse; personator; inactive; lay out; manage; spirit tablet\" can be discussed in terms of Chinese character evolution, historical phonology, semantics, and English translations.\n\nThe modern character for \"shi\" \"corpse; personator\" is a graphic simplification of ancient pictographs showing a person with a bent back and dangling legs. The first records of \"shi\" are on oracle bones dating from the late Shang Dynasty (ca. 1600–ca. 1046 BCE). The oracle bone script for \"shi\" 尸 \"corpse\" was used interchangeably for \"yi\" \"barbarian; non-Chinese people (esp. eastern, see \"Dongyi\"); at ease; level\". The bronze script for \"shi\" 尸, found in Chinese bronze inscriptions dating from the Shang and Zhou Dynasty (ca. 1045 BCE-ca. 256 BCE), had a more curved back and legs. The graphically reduced seal script for \"shi\", standardized during the Qin Dynasty (221-207 BCE), resembles the regular script 尸.\n\nToday, \"shi\" 尸 is more commonly used as the \"corpse/body radical\" in Chinese characters (number 44 in the List of Kangxi radicals) than to write the original word \"corpse\". Many characters written with this radical involve the body (e.g., \"niao\" \"urine\" with 水 \"water\"), but not all (e.g., \"wu\" \"house; room\" with 至 \"go to\"). \n\n\"Shi\" 尸 \"corpse; cadaver\" has a variant Chinese character that combines the \"corpse radical\" 尸 with \"si\" \"dead\" (e.g., \"jiang shi\" 僵屍 \"stiff corpse\") Michael Carr (2007:358) explains, \"This semantically redundant \"shi\" 屍 'dead-corpse' graphically distinguishes the original 'corpse' meaning of \"shi\" 尸from its various other meanings such as 'personator'.\"\n\nChinese classics used the word \"shi\" 尸 in six meanings: \nCarr (2007:362) outlines the semantic connections among these \"shi\" meanings. The basic meaning (1) \"corpse\" was semantically extended into both (2) \"act on behalf of a corpse\" or \"personator of a dead ancestor\" and (3) \"act like a corpse\" or \"motionless; inactive; doing nothing\". Meaning (4) \"lay out, arrange; display\" generalizes \"lay out a corpse.\" Meaning (5) \"manage; direct; ancestral tablet\" links the representative \"shi\" (2) \"personator\" with the metaphorical replacement \"ancestral tablet\". Meaning (6) uses \"shi\" to transcribe proper names.\n\nMeaning (1) is the core sense of \"corpse; dead body; cadaver; carcass\". Early ritual texts, notably the \"Liji\" \"Classic of Rites\", \"Zhouli\" \"Rites of Zhou\", and \"Yili\" \"Etiquette and Rites\", frequently use \"shi\" \"corpse\" in mortuary and funeral contexts. Here is an example \"Liji\" passage:\nAs soon as death took place, the corpse was transferred to the couch, and covered with a large sheet. The clothes in which the deceased had died were removed. A servant plugged the mouth open with the spoon of horn; and to keep the feet from contracting, an easy stool was employed. These observances were the same for a ruler, a great officer, and an ordinary officer. (22, tr. Legge 1885 28:181)\n\n\"Shi\" meaning (2) \"personator; sacrificial representative of a dead person's spirit\" is discussed below.\n\nMeaning (3) figuratively expands \"shi\" to \"corpse-like\", which can contextually mean either \"motionless; calm; quiescent\" or \"inactive; negligent; remiss\". A \"Shijing\" ode (245, tr. Karlgren 1950:214) laments that, \"the good men sit motionless and silent\". Karlgren explains, \"'The good men act the corpse,' play the part of a representative of the dead at a sacrifice, who sits still and silent during the whole ceremony; here then, remain inactive, do nothing to help.\" The \"Lunyu\" (\"Confucian Analects\") uses \"shi\" to praise Confucius (tr. Legge 1895 I:235), \"In bed, he did not lie like a corpse.\" Commentators disagree whether this means \"sleep with the arms and legs sprawled out\" or \"sleep facing the north (the land of the dead)\".\n\nMeaning (4) is defined as Chinese \"chen\" \"lay out; set forth, array; arrange; display\". Examples in classic texts range from specifically \"lay out (a corpse)\" to generally \"lay out; set out; arrange\". The \"Liji\" distinguishes between \"shi\" 尸 \"uncoffined corpse\" and \"jiu\" (with the \"wood radical\" and a \"jiu\" 匛 \"long; enduring\" phonetic) \"coffined corpse\" (tr. Legge 1885 27:117): \"(The corpse) on the couch is called [\"shi\"] (the laid out); when it is put into the coffin, that is called [\"jiu\"] (being in the long home).\" A \"Shijing\" poem (185, tr. Karlgren 1950) refers to men called off to war, \"There are mothers who set forth the (sacrificial) dishes.\"\n\nMeaning (5) of \"shi\" is defined as \"zhu\" \"master; manage, preside; spirit tablet, ancestral tablet\". The \"Chuci\" (tr. Hawkes 1959:55) uses \"shi\" asking about King Wu of Zhou, whose father King Wen of Zhou did not live to see the conquering of the previous dynasty, Shang-Yin: \"When Wu set out to kill Yin, why was he so grieved? He went into the battle carrying the 'corpse.' Why was he in such haste?\" Commentators disagree whether this \"shi\" means \"zhu\", specifically \"muzhu\" 木主 \"wooden spirit/ancestral tablet\" or \"jiu\" \"corpse in a coffin\". Hawkes justifies translating \"corpse\": \"According to some accounts it was the 'spirit tablet' of his dead father [King Wen] which King Wu carried in his chariot to battle. But I think the poet understood him to have taken the actual corpse, and was surprised that he had not waited to bury it.\"\n\nThe sinologists Eduard Erkes and Bernhard Karlgren debated this \"Chuci\" usage of \"shi\" \"corpse; spirit tablet\". Erkes (1928) proposed that the \"zhu\" was a wooden ancestral tablet shaped in the image of the deceased. Karlgren (1930) disagreed and argued that the \"zhu\" was phallic shaped:\nHe seems to think that the substitution of [muzhu] 'wooden tablet' for the corpse (if really a corpse is intended; the word shi is ambiguous) proves the [muzhu] to have been an image of the corpse, and therefore he translates [muzhu] by 'wooden statue.' Nothing could be more arbitrary. The [muzhu], wooden ancestral tablet, was the resting place of the ancestor's spirit, once his body was dead and decomposed. In this sense it was a substitute for his body, his spiritual force had entered it, and therefore it was carried into battle, bringing this mental force of his into play on the side of his descendant. \nErkes (1931) countered Karlgren by citing other texts describing a human-shaped \"muzhu\" \"wooden lord\". For instance, the \"Shiji\" (\"Record of History\", tr. Erkes) records this King Wu story with \"muzhu\" instead of \"shi\": \"He (viz. Wu-Wang) made a wooden image of Wen-Wang and took it with [him] on his carriage into the battle.\" Erkes further suggested, \"very probably the custom of carrying a [muzhu] into battle had developed from an earlier one of taking the body itself, and that therefore the [muzhu] was something representing the corpse, i.e., an image of the deceased.\"\n\nMeaning (6) includes some semantically unrelated usages of \"shi\". \"Shi\" 尸 is an ancient place name (in Henan); a surname (e.g., the Syncretist philosopher Shizi 尸子, ca. 390–330 BCE); and a variant of \"shi\" (which is used in bird names like \"shijiu\" 鳲鳩 \"cuckoo; turtledove\").\n\nThe Standard Chinese \"shī\" pronunciation of 尸 phonologically descends from (ca. 6th century CE) Middle Chinese and (ca. 6th century BCE) Old Chinese. Compare these Middle and Old Chinese reconstructions of \"shi\" 尸 \"corpse\" and \"yi\" 夷 \"barbarian\" (which anciently had interchangeable characters): \"śi\" < *\"śjər\" 尸and \"i\" < *\"djər\" 夷 (Bernhard Karlgren 1957), \"syij\" < *\"hljij\" 尸and \"yij\" < *\"ljɨj\" 夷 (William Baxter 1992), and \"śi\" < *\"lhi\" 尸 and \"ji\" < *\"ləi\" 夷 (Axel Schuessler 2009).\n\nThere are several hypothetical etymologies for \"shi\" \"corpse\". Karlgren proposed that \"si\" < *\"sjər\" 死 \"die, dead\" and \"shi\" < *\"śjər\" 尸 \"the dead, corpse\" were etymologically cognate. Paul K. Benedict (1972) suggested possible Proto-Sino-Tibetan roots for \"shi\": either *\"(s-)raw\" \"corpse; carcass\" or *\"siy\" \"die\". Schuessler (2007) hypothesizes a semantic development from *\"li\" 夷 \"extend; expose; display; set out; spread out\" to *\"lhi\" 尸 \"to spread out; lie down flat (in order to sleep); motionless; to set forth (sacrificial dishes)\", to \"personator of a dead ancestor\", to \"corpse\". He rejects Karlgren's assumption that \"shi\" \"corpse\" is cognate to \"si\" \"to die\", \"because the MC [Middle Chinese] initial \"ś-\" (< *\"lh-\", *\"nh-\", *\"hj-\") never derives from an *\"s-\", except when they share an initial *\"l\" or *\"n\".\"\n\nEnglish translations of the ceremonial \"shi\" 尸 include \"personator\", \"impersonator\", \"representative\", \"medium\", and \"shaman\". Carr reviews the choices.\nObviously, rendering this into English is problematic because there is no Western analogy for the ceremonial \"shi\" 'corpse.' \"Personator\" is chosen as the nearest English translation. \"Impersonator\" would be possible, but this word implies falsehood, which was not originally associated with the \"shi\". \"Representative\" is too general in meaning, and does not usually have a sense of spirituality, unless modified by \"of the dead/ancestor\". Paper [1995] suggests \"Incorporator of the Dead\", which has a parallel 'one who embodies' etymology, but the derivate words \"incorporate\" and \"incorporation\" commonly have other meanings. \"Medium\" and \"shaman\" are similar with \"shi\" in meaning and are part of Chinese traditions; however, the descriptions of a dignified personator are unlike the spirit-possession of either. Another translational tactic would be to coin a nonce word, such as Waley's [1937] \"the Dead One,\" Eberhard's [1968] \"death boy,\" or Wilhelm's [1967] \"corpse boy,\" but the sense of such a coinage is not always clear. Therefore, in the absence of a better English word, \"personator\" will translate this meaning of \"shi\". (2007:364-365) \n\nZhou Dynasty classic texts (c. 11th-3rd centuries BCE) use the word \"shi\" 尸 hundreds of times. Lothar von Falkenhausen contrasts the frequently recorded \"shi\" \"personator\" with the rarely noted \"wu\" \"shaman; spirit medium\". \nAt ancestral sacrifices, the ancestral spirits descend into individuals designated from among their descendants, the \"Impersonators\" (\"shi\" 尸). Occupying their ritual rôle by virtue of their kinship position vis-à-vis the ancestor that is sacrificed to, the Impersonators are not trained religious specialists like the Spirit Mediums. Although it has been speculated that the actions of the \"shi\" may have originally involved trance and possession, the surviving source materials — none earlier than the Western Zhou period — show them as staid and passive, acting with the utmost demeanor and dignity. (1995) \n\nSome early \"shi\" meanings are contextually ambiguous. For instance, the \"Yijing\" (\"Book of Changes\") uses \"yu shi\" 尸 \"carry corpses; corpse carrier\" twice for Hexagram 7 (tr. Wilhelm 1967:34-35): \"Perchance the army carries corpses in the wagon. Misfortune … Let the eldest lead the army. The younger transports corpses. Then perseverance brings misfortune.\" Richard Wilhelm summarizes the \"Yijing\" commentaries.\nMarshall (2002:77) concludes this hexagram refers to carrying a corpse, and compares the \"Israelites carrying the Ark of the Covenant into battle against the Philistines\".\n\nThe \"Shijing\" (\"Classic of Poetry\", ca. 11th-6th centuries BCE) contains early and detailed descriptions of personation ceremonies, in the following themes.\nThere is an abundance of sacrificial wine and food (odes 166, 209, 210, and 248) shared by both the ancestral spirits (through the personator) and their descendants. Drunkenness is frequently mentioned: 209/5 \"The spirits [note: 'souls' not 'liquor'] are all drunk,\" 209/6 \"all are happy; they are drunk,\" 247/1, 2 \"We are drunk with wine,\" and 248/5 \"the representative of the (dead) princes comes and feasts and is befumed (by the spirits); the good wine makes you merry.\" Most significantly, the ancestral spirits speak directly through the intoxicated personators (166, 210, and 247), approve of the sacrificial offerings, and bless their descendants (166, 209, 210, 247, and 248). (Carr 2007:369) \n\n\"Shi\" \"personator\" occurs fourteen times in two pairs of consecutive \"Shijing\" odes (209–210 and 247–248, tr. Karlgren 1950:203-204). Ode 209 says \"we make (the representative of the dead) sit at ease, we (assist him =) encourage him to eat\" and \"The august representative of the dead then rises, the drums and bells (by their sound) escort away the representative.\" The following ode 210 describes sacrificial wine and food, \"he presents them to our representative of the dead and to our guests.\"\n\n\"Shijing\" odes 247 and 248, which portray ancestral feasts to the Zhou royal house, exclusively use the term \"gongshi\" 公尸 with the modifier \"gong\" \"prince; duke; public; palace; effort\". Compare these \"gongshi\" translations: \"representative of the (dead) princes\" (Karlgren), \"personators of your ancestors\" (Legge, admitting 1895 IV:447, \"The expression 公尸, 'ducal personators,' is somewhat difficult to account for\"), \"impersonator of the Ancient\", \"ducal Dead\", or \"Dead One\" (Waley, noting 1937:215, \"Impersonator of a former Duke or ruler\"). Ode 247 (\"Jizui\" 既醉 \"Already Drunk\") describes a sacrificial feast for ancestral spirits, and says \"the representative of the (dead) princes makes a happy announcement\".\n\nOde 248 (\"Fuyi\" 鳧鷖 \"Wild Ducks\") describes another feast, which commentators say was held on the following day to reward the personator, and details sacrificial offerings and ancestral blessings.\nThe wild ducks are on the [Jing] (river); the representative of the (dead) princes comes and feasts and is at peace; your wine is clear, your viands are fragrant; the representative feasts and drinks; felicity and blessings come and (achieve, complete you =) make you perfect. <br>\nThe wild ducks are on the sands; the representative of the (dead) princes comes and feasts and (approves =) finds it good; your wine is plentiful, your viands are fine; the representative feasts and drinks; felicity and blessings come and (act for =) favor you. <br>\nThe wild ducks are on the island; the representative of the (dead) prices comes and feasts and reposes; your wine is strained, your viands are sliced; the representative feasts and drinks; felicity and blessings come and descend on you. <br>\nThe wild ducks are at the junction of the river; the representative of the (dead) princes comes and feasts and is (treated in temple-fashion =) revered; the feast is in the temple, that is where felicity and blessings descend; the representative feasts and drinks; felicity and blessings come and are piled up (heavily =) amply on you. <br>\nThe wild ducks are in the gorge; the representative of the (dead) princes comes and feasts and is befumed (by the spirits); the good wine makes you merry; the roast and broiled things are fragrant; the representative feasts and drinks; there will be no after trouble. \nBesides the \"Shijing\", other texts refer to \"shi\" frequently drinking sacrificial \"jiu\" 酒 \"alcoholic beverage; liquor\", which Paper (1995:113) interprets as a ritual means to induce hallucinations of ancestral spirits. Based upon a \"Liji\" ceremony (tr. Legge 1885 28:246) describing a \"shi\" personator drinking nine cups of \"jiu\", with an estimated alcohol content from 5% to 8%, and volume measurements of Zhou bronze sacrificial cups, Paper (1995:114) calculates a \"conservative estimate is that the \"shi\" consumed between 2.4 and 3.9 ounces of pure alcohol (equivalent to between 5 and 8 bar shots of eighty-proof liquor).\"\n\nSeveral texts refer to a Chinese custom that a personator should be a child of the same sex as the dead ancestor, preferably either a legitimate grandson or his wife. However, personation by younger relatives, who were of lower social status than their elders, created an exception to traditional Chinese culture. The earliest textual reference comes from the \"Mengzi\" (\"Book of Mencius\") questioning the status shown to a younger brother during the personation ceremony.\nYou should ask him, \"Which do you respect most, — your uncle, or your younger brother?\" He will answer, \"My uncle.\" Ask him again, \"If your younger brother be personating a dead ancestor, to which do you show the greater respect, — to him or to your uncle?\" He will say, \"To my younger brother.\" You can go on, \"But where is the respect due, as you said, to your uncle?\" He will reply to this, \"I show the respect to my younger brother because of the position which he occupies.\" (6, tr. Legge 1895 IV:400). \nThe \"Liji\" reiterates that personation contradicted the established social hierarchy (18, tr. Legge 1895 28:88): \"Thus it is that there are two among his subjects whom the ruler does not treat as subjects. When one is personating (his ancestor) he does not treat him as such, nor does he treat his master as such.\" Another \"Liji\" passage (7, tr. Legge 1895 27:337-338) explains: \"A rule of propriety says, 'A superior man may carry his grandson in his arms, but not his son.' This tells us that a grandson may be the personator of his deceased grandfather (at sacrifices), but a son cannot be so of his father.\" When a grandson personated his grandfather's spirit, it reversed the normal family hierarchy and a father would have to worship his own son. \n\nScholars have differing hypotheses explaining why a grandchild would make the most suitable personator. Marcel Granet (1930:337–338) said the basic reason was a predominance of uterine over agnatic primogeniture; the grandfather is the closest of the uterine relatives, and thus closer to his grandson than the father is. Wolfram Eberhard (1968:338) explained that a child makes the best personator owing to the ancient Chinese believed that a soul is small. Julian Jaynes (1976:344–345) mentions a Greek parallel; the philosopher Iamblichus wrote that \"young and simple persons\" make the most suitable mediums. Stephen Bokenkamp mentions examples besides \"shi\" rituals.\nIn China, possessions by spirits that occurred outside of this ritual scenario often involved younger members of the family as well. As in instances of mediumism around the world, the youthful and illiterate were regarded as more reliable conduits to the dead, since they could hardly be suspected of having fabricated their utterances and writings themselves. This fact brings to the fore questions of power. Women and junior male members of a family frequently found that mediumism was a way to bring attention to their own, otherwise easily ignored, concerns. (2007:40) \n\nTwo ritual texts mention female personators. The \"Liji\" (15, tr. Legge 1885 28:75) describes a wife personating her husband's dead grandmother: \"A wife, on festive occasions, even though it were on receiving a gift from the ruler, (only) made a curtsy. When seated as a personatrix (of the deceased grandmother of her husband), she did not bow with her head to her hands, but made the curtsy.\" The \"Yili\" (14, tr. Steele 1917:119.) euphemistically says a female personator should preferably not be the wife of a concubine's grandson; \"A man personates a dead man, and a woman a woman. In the latter case a woman of a different surname is chosen, and as such not one of inferior standing.\"\n\nSeveral early texts and commentaries reiterate a traditional history of personation beginning in the second millennium BCE as a sacred communion with ancestral spirits, but ending as a drinking party in the late 1st millennium BCE. When the personation ceremony supposedly originated during the Xia Dynasty (ca. 2100-ca. 1600 BCE), a personator would make contact with the dead ancestral spirit before sitting down to eat and drink. During the Yin or Shang Dynasty (ca. 1600-1046 BCE), a personator would sometimes sit down without having contacted the spirit, and by the late Zhou Dynasty (1045-256 BCE), a personation ceremony became a revelry with several personators repeatedly making toasts and drinking sacrificial wines.\n\nTwo \"Liji\" chapters describe how personation rituals changed during the Zhou period.\nUnder the [Zhou] dynasty the representatives of the dead sat. Their monitors and cup-suppliers observed no regular rules. The usages were the same (as those of Yin [Shang]), and the underlying principle was one. Under the [Xia] dynasty, the personators had stood till the sacrifice was ended (whereas) under the Yin [Shang] they sat. Under [Zhou], when the cup went round among all, there were six personators. [Zengzi] said, \"The usages of [Zhou] might be compared to a subscription club.\" (10, tr. Legge 1885 27:405-406) \n(When the representative of the departed) had made the libation with the [jia] cup, or the horn, (the sacrificer) was told (to bow to him) to put him at ease. Anciently, the representative stood when nothing was being done; when anything was being done, he sat. He personated the spirit. The officer of prayer was the medium of communication between him and the sacrificer. (11, tr. Legge 1885 27:446) \nLater sources repeat this legendary history of personation. For example, He Xiu 何休's 2nd-century commentary to the \"Chunqiu\" (\"Spring and Autumn Annals\") \"Gongyang Zhuan\" says (tr. Carr 2007:371), \"The Xia had standing personators, the Shang [Yin] had sitting personators, and the Zhou had six personators who would make serial toasts.\" Granet (1930:337) mentions the Zhou personation parties: \"It was not long before this archaic custom was criticized by the ritualists. When the sacrifices were offered simultaneously to several ancestors each of whom was represented, the ceremony was found indeed to assume a displeasing likeness to a picnic.\"\n\nThe above \"Liji\" description of Zhou \"subscription club\" personation ceremonies quotes Confucius's student and compiler Zengzi (505-436 BCE). The \"Liji\" contains three passages where Zengzi questions his teacher about whether personators were needed for ancestral rituals. For instance:\n[Zengzi] asked, \"Is it necessary that there should be a representative of the dead in sacrifices? Or may he be dispensed with as when the satisfying offerings are made to the dead?\" Confucius said, \"In sacrificing to a full-grown man for whom there have been the funeral rites, there must be such a representative, who should be a grandson; and if the grandson is too young, someone must be employed to carry him in his arms. If there be no grandson, some one of the same surname should be selected for the occasion. In sacrificing to the one who had died prematurely, there are (only) the satisfying offerings, for he was not full-grown. To sacrifice to a full-grown man, for whom there have been the funeral rites without a representative, would be to treat him as if he had died prematurely.\" (7, tr. Legge 1885 27:337-338) \n\nChinese scholars have long disagreed about when and how \"shi\" personation originated. Henri Doré (1914 1:99-102) summarizes the four principal opinions, which are worth quoting in full.\n\nThe first opinion is that personation was a bygone superstition. The Tang Dynasty historian Du You criticizes the \"shi\":\nThe ancients employed a personator. This rite deserves censure, and has been abolished by our great Worthies. One vied with the other in practicing it. Now that an era of progress has set in, and these silly customs have disappeared, it is important not to revive them; common sense bids to refrain from them. Some half-baked literati of our days would fain re-establish this ceremony of the personator. This is quite absurd. \n\nThe second opinion is that the personator was not the agent of the departed, but merely its metaphorical representative or \"shenxiang\" 神象 \"image of the spirit\". The Han Dynasty historian Ban Gu explains:\nThe personator is found in the ceremony wherein sacrifice is offered to ancestors, because the soul emitting no perceptible sounds and having no visible form, the loving sentiment of filial piety finds no means of displaying itself, hence a personator has been chosen to whom meats are offered, after which he breaks the bowls, quite rejoiced, as if his own father had eaten plenty. The personator, drinking abundantly, imparts the illusion that it is the soul which is satiated. \nCarr (2007:386) notes, \"This passage sounds as though Ban had personally observed a personation ceremony.\" \nSome Qing Dynasty scholars held a third opinion, namely, that the personator was bearer of the ancestral tablet. The \"Jishuo quanzhen\" 集說詮真 \"Collected Sayings Explaining Truth\" says, \"The filial son chooses a personator to carry the tablet, but not to be the resting place of the soul of the dead person. His intention is therefore manifest.\" The \"Yuzhou dayiyi\" 宇宙大疑議 \"Discussion of Universal Great Doubts\" says: \"The personator is employed during sacrifices to the dead, in order to carry the ancestral tablet … hence there is no need of having such a one immediately after death, as the tablet is not yet erected.\"\n\nThe fourth opinion refutes the first three condemnations of personators as mere representatives or tablet-holders for the dead, and contends that a personator was temporarily the seat of a dead ancestor's soul. Two leading Neo-Confucianist philosophers held this judgment.\nCheng Yi writes: \nThe ancients, when sacrificing to the dead, employed the personator, because the soul and the vital force of the dead person after being separated from the body, seek an agent of the same nature. Now, men being all of the same kind, the father and the children being all of one family and of the same stock, the soul of the departed person is requested to come and establish its seat in one of them as in an agent. \nHis follower Zhu Xi concurs:\nIn ancient times all employed a personator when sacrificing to the dead. Since the descendants continue the life of their ancestors, the personator shares, therefore, in the life of the departed person, and the ancestor's soul descends undoubtedly upon his descendants, and reposes therein to enjoy the sacrifice offered. \n\nCarr (2007:387-388) offers a contemporary explanation for \"shi\" \"corpse\" personation: Julian Jaynes's psychological bicameralism hypothesis. Jaynes proposed that human \"consciousness\", meaning self-awareness and cognition, began evolving around 1000 BCE. Prior to that, ancient people had \"bicameral mentality\" in which one part of the brain \"spoke\" (often in an authority figure's voice) while another part listened and obeyed. \nAccording to the theory of the bicameral mind, hallucinations of a person in some authority could continue after death as an everyday matter. And hence the almost universal custom of feeding the corpses after death, and burying them with the appurtenances of life. (Jaynes 1976:290) \nIf the original personators were bicameral, they could have directly hallucinated voices from a \"shi\" \"corpse\". Carr notes the historical correspondence between Jaynes's first millennium BCE timeline for the breakdown of the bicameral mind in other parts of the world and the 11th-3rd centuries BCE personation practices in China.\nSeveral early sources give variations of the same chronicle about the personation ceremony. It began during the Xia Dynasty, when personators would communicate on behalf of the dead; continued during the Shang and Western Zhou Dynasties; but was criticized and discontinued after the Eastern Zhou Dynasty when personators were no longer able to speak for the dead. (2007:387) \nWearing ritual masks is a recent hypothesis about \"shi\". Paper (1995:82) suggested the possibility that Shang and Zhou \"shi\" wore bronze masks \"symbolizing the spirit of the dead to whom the sacrifices were offered\". Liu believes the phantasmagoric bronze masks discovered at Sanxingdui, dating from c. 12th-11th centuries BCE, might have been ritually worn by \"shi\" 尸.\nThe \"shi\" was generally a close, young relative who wore a costume (possibly including a mask) reproducing the features of the dead person. The \"shi\" was an impersonator, that is, a person serving as a reminder of the ancestor to whom sacrifice was being offered. During such a ceremony, the impersonator was much more than an actor in a drama. Although the exact meaning may have been different, the group of Sanxingdui masked figures in bronze all have the character of an impersonator. It is likely the masks were used to impersonate and identify with certain supernatural beings in order to effect some communal good. (2000:37) \n\n\n"}
{"id": "707043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=707043", "title": "Skeptic (US magazine)", "text": "Skeptic (US magazine)\n\nSkeptic, colloquially known as Skeptic magazine, is a quarterly science education and science advocacy magazine published internationally by The Skeptics Society, a nonprofit organization devoted to promoting scientific skepticism and resisting the spread of pseudoscience, superstition, and irrational beliefs. Founded by Michael Shermer, founder of the Skeptics Society, the magazine was first published in the spring of 1992 and is published through Millennium Press.\nShermer remains the Publisher and Editor-in-Chief of the magazine and the magazine’s Co-publisher and Art Director is Pat Linse. Other noteworthy members of its editorial board include, or have included, Oxford University evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins, Pulitzer Prize-winning scientist Jared Diamond, magician and escape artist turned educator James “The Amazing” Randi, actor, comedian, and \"Saturday Night Live \" alumna Julia Sweeney, professional mentalist Mark Edward, science writer Daniel Loxton, Lawrence M. Krauss and Christof Koch.\n\"Skeptic\" has an international circulation with over 50,000 subscriptions and is on newsstands in the U.S. and Canada as well as Europe, Australia, and other countries.\n\nThe cover story of the magazine's very first issue paid tribute to scientist and science-fiction writer Isaac Asimov.\n\nEvery issue of the magazine opens with a description of The Skeptics Society and its mission statement, which is to explore subjects such as creationism, pyramid power, Bigfoot, pseudohistorical claims (as in the examples of Holocaust denial and extreme Afrocentrism), the use or misuse of theory and statistics, conspiracy theories, urban myths, witch-hunts, mass hysterias, genius and intelligence, and cultural influences on science, as well as controversies involving protosciences at the leading edge of established science, and even fads like cryonics and low-carb diets. In addition to publishing the magazine, the Society also:\n\n\nIn 2011, the magazine had three regular columnists: James Randi wrote \"’Twas Brillig…,\" Harriet A. Hall wrote \"The Skep Doc\" and Karen Stollznow wrote \"Bad Language\".\nThe magazine's page count was between approximately 100 and 110 pages until the 2010s. It was reduced to approximately 80 pages with Vol. 16 No. 3 (2011). , the magazine had two regular columnists: Harriet A. Hall and Carol Tavris.\n\nEach issue features an editorial. In the past this was provided by James Randi, and was often a reaction to stories from mainstream news media such as the 2005 story by the ABC newsmagazine \"Primetime Live\" featuring a Brazilian faith healer, João Teixeira. Other times Randi wrote about topics he had investigated in the past, such as alleged dowsers, alleged psychics like Sylvia Browne, and UFOs.\n\nThe magazine also features a large correspondence section called \"Forum\". This includes not only letters from lay readers but also in-depth comments and rebuttals from professionals, contributing to extended academic debate across issues raised in past editions.\n\nThe bulk of the magazine treats a variety of topics. Cover stories have ranged from examination of alleged UFOs in religious icons and theories of the likelihood of artificial intelligence to tributes to luminaries such as Isaac Asimov and Ernst Mayr. Some editions feature special sections devoted to a particular topic or theme that is examined through multiple articles by different authors, such as intelligent design - a frequently recurring topic in the magazine, given the ongoing creation vs. evolution controversy.\n\nBound into most issues is a 10-page young-readers' section called \"Junior Skeptic\". Heralded by a cover printed on glossy paper (the rest of the magazine is printed on non-glossy stock), \"Junior Skeptic\" focuses on one topic, or provides practical instruction written and illustrated in a style more appealing to children.\n\nDaniel Loxton is the Editor of \"Junior Skeptic\". He writes and illustrates most issues.\n\nThe first edition of \"Junior Skeptic\" appeared in volume 6, #2 of \"Skeptic\" (2000).\nIn April 2006, an independent, skeptical talk program called \"Skepticality\" was relaunched as \"Skepticality: The Official Podcast of Skeptic Magazine\". New episodes of the show are released on a biweekly basis. The show is produced by the original, continuing show hosts (Robynn McCarthy and Derek Colanduno) in collaboration with staff of \"Skeptic\" magazine.\n\nIn 2009, a second official podcast was added. \"MonsterTalk\" critically examines the science behind cryptozoological and legendary creatures, such as Bigfoot, the Loch Ness Monster and\nwerewolves. \"Monster Talk\" is hosted by Blake Smith, Ben Radford and Dr. Karen Stollznow. Blake Smith produces the show.\n\n\nThe editorial board is composed of the following people:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3734595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3734595", "title": "Spiritual direction", "text": "Spiritual direction\n\nSpiritual direction is the practice of being with people as they attempt to deepen their relationship with the divine, or to learn and grow in their own personal spirituality. The person seeking direction shares stories of his or her encounters of the divine, or how he or she is cultivating a life attuned to spiritual things. The director listens and asks questions to assist the directee in his or her process of reflection and spiritual growth. Spiritual direction advocates claim that it develops a deeper awareness with the spiritual aspect of being human, and that it is not psychotherapy, counseling, or financial planning.\n\nWhile there is some degree of variability, there are primarily two forms of spiritual direction: regular direction and retreat direction. They differ largely in the frequency of meeting and in the intensity of reflection.\n\nRegular direction can involve a one- to two-hour meeting every four to eight weeks, and thus is slightly less intense than retreat direction, although spiritual exercises and disciplines are often given for the directee to attempt between meetings.\n\nIf the directee is on a retreat (lasting a weekend, a week or even 40 days), he or she will generally meet with his or her director on a daily basis for one hour. During these daily meetings, exercises or spiritual disciplines such as lectio divina are given to the directee as fodder to continue his or her spiritual growth. Alternatively, retreat centres often offer direction or companionship to persons visiting the centre alone.\n\nThe Spiritual Exercises of Ignatius of Loyola are a popular example of guidelines used for spiritual direction.\n\nWithin Christianity, spiritual direction has its roots in Early Christianity. The gospels describe Jesus serving as a mentor to his disciples. Additionally, Acts of the Apostles Chapter 9 describes Ananias helping Paul of Tarsus to grow in his newfound experience of Christianity. Likewise, several of the Pauline epistles describe Paul mentoring both Timothy and Titus among others. Tradition tells us that John the Evangelist tutored Polycarp, the 2nd-century bishop of Smyrna.\n\nTheologian John Cassian who lived in the 4th century provided some of the earliest recorded guidelines on the Christian practice of spiritual direction. He introduced mentoring in the monasteries. Each novice was put under the care of an older monk. Benedict of Nursia integrated Cassian's guidelines into what is now known as the Rule of Saint Benedict.\n\nSpiritual direction is widespread in the Catholic religion: a person with wisdom and spiritual discernment, usually but not exclusively a priest or consecrated in general, provides counsel to a person who wishes to make a journey of faith and discovery of God's will in his life. The spiritual guide aims to discern, understand what the Holy Spirit, through the situations of life, spiritual insights fruit of prayer, reading and meditation on the Bible, tells the person accompanied. The spiritual father or spiritual director may provide advice, give indications of life and prayer, resolving doubts in matters of faith and morals without replacing the choices and decisions to the person accompanying.\n\nEastern Orthodoxy comes from the same pre-schism traditions, but the role of a \"spiritual director\" or \"elder\" in Orthodoxy has maintained its important role. The original Greek term geron (meaning \"elder\", as in gerontology) was rendered by the Russian word starets, from Old Church Slavonic starĭtsĭ, \"elder\", derived from starŭ, \"old\". The Greek tradition has a long unbroken history of elders and disciples, such as Sophronius and John Moschos in the seventh century, Symeon the Elder and Symeon the New Theologian in the eleventh century, and contemporary charismatic gerontes such as Porphyrios and Paisios. Sergius of Radonezh and Nil Sorsky were two most venerated startsy of Old Muscovy. The revival of elders in the Slavic world is associated with the name of Paisius Velichkovsky (1722–94), who produced the Russian translation of the Philokalia. The most famous Russian starets of the early 19th century was Seraphim of Sarov (1759-1833), who went on to become one of the most revered Orthodox saints.\nThe Optina Pustyn near Kozelsk used to be celebrated for its startsy (Schema-Archimandrite Moses, Schema-Hegumen Anthony, Hieroschemamonk Leonid, Hieroschemamonk Macarius, Hieroschemamonk Hilarion, Hieroschemamonk Ambrose, Hieroschemamonk Anatole (Zertsalov)).[1] Such writers as Nikolay Gogol, Aleksey Khomyakov, Leo Tolstoy and Konstantin Leontyev sought advice from the elders of this monastery. They also inspired the figure of Zosima in Dostoyevsky's novel The Brothers Karamazov. A more modern example of a starets is Archimandrite John Krestiankin (1910-2006) of the Pskov Monastery of the Caves who was popularly recognized as such by many Orthodox living in Russia.\n\nIn Judaism, the Hebrew term for spiritual director differs among traditional communities. The verb \"Hashpa'ah\" is common in some communities though not all; the spiritual director called a \"mashpi'a\" occurs in the Habad-Lubavitch community and also in the Jewish Renewal community. A \"mashgiakh ruchani\" is the equivalent role among mitnagedim (adherents of the \"mussar\" tradition). The purpose of hashpa'ah is to support the directee in her or his personal relationship with God, and to deepen that person's ability to find God's presence in ordinary life. Amongst Lubavitchers this draws on the literature and praxis of Hasidism as it is practiced according to Habad standards, and to Jewish mystical tradition generally. Spiritual mentorship is customary in the Hasidic world, but not necessarily in the same way.\n\nIn Sufism, the term used for spiritual master is \"murshid\", Arabic for \"guide\" or \"teacher\". He is more than a spiritual director and believed to be guiding the disciples based on his direct connectivity with the Divine. The murshid's role is to spiritually guide and verbally instruct the disciple on the Sufi path after the disciple takes an oath of allegiance or Bay'ah (\"bai'ath\") with him. The concept of Murshid Kamil Akmal (also known as Insan-e-Kamil) is significant in most tariqas. The doctrine states that from pre-existence till pre-eternity, there shall always remain a Qutb or a Universal Man upon the earth who would be the perfect manifestation of God and at the footsteps of the Islamic prophet Mohammad.\n\n\n\nClassics\nContemporary\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1524635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1524635", "title": "Supererogation", "text": "Supererogation\n\nSupererogation (Late Latin: \"supererogatio\" \"payment beyond what is due or asked\", from \"super\" \"beyond\" and \"erogare\" \"to pay out, expend\", itself from \"ex\" \"out\" and \"rogare\" \"to ask\") is the performance of more than is asked for; the action of doing more than duty requires. In ethics, an act is supererogatory if it is good but not morally required to be done. It refers to an act that is more than is necessary, when another course of action—involving less—would still be an acceptable action. It differs from a duty, which is an act wrong not to do, and from acts morally neutral. Supererogation may be considered as performing above and beyond a normative course of duty to further benefits and functionality.\n\nIn the theology of the Roman Catholic Church, \"works of supererogation\" (also called \"acts of supererogation\") are those performed beyond what God requires. For example, in 1 Corinthians 7, Paul the Apostle says that while everyone is free to marry, it is better to refrain from marriage and remain celibate to better serve God. The Roman Catholic Church holds that the counsels of perfection are supererogatory acts, which specific Christians may engage in above their moral duties. Similarly, it teaches that to determine how to act, one must engage in reasonable efforts to be sure of what the right actions are; after the reasonable action, the person is in a state of invincible ignorance and guiltless of wrongdoing, but to undertake more than reasonable actions to overcome ignorance is supererogatory, and praiseworthy.\n\nAccording to the classic teaching on indulgences, the works of supererogation performed by all the saints form a treasure with God, the \"treasury of merit,\" which the church can apply to exempt repentant sinners from the works of penitence that would otherwise be required of them to achieve full reconciliation with the church.\n\nMartin Luther's opposition of this teaching seeded the Protestant Reformation. The Church of England denied the doctrine of supererogation in the fourteenth of the Thirty-Nine Articles, which states that works of supererogation\ncannot be taught without arrogancy and impiety: for by them men do declare, that they not only render unto God as much as they are bound to, but that they do more for his sake, than of bounden duty is required: whereas Christ saith plainly, When ye have done all that are commanded to you, say, We are unprofitable servants\nLater Protestant movements followed suit, such as in the Methodist Articles of Religion.\n\nA Muslim must complete a minimum of the five daily prayers, each typically lasting an average of 5 to 10 minutes. Supererogatory prayers beyond these are known as nafl prayers, and praying them is considered to bear additional reward. There are also several other supererogatory acts in Islam, such as fasting outside of the month of Ramadhan, or giving sadaqah (charity, consisting of simple acts of kindness to financial assistance) that is not obligatory.\n\nWhether an act is supererogatory or obligatory can be debated. In many schools of thought, donating money to charity is supererogatory. In other schools of thought that regard some level of charitable donation to be duty (such as with the tithe in Judaism, zakat in Islam, and similar standards in many Christian sects), only exceeding a certain level of donation (e.g. going above the common 2.5%-of-capital-assets standard in zakat) would count as supererogatory.\n\nIn criminal law, it may be observed that state prohibitions on killing, stealing, and so on derive from the state's duty to protect one's own citizens. However, a nation state has no duty to protect the citizens of an adjacent nation from crime. To send a peacekeeping force into another country would be — in the view of the nation doing it — supererogatory.\n\nSome schools of ethics do not include supererogatory acts. In utilitarianism, an act can only be better because it would bring more good to a greater number, and in that case it becomes a duty, not a supererogatory act. The lack of a notion of supererogation in utilitarianism and related schools leads to the demandingness objection, arguing that these schools are too ethically demanding, requiring unreasonable acts.\n\n"}
{"id": "34012719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34012719", "title": "Supernatural gift", "text": "Supernatural gift\n\nIn Christian theology, a supernatural gift is a gift of God that is conferred on man that is above all the powers of created nature. An example of this is the gift of grace which enables man to attain salvation despite original sin.\n"}
{"id": "2483269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2483269", "title": "Svikiro", "text": "Svikiro\n\nSvikiro is a spirit medium of the Shona people of Zimbabwe.\n\nA Svikiro is an ancestral spirit primarily known to possess a living human and will give advice based on that communication.\n\nThe word comes from the verb \"kusvika\" meaning 'to arrive at or reach a place'.It also stems from \"kusvikirwa\" meaning 'to arrive upon' , as it is believed that the ancestral spirits arrive in the bodies of the mediums. \n\nOther types of mediums (svikiro) include \"mhondoro\" which are possessed by the ancestor spirits of the same name. Mhondoro means lion in the Shona Language. It is believed that mhondoro spirits reside in the bodies on maneless lion until they have a host to possessed. Mhondoro spirits are royal ancestral spirits of deceased chief and kings or any other royals.The believed to be concerned with matter of the clan and territories including the nation.\n\n"}
{"id": "38446305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38446305", "title": "Swami Satyabhakta", "text": "Swami Satyabhakta\n\nSwami Satyabhakta () (born as Darbarilal; 10 November 1899 – 10 December 1998) was a scholar, philosopher, reformer and the founder of Satya Samaj.\n\nBorn Mulchanda at Shahpur, Sagar, he moved to Damoh to his aunt's house after the death of his mother at age 4, where he was renamed Darbarilal. He met Ganeshprasad Varni at Damoh and influenced by him, he joined the pathshala established by Varniji at Sagar. At age 19, he graduated with the title Nyayatirth and became a teacher at Sdyavad Vdyalaya at Varanasi for a year. He then moved to Seoni and then Indore, where he developed his rationalistic principles.\n\nIn 1923, he became a reformer. He lived in Bombay during 1926-1936, where he edited Jain Jagat and Jain Prakash. He started writing a series of articles that were later compiled into Jain Dharma Samiksha. He eventually moved to Wardha in 1936 and established his Ashrama there.\n\nHe was a prolific author. His writings include Buddhahridayam, Jain Dharma Mimansa, Mahavira Ka Antahsthal, Manav Bhasha, Meri Africa Yatra, Anmol Patra etc. Swamiji worked hard to evolve in 1945-46 the new language which swamiji called \"Manav Bhasa\" of which grammar is complete and having no exceptions and very simple and can be learn in a month. \"Aditi\" of Sri Aurobindo Ashram wrote four pages about Manavbhasha. Swamiji compare Manavbhasha with Esperanto another language by Zamenhof a Polish Eye Surgen in 1887 and a book named \"Esperanto verses Manav Bhasha\" was published in 1971.\n\nHis early work was published as Darbarilal Nyayatirtha (as an orthodox Jain scholar) Darbarilal Satyabhakta during the transitional period. He contested against Zakir Hussain in the Indian presidential election, 1967 but failed to win any votes.\n\nHe composed a complete library of texts include three volumes of Satyamrita or Manava Dharmashastra. They include Drishti Kanda, a text on philosophy; Achara Kanda, a treatise on conduct of advanced individuals, analogous to Jain Acharnaga; and Vyavahara Kanda, on which is analogous to Dharma Shastra of Manu or Shravakacharas in the Jain tradition. He also composed a set of prayers towards Satyar deities, published as Satya Sangita. He wrote a text Nirativada on social economics, that advocated an economic system that avoids the extremes of marxism and Capitalism. His Vivaha Paddhati formulates a new form of marriage based on the traditional ceremony.\n\nThe religious/philosophical movement Satya Samaj founded by him in 1934 and is active in several regions of India and UK. Satya Samaj organizes yearly conventions.\n\nSwami Satyabhakta established a Satya Mandir temple at Vardha with a new pantheon that includes Lord Satya (truth) as the father and Goddess Ahimsa (non-violence) as the mother. While her right hand in the abhaya mudra, she hold a club in her left hand, symbolising that bravery is needed to preserve peace. The altar also has 8 images of the prophets belonging to various religious traditions, including Zoroaster and Carl Marx.\n\nHe was an early rationalistic syncretic philosopher. Osho has described meeting him and discussing establishing a new religious order\nWhile he was in Bombay, he was a friend of both Nathuram Premi and Sukhlal Sanghvi known for their open minded perspective.\n"}
{"id": "75696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=75696", "title": "Testimony", "text": "Testimony\n\nIn law and in religion, testimony is a solemn attestation as to the truth of a matter.\n\nThe words \"testimony\" and \"testify\" both derive from the Latin word \"testis\", referring to the notion of a disinterested third-party witness.\n\nIn the law, testimony is a form of evidence that is obtained from a witness who makes a solemn statement or declaration of fact. Testimony may be oral or written, and it is usually made by oath or affirmation under penalty of perjury. To be admissible in court and for maximum reliability and validity, written testimony is usually witnessed by one or more persons who swear or affirm its authenticity also under penalty of perjury. Unless a witness is testifying as an expert witness, testimony in the form of opinions or inferences is generally limited to those opinions or inferences that are rationally based on the perceptions of the witness and are helpful to a clear understanding of the witness' testimony. \n\nLegitimate expert witnesses with a genuine understanding of legal process and the inherent dangers of false or misleading testimony refrain from making statements of fact. They also recognize that they are in fact not witnesses to an alleged crime or other event in any way, shape or form. Their expertise is in the examination of evidence or relevant facts in the case. They should make no firm judgement or claim or accusation about any aspect of the case outside their narrow range of expertise. They also should not allege any fact they can't immediately and credibly prove scientifically.\nFor example, a hair sample from a crime scene entered as evidence by the prosecution should be described by an expert witness as \"consistent with\" a sample collected from the defendant, rather than being described as a \"match\". A wide range of factors make it physically impossible to prove for certain that two hair or tissue samples came from a common source.\n\nHaving not actually witnessed the defendant at the scene, the expert witness can not state for a fact that the sample is a match to the defendant, particularly when the samples were collected at different times and different places by different collectors using different collection methods. Ultimately, the testimony of expert witnesses is regarded as supportive of evidence rather than evidence in and of itself, and a good defense attorney will point out that the expert witness is not in fact a witness to anything, but rather an observer.\n\nWhen a witness is asked a question, the opposing attorney can raise an objection, which is a legal move to disallow or prevent an improper question to others, preferably before the witness answers, and mentioning one of the standard reasons, including:\nThere may also be an objection to the answer, including:\n\nUp until the mid-20th century, in much of the United States, an attorney often had to follow an objection with an exception to preserve the issue for appeal. If an attorney failed to \"take an exception\" immediately after the court's ruling on the objection, he waived his client's right to appeal the issue. Exceptions have since been abolished, due to the widespread recognition that forcing lawyers to take them was a waste of time.\n\nWhen a party uses the testimony of a witness to show proof, the opposing party often attempts to impeach the witness. This may be done using cross-examination, calling into question the witness's competence, or by attacking the character or habit of the witness. So, for example, if a witness testifies that he remembers seeing a person at 2:00 pm on a Tuesday and his habit is to be at his desk job on Tuesday, then the opposing party would try to impeach his testimony related to that event.\n\nChristians in general, especially within the Evangelical tradition, use the term \"to testify\" or \"to give one's testimony\" to mean \"to tell the story of how one became a Christian\". Commonly it may refer to a specific event in a Christian's life in which they believe God did something deemed particularly worth sharing. Christians often give their testimony at their own baptism or at evangelistic events. Many Christians have also published their testimonies on the internet.\n\nMany holiness churches devote a portion of their mid-week service to allow members to give a personal testimony about their faith and experiences in living the Christian life.\n\nIn the Religious Society of Friends, the word \"testimony\" is used to refer to the ways in which Friends \"testify\" or \"bear witness\" to their beliefs in their everyday lives. In this context, the word \"testimony\" refers not to the underlying belief, but the committed action which arises out of their beliefs, which \"testifies\" to their beliefs. Common areas which modern Friends are said to testify are testimony towards peace, testimony to simplicity, testimony to truth and integrity, testimony to equality.\n\nIn some religions (most notably Mormonism and Islam) many adherents testify as a profession of their faith, often to a congregation of believers. In Mormonism, testifying is also referred to as \"bearing one's testimony,\" and often involves the sharing of personal experience—ranging from a simple anecdote to an account of personal revelation—followed by a statement of belief that has been confirmed by this experience. Within Mormon culture, the word \"testimony\" has become synonymous with \"belief.\" Although testimony and belief are often used interchangeably, they are inherently different. Most Mormons believe that when faith is acted upon, individuals can receive a spiritual witness which solidifies belief into testimony. Mormons are taught that if the exercise of faith brings forth good works, they can know their religious principles are true. An individual who no longer believes in the religion is referred to as having \"lost their testimony.\"\n\nSome published oral or written autobiographical narratives are considered \"testimonial literature\" particularly when they present evidence or first person accounts of human rights abuses, violence and war, and living under conditions of social oppression. This usage of the term comes originally from Latin America and the Spanish term \"testimonio\" when it emerged from human rights tribunals, truth commissions, and other international human rights instruments in countries such as Chile and Argentina. One of the most famous, though controversial, of these works to be translated into English is \"I, Rigoberta Menchú\". The autobiographies of Frederick Douglass can be considered among the earliest significant English-language works in this genre.\n\nIn philosophy, a testimony is known as statements that are based on personal experience or personal knowledge. A statement is accepted on the basis of person's testimony if his or her asserting it renders it acceptable. We can also, rationally accept a claim on the basis of another person's testimony unless at least one of the following is found to be true:\n"}
{"id": "33061019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33061019", "title": "The Matheson Trust", "text": "The Matheson Trust\n\nThe Matheson Trust is an educational charity based in London dedicated to further and disseminate the study of comparative religion, especially from the point of view of the underlying harmony of the major religious and philosophical traditions of the world. \n\nThe Matheson Trust was established in London in 1974 by Donald Macleod Matheson CBE (1896-1979), who in addition to his work as a civil servant was active as a translator of Perennialist works, most notably \"Understanding Islam\" by Frithjof Schuon and \"An Introduction to Sufi Doctrine\" by Titus Burckhardt.\n\nRegistered as a UK charity in 1982, the trust was for years active sponsoring academic research, lectures, film production and publications. As of January 2011 they have launched a new series of paperback publications, the Matheson Monographs, and a public website hosting the Matheson Library.\n\nMatheson Trust associates have included, among others, Martin Lings, Charles Le Gai Eaton, William Stoddart and Reza Shah-Kazemi.\n\nSince 2008, The Matheson Trust had been co-producing publications with a number of kindred organisations and established publishers: The Prometheus Trust, Fons Vitae (KY), Archetype UK, but December 2010 saw the launch of an independent series, the \"Matheson Monographs\", covering \"scriptural exegesis, the modalities of spiritual and contemplative life, studies of particular religious traditions, comparative analyses, studies of traditional arts, crafts and cosmological sciences, contemporary scholarly expositions of religious philosophy and metaphysics, translations of both classical and contemporary texts and transcriptions of lectures by, and interviews with, spiritual and scholarly authorities from different religious and philosophical traditions\".\n\nIn March 2011 the Matheson Trust website was launched, hosting an online library of free selected books and articles, almost exclusively in English, including authors and sources as varied as Shaykh Abdallah Bin Bayyah, the Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams, the Berzin archives, Charles, Prince of Wales, Chief Rabbi Jonathan Sacks, James Cutsinger, Gavin D'Costa, Seyyed Hossein Nasr, Harry Oldmeadow, the journal Sacred Web, Huston Smith, Timothy Winter (Shaykh Abdal Hakim Murad), The Woolf Institute of Abrahamic Faiths and others. Documents are free to browse and download, most in PDF format, with a few articles in HTML.\n\nAs of October 2018, there are more than 600 holdings in the library, a quarter of which are audio recordings.\n\nOne of the purported aims of the Matheson Library is to use existing contemporary media technologies to make available resources from ancient traditions, either in the form of recitation of traditional scriptures or in the scholarly transmission of the doctrines and insights pertaining to the different religions. An ongoing \"hear!\" project is converting scholarly texts and other texts of interest into MP3 format, and making them available through the Audio section of the library. In April 2012 the \"Matheson Trust Sacred Audio Collection\" was launched, a repository of selected liturgical audio recordings from the major religious traditions. This collection includes live recordings from temples and ritual gatherings around the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46341991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46341991", "title": "Tolerance Act (Sweden)", "text": "Tolerance Act (Sweden)\n\nThe Tolerance Act () was a Swedish law, enacted by Gustav III of Sweden 24 January 1781. It guaranteed freedom of religion and full citizen rights for all Christian immigrants and residents in Sweden. \n\nSince the Uppsala Synod of 1593, Lutheranism had officially been the only religion allowed in Sweden, though the foreign embassies were given dispensation. The Tolerance Act was introduced in line with the ideals of the Age of Enlightenment. There were also an economical aspect, as it would make it easier for foreigners to work in Sweden. By the Act, all Christian immigrants were granted full freedom of religion and guaranteed their right to bring up their children in their faith as well. This act was followed in 1782 by the \"Judereglementet\" (The Jew's Law), which guaranteed the freedom of religion for Jewish immigrants. This Act was a step toward full freedom of religion in Sweden. However, they only applied to immigrants and foreigners, while the Lutheran Swedish citizens were still prohibited their freedom of religion through the \"konventikelplakatet\". \n\nThe Tolerance Act was replaced by the Dissenter Acts (Sweden) from the 1850s, which guaranteed freedom of religion to all Swedish citizens. \n\nThe final act was the law of 1951, which allowed for complete freedom of conscience by allowing citizens from leaving their religion without replacing it with another one, thereby formally also allowing atheism. \n\n"}
{"id": "3159905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3159905", "title": "Transcendence (religion)", "text": "Transcendence (religion)\n\nIn religion, transcendence refers to the aspect of a deity's nature and power that is wholly independent of the material universe, beyond all known physical laws. This is contrasted immanence, where a god is said to be fully present in the physical world and thus accessible to creatures in various ways. In religious experience transcendence is a state of being that has overcome the limitations of physical existence and by some definitions has also become independent of it. This is typically manifested in prayer, séance, meditation, psychedelics and paranormal \"visions\".\n\nIt is affirmed in various religious traditions' concept of the divine, which contrasts with the notion of a god (or, the Absolute) that exists exclusively in the physical order (immanentism), or indistinguishable from it (pantheism). Transcendence can be attributed to the divine not only in its being, but also in its knowledge. Thus, a god may transcend both the universe and knowledge (is beyond the grasp of the human mind).\n\nAlthough transcendence is defined as the opposite of immanence, the two are not necessarily mutually exclusive. Some theologians and metaphysicians of various religious traditions affirm that a god is both within and beyond the universe (panentheism); in it, but not of it; simultaneously pervading it and surpassing it.\n\nBahá'ís believe in a single, imperishable god, the creator of all things, including all the creatures and forces in the universe. In the Bahá'í tradition, god is described as \"a personal god, unknowable, inaccessible, the source of all Revelation, eternal, omniscient, omnipresent and almighty.\" Though inaccessible directly, God is nevertheless seen as conscious of his creation, with a mind, will and purpose. Bahá'ís believe that God expresses this will at all times and in many ways, including through a series of divine messengers referred to as Manifestations of God or sometimes \"divine educators\". In expressing God's intent, these manifestations are seen to establish religion in the world. Bahá'í teachings state that God is too great for humans to fully comprehend, nor to create a complete and accurate image.\n\nIn Buddhism \"transcendence\", by definition, belongs to the mortal beings of the formless realms of existence. However, although such beings are at 'the peak' of Samsara, Buddhism considers the development of transcendence to be both temporary and a spiritual cul-de-sac, which therefore does not eventuate a permanent cessation of Samsara. This assertion was a primary differentiator from the other Sramana teachers during Gautama Buddha's own training and development.\n\nAlternatively, in the various forms of Buddhism—Theravada, Mahayana (especially Pure Land and Zen) and Vajrayana—the notion of transcendence sometimes includes a soteriological application. Except for Pure Land and Vajrayana, the role played by transcendent beings is minimal and at most a temporary expedient. However some Buddhists believe that Nirvana is an eternal, transcendental state beyond name and form, so for these Buddhists, Nirvana is the main concept of transcendence. The more usual interpretation of Nirvana in Buddhism is that it is a cessation—a permanent absence of something (namely suffering), and therefore it is not in any way a state which could be considered transcendent.\n\nPrimordial enlightenment and the dharma are sometimes portrayed as transcendent, since they can surpass all samsaric obstructions.\n\nThe Catholic Church, as do other Christian Churches, holds that God transcends all creation. According to Aquinas, \"...concerning God, we cannot grasp what he is, but only what he is not, and how other beings stand in relation to him.\" Anthropomorphic depictions of God are largely metaphorical and reflect the challenge of \"human modes of expression\" in attempting to describe the infinite. St. Augustine observed \"...[I]t is only by the use of such human expressions that Scripture can make its many kinds of readers whom it wants to help to feel, as it were, at home.\" The \"sense of transcendence\" and therefore, an awareness of the \"sacred\", is an important component of the liturgy. God is recognized as both transcendent and immanent.\n\nTranscendence is described and viewed from a number of diverse perspectives in Hinduism. Some traditions, such as Advaita Vedanta, view transcendence in the form of God as the Nirguna Brahman (God without attributes), transcendence being absolute. Other traditions, such as Bhakti yoga, view transcendence as God with attributes (Saguna Brahman), the Absolute being a personal deity (Ishvara), such as Vishnu or Shiva.\n\nIn the Bhagavad Gita transcendence is described as a level of spiritual attainment, or state of being which is open to all spiritual aspirants (the goal of yoga practice), the state at which one is no longer under the control of animalistic, base desires and is aware of a higher spiritual reality.\nThe exact nature of this transcendence is given as being \"above the modes of material nature\", which are known as \"gunas\" (ropes) which bind the living entity to the world of \"samsara\" (repeated rebirth) in Hindu philosophy.\n\n\"Tawhid\" is the act of believing and affirming that God (Arabic: Allah) is one and unique (\"wāḥid\"). The Qur'an asserts the existence of a single and absolute truth that transcends the world; a unique and indivisible being who is independent of the entire creation. According to the Qur'an:\n\"Say: He is God, the One and Only; God, the Eternal, Absolute; He begetteth not, nor is He begotten; And there is none like unto Him.\" (Sura , \"Yusuf Ali\") <br>Thy Lord is self-sufficient, full of Mercy: if it were God's will, God could destroy you, and in your place appoint whom God will as your successors, even as God raised you up from the posterity of other people.\" (Sura , \"Yusuf Ali\")\nAccording to Vincent J. Cornell, the Qur'an also provides a monist image of God by describing the reality as a unified whole, with God being a single concept that would describe or ascribe all existing things:\"God is the First and the Last, the Outward and the Inward; God is the Knower of everything (Sura )\" All Muslims have however vigorously criticized interpretations that would lead to a monist view of God for what they see as blurring the distinction between the creator and the creature, and its incompatibility with the radical monotheism of Islam.\n\nIn order to explain the complexity of unity of God and of the divine nature, the Qur'an uses 99 terms referred to as \"Most Beautiful Names of Allah\" (Sura 77:180)[12]. Aside from the supreme name \"Allah\" and the neologism al-Rahman (referring to the divine beneficence that constantly (re)creates, maintains and destroys the universe), other names may be shared by both God and human beings. According to the Islamic teachings, the latter is meant to serve as a reminder of God's immanence rather than being a sign of one's divinity or alternatively imposing a limitation on God's transcendent nature.\n\nTawhid or Oneness of God constitutes the foremost article of the Muslim profession. To attribute divinity to a created entity is the only unpardonable sin mentioned in the Qur'an. Muslims believe that the entirety of the Islamic teaching rests on the principle of Tawhid.\n\nJewish theologians, especially since the Middle Ages, have described the transcendence of God in terms of divine simplicity, explaining the traditional characteristics of God as omniscient and omnipotent. Interventions of divine transcendence occur in the form of events outside the realm of natural occurrence such as miracles and the revelation of the Ten Commandments to Moses at Mt. Sinai.\n\nIn Jewish Kabbalistic cosmology, God is described as the \"Ein Sof\" (literally, without end) as reference to God's divine simplicity and essential unknowability. The emanation of creation from the Ein Sof is explained through a process of filtering. In the Kabbalistic creation myth referred to as the \"breaking of the vessels,\" filtering was necessary because otherwise this intense, simple essence would have overwhelmed and made impossible the emergence of any distinct creations. Each filter, described as a vessel, captured the emanation of this creative force until it was overwhelmed and broken by the intensity of God's simple essence. Once broken, the vessel's shards, full of absorbed \"divine sparks,\" fell into a vessel below. This process ultimately continued until the \"light\" of Godliness was sufficiently reduced to allow the world we inhabit to be sustained without breaking. The creation of this world, however, comes with the consequence that Godly transcendence is hidden, or \"exiled\" (from the immanent world). Only through the revelation of sparks hidden within the shards embedded in our material world can this transcendence be recognized again. In Hasidic thought, divine sparks are revealed through the performance of commandments or \"mitzvot,\" (literally, the obligations and prohibitions described in the Torah). A Kabbalistic explanation for the existence of malevolence in the world is that such terrible things are possible with the divine sparks being hidden. Thus there is some urgency to performing mitzvot in order to liberate the hidden sparks and perform a \"tikkun olam\" (literally, healing of the world). Until then, the world is presided over by the immanent aspect of God, often referred to as the Shekhinah or divine spirit, and in feminine terms.\n\nWaheguru (, \"\") is a term most often used in Sikhism to refer to God, the Supreme Being or the creator of all. It means \"Wonderful Teacher\" in the Punjabi language, but in this case is used to refer to the Sikh God. \"Wahi\" means \"wonderful\" (a Middle Persian borrowing) and \"Guru\" () is a term denoting \"teacher\". Waheguru is also described by some as an experience of ecstasy which is beyond all descriptions.\n\nCumulatively, the name implies wonder at the Divine Light eliminating spiritual darkness. It might also imply, \"Hail the Lord whose name eliminates spiritual darkness.\" Earlier, Shaheed Bhai Mani Singh, \"Sikhan di Bhagat Mala\", gave a similar explication, also on the authority of Guru Nanak. Considering the two constituents of \"Vahiguru\" (\"vahi\" + \"guru\") implying the state of wondrous ecstasy and offering of homage to the Lord, the first one was brought distinctly and prominently into the devotional system by Guru Nanak, who has made use of this interjection, as in Majh ki Var (stanza 24), and Suhi ki Var, sloka to pauri 10.\n\nSikh doctrine identifies one panentheistic god (Ek Onkar) who is omnipresent and has infinite qualities, whose name is true (Satnam), can do anything (Karta purkh), has no fear (Nirb hau), is not the enemy of anyone (Nirvair), is beyond time (Akaal), has no image (Murat), is beyond birth and death circulation (Ajunee), is self-existent (Sai Bhang) and possesses the grace of word guru (eternal light) we can meet him (Gurprasaad). Sikhs do not identify a gender for Ek Onkar, nor do they believe it takes a human form. In the Sikh tradition, all human beings are considered equal regardless of their religion, sex, or race. All are sons and daughters of Waheguru, the Almighty.\n\nIn 1961, Christian theologian Gabriel Vahanian's published \"The Death of God\". Vahanian argued that modern secular culture had lost all sense of the sacred, lacking any sacramental meaning, no transcendental purpose or sense of providence. He concluded that for the modern secular mind \"God is dead\", but he did not mean that God did not exist. In Vahanian's vision a transformed post-Christian and post-modern culture was needed to create a renewed experience of deity.\n\nPaul Van Buren and William Hamilton both agreed that the concept of transcendence had lost any meaningful place in modern secular thought. According to the norms of contemporary modern secular thought, God is dead. In responding to this denial of transcendence Van Buren and Hamilton offered secular people the option of Jesus as the model human who acted in love. The encounter with the Christ of faith would be open in a church-community.\n\nThomas J. J. Altizer offered a radical theology of the death of God that drew upon William Blake, Hegelian thought and Nietzschean ideas. He conceived of theology as a form of poetry in which the immanence (presence) of God could be encountered in faith communities. However, he no longer accepted the possibility of affirming his belief in a transcendent God. Altizer concluded that God had incarnated in Christ and imparted his immanent spirit which remained in the world even though Jesus was dead. It is important that such ideas are understood as socio-cultural developments and not as ontological realities. As Vahanian expressed it in his book, the issue of the denial of God lies in the mind of secular man, not in reality.\n\nCritiquing the death of God theology, Joseph Papin, the founder of the Villanova Theology Institute, noted: \"Rumbles of the new theology of the 'Requiem for God,\" (theologians of the death of God) proved to be a totally inadequate foundation for spanning a theological river with a bridge. The school of the theology of the \"Requiem of God,\" not even implementing a \"Requiem for Satan,\" will constitute only a footnote to the history of theology. . . . 'The Grave of God,' was the death rattle for the continuancy of the aforementioned school without any noticeable echo.\" Professor Piet Schoonenberg (Nijmegen, Netherlands) directly critiqued Altizer concluding: \"Rightly understood the transcendence of God does not exclude His immanence, but includes it.\" Schoonenberg went on to say: \"We must take God's transcendence seriously by not imposing any limits whatsoever, not even the limits that our images or concepts of transcendence evoke. This however occurs when God's transcendence is expressed as elevated over the world to the exclusion of his presence in this world; when his independence is expressed by excluding his real relation and reaction to the world; or when we insist upon his unchangeable eternity to the exclusion of his real partnership in human history.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "274738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=274738", "title": "Wali", "text": "Wali\n\nWalī (, plural ) is an Arabic word whose literal meanings include \"custodian\", \"protector\", \"helper\", and \"friend\". In the vernacular, it is most commonly used by Muslims to indicate an Islamic saint, otherwise referred to by the more literal \"friend of God\". In the traditional Islamic understanding of saints, the saint is portrayed as someone \"marked by [special] divine favor ... [and] holiness\", and who is specifically \"chosen by God and endowed with exceptional gifts, such as the ability to work miracles\". The doctrine of saints was articulated by Islamic scholars very early on in Muslim history, and particular verses of the Quran and certain hadith were interpreted by early Muslim thinkers as \"documentary evidence\" of the existence of saints. Graves of saints around the Muslim world became centers of pilgrimage — especially after 1200 CE — for masses of Muslims seeking their \"barakah\" (blessing).\n\nSince the first Muslim hagiographies were written during the period when the Islamic mystical trend of Sufism began its rapid expansion, many of the figures who later came to be regarded as the major saints in orthodox Sunni Islam were the early Sufi mystics, like Hasan of Basra (d. 728), Farqad Sabakhi (d. 729), Dawud Tai (d. 777–781), Rabi'a al-'Adawiyya (d. 801), Maruf Karkhi (d. 815), and Junayd of Baghdad (d. 910). From the twelfth to the fourteenth century, \"the general veneration of saints, among both people and sovereigns, reached its definitive form with the organization of Sufism ... into orders or brotherhoods\". In the common expressions of Islamic piety of this period, the saint was understood to be \"a contemplative whose state of spiritual perfection ... [found] permanent expression in the teaching bequeathed to his disciples\". In many prominent Sunni Islamic creeds of the time, such as the famous \"Creed of Tahawi\" (c. 900) and the \"Creed of Nasafi\" (c. 1000), a belief in the existence and miracles of saints was presented as \"a requirement\" for being an orthodox Muslim believer.\n\nAside from the Sufis, the preeminent saints in traditional Islamic piety are the Companions of Muhammad, their Successors, and the third generation after the Prophet, often called \"the Successors of the Successors\". Additionally, the prophets of Islam are also believed to be saints by definition, although they are rarely referred to as such, in order to prevent confusion between them and ordinary saints; as the prophets are exalted by Muslims as the greatest of all humanity, it is a general tenet of Sunni belief that a single prophet is greater than all the regular saints put together. In short, it is believed that \"every prophet is a saint, but not every saint is a prophet\".\n\nIn the modern world, the traditional Sunni and Shia idea of saints has been challenged by movements such as Salafism, Wahhabism, and Islamic modernism, all three of which have, to a greater or lesser degree, \"formed a front against the veneration and theory of saints.\" As has been noted by scholars, the development of these movements has indirectly led to a trend amongst some mainstream Muslims to resist \"acknowledging the existence of Muslim saints altogether or ... [to view] their presence and veneration as unacceptable deviations\". However, despite the presence of these opposing streams of thought, the classical doctrine of saint-veneration continues to thrive in many parts of the Islamic world today, playing a vital role in daily expressions of piety among vast segments of Muslim populations in Muslim countries like Pakistan, Egypt, Turkey, Senegal, Iraq, Iran, Algeria, Tunisia, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Morocco, as well as in countries with substantive Islamic populations like India, China, Russia, and the Balkans.\n\nRegarding the rendering of the Arabic \"walī\" by the English \"saint\", prominent scholars such as Gibril Haddad have regarded this as an appropriate translation, with Haddad describing the aversion of some Muslims towards the use of \"saint\" for \"walī\" as \"a specious objection ... for [this is] – like 'Religion' (\"din\"), 'Believer' (\"mu'min\"), 'prayer' (\"salat\"), etc. – [a] generic term for holiness and holy persons while there is no confusion, for Muslims, over their specific referents in Islam, namely: the reality of \"iman\" with Godwariness and those who possess those qualities.\" In Persian, which became the second most influential and widely-spoken language in the Islamic world after Arabic, the general title for a saint or a spiritual master became \"pīr\" (, literally \"old [person]\", \"elder\"). Although the ramifications of this phrase include the connotations of a general \"saint,\" it is often used to specifically signify a spiritual guide of some type.\n\nAmongst Indian Muslims, the title \"peer baba\" (पीर बाबा) is commonly used in Hindi to refer to Sufi masters or similarly honored saints. Additionally, saints are also sometimes referred to in the Persian or Urdu vernacular with \"Hazrat.\" In Islamic mysticism, a \"pīr's\" role is to guide and instruct his disciples on the mystical path. Hence, the key difference between the use of \"walī\" and \"pīr\" is that the former does not imply a saint who is also a spiritual master with disciples, whilst the latter directly does so through its connotations of \"elder.\" Additionally, other Arabic and Persian words that also often have the same connotations as \"pīr\", and hence are also sometimes translated into English as \"saint\", include \"murshid\" (, meaning \"guide\" or \"teacher\"), \"sheikh\" and \"sarkar\" (Persian word meaning \"master\").\n\nIn the Turkish Islamic lands, saints have been referred to by many terms, including the Arabic \"walī\", the Persian \"s̲h̲āh\" and \"pīr\", and Turkish alternatives like \"baba\" in Anatolia, \"ata\" in Central Asia (both meaning \"father\"), as well as \"eren\" or \"ermis̲h̲\" (< ermek \"to reach, attain\") or \"yati̊r\" (\"one who settles down\") in Anatolia. Their tombs, meanwhile, are \"denoted by terms of Arabic or Persian origin alluding to the idea of pilgrimage (\"mazār\", \"ziyāratgāh\"), tomb (\"ḳabr\", \"maḳbar\") or domed mausoleum (\"gunbad\", \"ḳubba\"). But such tombs are also denoted by terms usually used for dervish convents, or a particular part of it (\"tekke\" in the Balkans, \"langar\", 'refectory,' and \"ribāṭ\" in Central Asia), or by a quality of the saint (\"pīr\", 'venerable, respectable,' in Azerbaijan).\"\n\nAccording to various traditional Sufi interpretations of the Quran, the concept of sainthood is clearly described. Some modern scholars, however, assert that the Quran does not \"explicitly\" outline a doctrine or theory of saints. In the Quran, the adjective \"walī\" is applied to God, in the sense of Him being the \"friend\" of all believers (2:257). However, particular Quranic verses were interpreted by early Islamic scholars to refer to a special, exalted group of holy people. These included 10:62: \"Surely God's friends (\"awliyāa l-lahi\"): no fear shall be on them, neither shall they sorrow,\" and 5:54, which refers to God's love for those who love Him. Additionally, some scholars interpreted 4:69, \"Whosoever obeys God and the Messenger, they are with those unto whom God hath shown favor: the prophets and the \"ṣidīqīna\" and the martyrs and the righteous. The best of company are they,\" to carry a reference to holy people who were not prophets and were ranked below the latter. The word \"ṣidīqīna\" in this verse literally connotes \"the truthful ones\" or \"the just ones,\" and was often interpreted by the early Islamic thinkers in the sense of \"saints,\" with the famous Quran translator Marmaduke Pickthall rendering it as \"saints\" in their interpretations of the scripture. Furthermore, the Quran referred to the miracles of saintly people who were not prophets like Khidr (18:65-82) and the People of the Cave (18:7-26), which also led many early scholars to deduce that a group of venerable people must exist who occupy a rank below the prophets but are nevertheless exalted by God. The references in the corpus of hadith literature to \"bona fide\" saints like the pre-Islamic Jurayj̲, only lent further credence to this early understanding of saints.\n\nCollected stories about the \"lives or \"vitae\" of the saints\", began to be compiled \"and transmitted at an early stage\" by many regular Muslim scholars, including Ibn Abi al-Dunya (d. 894), who wrote a work entitled \"Kitāb al-Awliyāʾ\" (\"Lives of the Saints\") in the ninth-century, which constitutes \"the earliest [complete] compilation on the theme of God's friends.\" Prior to Ibn Abi al-Dunya's work, the stories of the saints were transmitted through oral tradition; but after the composition of his work, many Islamic scholars began writing down the widely circulated accounts, with later scholars like Abū Nuʿaym al-Iṣfahānī (d. 948) making extensive use of Ibn Abi al-Dunya's work in his own \"Ḥilyat al-awliyāʾ\" (\"The Adornment of the Saints\"). It is, moreover, evident from the \"Kitāb al-Kas̲h̲f wa ’l-bayān\" of the early Baghdadi Sufi mystic Abu Sa'id al-Kharraz (d. 899) that a cohesive understanding of the Muslim saints was already in existence, with al-Kharraz spending ample space distinguishing between the virtues and miracles (\"karāmāt\") of the prophets and the saints. The genre of hagiography (\"manāḳib\") only became more popular with the passage of time, with numerous prominent Islamic thinkers of the medieval period devoting large works to collecting stories of \"various\" saints or to focusing upon \"the marvelous aspects of the life, the miracles or at least the prodigies of a [specific] Ṣūfī or of a saint believed to have been endowed with miraculous powers.\"\n\nIn the late ninth-century, important thinkers in Sunni Islam officially articulated the previously-oral doctrine of an entire hierarchy of saints, with the first written account of this hierarchy coming from the pen of al-Hakim al-Tirmidhi (d. 907-912). With the general consensus of Islamic scholars of the period accepting that the ulema were responsible for maintaining the \"exoteric\" part of Islamic orthodoxy, including the disciplines of law and jurisprudence, while the Sufis were responsible for articulating the religion's deepest inward truths, later prominent mystics like Ibn Arabi (d. 1240) only further reinforced this idea of a saintly hierarchy, and the notion of \"types\" of saints became a mainstay of Sunni mystical thought, with such types including the \"ṣiddīqūn\" (\"the truthful ones\") and the \"abdāl\" (\"the substitute-saints\"), amongst others. It should be noted, however, that many of these concepts appear in writing far before al-Tirmidhi and Ibn Arabi; the idea of the \"abdāl\", for example, appears as early as the \"Musnad\" of Ibn Hanbal (d. 855), where the word signifies a group of major saints \"whose number would remain constant, one always being replaced by some other on his death.\" It is, in fact, reported that Ibn Hanbal explicitly identified his contemporary, the mystic Maruf Karkhi (d. 815-20), as one of the \"abdal\", saying: \"He is one of the substitute-saints, and his supplication is answered.\"\nFrom the twelfth to the fourteenth century, \"the general veneration of saints, among both people and sovereigns, reached its definitive form with the organization of Sufism—the mysticism of Islam—into orders or brotherhoods.\" In general Islamic piety of the period, the saint was understood to be \"a contemplative whose state of spiritual perfection ... [found] permanent expression in the teaching bequeathed to his disciples.\" It was by virtue of his spiritual wisdom that the saint was accorded veneration in medieval Islam, \"and it is this which ... [effected] his 'canonization,' and not some ecclesiastical institution\" as in Christianity. In fact, the latter point represents one of the crucial differences between the Islamic and Christian veneration of saints, for saints are venerated by unanimous consensus or popular acclaim in Islam, in a manner akin to all those Christian saints who began to be venerated prior to the institution of canonization. In fact, a belief in the existence of saints became such an important part of medieval Islam that many of the most important creeds articulated during the time period, like the famous \"Creed of Tahawi\", explicitly declared it a requirement for being an \"orthodox\" Muslim to believe in the existence and veneration of saints and in the traditional narratives of their lives and miracles. Hence, we find that even medieval critics of the widespread practice of venerating \"the tombs\" of saints, like Ibn Taymiyyah (d. 1328), never denied the existence of saints as such, with the Hanbali jurist stating: \"The miracles of saints are absolutely true and correct, by the acceptance of all Muslim scholars. And the Qur'an has pointed to it in different places, and the sayings of the Prophet have mentioned it, and whoever denies the miraculous power of saints are only people who are innovators and their followers.\" In the words of one contemporary academic, practically all Muslims of that era believed that \"the lives of saints and their miracles were incontestable.\"\n\nIn the modern world, the idea of saints has been challenged by the movements of Salafism and Wahhabism, whose influence has \"formed a front against the veneration and theory of saints.\" For the adherents of Wahhabism, for example, the practice of venerating saints appears as an \"abomination\", for they see in this a form of idolatry. It is for this reason that the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, which adheres to the Wahhabi creed, \"destroyed the tombs of saints wherever ... able\" during its expansion in the Arabian Peninsula from the eighteenth-century onwards. As has been noted by scholars, the development of these movements have indirectly led to a trend amongst some mainstream Muslims to also resist \"acknowledging the existence of Muslim saints altogether or ... [to view] their presence and veneration as unacceptable deviations.\" At the same time, the movement of Islamic Modernism has also opposed the traditional veneration of saints, for many proponents of this ideology regard the practice as \"being both un-Islamic and backwards ... rather than the integral part of Islam which they were for over a millennium.\" Despite the presence, however, of these opposing streams of thought, the classical doctrine of saint-veneration continues to thrive in many parts of the Islamic world today, playing a vital part in the daily piety of vast portions of Muslim countries like Pakistan, Egypt, Turkey, Senegal, Iraq, Iran, Algeria, Tunisia, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Morocco, as well as in countries with substantive Islamic populations like India, China, Russia, and the Balkans.\n\nThe general definition of the Muslim saint in classical texts is that he represents a \"[friend of God] marked by [special] divine favor ... [and] holiness\", being specifically \"chosen by God and endowed with exceptional gifts, such as the ability to work miracles.\" Moreover, the saint is also portrayed in traditional hagiographies as one who \"in some way ... acquires his Friend's, i.e. God's, good qualities, and therefore he possesses particular authority, forces, capacities and abilities.\" Amongst classical scholars, Qushayri (d. 1073) defined the saint as someone \"whose obedience attains permanence without interference of sin; whom God preserves and guards, in permanent fashion, from the failures of sin through the power of acts of obedience.\" Elsewhere, the same author quoted an older tradition in order to convey his understanding of the purpose of saints, which states: \"The saints of God are those who, when they are seen, God is remembered.\"\n\nMeanwhile, al-Hakim al-Tirmidhi (d. 869), the most significant ninth-century expositor of the doctrine, posited six common attributes of true saints (not necessarily applicable to all, according to the author, but nevertheless indicative of a significant portion of them), which are: (1) when people see him, they are automatically reminded of God; (2) anyone who advances towards him in a hostile way is destroyed; (3) he possesses the gift of clairvoyance (\"firāsa\"); (4) he receives divine inspiration (\"ilhām\"), to be strictly distinguished from revelation proper (\"waḥy\"), with the latter being something only the prophets receive; (5) he can work miracles (\"karāmāt\") by the leave of God, which may differ from saint to saint, but may include marvels such as walking on water (\"al-mas̲h̲y ʿalā ’l-māʾ\") and shortening space and time (\"ṭayy al-arḍ\"); and (6) he associates with Khidr. Al-Tirmidhi states, furthermore, that although the saint is not sinless like the prophets, he or she can nevertheless be \"preserved from sin\" (\"maḥfūz\") by the grace of God. The contemporary scholar of Sufism Martin Lings described the Islamic saints as \"the great incarnations of the Islamic ideal... spiritual giants with which almost every generation was blessed.\"\n\nThe doctrine of saints, and of their miracles, seems to have been taken for granted by many of the major authors of the Islamic Golden Age (ca. 700-1400), as well as by many prominent late-medieval scholars. The phenomena in traditional Islam can be at least partly ascribed to the writings of many of the most prominent Sunni theologians and doctors of the classical and medieval periods, many of whom considered the belief in saints to be \"orthodox\" doctrine. Examples of classical testimonies include:\n\n\nThe rationale for veneration of deceased saints by pilgrims in an appeal for blessings (\"Barakah\") even though the saints will not rise from the dead until the Day of Resurrection (\"Yawm ad-Dīn\") may come from the hadith that states “the Prophets are alive in their graves and they pray”. (According to the Islamic concept of Punishment of the Grave -- established by hadith -- the dead are still conscious and active, with the wicked suffering in their graves as a prelude to hell and the pious at ease.) According to Islamic historian Jonathan A.C. Brown, \"saints are thought to be no different\" than prophets, \"as able in death to answer invocations for assistance\" as they were while alive.\n\nSaints were envisaged to be of different \"types\" in classical Islamic tradition. Aside from their earthly differences as regard their temporal duty (i.e. jurist, hadith scholar, judge, traditionist, historian, ascetic, poet), saints were also distinguished cosmologically as regards their celestial function or standing. In Islam, however, the saints are represented in traditional texts as serving separate celestial functions, in a manner similar to the angels, and this is closely linked to the idea of a celestial hierarchy in which the various types of saints play different roles. A fundamental distinction was described in the ninth-century by al-Tirmidhi in his \"Sīrat al-awliyāʾ\" (\"Lives of the Saints\"), who distinguished between two principal varieties of saints: the \"walī ḥaḳḳ Allāh\", on the one hand, and the \"walī Allāh\" on the other. According to the author, \"the [spiritual] ascent of the \"walī ḥaḳḳ Allāh\" must stop at the end of the created cosmos ... he can attain God's proximity, but not God Himself; he is only admitted to God's proximity (\"muḳarrab\"). It is the \"walī Allāh\" who reaches God. Ascent beyond God's throne means to traverse consciously the realms of light of the Divine Names... When the \"walī Allāh\" has traversed all the realms of the Divine Names, i.e. has come to know God in His names as completely as possible, he is then extinguished in God's essence. His soul, his ego, is eliminated and ... when he acts, it is God Who acts through him. And so the state of extinction means at the same time the highest degree of activity in this world.\"\n\nAlthough the doctrine of the hierarchy of saints is already found in written sources as early as the eighth-century, it was al-Tirmidhi who gave it its first systematic articulation.\nAccording to the author, forty major saints, whom he refers to by the various names of \"ṣiddīḳīn\", \"abdāl\", \"umanāʾ\", and \"nuṣaḥāʾ\", were appointed after the death of Muhammad to perpetuate the knowledge of the divine mysteries vouchsafed to them by the prophet. These forty saints, al-Tirmidhi stated, would be replaced in each generation after their earthly death; and, according to him, \"the fact that they exist is a guarantee for the continuing existence of the world.\" Among these forty, al-Tirmidhi specified that seven of them were especially blessed. Despite their exalted nature, however, al-Tirmidhi emphasized that these forty saints occupied a rank below the prophets. Later important works which detailed the hierarchy of saints were composed by the mystic ʿAmmār al-Bidlīsī (d. between 1194 and 1207), the spiritual teacher of Najmuddin Kubra (d. 1220), and by Ruzbihan Baqli (d. 1209), who evidently knew of \"a highly developed hierarchy of God's friends.\" The differences in terminology between the various celestial hierarchies presented by these authors were reconciled by later scholars through their belief that the earlier mystics had highlighted particular parts and different aspects of a single, cohesive hierarchy of saints.\n\nThe amount of veneration a specific saint received varied from region to region in Islamic civilization, often on the basis of the saint's own history in that region. While the veneration of saints played a crucial role in the daily piety of Sunni Muslims all over the Islamic world for more than a thousand years (ca. 800-1800), exactly \"which\" saints were most widely venerated in any given cultural climate depended on the hagiographic traditions of that particular area. Thus, while Moinuddin Chishti (d. 1236), for example, was honored throughout the Sunni world in the medieval period, his \"cultus\" was especially prominent in the Indian Subcontinent, as that is where he was believed to have preached, performed the majority of his miracles, and ultimately settled at the end of his life.\n\nAs has been remarked by scholars, the veneration of saints has played \"an essential role in the religious, and social life of the Maghreb for more or less a millennium,\" in other words since Islam first reached the lands of North Africa in the eighth-century. The first \"written\" references to ascetic Muslim saints in Africa, \"popularly admired and with followings,\" appear in tenth-century hagiographies. As has been noted by scholars, however, \"the phenomenon may well be older,\" for many of the stories of the Islamic saints were passed down orally before finally being put to writing. One of the most widely venerated saints in early North African Islamic history was Abū Yaʿzā (or Yaʿazzā, d. 1177), an illiterate Sunni Maliki miracle worker whose reputation for sanctity was admired even in his own life. Another immensely popular saint of the time-period was Ibn Ḥirzihim (d. 1163), who also gained renown for his personal devoutness and his ability to work miracles. It was Abu Madyan (d. 1197), however, who eventually became one of the \"Awliya Allah\" of the entire Maghreb. A \"spiritual disciple of these two preceding saints,\" Abū Madyan, a prominent Sunni Maliki scholar, was the first figure in Maghrebi Sufism \"to exercise an influence beyond his own region.\" Abū Madyan travelled to the East, where he is said to have met prominent mystics like the renowned Hanbali jurist Abdul-Qadir Gilani (d. 1166). Upon returning to the Maghreb, Abū Madyan stopped at Béjaïa and \"formed a circle of disciples.\" Abū Madyan eventually died in Tlemcen, while making his way to the Almohad court of Marrakesh; he was later venerated as a prime \"Awliya Allah\" of Tlemcen by popular acclaim.\n\nOne of Abū Madyan's most notable disciples was ʿAbd al-Salām Ibn Mas̲h̲īs̲h̲ (d. 1127), a \"saint ... [who] had a posthumous fame through his being recognised as a master and a 'pole' by\" Abu ’l-Ḥasan al-S̲h̲ād̲h̲ilī (d. 1258). It was this last figure who became \"the\" preeminent saint in Maghrebi piety, due to his being the founder of one of the most famous Sunni Sufi orders of North Africa: the Shadhiliyya tariqa. Adhering to the Maliki rite in its jurisprudence, the Shadhili order produced numerous widely honored Sunni saints in the intervening years, including Fāsī Aḥmad al-Zarrūq (d. 1494), who was educated in Egypt but taught in Libya and Morocco, and Abū ʿAbd Allāh Muḥammad al-Jazūlī (d. 1465), \"who returned to Morocco after a long trip to the East and then began a life as a hermit,\" and who achieved widespread renown for the miracles he is said to have wrought by the leave of God. Eventually, the latter was buried in Marrakesh, where he ended up becoming of the city's seven most famous \"Awliya Allah\" for the Sunnis of the area. Some of the most popular and influential Maghrebi saints and mystics of the following centuries were Muḥammad b. Nāṣir (d. 1674), Aḥmad al-Tij̲ānī (d. 1815), Abū Ḥāmid al-ʿArabī al-Darqāwī (d. 1823), and Aḥmad b. ʿAlāwī (d. 1934), with the latter three originating Sufi orders of their own. Famous adherents of the Shadhili order amongst modern Islamic scholars include Abdallah Bin Bayyah (b. 1935), Muhammad Alawi al-Maliki (d. 2004), Hamza Yusuf (b. 1958), and Muhammad al-Yaqoubi (b. 1963).\n\nThe veneration of saints in Maghrebi Sunni Islam has been studied by scholars with regard to the various \"types\" of saints venerated by Sunnis in those areas. These include:\n\n\nRegarding the veneration of saints amongst Sunni Muslims in the Maghreb in the present day, scholars have noted the presence of many \"thousands of minor, local saints whose tombs remain visible in villages or the quarters of towns.\" Although many of these saints lack precise historiographies or hagiographies, \"their presence and their social efficacity ... [are] immense\" in shaping the spiritual life of Muslims in the region. For the vast majority of Muslims in the Maghreb even today, the saints remain \"very much alive at their tomb, to the point that the person's name most often serves to denote the place.\" While this classical type of Sunni veneration represents the most widespread stance in the area, the modern influence of Salafism and Wahhabism have challenged the traditional practice in some quarters.\n\nScholars have noted the tremendously \"important role\" the veneration of saints has historically played in Islamic life all these areas, especially amongst Sunnis who frequent the many thousands of tombs scattered throughout the region for blessings in performing the act of \"ziyāra\". According to scholars, \"between the Turks of the Balkans and Anatolia, and those in Central Asia, despite the distance separating them, the concept of the saint and the organisation of pilgrimages displays no fundamental differences.\" The veneration of saints really spread in the Turkish lands from the tenth to the fourteenth centuries, and played a crucial role in medieval Turkic Sunni piety not only in cosmopolitan cities but also \"in rural areas and amongst nomads of the whole Turkish world.\" One of the reasons proposed by scholars for the popularity of saints in pre-modern Turkey is that Islam was majorly spread by the early Sunni Sufis in the Turkish lands, rather than by purely exoteric teachers. Most of the saints venerated in Turkey belonged to the Hanafi school of Sunni jurisprudence.\n\nAs scholars have noted, saints venerated in traditional Turkish Sunni Islam may be classified into three principal categories:\n\nReverence for Awliya Allah have been an important part of both Sunni and Shia Islamic tradition that particularly important classical saints have served as the heavenly advocates for specific Muslim empires, nations, cities, towns, and villages. With regard to the sheer omnipresence of this belief, the late Martin Lings wrote: \"There is scarcely a region in the empire of Islam which has not a Sufi for its Patron Saint.\" As the veneration accorded saints often develops purely organically in Islamic climates, the \"Awliya Allah\" are often recognized through popular acclaim rather than through official declaration. Traditionally, it has been understood that the \"Wali'Allah\" of a particular place prays for that place's wellbeing and for the health and happiness of all who live therein. Here is a partial list of Muslim \"Awliya Allah\":\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33959", "title": "Witchcraft", "text": "Witchcraft\n\nWitchcraft or witchery broadly means the practice of and belief in magical skills and abilities exercised by solitary practitioners and groups. \"Witchcraft\" is a broad term that varies culturally and societally, and thus can be difficult to define with precision, and cross-cultural assumptions about the meaning or significance of the term should be applied with caution. Witchcraft often occupies a religious divinatory or medicinal role, and is often present within societies and groups whose cultural framework includes a magical world view.\n\nThe concept of witchcraft and the belief in its existence have persisted throughout recorded history. They have been present or central at various times and in many diverse forms among cultures and religions worldwide, including both \"primitive\" and \"highly advanced\" cultures, and continue to have an important role in many cultures today. Scientifically, the existence of magical powers and witchcraft are generally believed to lack credence and to be unsupported by high-quality experimental testing, although individual witchcraft practices and effects may be open to scientific explanation or explained via mentalism and psychology.\n\nHistorically, the predominant concept of witchcraft in the Western world derives from Old Testament laws against witchcraft, and entered the mainstream when belief in witchcraft gained Church approval in the Early Modern Period. It posits a theosophical conflict between good and evil, where witchcraft was generally evil and often associated with the Devil and Devil worship. This culminated in deaths, torture and scapegoating (casting blame for human misfortune), and many years of large scale witch-trials and witch hunts, especially in Protestant Europe, before largely ceasing during the European Age of Enlightenment. Christian views in the modern day are diverse and cover the gamut of views from intense belief and opposition (especially from Christian fundamentalists) to non-belief, and in some churches even approval. From the mid-20th century, witchcraft – sometimes called contemporary witchcraft to clearly distinguish it from older beliefs – became the name of a branch of modern paganism. It is most notably practiced in the Wiccan and modern witchcraft traditions, and no longer practices in secrecy.\n\nThe Western mainstream Christian view is far from the only societal perspective about witchcraft. Many cultures worldwide continue to have widespread practices and cultural beliefs that are loosely translated into English as \"witchcraft\", although the English translation masks a very great diversity in their forms, magical beliefs, practices, and place in their societies. During the Age of Colonialism, many cultures across the globe were exposed to the modern Western world via colonialism, usually accompanied and often preceded by intensive Christian missionary activity \"(see \"Christianization\")\". Beliefs related to witchcraft and magic in these cultures were at times influenced by the prevailing Western concepts. Witch hunts, scapegoating, and killing or shunning of suspected witches still occurs in the modern era, with killings both of victims for their supposedly magical body parts, and of suspected witchcraft practitioners.\n\nSuspicion of modern medicine due to beliefs about illness being due to witchcraft also continues in many countries to this day, with tragic healthcare consequences. HIV/AIDS and Ebola virus disease are two examples of often-lethal infectious disease epidemics whose medical care and containment has been severely hampered by regional beliefs in witchcraft. Other severe medical conditions whose treatment is hampered in this way include tuberculosis, leprosy, epilepsy and the common severe bacterial Buruli ulcer. Public healthcare often requires considerable education work related to epidemology and modern health knowledge in many parts of the world where belief in witchcraft prevails, to encourage effective preventive health measures and treatments, to reduce victim blaming, shunning and stigmatization, and to prevent the killing of people and endangering of animal species for body parts believed to convey magical abilities.\n\nThe word \"witch\" is of uncertain origin. There are numerous etymologies that it could be derived from. One popular belief is that it is \"related to the English words wit, wise, wisdom [Germanic root *weit-, *wait-, *wit-; Indo-European root *weid-, *woid-, *wid-],\" so \"craft of the wise.\" Another is from the Old English wiccecræft, a compound of \"wicce\" (\"witch\") and \"cræft\" (\"craft\").\n\nIn anthropological terminology, witches differ from sorcerers in that they don't use physical tools or actions to curse; their maleficium is perceived as extending from some intangible inner quality, and one may be unaware of being a witch, or may have been convinced of his/her nature by the suggestion of others. This definition was pioneered in a study of central African magical beliefs by E. E. Evans-Pritchard, who cautioned that it might not correspond with normal English usage.\n\nHistorians of European witchcraft have found the anthropological definition difficult to apply to European witchcraft, where witches could equally use (or be accused of using) physical techniques, as well as some who really had attempted to cause harm by thought alone. European witchcraft is seen by historians and anthropologists as an ideology for explaining misfortune; however, this ideology has manifested in diverse ways, as described below.\n\nHistorically the witchcraft label has been applied to practices people believe influence the mind, body, or property of others against their will—or practices that the person doing the labeling believes undermine social or religious order. Some modern commentators believe the malefic nature of witchcraft is a Christian projection. The concept of a magic-worker influencing another person's body or property against their will was clearly present in many cultures, as traditions in both folk magic and religious magic have the purpose of countering malicious magic or identifying malicious magic users. Many examples appear in early texts, such as those from ancient Egypt and Babylonia. Malicious magic users can become a credible cause for disease, sickness in animals, bad luck, sudden death, impotence and other such misfortunes. Witchcraft of a more benign and socially acceptable sort may then be employed to turn the malevolence aside, or identify the supposed evil-doer so that punishment may be carried out. The folk magic used to identify or protect against malicious magic users is often indistinguishable from that used by the witches themselves.\n\nThere has also existed in popular belief the concept of white witches and white witchcraft, which is strictly benevolent. Many neopagan witches strongly identify with this concept, and profess ethical codes that prevent them from performing magic on a person without their request.\n\nWhere belief in malicious magic practices exists, such practitioners are typically forbidden by law as well as hated and feared by the general populace, while beneficial magic is tolerated or even accepted wholesale by the people – even if the orthodox establishment opposes it.\n\nProbably the most widely known characteristic of a witch was the ability to cast a spell, \"spell\" being the word used to signify the means employed to carry out a magical action. A spell could consist of a set of words, a formula or verse, or a ritual action, or any combination of these. Spells traditionally were cast by many methods, such as by the inscription of runes or sigils on an object to give it magical powers; by the immolation or binding of a wax or clay image (poppet) of a person to affect him or her magically; by the recitation of incantations; by the performance of physical rituals; by the employment of magical herbs as amulets or potions; by gazing at mirrors, swords or other specula (scrying) for purposes of divination; and by many other means.\n\nIn Christianity and Islam, sorcery came to be associated with heresy and apostasy and to be viewed as evil. Among the Catholics, Protestants, and secular leadership of the European Late Medieval/Early Modern period, fears about witchcraft rose to fever pitch and sometimes led to large-scale witch-hunts. The key century was the fifteenth, which saw a dramatic rise in awareness and terror of witchcraft, culminating in the publication of the \"Malleus Maleficarum\" but prepared by such fanatical popular preachers as Bernardino of Siena. Throughout this time, it was increasingly believed that Christianity was engaged in an apocalyptic battle against the Devil and his secret army of witches, who had entered into a diabolical pact. In total, tens or hundreds of thousands of people were executed, and others were imprisoned, tortured, banished, and had lands and possessions confiscated. The majority of those accused were women, though in some regions the majority were men. In early modern Scots, the word Warlock came to be used as the male equivalent of witch (which can be male or female, but is used predominantly for females). From this use, the word passed into Romantic literature and ultimately 20th-century popular culture. Accusations of witchcraft were often combined with other charges of heresy against such groups as the Cathars and Waldensians.\n\nThe \"Malleus Maleficarum,\" (Latin for \"Hammer of The Witches\") was a witch-hunting manual written in 1486 by two German monks, Heinrich Kramer and Jacob Sprenger. It was used by both Catholics and Protestants for several hundred years, outlining how to identify a witch, what makes a woman more likely than a man to be a witch, how to put a witch on trial, and how to punish a witch. The book defines a witch as evil and typically female. The book became the handbook for secular courts throughout Renaissance Europe, but was not used by the Inquisition, which even cautioned against relying on the work, and was later officially condemned by the Catholic Church in 1490.\n\nIn the modern Western world, witchcraft accusations have often accompanied the satanic ritual abuse moral panic. Such accusations are a counterpart to blood libel of various kinds, which may be found throughout history across the globe.\n\nThroughout the early modern period, the English term \"witch\" was not exclusively negative in meaning, and could also indicate cunning folk. As Alan McFarlane noted, \"There were a number of interchangeable terms for these practitioners, 'white', 'good', or 'unbinding' witches, blessers, wizards, sorcerers, however 'cunning-man' and 'wise-man' were the most frequent.\" The contemporary Reginald Scot explained, \"At this day it is indifferent to say in the English tongue, 'she is a witch' or 'she is a wise woman'\". Folk magicians throughout Europe were often viewed ambivalently by communities, and were considered as capable of harming as of healing, which could lead to their being accused as \"witches\" in the negative sense. Many English \"witches\" convicted of consorting with demons seem to have been cunning folk whose fairy familiars had been demonised; many French \"devins-guerisseurs\" (\"diviner-healers\") were accused of witchcraft, and over one half the accused witches in Hungary seem to have been healers.\n\nSome of the healers and diviners historically accused of witchcraft have considered themselves mediators between the mundane and spiritual worlds, roughly equivalent to shamans. Such people described their contacts with fairies, spirits often involving out-of-body experiences and travelling through the realms of an \"other-world\".\nBeliefs of this nature are implied in the folklore of much of Europe, and were explicitly described by accused witches in central and southern Europe. Repeated themes include participation in processions of the dead or large feasts, often presided over by a horned male deity or a female divinity who teaches magic and gives prophecies; and participation in battles against evil spirits, \"vampires\", or \"witches\" to win fertility and prosperity for the community.\n\nÉva Pócs states that reasons for accusations of witchcraft fall into four general categories:\n\nShe identifies three varieties of witch in popular belief:\n\"Neighbourhood witches\" are the product of neighbourhood tensions, and are found only in self-sufficient serf village communities where the inhabitants largely rely on each other. Such accusations follow the breaking of some social norm, such as the failure to return a borrowed item, and any person part of the normal social exchange could potentially fall under suspicion. Claims of \"sorcerer\" witches and \"supernatural\" witches could arise out of social tensions, but not exclusively; the supernatural witch in particular often had nothing to do with communal conflict, but expressed tensions between the human and supernatural worlds; and in Eastern and Southeastern Europe such supernatural witches became an ideology explaining calamities that befell entire communities.\n\nBelief in witchcraft continues to be present today in some societies and accusations of witchcraft are the trigger of serious forms of violence, including murder. Such incidents are common in places such as Burkina Faso, Ghana, India, Kenya, Malawi, Nepal and Tanzania. Accusations of witchcraft are sometimes linked to personal disputes, jealousy, and conflicts between neighbors or family over land or inheritance. Witchcraft-related violence is often discussed as a serious issue in the broader context of violence against women.\n\nIn Tanzania, about 500 older women are murdered each year following accusations against them of witchcraft or of being a witch. Apart from extrajudicial violence, there is also state-sanctioned violence in some jurisdictions. For instance, in Saudi Arabia practicing witchcraft and sorcery is a crime punishable by death and the country has executed people for this crime in 2011, 2012 and 2014.\n\nChildren in some regions of the world, such as parts of Africa, are also vulnerable to violence related to witchcraft accusations. Such incidents have also occurred in immigrant communities in the UK, including the much publicized case of the murder of Victoria Climbié.\n\nModern practices identified by their practitioners as \"witchcraft\" have grown dramatically since the early 20th century. Generally portrayed as revivals of pre-Christian European ritual and spirituality, they are understood to involve varying degrees of magic, shamanism, folk medicine, spiritual healing, calling on elementals and spirits, veneration of ancient deities and archetypes, and attunement with the forces of nature.\n\nThe first Neopagan groups to publicly appear, during the 1950s and 60s, were Gerald Gardner's Bricket Wood coven and Roy Bowers' Clan of Tubal Cain. They operated as initiatory secret societies. Other individual practitioners and writers such as Paul Huson also claimed inheritance to surviving traditions of witchcraft.\n\nDuring the 20th century, interest in witchcraft in English-speaking and European countries began to increase, inspired particularly by Margaret Murray's theory of a pan-European witch-cult originally published in 1921, since discredited by further careful historical research. Interest was intensified, however, by Gerald Gardner's claim in 1954 in \"Witchcraft Today\" that a form of witchcraft still existed in England. The truth of Gardner's claim is now disputed too, with different historians offering evidence for or against the religion's existence prior to Gardner.\n\nThe Wicca that Gardner initially taught was a witchcraft religion having a lot in common with Margaret Murray's hypothetically posited cult of the 1920s. Indeed, Murray wrote an introduction to Gardner's \"Witchcraft Today\", in effect putting her stamp of approval on it. Wicca is now practised as a religion of an initiatory secret society nature with positive ethical principles, organised into autonomous covens and led by a High Priesthood. There is also a large \"Eclectic Wiccan\" movement of individuals and groups who share key Wiccan beliefs but have no initiatory connection or affiliation with traditional Wicca. Wiccan writings and ritual show borrowings from a number of sources including 19th and 20th-century ceremonial magic, the medieval grimoire known as the Key of Solomon, Aleister Crowley's Ordo Templi Orientis and pre-Christian religions. Both men and women are equally termed \"witches.\" They practice a form of duotheistic universalism.\n\nSince Gardner's death in 1964, the Wicca that he claimed he was initiated into has attracted many initiates, becoming the largest of the various witchcraft traditions in the Western world, and has influenced other Neopagan and occult movements.\n\nWiccan literature has been described as aiding the empowerment of young women through its lively portrayal of female protagonists. Part of the recent growth in Neo-Pagan religions has been attributed to the strong media presence of fictional works such as the Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Harry Potter series with their depictions of witchcraft. Widespread accessibility to related material through internet media such as chat rooms and forums is also thought to be driving this development. Wiccan beliefs are currently often found to be compatible with liberal ideals such as the Green movement, and particularly with feminism by providing young women with means for empowerment and for control of their own lives. This is the case particularly in North America due to the strong presence of feminist ideals. The 2002 study Enchanted Feminism: The Reclaiming Witches of San Francisco suggests that Wiccan religion represents the second wave of feminism that has also been redefined as a religious movement.\n\nStregheria is an Italian witchcraft religion popularised in the 1980s by Raven Grimassi, who claims that it evolved within the ancient Etruscan religion of Italian peasants who worked under the Catholic upper classes.\n\nModern Stregheria closely resembles Charles Leland's controversial late-19th-century account of a surviving Italian religion of witchcraft, worshipping the Goddess Diana, her brother Dianus/Lucifer, and their daughter Aradia. Leland's witches do not see Lucifer as the evil Satan that Christians see, but a benevolent god of the Sun and Moon).\n\nThe ritual format of contemporary Stregheria is roughly similar to that of other Neopagan witchcraft religions such as Wicca. The pentagram is the most common symbol of religious identity. Most followers celebrate a series of eight festivals equivalent to the Wiccan Wheel of the Year, though others follow the ancient Roman festivals. An emphasis is placed on ancestor worship.\n\nTraditional witchcraft is a term used to refer to a variety of contemporary forms of witchcraft. Pagan studies scholar Ethan Doyle White described it as \"a broad movement of aligned magico-religious groups who reject any relation to Gardnerianism and the wider Wiccan movement, claiming older, more \"traditional\" roots. Although typically united by a shared aesthetic rooted in European folklore, the Traditional Craft contains within its ranks a rich and varied array of occult groups, from those who follow a contemporary Pagan path that is suspiciously similar to Wicca to those who adhere to Luciferianism\". According to British Traditional Witch Michael Howard, the term refers to \"any non-Gardnerian, non-Alexandrian, non-Wiccan or pre-modern form of the Craft, especially if it has been inspired by historical forms of witchcraft and folk magic\". Another definition was offered by Daniel A. Schulke, the current Magister of the Cultus Sabbati, when he proclaimed that \"traditional witchcraft\" \"refers to a coterie of initiatory lineages of ritual magic, spellcraft and devotional mysticism\". Some forms of traditional witchcraft are the Feri Tradition, Cochrane's Craft and the Sabbatic craft.\n\nSatanism is a broad term referring to diverse beliefs that share a symbolic association with, or admiration for, Satan, who is seen as a liberating figure. While it is heir to the same historical period and pre-Enlightenment beliefs that gave rise to modern witchcraft, it is generally seen as completely separate from modern witchcraft and Wicca, and has little or no connection to them.\n\nModern witchcraft considers Satanism to be the \"dark side of Christianity\" rather than a branch of Wicca: – the character of Satan referenced in Satanism exists only in the theology of the three Abrahamic religions, and Satanism arose as, and occupies the role of, a rebellious counterpart to Christianity, in which all is permitted and the self is central. (Christianity can be characterized as having the diametrically opposite views to these.) Such beliefs become more visibly expressed in Europe after the Enlightenment, when works such as Milton's \"Paradise Lost\" were described anew by romantics who suggested that they presented the biblical Satan as an allegory representing crisis of faith, individualism, free will, wisdom and enlightenment; a few works from that time also begin to directly present Satan in a less negative light, such as \"Letters from the Earth\". The two major trends are theistic Satanism and atheistic Satanism; the former venerates Satan as a supernatural patriarchal deity, while the latter views Satan as merely a symbolic embodiment of certain human traits.\n\nOrganized groups began to emerge in the mid 20th century, including the Ophite Cultus Satanas (1948) and The Church of Satan (1966). After seeing Margaret Murray's book \"The God of the Witches\" the leader of Ophite Cultus Satanas, Herbert Arthur Sloane, said he realized that the horned god was Satan (\"Sathanas\"). Sloane also corresponded with his contemporary Gerald Gardner, founder of the Wicca religion, and implied that his views of Satan and the horned god were not necessarily in conflict with Gardner's approach. However, he did believe that, while \"gnosis\" referred to knowledge, and \"Wicca\" referred to wisdom, modern witches had fallen away from the true knowledge, and instead had begun worshipping a fertility god, a reflection of the creator god. He wrote that \"the largest existing body of witches who are true Satanists would be the Yezedees\". Sloane highly recommended the book \"The Gnostic Religion\", and sections of it were sometimes read at ceremonies. It was estimated that there were up to 100,000 Satanists worldwide by 2006, twice the number estimated in 1990. Satanistic beliefs have been largely permitted as a valid expression of religious belief in the West. For example, they were allowed in the British Royal Navy in 2004, and an appeal was considered in 2005 for religious status as a right of prisoners by the Supreme Court of the United States. Contemporary Satanism is mainly an American phenomenon, although it began to reach Eastern Europe in the 1990s around the time of the fall of the Soviet Union.\n\nLuciferianism, on the other hand, is a belief system and does not revere the devil figure or most characteristics typically affixed to Satan. Rather, Lucifer in this context is seen as one of many morning stars, a symbol of enlightenment, independence and human progression. Madeline Montalban was an English witch who adhered to a specific form of luciferianism which revolved around the veneration of Lucifer, or Lumiel, whom she considered to be a benevolent angelic being who had aided humanity's development. Within her Order, she emphasised that her followers discover their own personal relationship with the angelic beings, including Lumiel. Although initially seeming favourable to Gerald Gardner, by the mid-1960s she had become hostile towards him and his Gardnerian tradition, considering him to be \"a 'dirty old man' and sexual pervert.\" She also expressed hostility to another prominent Pagan Witch of the period, Charles Cardell, although in the 1960s became friends with the two Witches at the forefront of the Alexandrian Wiccan tradition, Alex Sanders and his wife, Maxine Sanders, who adopted some of her Luciferian angelic practices. In contemporary times luciferian witches exist within traditional witchcraft.\n\nThe belief in sorcery and its practice seem to have been widespread in the Ancient Near East and Nile Valley. It played a conspicuous role in the cultures of ancient Egypt and in Babylonia. The latter tradition included an Akkadian anti-witchcraft ritual, the Maqlû. A section from the Code of Hammurabi (about 2000 B.C.) prescribes:\n\nAccording to the New Advent Catholic Encyclopedia: \n\nThe King James Version uses the words \"witch\", \"witchcraft\", and \"witchcrafts\" to translate the Masoretic \"kāsháf\" () and (\"qésem\"); these same English terms are used to translate \"pharmakeia\" in the Greek New Testament. Verses such as and (\"Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live\") thus provided scriptural justification for Christian witch hunters in the early modern period (see Christian views on magic).\n\nThe precise meaning of the Hebrew , usually translated as \"witch\" or \"sorceress\", is uncertain. In the Septuagint, it was translated as \"pharmakeía\" or \"pharmakous\". In the 16th century, Reginald Scot, a prominent critic of the witch trials, translated , φαρμακεία, and the Vulgate's Latin equivalent \"veneficos\" as all meaning \"poisoner\", and on this basis, claimed that \"witch\" was an incorrect translation and poisoners were intended. His theory still holds some currency, but is not widely accepted, and in is listed alongside other magic practitioners who could interpret dreams: magicians, astrologers, and Chaldeans. Suggested derivations of include \"mutterer\" (from a single root) or \"herb user\" (as a compound word formed from the roots \"kash\", meaning \"herb\", and \"hapaleh\", meaning \"using\"). The Greek φαρμακεία literally means \"herbalist\" or one who uses or administers drugs, but it was used virtually synonymously with \"mageia\" and \"goeteia\" as a term for a sorcerer.\n\nThe Bible provides some evidence that these commandments against sorcery were enforced under the Hebrew kings:\nNote that the Hebrew word \"ob\", translated as \"familiar spirit\" in the above quotation, has a different meaning than the usual English sense of the phrase; namely, it refers to a spirit that the woman is familiar with, rather than to a spirit that physically manifests itself in the shape of an animal.\n\nThe New Testament condemns the practice as an abomination, just as the Old Testament had (Galatians 5:20, compared with Revelation 21:8; 22:15; and Acts 8:9; 13:6). The word in most New Testament translations is \"sorcerer\"/\"sorcery\" rather than \"witch\"/\"witchcraft\".\n\nJewish law views the practice of witchcraft as being laden with idolatry and/or necromancy; both being serious theological and practical offenses in Judaism. Although Maimonides vigorously denied the efficacy of all methods of witchcraft, and claimed that the Biblical prohibitions regarding it were precisely to wean the Israelites from practices related to idolatry. It is acknowledged that while magic exists, it is forbidden to practice it on the basis that it usually involves the worship of other gods. Rabbis of the Talmud also condemned magic when it produced something other than illusion, giving the example of two men who use magic to pick cucumbers (Sanhedrin 67a). The one who creates the illusion of picking cucumbers should not be condemned, only the one who actually picks the cucumbers through magic.\n\nHowever, some of the rabbis practiced \"magic\" themselves or taught the subject. For instance, Rabbah created a person and sent him to Rav Zeira, and Hanina and Hoshaiah studied every Friday together and created a small calf to eat on Shabbat (Sanhedrin 67b). In these cases, the \"magic\" was seen more as divine miracles (i.e., coming from God rather than \"unclean\" forces) than as witchcraft.\n\nJudaism does make it clear that Jews shall not try to learn about the ways of witches (Book of Deuteronomy 18: 9–10) and that witches are to be put to death (Exodus 22:17).\n\nJudaism's most famous reference to a medium is undoubtedly the Witch of Endor whom Saul consults, as recounted in 1 Samuel 28.\n\nDivination, and magic in Islam, encompass a wide range of practices, including black magic, warding off the evil eye, the production of amulets and other magical equipment, evocation, casting lots, and astrology. Muslims do commonly believe in magic (\"sihr\") and explicitly forbid its practice. \"Sihr\" translates from Arabic as sorcery or black magic. The best known reference to magic in Islam is surah al-Falaq of the Qur'an, which is known as a prayer to God to ward off black magic:\nAlso according to the Qur'an:\nIslam distinguishes between God-given gifts, which can heal sickness, and possession, and sorcery. Good supernatural powers are therefore a \"special gift from God\", whereas sorcery or black magic is achieved through help of jinn and demons. In the Qurʾānic narrative, the Prophet Sulayman had the power to speak with animals and command jinn, and he thanks God for this نعمة (i.e. gift, privilege, favour, bounty), which is only given to him with God’s permission. The Prophet Muhammad was accused of being a magician by his opponents.\n\nIt is a common belief that jinn can possess a human, thus requiring exorcism (\"ruqya\") derived from the Prophet's \"sunnah\" to cast off the jinn or devils from the body of the possessed. The practice of seeking help from the jinn is prohibited and can lead to possession. The \"ruqya\" contains verses of the Qur'an as well as prayers specifically targeted against demons. The knowledge of which verses of the Qur'an to use in what way is what is considered \"magic knowledge.\"\n\nA \"hadith\" recorded in states: \"Seventy thousand people of my followers will enter Paradise without accounts, and they are those who do not practice Ar-Ruqya and do not see an evil omen in things, and put their trust in their Lord.\" Ibn Qayyim al-Jawziyya, a scholar, commented on this \"hadith\", stating: That is because these people will enter Paradise without being called to account because of the perfection of their Tawheed, therefore he described them as people who did not ask others to perform ruqyah for them. Hence he said \"and they put their trust in their Lord.\" Because of their complete trust in their Lord, their contentment with Him, their faith in Him, their being pleased with Him and their seeking their needs from Him, they do not ask people for anything, be it ruqyah or anything else, and they are not influenced by omens and superstitions that could prevent them from doing what they want to do, because superstition detracts from and weakens Tawheed\".\n\nIbn al-Nadim hold, exorcists gain their power by their obedience to God, while sorcerers please the demons by acts of disobedience and sacrifices and they in return do him a favor. Being pious and strictly following the teachings of the Qur'an can increase the probability to perform magic or miracles, that is distinguished from witchcraft, the latter practised in aid with demons.\n\nA \"hadith\" recorded in narrates that one who has eaten seven Ajwa dates in the morning will not be adversely affected by magic in the course of that day.\n\nStudents of the history of religion have linked several magical practises in Islam with pre-Islamic Turkish and East African customs. Most notable of these customs is the Zār.\n\nIn Southern African traditions, there are three classifications of somebody who uses magic. The \"tagati\" is usually improperly translated into English as \"witch\", and is a spiteful person who operates in secret to harm others. The \"sangoma\" is a diviner, somewhere on a par with a fortune teller, and is employed in detecting illness, predicting a person's future (or advising them on which path to take), or identifying the guilty party in a crime. She also practices some degree of medicine. The \"inyanga\" is often translated as \"witch doctor\" (though many Southern Africans resent this implication, as it perpetuates the mistaken belief that a \"witch doctor\" is in some sense a \"practitioner\" of malicious magic). The \"inyanga\"s job is to heal illness and injury and provide customers with magical items for everyday use. Of these three categories the \"tagati\" is almost exclusively female, the \"sangoma\" is usually female, and the \"inyanga\" is almost exclusively male.\n\nMuch of what witchcraft represents in Africa has been susceptible to misunderstandings and confusion, thanks in no small part to a tendency among western scholars since the time of the now largely discredited Margaret Murray to approach the subject through a comparative lens vis-a-vis European witchcraft. Okeja argues that witchcraft in Africa today plays a very different social role than in Europe of the past—or present—and should be understood through an African rather than post-colonial Western lens.\n\nComplimentary remarks about witchcraft by a native Congolese initiate: \"From witchcraft ... may be developed the remedy (\"kimbuki\") that will do most to raise up our country.\" \"Witchcraft ... deserves respect ... it can embellish or redeem (\"ketula evo vuukisa\").\" \"The ancestors were equipped with the protective witchcraft of the clan (\"kindoki kiandundila kanda\"). ... They could also gather the power of animals into their hands ... whenever they needed. ... If we could make use of these kinds of witchcraft, our country would rapidly progress in knowledge of every kind.\" \"You witches (\"zindoki\") too, bring your science into the light to be written down so that ... the benefits in it ... endow our race.\"\n\nIn eastern Cameroon, the term used for witchcraft among the Maka is \"djambe\" and refers to a force inside a person; its powers may make the proprietor more vulnerable. It encompasses the occult, the transformative, killing and healing.\n\nIn some Central African areas, malicious magic users are believed by locals to be the source of terminal illness such as AIDS and cancer. In such cases, various methods are used to rid the person from the bewitching spirit, occasionally physical and psychological abuse. Children may be accused of being witches, for example a young niece may be blamed for the illness of a relative. Most of these cases of abuse go unreported since the members of the society that witness such abuse are too afraid of being accused of being accomplices. It is also believed that witchcraft can be transmitted to children by feeding. Parents discourage their children from interacting with people believed to be witches.\n\nEvery year, hundreds of people in the Central African Republic are convicted of witchcraft.\n\nChristian militias in the Central African Republic have also kidnapped, burnt and buried alive women accused of being 'witches' in public ceremonies.\n\n, between 25,000 and 50,000 children in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo, had been accused of witchcraft and thrown out of their homes. These children have been subjected to often-violent abuse during exorcisms, sometimes supervised by self-styled religious pastors. Other pastors and Christian activists strongly oppose such accusations and try to rescue children from their unscrupulous colleagues. The usual term for these children is \"enfants sorciers\" (child witches) or \"enfants dits sorciers\" (children accused of witchcraft). In 2002, USAID funded the production of two short films on the subject, made in Kinshasa by journalists Angela Nicoara and Mike Ormsby.\n\nIn April 2008, in Kinshasa, the police arrested 14 suspected victims (of penis snatching) and sorcerers accused of using black magic or witchcraft to steal (make disappear) or shrink men's penises to extort cash for cure, amid a wave of panic.\n\nAccording to one study, the belief in magical warfare technologies (such as \"bulletproofing\") in the Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo serves a group-level function, as it increases group efficiency in warfare, even if it is suboptimal at the individual level. The authors of the study argue that this is one reason why the belief in witchcraft persists.\n\nIn Ghana, women are often accused of witchcraft and attacked by neighbours. Because of this, there exist six witch camps in the country where women suspected of being witches can flee for safety. The witch camps, which exist solely in Ghana, are thought to house a total of around 1000 women. Some of the camps are thought to have been set up over 100 years ago. The Ghanaian government has announced that it intends to close the camps.\n\nArrests were made in an effort to avoid bloodshed seen in Ghana a decade ago, when 12 alleged penis snatchers were beaten to death by mobs. While it is easy for modern people to dismiss such reports, Uchenna Okeja argues that a belief system in which such magical practices are deemed possible offer many benefits to Africans who hold them. For example, the belief that a sorcerer has \"stolen\" a man's penis functions as an anxiety-reduction mechanism for men suffering from impotence while simultaneously providing an explanation that is consistent with African cultural beliefs rather than appealing to Western scientific notions that are tainted by the history of colonialism (at least for many Africans).\n\nIt was reported on May 21, 2008 that in Kenya, a mob had burnt to death at least 11 people accused of witchcraft.\n\nIn Malawi it is also common practice to accuse children of witchcraft and many children have been abandoned, abused and even killed as a result. As in other African countries both African traditional healers and their Christian counterparts are trying to make a living out of exorcising children and are actively involved in pointing out children as witches. Various secular and Christian organizations are combining their efforts to address this problem.\n\nAccording to William Kamkwamba, witches and wizards are afraid of money, which they consider a rival evil. Any contact with cash will snap their spell and leave the wizard naked and confused. So placing cash, such as kwacha around a room or bed mat will protect the resident from their malevolent spells.\n\nIn Nigeria, several Pentecostal pastors have mixed their evangelical brand of Christianity with African beliefs in witchcraft to benefit from the lucrative witch finding and exorcism business—which in the past was the exclusive domain of the so-called witch doctor or traditional healers. These pastors have been involved in the torturing and even killing of children accused of witchcraft. Over the past decade, around 15,000 children have been accused, and around 1,000 murdered. Churches are very numerous in Nigeria, and competition for congregations is hard. Some pastors attempt to establish a reputation for spiritual power by \"detecting\" child witches, usually following a death or loss of a job within a family, or an accusation of financial fraud against the pastor. In the course of \"exorcisms\", accused children may be starved, beaten, mutilated, set on fire, forced to consume acid or cement, or buried alive. While some church leaders and Christian activists have spoken out strongly against these abuses, many Nigerian churches are involved in the abuse, although church administrations deny knowledge of it.\n\nAmong the Mende (of Sierra Leone), trial and conviction for witchcraft has a beneficial effect for those convicted. \"The witchfinder had warned the whole village to ensure the relative prosperity of the accused and sentenced ... old people. ... Six months later all of the people ... accused, were secure, well-fed and arguably happier than at any [previous] time; they had hardly to beckon and people would come with food or whatever was needful. ... Instead of such old and widowed people being left helpless or (as in Western society) institutionalized in old people's homes, these were reintegrated into society and left secure in their old age ... . ... Old people are 'suitable' candidates for this kind of accusation in the sense that they are isolated and vulnerable, and they are 'suitable' candidates for 'social security' for precisely the same reasons.\"\n\nIn Kuranko language, the term for witchcraft is \"suwa'ye\" referring to \"extraordinary powers\".\n\nIn Tanzania in 2008, President Kikwete publicly condemned witchdoctors for killing albinos for their body parts, which are thought to bring good luck. 25 albinos have been murdered since March 2007. In Tanzania, albinos are often murdered for their body parts on the advice of witch doctors in order to produce powerful amulets that are believed to protect against witchcraft and make the owner prosper in life.\n\nBrua is an Afro-Caribbean religion and healing tradition that originates in Aruba, Bonaire, and Curaçao, in the Dutch Caribbean. A healer in this culture is called a \"kurioso\" or \"kuradó\", a man or woman who performs \"trabou chikí\" (little works) and \"trabou grandi\" (large treatments) to promote or restore health, bring fortune or misfortune, deal with unrequited love, and more serious concerns, in which sorcery is involved. Sorcery usually involves reference to the \"almasola\" or \"homber chiki\", a devil-like entity. \"Transcultural Psychiatry\" published a paper called \"Traditional healing practices originating in Aruba, Bonaire, and Curaçao: A review of the literature on psychiatry and Brua\" by Jan Dirk Blom, Igmar T. Poulina, Trevor L. van Gellecum and Hans W. Hoek of the Parnassia Psychiatric Institute.\n\nIn 1645, Springfield, Massachusetts, experienced America's first accusations of witchcraft when husband and wife Hugh and Mary Parsons accused each other of witchcraft. At America's first witch trial, Hugh was found innocent, while Mary was acquitted of witchcraft but sentenced to be hanged for the death of her child. She died in prison. From 1645–1663, about eighty people throughout England's Massachusetts Bay Colony were accused of practicing witchcraft. Thirteen women and two men were executed in a witch-hunt that lasted throughout New England from 1645–1663.\n\nThe Salem witch trials followed in 1692–93. These witch trials were the most famous in British North America and took place in the coastal settlements near Salem, Massachusetts. Prior to the witch trials, nearly 300 men and women had been suspected of partaking in witchcraft, and 19 of these people were hanged, and one was “pressed to death”. The Salem witch trials were a series of hearings before local magistrates followed by county court trials to prosecute people accused of witchcraft in Essex, Suffolk and Middlesex Counties of colonial Massachusetts, between February 1692 and May 1693. Over 150 people were arrested and imprisoned, with even more accused who were not formally pursued by the authorities. The two courts convicted 29 people of the capital felony of witchcraft. Nineteen of the accused, 14 women and 5 men, were hanged. One man who refused to enter a plea was crushed to death under heavy stones in an attempt to force him to do so. At least five more of the accused died in prison.\n\nDespite being generally known as the \"Salem\" witch trials, the preliminary hearings in 1692 were conducted in a variety of towns across the province: Salem Village (now Danvers), Salem Town, Ipswich, and Andover. The best known trials were conducted by the Court of Oyer and Terminer in 1692 in Salem Town. All 26 who went to trial before this court were convicted. The four sessions of the Superior Court of Judicature in 1693, held in Salem Town, but also in Ipswich, Boston, and Charlestown, produced only 3 convictions in the 31 witchcraft trials it conducted. Likewise, alleged witchcraft was not isolated to New England. In 1706 Grace Sherwood the \"Witch of Pungo\" was imprisoned for the crime in Princess Anne County, Virginia.\n\nIn Maryland, there is a legend of Moll Dyer, who escaped a fire set by fellow colonists only to die of exposure in December 1697. The historical record of Dyer is scant as all official records were burned in a courthouse fire, though the county courthouse has on display the rock where her frozen body was found. A letter from a colonist of the period describes her in most unfavourable terms. A local road is named after Dyer, where her homestead was said to have been. Many local families have their own version of the Moll Dyer affair, and her name is spoken with care in the rural southern counties.\n\nAccusations of witchcraft and wizardry led to the prosecution of a man in Tennessee as recently as 1833. \"The Crucible\" by Arthur Miller is a dramatized and partially fictionalized story of the Salem witch trials that took place in the Massachusetts Bay Colony during 1692–93.\n\nIn Diné culture, witches are seen as the polar opposite of ceremonial people. While spiritual leaders perform \"sings\" for healing, protection and other beneficial purposes, all practices referred to as \"witchcraft\" are intended to hurt and curse. Witches are associated with harm to the community and transgression of societal standards, especially those relating to family and the dead.\n\nThe \"yee naaldlooshii\" is the type of witch known in English as a \"skin-walker\". They are believed to take the forms of animals in order to travel in secret and do harm to the innocent. In the Navajo language, ' translates to \"with it, he goes on all fours\". While perhaps the most common variety seen in horror fiction by non-Navajo people, the ' is one of several varieties of Navajo witch, specifically a type of \"\".\n\nCorpse powder or corpse poison (, literally \"witchery\" or \"harming\") is a substance made from powdered corpses. The powder is used by witches to curse their victims. The effect of the \"\" is a curse and disease, usually indicated by an immediate action to administration of the poison, like fainting, swelling of the tongue, or lockjaw. Sometimes, however, the victims simply wastes away, as from a normal disease.\n\nTraditional Navajos usually hesitate to discuss things like witches and witchcraft with non-Navajos.\n\nWitchcraft was also an important part of the social and cultural history of late-Colonial Mexico, during the Mexican Inquisition. Spanish Inquisitors viewed witchcraft as a problem that could be cured simply through confession. Yet, as anthropologist Ruth Behar writes, witchcraft, not only in Mexico but in Latin America in general, was a \"conjecture of sexuality, witchcraft, and religion, in which Spanish, indigenous, and African cultures converged.\" Furthermore, witchcraft in Mexico generally required an interethnic and interclass network of witches. Yet, according to anthropology professor Laura Lewis, witchcraft in colonial Mexico ultimately represented an \"affirmation of hegemony\" for women, Indians, and especially Indian women over their white male counterparts as a result of the casta system.\n\nIn modern history, notoriety has been awarded to a place called Catemaco, in the state of Veracruz, which has a history of witchcraft, and where the practice of witchcraft by contemporary \"brujos\" and \"brujas\" thrives.\n\nIn Mexico City, people who practice brujería, Santería, voodoo, ocultism and magic may find items, herbs and supplies at the \"mercado de Sonora\".\n\nIn Chile there is a tradition of the Kalku in Mapuche religion; and the Warlocks of Chiloé in the folklore and Chilote mythology.\n\nThe presence of the witch is a constant in the ethnographic history of colonial Brazil, especially during the several denunciations and confessions given to the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith of Bahia (1591–1593), Pernambuco and Paraíba (1593–1595).\n\nBelief in the supernatural is strong in all parts of India, and lynchings for witchcraft are reported in the press from time to time. Around 750 people were killed as witches in Assam and West Bengal between 2003 and 2008. Officials in the state of Chhattisgarh reported in 2008 that at least 100 women are maltreated annually as suspected witches. A local activist stated that only a fraction of cases of abuse are reported. In Indian mythology, a common perception of a witch is a being with her feet pointed backwards.\n\nApart from other types of Violence against women in Nepal, the malpractice of abusing women in the name of witchcraft is also really prominent. According to the statistics in 2013, there was a total of 69 reported cases of abuse to women due to accusation of performing witchcraft. The perpetrators of this malpractice are usually neighbors, so-called witch doctors and family members. The main causes of these malpractices are lack of education, lack of awareness and superstition. According to the statistics by INSEC, the age group of women who fall victims to the witchcraft violence in Nepal is 20–40.\n\nIn Japanese folklore, the most common types of witch can be separated into two categories: those who employ snakes as familiars, and those who employ foxes.\n\nThe fox witch is, by far, the most commonly seen witch figure in Japan. Differing regional beliefs set those who use foxes into two separate types: the \"kitsune-mochi\", and the \"tsukimono-suji\". The first of these, the \"kitsune-mochi\", is a solitary figure who gains his fox familiar by bribing it with its favourite foods. The \"kitsune-mochi\" then strikes up a deal with the fox, typically promising food and daily care in return for the fox's magical services. The fox of Japanese folklore is a powerful trickster in and of itself, imbued with powers of shape changing, possession, and illusion. These creatures can be either nefarious; disguising themselves as women in order to trap men, or they can be benign forces as in the story of \"The Grateful foxes\". However, once a fox enters the employ of a human it almost exclusively becomes a force of evil to be feared. A fox under the employ of a human can provide many services. The fox can turn invisible and find secrets its master desires. It can apply its many powers of illusion to trick and deceive its master's enemies. The most feared power of the \"kitsune-mochi\" is the ability to command his fox to possess other humans. This process of possession is called Kitsunetsuki.\n\nBy far, the most commonly reported cases of fox witchcraft in modern Japan are enacted by \"tsukimono-suji\" families, or \"hereditary witches\". The \"Tsukimono-suji\" is traditionally a family who is reported to have foxes under their employ. These foxes serve the family and are passed down through the generations, typically through the female line. \"Tsukimono-suji\" foxes are able to supply much in the way of the same mystical aid that the foxes under the employ of a \"kitsune-mochi\" can provide its more solitary master with. In addition to these powers, if the foxes are kept happy and well taken care of, they bring great fortune and prosperity to the \"Tsukimono-suji\" house. However, the aid in which these foxes give is often overshadowed by the social and mystical implications of being a member of such a family. In many villages, the status of local families as \"tsukimono-suji\" is often common, everyday knowledge. Such families are respected and feared, but are also openly shunned. Due to its hereditary nature, the status of being \"Tsukimono-suji\" is considered contagious. Because of this, it is often impossible for members of such a family to sell land or other properties, due to fear that the possession of such items will cause foxes to inundate one's own home. In addition to this, because the foxes are believed to be passed down through the female line, it is often nearly impossible for women of such families to find a husband whose family will agree to have him married to a \"tsukimono-suji\" family. In such a union the woman's status as a \"Tsukimono-suji\" would transfer to any man who married her.\n\nWitchcraft in the Philippines is often classified as malevolent, with practitioners of black magic called \"Mangkukulam\" in Tagalog and \"Mambabarang\" in Cebuano; there are also practitioners of benevolent, white magic, in addition to some who practise both. \"Mambabarang\" in particular are noted for their ability to command insects and other invertebrates to accomplish a task, such as delivering a curse to a target.\n\nMagic and witchcraft in the Philippines varies considerably across the different ethnic groups, and is commonly a modern manifestation of pre-Colonial spirituality interwoven with Catholic religious elements such as the invocation of saints and the use of pseudo-Latin prayers (\"oración\") in spells, and \"anting-anting\" (amulets).\n\nPractitioners of traditional herbal-based medicine and divination called \"albularyo\" are not considered witches. They are perceived to be either quack doctors or a quasi-magical option when western medicine fails to identify or cure an ailment that is thus suspected to be of supernatural, often malevolent, origin. Feng shui, an influence of Filipino Chinese culture, is also not classified as witchcraft as it is considered a separate realm of belief altogether.\n\nSaudi Arabia continues to use the death penalty for sorcery and witchcraft. In 2006 Fawza Falih Muhammad Ali was condemned to death for practicing witchcraft. There is no legal definition of sorcery in Saudi, but in 2007 an Egyptian pharmacist working there was accused, convicted, and executed. Saudi authorities also pronounced the death penalty on a Lebanese television presenter, Ali Hussain Sibat, while he was performing the \"hajj\" (Islamic pilgrimage) in the country.\n\nIn 2009 the Saudi authorities set up the Anti-Witchcraft Unit of their Committee for the Promotion of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice police.\n\nIn April 2009, a Saudi woman Amina Bint Abdulhalim Nassar was arrested and later sentenced to death for practicing witchcraft and sorcery. In December 2011, she was beheaded. A Saudi man has been beheaded on charges of sorcery and witchcraft in June 2012. A beheading for sorcery occurred in 2014.\n\nIn June 2015, Yahoo reported: \"The Islamic State group has beheaded two women in Syria on accusations of \"sorcery,\" the first such executions of female civilians in Syria, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said Tuesday.\"\nISIS decapitated a man in Iraq over sorcery.\n\nAn expedition sent to what is now the Xinjiang region of western China by the PBS documentary series \"Nova\" found a fully clothed female Tocharian mummy wearing a black conical hat of the type now associated with witches in Europe in the storage area of a small local museum, indicative of an Indo-European priestess.\n\nWitchcraft in Europe between 500–1750 was believed to be a combination of sorcery and heresy. While sorcery attempts to produce negative supernatural effects through formulas and rituals, heresy is the Christian contribution to witchcraft in which an individual makes a pact with the Devil. In addition, heresy denies witches the recognition of important Christian values such as baptism, salvation, Christ and sacraments. The beginning of the witch accusations in Europe took place in the 14th and 15th centuries; however as the social disruptions of the 16th century took place, witchcraft trials intensified. \nIn Early Modern European tradition, witches were stereotypically, though not exclusively, women. European pagan belief in witchcraft was associated with the goddess Diana and dismissed as \"diabolical fantasies\" by medieval Christian authors. Witch-hunts first appeared in large numbers in southern France and Switzerland during the 14th and 15th centuries. The peak years of witch-hunts in southwest Germany were from 1561 to 1670.\n\nIt was commonly believed that individuals with power and prestige were involved in acts of witchcraft and even cannibalism. Because Europe had a lot of power over individuals living in West Africa, Europeans in positions of power were often accused of taking part in these practices. Though it is not likely that these individuals were actually involved in these practices, they were most likely associated due to Europe’s involvement in things like the slave trade, which negatively affected the lives of many individuals in the Atlantic World throughout the fifteenth through seventeenth centuries.\n\nThe familiar witch of folklore and popular superstition is a combination of numerous influences. The characterization of the witch as an evil magic user developed over time.\n\nEarly converts to Christianity looked to Christian clergy to work magic more effectively than the old methods under Roman paganism, and Christianity provided a methodology involving saints and relics, similar to the gods and amulets of the Pagan world. As Christianity became the dominant religion in Europe, its concern with magic lessened.\n\nThe Protestant Christian explanation for witchcraft, such as those typified in the confessions of the Pendle witches, commonly involves a diabolical pact or at least an appeal to the intervention of the spirits of evil. The witches or wizards engaged in such practices were alleged to reject Jesus and the sacraments; observe \"the witches' sabbath\" (performing infernal rites that often parodied the Mass or other sacraments of the Church); pay Divine honour to the Prince of Darkness; and, in return, receive from him preternatural powers. It was a folkloric belief that a Devil's Mark, like the brand on cattle, was placed upon a witch's skin by the devil to signify that this pact had been made. Witches were most often characterized as women. Witches disrupted the societal institutions, and more specifically, marriage. It was believed that a witch often joined a pact with the devil to gain powers to deal with infertility, immense fear for her children's well-being, or revenge against a lover. They were also depicted as lustful and perverted, and it was thought that they copulated with the devil at the Sabbath.\n\nThe Church and European society were not always so zealous in hunting witches or blaming them for misfortunes. Saint Boniface declared in the 8th century that belief in the existence of witches was un-Christian. The emperor Charlemagne decreed that the burning of supposed witches was a pagan custom that would be punished by the death penalty. In 820 the Bishop of Lyon and others repudiated the belief that witches could make bad weather, fly in the night, and change their shape. This denial was accepted into Canon law . Other rulers such as King Coloman of Hungary declared that witch-hunts should cease because witches (more specifically, strigas) do not exist.\n\nThe Church did not invent the idea of witchcraft as a potentially harmful force whose practitioners should be put to death. This idea is commonplace in pre-Christian religions. According to the scholar Max Dashu, the concept of medieval witchcraft contained many of its elements even before the emergence of Christianity. These can be found in Bacchanalias, especially in the time when they were led by priestess Paculla Annia (188BC–186BC).\n\nPowers typically attributed to European witches include turning food poisonous or inedible, flying on broomsticks or pitchforks, casting spells, cursing people, making livestock ill and crops fail, and creating fear and local chaos.\n\nHowever, even at a later date, not all witches were assumed to be harmful practicers of the craft. In England, the provision of this curative magic was the job of a witch doctor, also known as a cunning man, white witch, or wise man. The term \"witch doctor\" was in use in England before it came to be associated with Africa. Toad doctors were also credited with the ability to undo evil witchcraft. (Other folk magicians had their own purviews. Girdle-measurers specialised in diagnosing ailments caused by fairies, while magical cures for more mundane ailments, such as burns or toothache, could be had from charmers.)\n\nHistorians Keith Thomas and his student Alan Macfarlane study witchcraft by combining historical research with concepts drawn from anthropology. They argued that English witchcraft, like African witchcraft, was endemic rather than epidemic. Older women were the favorite targets because they were marginal, dependent members of the community and therefore more likely to arouse feelings of both hostility and guilt, and less likely to have defenders of importance inside the community. Witchcraft accusations were the village's reaction to the breakdown of its internal community, coupled with the emergence of a newer set of values that was generating psychic stress.\nIn Wales, fear of witchcraft mounted around the year 1500. There was a growing alarm of women's magic as a weapon aimed against the state and church. The Church made greater efforts to enforce the canon law of marriage, especially in Wales where tradition allowed a wider range of sexual partnerships. There was a political dimension as well, as accusations of witchcraft were levied against the enemies of Henry VII, who was exerting more and more control over Wales.\n\nThe records of the Courts of Great Sessions for Wales, 1536–1736 show that Welsh custom was more important than English law. Custom provided a framework of responding to witches and witchcraft in such a way that interpersonal and communal harmony was maintained, Showing to regard to the importance of honour, social place and cultural status. Even when found guilty, execution did not occur.\n\nBecoming king in 1603, James I Brought to England and Scotland continental explanations of witchcraft. His goal was to divert suspicion away from male homosociality among the elite, and focus fear on female communities and large gatherings of women. He thought they threatened his political power so he laid the foundation for witchcraft and occultism policies, especially in Scotland. The point was that a widespread belief in the conspiracy of witches and a witches' Sabbath with the devil deprived women of political influence. Occult power was supposedly a womanly trait because women were weaker and more susceptible to the devil.\n\nIn 1944 Helen Duncan was the last person in Britain to be imprisoned for fraudulently claiming to be a witch.\n\nIn the United Kingdom children believed to be witches or seen as possessed by evil spirits can be subject to severe beatings, traumatic exorcism, and/or other abuse. There have even been child murders associated with witchcraft beliefs. The problem is particularly serious among immigrant or former immigrant communities of African origin but other communities, such as those of Asian origin are also involved. Step children and children seen as different for a wide range of reasons are particularly at risk of witchcraft accusations. Children may be beaten or have chilli rubbed into their eyes during exorcisms. This type of abuse is frequently hidden and can include torture. A 2006 recommendation to record abuse cases linked to witchcraft centrally has not yet been implemented. Lack of awareness among social workers, teachers and other professionals dealing with at risk children hinders efforts to combat the problem.\n\nThere is a 'money making scam' involved. Pastors accuse a child of being a witch and later the family pays for exorcism. If a child at school says that his/her pastor called the child a witch that should become a child safeguarding issue.\n\nAs in most European countries, women in Italy were more likely suspected of witchcraft than men. Women were considered dangerous due to their supposed sexual instability, such as when being aroused, and also due to the powers of their menstrual blood.\n\nIn the 16th century, Italy had a high portion of witchcraft trials involving love magic. The country had a large number of unmarried people due to men marrying later in their lives during this time. This left many women on a desperate quest for marriage leaving them vulnerable to the accusation of witchcraft whether they took part in it or not. Trial records from the Inquisition and secular courts discovered a link between prostitutes and supernatural practices. Professional prostitutes were considered experts in love and therefore knew how to make love potions and cast love related spells. Up until 1630, the majority of women accused of witchcraft were prostitutes. A courtesan was questioned about her use of magic due to her relationship with men of power in Italy and her wealth. The majority of women accused were also considered \"outsiders\" because they were poor, had different religious practices, spoke a different language, or simply from a different city/town/region. Cassandra from Ferrara, Italy, was still considered a foreigner because not native to Rome where she was residing. She was also not seen as a model citizen because her husband was in Venice.\n\nFrom the 16th-18th centuries, the Catholic Church enforced moral discipline throughout Italy. With the help of local tribunals, such as in Venice, the two institutions investigated a woman's religious behaviors when she was accused of witchcraft.\n\nFranciscan friars from New Spain introduced Diabolism, belief in the devil, to the indigenous people after their arrival in 1524.\nBartolomé de las Casas believed that human sacrifice was not diabolic, in fact far off from it, and was a natural result of religious expression.\nMexican Indians gladly took in the belief of Diabolism and still managed to keep their belief in creator-destroyer deities.\n\nIn pre-Christian times, witchcraft was a common practice in the Cook Islands. The native name for a sorcerer was \"tangata purepure\" (a man who prays). The prayers offered by the \"ta'unga\" (priests) to the gods worshiped on national or tribal \"marae\" (temples) were termed \"karakia\"; those on minor occasions to the lesser gods were named \"pure\". All these prayers were metrical, and were handed down from generation to generation with the utmost care. There were prayers for every such phase in life; for success in battle; for a change in wind (to overwhelm an adversary at sea, or that an intended voyage be propitious); that his crops may grow; to curse a thief; or wish ill-luck and death to his foes. Few men of middle age were without a number of these prayers or charms. The succession of a sorcerer was from father to son, or from uncle to nephew. So too of sorceresses: it would be from mother to daughter, or from aunt to niece. Sorcerers and sorceresses were often slain by relatives of their supposed victims.\n\nA singular enchantment was employed to kill off a husband of a pretty woman desired by someone else. The expanded flower of a Gardenia was stuck upright—a very difficult performance—in a cup (i.e., half a large coconut shell) of water. A prayer was then offered for the husbands speedy death, the sorcerer earnestly watching the flower. Should it fall the incantation was successful. But if the flower still remained upright, he will live. The sorcerer would in that case try his skill another day, with perhaps better success.\n\nAccording to Beatrice Grimshaw, a journalist who visited the Cook Islands in 1907, the uncrowned Queen Makea was believed to have possessed the mystic power called \"mana\", giving the possessor the power to slay at will. It also included other gifts, such as second sight to a certain extent, the power to bring good or evil luck, and the ability already mentioned to deal death at will.\n\nA local newspaper informed that more than 50 people were killed in two Highlands provinces of Papua New Guinea in 2008 for allegedly practicing witchcraft. An estimated 50–150 alleged witches are killed each year in Papua New Guinea.\n\nAmong the Russian words for \"witch\", ведьма (ved'ma) literally means \"one who knows\", from Old Slavic вѣдъ \"to know\"). Another frequent term is колдунья (koldun'ya), \"sorcerer\" being колдун (koldun).\n\nPagan practices formed a part of Russian and Eastern Slavic culture; the Russian people were deeply superstitious. The witchcraft practiced consisted mostly of earth magic and herbology; it was not so significant which herbs were used in practices, but how these herbs were gathered. Ritual centered on harvest of the crops and the location of the sun was very important. One source, pagan author Judika Illes, tells that herbs picked on Midsummer's Eve were believed to be most powerful, especially if gathered on Bald Mountain near Kiev during the witches' annual revels celebration. Botanicals should be gathered, \"During the seventeenth minute of the fourteenth hour, under a dark moon, in the thirteenth field, wearing a red dress, pick the twelfth flower on the right.\"\n\nSpells also served for midwifery, shape-shifting, keeping lovers faithful, and bridal customs. Spells dealing with midwifery and childbirth focused on the spiritual wellbeing of the baby. Shape-shifting spells involved invocation of the wolf as a spirit animal. To keep men faithful, lovers would cut a ribbon the length of his erect penis and soak it in his seminal emissions after sex while he was sleeping, then tie seven knots in it; keeping this talisman of knot magic ensured loyalty. Part of an ancient pagan marriage tradition involved the bride taking a ritual bath at a bathhouse before the ceremony. Her sweat would be wiped from her body using raw fish, and the fish would be cooked and fed to the groom.\n\nDemonism, or black magic, was not prevalent. Persecution for witchcraft, mostly involved the practice of simple earth magic, founded on herbology, by solitary practitioners with a Christian influence. In one case investigators found a locked box containing something bundled in a kerchief and three paper packets, wrapped and tied, containing crushed grasses. Most rituals of witchcraft were very simple—one spell of divination consists of sitting alone outside meditating, asking the earth to show one's fate.\n\nWhile these customs were unique to Russian culture, they were not exclusive to this region. Russian pagan practices were often akin to paganism in other parts of the world. The Chinese concept of \"chi\", a form of energy that often manipulated in witchcraft, is known as bioplasma in Russian practices. The western concept of an \"evil eye\" or a \"hex\" was translated to Russia as a \"spoiler\". A spoiler was rooted in envy, jealousy and malice. Spoilers could be made by gathering bone from a cemetery, a knot of the target's hair, burned wooden splinters and several herb Paris berries (which are very poisonous). Placing these items in sachet in the victim's pillow completes a spoiler. The Sumerians, Babylonians, Assyrians, and the ancient Egyptians recognized the evil eye from as early as 3,000 BCE; in Russian practices it is seen as a sixteenth-century concept.\n\nThe dominant societal concern those practicing witchcraft was not whether paganism was effective, but whether it could cause harm. Peasants in Russian and Ukrainian societies often shunned witchcraft, unless they needed help against supernatural forces. Impotence, stomach pains, barrenness, hernias, abscesses, epileptic seizures, and convulsions were all attributed to evil (or witchcraft). This is reflected in linguistics; there are numerous words for a variety of practitioners of paganism-based healers. Russian peasants referred to a witch as a \"chernoknizhnik\" (a person who plied his trade with the aid of a black book), \"sheptun\"/\"sheptun'ia\" (a \"whisperer\" male or female), \"lekar\"/\"lekarka\" or \"znakhar\"/\"znakharka\" (a male or female healer), or \"zagovornik\" (an incanter).\n\nIronically enough, there was universal reliance on folk healers – but clients often turned them in if something went wrong. According to Russian historian Valerie A. Kivelson, witchcraft accusations were normally thrown at lower-class peasants, townspeople and Cossacks. People turned to witchcraft as a means to support themselves. The ratio of male to female accusations was 75% to 25%. Males were targeted more, because witchcraft was associated with societal deviation. Because single people with no settled home could not be taxed, males typically had more power than women in their dissent.\n\nThe history of Witchcraft had evolved around society. More of a psychological concept to the creation and usage of Witchcraft can create the assumption as to why women are more likely to follow the practices behind Witchcraft. Identifying with the soul of an individual’s self is often deemed as \"feminine\" in society. There is analyzed social and economic evidence to associate between witchcraft and women.\n\nWitchcraft trials occurred frequently in seventeenth-century Russia, although the \"great witch-hunt\" is believed to be a predominately Western European phenomenon. However, as the witchcraft-trial craze swept across Catholic and Protestant countries during this time, Orthodox Christian Europe indeed partook in this so-called \"witch hysteria.\" This involved the persecution of both males and females who were believed to be practicing paganism, herbology, the black art, or a form of sorcery within and/or outside their community. Very early on witchcraft legally fell under the jurisdiction of the ecclesiastical body, the church, in Kievan Rus' and Muscovite Russia. Sources of ecclesiastical witchcraft jurisdiction date back as early as the second half of the eleventh century, one being Vladimir the Great's first edition of his State Statute or \"Ustav\", another being multiple references in the \"Primary Chronicle\" beginning in 1024.\n\nThe sentence for an individual found guilty of witchcraft or sorcery during this time, and in previous centuries, typically included either burning at the stake or being tested with the \"ordeal of cold water\" or \"judicium aquae frigidae\". The cold-water test was primarily a Western European phenomenon, but was used as a method of truth in Russia prior to, and post, seventeenth-century witchcraft trials in Muscovy. Accused persons who submerged were considered innocent, and ecclesiastical authorities would proclaim them \"brought back,\" but those who floated were considered guilty of practicing witchcraft, and burned at the stake or executed in an unholy fashion. The thirteenth-century bishop of Vladimir, Serapion Vladimirskii, preached sermons throughout the Muscovite countryside, and in one particular sermon revealed that burning was the usual punishment for witchcraft, but more often the cold water test was used as a precursor to execution.\n\nAlthough these two methods of torture were used in the west and the east, Russia implemented a system of fines payable for the crime of witchcraft during the seventeenth century. Thus, even though torture methods in Muscovy were on a similar level of harshness as Western European methods used, a more civil method was present. In the introduction of a collection of trial records pieced together by Russian scholar Nikolai Novombergsk, he argues that Muscovite authorities used the same degree of cruelty and harshness as Western European Catholic and Protestant countries in persecuting witches. By the mid-sixteenth century the manifestations of paganism, including witchcraft, and the black arts—astrology, fortune telling, and divination—became a serious concern to the Muscovite church and state.\n\nTsar Ivan IV (reigned 1547–1584) took this matter to the ecclesiastical court and was immediately advised that individuals practicing these forms of witchcraft should be excommunicated and given the death penalty. Ivan IV, as a true believer in witchcraft, was deeply convinced that sorcery accounted for the death of his wife, Anastasiia in 1560, which completely devastated and depressed him, leaving him heartbroken. Stemming from this belief, Ivan IV became majorly concerned with the threat of witchcraft harming his family, and feared he was in danger. So, during the Oprichnina (1565–1572), Ivan IV succeeded in accusing and charging a good number of boyars with witchcraft whom he did not wish to remain as nobles. Rulers after Ivan IV, specifically during the Time of Troubles (1598–1613), increased the fear of witchcraft among themselves and entire royal families, which then led to further preoccupation with the fear of prominent Muscovite witchcraft circles.\n\nAfter the Time of Troubles, seventeenth-century Muscovite rulers held frequent investigations of witchcraft within their households, laying the ground, along with previous tsarist reforms, for widespread witchcraft trials throughout the Muscovite state. Between 1622 and 1700 ninety-one people were brought to trial in Muscovite courts for witchcraft. Although Russia did partake in the witch craze that swept across Western Europe, the Muscovite state did not persecute nearly as many people for witchcraft, let alone execute a number of individuals anywhere close to the number executed in the west during the witch hysteria.\n\nWitches have a long history of being depicted in art, although most of their earliest artistic depictions seem to originate in Early Modern Europe, particularly the Medieval and Renaissance periods. Many scholars attribute their manifestation in art as inspired by texts such as \"Canon Episcopi\", a demonology-centered work of literature, and \"Malleus Maleficarum\", a \"witch-craze\" manual published in 1487, by Heinrich Kramer and Jacob Sprenger.\n\n\"Canon Episcopi\", a ninth-century text that explored the subject of demonology, initially introduced concepts that would continuously be associated with witches, such as their ability to fly or their believed fornication and sexual relations with the devil. The text refers to two women, Diana the Huntress and Herodias, who both express the duality of female sorcerers. Diana was described as having a heavenly body and as the \"protectress of childbirth and fertility\" while Herodias symbolized \"unbridled sensuality\". They thus represent the mental powers and cunning sexuality that witches used as weapons to trick men into performing sinful acts which would result in their eternal punishment. These characteristics were distinguished as Medusa-like or Lamia-like traits when seen in any artwork (Medusa's mental trickery was associated with Diana the Huntress's psychic powers and Lamia was a rumored female figure in the Medieval ages sometimes used in place of Herodias).\nOne of the first individuals to regularly depict witches after the witch-craze of the medieval period was Albrecht Dürer, a German Renaissance artist. His famous 1497 engraving \"The Four Witches\", portrays four physically attractive and seductive nude witches. Their supernatural identities are emphasized by the skulls and bones lying at their feet as well as the devil discreetly peering at them from their left. The women's sensuous presentation speaks to the overtly sexual nature they were attached to in early modern Europe. Moreover, this attractiveness was perceived as a danger to ordinary men who they could seduce and tempt into their sinful world. Some scholars interpret this piece as utilizing the logic of the \"Canon Episcopi\", in which women used their mental powers and bodily seduction to enslave and lead men onto a path of eternal damnation, differing from the unattractive depiction of witches that would follow in later Renaissance years.\nDürer also employed other ideas from the Middle Ages that were commonly associated with witches. Specifically, his art often referred to former 12th- to 13th-century Medieval iconography addressing the nature of female sorcerers. In the Medieval period, there was a widespread fear of witches, accordingly producing an association of dark, intimidating characteristics with witches, such as cannibalism (witches described as \"[sucking] the blood of newborn infants\") or described as having the ability to fly, usually on the back of black goats. As the Renaissance period began, these concepts of witchcraft were suppressed, leading to a drastic change in the sorceress' appearances, from sexually explicit beings to the 'ordinary' typical housewives of this time period. This depiction, known as the 'Waldensian' witch became a cultural phenomenon of early Renaissance art. The term originates from the 12th-century monk Peter Waldo, who established his own religious sect which explicitly opposed the luxury and commodity-influenced lifestyle of the Christian church clergy, and whose sect was excommunicated before being persecuted as \"practitioners of witchcraft and magic\".\n\nSubsequent artwork exhibiting witches tended to consistently rely on cultural stereotypes about these women. These stereotypes were usually rooted in early Renaissance religious discourse, specifically the Christian belief that an \"earthly alliance\" had taken place between Satan's female minions who \"conspired to destroy Christendom\".\n\nAnother significant artist whose art consistently depicted witches was Dürer's apprentice, Hans Baldung Grien, a 15th-century German artist. His chiaroscuro woodcut, \"Witches\", created in 1510, visually encompassed all the characteristics that were regularly assigned to witches during the Renaissance. Social beliefs labeled witches as supernatural beings capable of doing great harm, possessing the ability to fly, and as cannibalistic. The urn in \"Witches\" seems to contain pieces of the human body, which the witches are seen consuming as a source of energy. Meanwhile, their nudity while feasting is recognized as an allusion to their sexual appetite, and some scholars read the witch riding on the back of a goat-demon as representative of their \"flight-inducing [powers]\". This connection between women's sexual nature and sins was thematic in the pieces of many Renaissance artists, especially Christian artists, due to cultural beliefs which characterized women as overtly sexual beings who were less capable (in comparison to men) of resisting sinful temptation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2972976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2972976", "title": "Works of mercy", "text": "Works of mercy\n\nWorks of mercy (sometimes known as acts of mercy) are practices which Christians perform.\n\nThe practice is popular in the Catholic Church as an act of both penance and charity. In addition, the Methodist church teaches that the works of mercy are a means of grace which lead to holiness and aid in sanctification.\n\nThe works of mercy have been traditionally divided into two categories, each with seven elements: \n\nPope John Paul II issued a papal encyclical \"Dives in misericordia\" on 30 November 1980 declaring that \"Jesus Christ taught that man not only receives and experiences the mercy of God, but that he is also called 'to practice mercy' towards others.\" Another notable devotion associated with the works of mercy is the Divine Mercy, which derives from apparitions of Jesus Christ to Saint Faustina Kowalska.\n\nBased on Jesus' doctrine of the sheep and the goats, the corporal and spiritual works of mercy are a means of grace as good deeds and their omission is a reason for damnation. Because the Messianic Age will be a time of mercy, and because the church believes this age began at Jesus' coming and believes Jesus obeyed every mitzvah and fulfilled the Scriptures, Catholics perform the works of mercy.\n\nIn particular cases, a given individual will not be obligated or even competent to perform four of the spiritual works of mercy, namely: instructing the ignorant, counseling the doubtful, admonishing sinners, and comforting the afflicted. These works may require a definitely superior level of authority or knowledge or an extraordinary amount of tact. The other works of mercy, however, are considered to be an obligation of all faithful to practise unconditionally. In an address on the 2016 World Day of Prayer for Creation, Pope Francis suggested \"care for creation\" as a new work of mercy, describing it as a \"complement\" to the existing works. Francis characterized this new work as having both corporal and spiritual components. Corporally, it involves \"daily gestures which break with the logic of violence, exploitation and selfishness\". Spiritually, it involves contemplating each part of creation to find what God is teaching us through them. This pronouncement extensively quoted the encyclical \"Laudato si'\", and Cardinal Peter Turkson, who helped write the encyclical, clarified that the addition of this work of mercy was part of Francis' intention for \"Laudato si\"'.\n\nCorporal works of mercy are those that tend to the bodily needs of other creatures. They come from Isaiah 58 and the mitzvah of hospitality. The seventh work of mercy comes from the Book of Tobit and from the mitzvah of burial, although it was not added to the list until the Middle Ages.\n\nThe works include:\n\nJust as the corporal works of mercy are directed towards relieving corporeal suffering, the aim of the spiritual works of mercy is to relieve spiritual suffering. The first four come from Ezekiel 33, the fifth comes from the mitzvah of forgiving others before receiving forgiveness from God, the sixth comes from Deuteronomy 15, and the seventh comes from Maccabees 2.\n\nThe works include:\n\nThe Corporal works of mercy are an important subject of Christian iconography. In some representations of the Middle Ages, the seven works were allegorically juxtaposed with the seven deadly sins (avarice, anger, envy, laziness, unchastity, intemperance, pride). The pictorial representation of the works of mercy began in the 12th century.\n\nThe Master of Alkmaar painted the polyptych of the \"Seven works of mercy\" (ca. 1504) for the Church of Saint Lawrence in Alkmaar, Netherlands. His series of wooden panel paintings show the works of mercy, with Jesus in the background viewing each, in this order: feed the hungry, give drink to the thirsty, clothe the naked, bury the dead, shelter the traveler, comfort the sick, and ransom the captive.\n\nThe painting of the \"Seven Works of Mercy\" by Frans II Francken (1605) represents the acts not as a picture cycle, but in one single composition.\n\nA major work of the iconography of mercy is the altarpiece of Caravaggio (1606/07) in Naples, which was commissioned by the Confraternità del Pio Monte della Misericordia for their church. This charity brotherhood was founded in 1601 in Naples. The artist painted the \"Seven Works of Mercy\" in one single composition. Regarding the sharp contrasts of the painting’s chiaroscuro, the art historian Ralf van Bühren explains the bright light as a metaphor for mercy, which \"helps the audience to explore mercy in their own lives\".\n\nIn Methodist teaching, doing merciful acts is a prudential means of grace. Along with works of piety, they are necessary for the believer to move on to Christian perfection. In this sense, the Methodist concern for people at the margins is closely related to its worship. As such, these beliefs have helped create the emphasis of the social gospel in the Methodist Church.\n\n\n"}
