{"id": "33934756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33934756", "title": "2007 Morocco–Spain diplomatic conflict", "text": "2007 Morocco–Spain diplomatic conflict\n\nThe 2007 Morocco–Spain diplomatic conflict was a short lived disturbance of international relations between Morocco and Spain that arose after the announcement of the impending visit of the King of Spain to the Spanish-ruled autonomous cities Ceuta and Melilla, which are claimed by Morocco.\n\nThe dispute formally began when the Government of Morocco recalled its ambassador to Spain, Omar Azziman. According to a diplomatic note from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Morocco, \"The official announcement on Friday of the unfortunate visit of His Majesty King Juan Carlos I, on 5 and 6 November to the two occupied cities of Ceuta and Melilla is a regrettable initiative, whatever are the motives and objectives.\"\n\nAfter reporting of calls of queries from the Ambassador, the Chief Moroccan Government Spokesperson said,\"The ball is in the countryside of Spain and we hope that that country takes into consideration the sentiments of the Moroccan people and the interest of bilateral ties and cooperation.\"\n\nThe royal visit occurred in the days set, registering an influx of thousands of citizens, who cheered the Kings in both Ceuta and Melilla. During those days continued statements against the visit were made by the Moroccan authorities. In this regard, the Prime Minister of Morocco, Abbas El Fassi, compared the situation in both cities with the Israeli occupation of Palestinian Territories and King Mohammed VI himself described the visit as an \"outdated and nostalgic act of a dark era.\" The Spanish government, just before the visit, and after the reporting of the Moroccan opposition, told through the Deputy Prime Minister Maria Teresa Fernandez de la Vega that the visit of the King of Spain was an act of 'institutional normality.\" Days later, at the initiative of certain groups in Morocco, some hundreds of people carried out protests in Tetuan, as well as front of the border with Ceuta and Melilla. Moroccan authority also discontinued high-level visits of Spanish authorities to their country.\n\nFinally, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Spain, Miguel Angel Moratinos, visited Rabat to meet his Moroccan counterpart, Taib Fassi Fihri on January 3, 2008, and presented him a personal letter from Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero to King Mohamed VI, which advocated for closer relations between both countries. Four days later, the Moroccan Foreign Ministry announced the return of its ambassador to Madrid, thus terminating the conflict.\n\nOn October 30, the Government of Spain announced the visit of King Juan Carlos I and Queen Sofia to Ceuta and Melilla from 5 and 6 November. The day before, the Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, had told that fact to the opposition leader Mariano Rajoy during an official ceremony, which Rajoy welcomed.\n\nThe King of Spain had not visited Ceuta and Melilla in his reign. The most immediate antecedent of the stay of King Juan Carlos I in these cities dates back to 1970, when he undertook a visit to Ceuta in his capacity as Prince of Asturias on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the Spanish Legion.\n\nThe last visit of a Head of State of Spain to Ceuta and Melilla was by king Alfonso XIII, who was last seen in 1927, and President of the Second Republic, Niceto Alcala Zamora, on 4 November 1933.\n\nThe king of Spain was scheduled to visit to the autonomous city of Melilla in 1997 on the occasion of the five hundredth anniversary of the founding of the city, but the pressure of the Moroccan authorities led to the cancellation of the visit.\n\nOn November 5, the King and the Queen of Spain stayed in Ceuta for five hours, where they spoke to the Assembly of the Autonomous City, where the monarch said that he \"had an pending commitment to Ceuta\". Neither the king nor the Minister of Public Administration who accompanied him, Elena Salgado, or any other Spanish authority made any mention of the situation in Morocco. The King was welcomed by 25,000 people.\n\nOn November 6, the king came to Melilla, in which the Spanish monarch intervened the Assembly. There he acknowledged the loyalty of Melillans to the Crown. He made specific reference to Morocco, but said that \"Spain through mutual respect cultivates relations of sincere friendship with its neighbors.\" The number of people who gathered to welcome the King was estimated at 30,000.\n\nA month before the announcement of the royal visit, the judge of the National Court of Spain, Baltasar Garzón, had opened a file to investigate an alleged genocide of Sahrawis by Morocco, accepting to process the lawsuit filed in 2006 by various associations defending human rights and relatives of prisoners and disappeared Saharawis, which accused 31 senior officials of Moroccan security. Morocco, meanwhile, was accused of siding with the positions of the Polisario Front. Moroccan spokesman said that \"it would be good that Judge Garzon deal a bit of respect for human rights in Tindouf.\" Among the accused were Driss Basri and former Interior Minister and General Housni Benslimane.\n\nAs stated by Yassine Mansouri, Foreign Secret Service Chief of Morocco, during a stay in Mallorca, the deterioration of relations is also related to the active position of the Spanish Government and local authorities to untie Muslim believers of Ceuta and the Ministry of Religious Affairs of Morocco; and to bet on movements like the Tablig (Congregation for the Propagation of Islam) or the Muslim Brotherhood. Mansouri informed this to Alberto Saiz, Director of National Intelligence of Spain.\n\nThe position was due to the wrath of King Mohamed VI, according to Mansouri, he remembered that Moroccan King is the \"Commander of the Faithful\" and many mosques in Ceuta had been attached to the Union of Islamic Communities of Spain (UCIDE) (36 of 40 Islamic communities of Ceuta). The image of the UCID leader in Ceuta, Laarbi Maateis, is associated with radical Islamist movements by Morocco. For his part, Laarbi Maateis denied any involvement with fundamentalist movements, indicating that no member of Tablig had ever been arrested or identified as a suspect in connection with jihadism. He also said the prosecution were not understandable \"because the Maliki rite is practiced both here and in the rest of Spain and Morocco and no one has tried to change that, especially because it seems to be the best for the city.\"\n\nThe Prime Minister of Morocco, Abbas El Fassi, reported the Moroccan parliament that his government would not spare efforts to regain the two cities (Ceuta and Melilla). The next day, November 1, Abbas el Fassi asked the King of Spain to \"waive\" the trip, while the Minister and Speaker of the Moroccan government, Khalid Naciri, expressed the \"total rejection and condemnation\" of the royal visit to \"despoiled Moroccan cities.\" Abbas el Fassi, however, at the time said the Spanish press that there was no coercion and that the conflict \"must be approached with intelligence, mutual respect, dialogue and concertation.\"\n\nOn November 5, while King Juan Carlos I was visiting Ceuta, Abbas el Fassi compared the situation of Ceuta and Melilla to the Israeli occupation of Palestine during a special session of the Moroccan Parliament to discuss the issue.\n\nThe same opinion was pronounced by the leader of the Moroccan Islamist Justice and Development Party, Mustafa Ramid, by manifesting in the Parliament that \"the Moroccans living under Spanish colonization are as our fellow Palestinians under Israeli colonization.\"\n\nOn November 6, after holding a Council of Ministers before intervening in the acts of commemoration of the Green March in the Parliament, Moroccan King Mohamed VI issued a harsh condemnation through a personnel spokesman:\nIn the same statement Mohamed VI called for the formal opening of negotiations on the two cities:\nOn 15 November, the government spokesman Khalid Naciri, after a Governing Council, stated that he hoped that the Spanish \"place their hand into ours to overcome the crisis and privileging our bilateral relationship. The Spanish-Moroccan relations have undergone a crisis.\" Do not set a date for the return of the ambassador to Madrid, insist on the need for a dialogue between the parties about the future of the Spanish autonomous cities and it is expected for the future that \"our Spanish friends will consider our feelings, our sensitivity and our claims; the purpose is not to create difficulties but to preserve our relations.\" However, on 16 November, the Government of Morocco suspended two high-level visits of Spanish authorities:that of the Minister of Public Works, Magdalena Álvarez, who had planned to deal with the Moroccan Minister of Equipment and Transport Karim Ghellab about the Gibraltar rail tunnel to link the two countries across the strait (an issue on which both are officially working since 2005 when Tangier was treated evolving the fixed links between Europe and Africa and Chief of Staff of the Army of Spain, Admiral Sebastian Zaragoza.\n\nOn the same day, November 1, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Spain, Miguel Angel Moratinos, who was visiting the Moroccan city of Marrakech, reported orally to the Moroccan Foreign Minister Taieb Fassi-Fihri, despite the manifestations of the Prime Minister, that the King of Spain would visit the cities of Ceuta and Melilla on 5 and 6 November as planned. That same day, in the usual appearance of the Government of Spain after the conclusion of the regular meeting of the Council of Ministers, the Second Deputy Prime Minister Maria Teresa Fernandez de la Vega said that relations with the Moroccan government \"were extraordinary\" and the journey of the Kings fell within the \"institutional normality.\" Foreign Affairs Minister, Moratinos ruled out an action similar withdrawing the ambassador of Spain in Rabat, Spanish diplomatic sources said.\n\nOn November 3, Defense Minister Jose Antonio Alonso, in a statement to the Cadena SER said that he hoped the gesture of calling the ambassador-step prior to the breakdown of diplomatic relations, he repeated the words said by Deputy Prime Minister the previous day on the normality of the visit.\n\nThe Minister of Foreign Affairs expressed on November 14 its confidence in the return of the Moroccan ambassador in Madrid \"as soon as possible.\"\n\nThe People's Party and United Left political parties, through Angel Acebes and Gaspar Llamazares, respectively, announced their support for the visit of the King of Spain to Ceuta and Melilla. Gustavo de Arístegui, of the People Party, termed Mohamed VI's reaction as \"excessive\" and criticized the Spanish Prime Minister for failing to make clear, in his view, the 'red lines' that Morocco could not cross. Meanwhile, Elena Valenciano, International Relations Secretary of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, stressed that the visit was part of \"the most absolute institutional normality.\"\n\nThe President of Melilla, Juan José Imbroda, said that \"it is not the time to make opposite sounding declarations\", in reference to the Moroccan position. Coalition for Melilla, the prime Muslim-based opposition party in the autonomous city, manifested itself as extremely pleased with the visit the King, adding that the presence of the King of Spain was a \"historic debt in this city and which, from this formation, we always advocate for the occurrence of the visit.\" For his part, the President of Ceuta, Juan Jesus Vivas, merely issued an edict in which he urged the citizens to welcome the King, honor him by the presence of Ceutans, and \"you will honor yourselves, our city and our beloved country.\"\n"}
{"id": "2211969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2211969", "title": "Administrative centre", "text": "Administrative centre\n\nAn administrative centre is a seat of regional administration or local government, or a county town, or the place where the central administration of a commune is located.\n\nIn countries which have French as one of their administrative languages (such as Belgium, Luxembourg, Switzerland or many African countries) and in some other countries (such as Italy, cf. cognate \"capoluogo\"), a chef-lieu (, plural form \"chefs-lieux\" (literally \"chief place\" or \"head place\"), is a town or city that is pre-eminent from an administrative perspective. The ‘f’ in chef-lieu is pronounced, in contrast to chef-d'oeuvre where it is mute. \n\nThe capital of an Algerian Province is called a chef-lieu. The capital of a district, the next largest division, is also called a chef-lieu. While the capital of the lowest division, the municipalities, is called agglomeration de chef-lieu (chef-lieu agglomeration) and is abbreviated as A.C.L.\n\nThe chef-lieu in Belgium is the administrative centre of each of the ten Provinces of Belgium. Three of these cities also give their name to their province (Antwerp, Liège and Namur).\n\nLuxembourg is divided into two judicial arrondissements (Luxembourg City, Diekirch), three administrative districts (Luxembourg City, Diekirch, Grevenmacher), four electoral circonscriptions (constituencies), twelve cantons and one hundred and five communes (municipalities; Luxembourgish: \"Gemengen\").\n\nArrondissements, districts and cantons have each a chef-lieu and are named after it. The same is true for each commune which is composed of more than one town or village. Usually (with a few exceptions), the commune is named after the communal chef-lieu.\n\nThe chef-lieu of a département is known as the \"préfecture\". This is the town or city where the prefect of the départment (and all services under his/her control) is situated, in a building known as the prefecture. In every French region, one of the départments has pre-eminence over the others, and the prefect carries the title of \"Prefect of region X…, Prefect of Department Z…\" and the city where the regional prefect is found is known as \"chef-lieu of the region\" or, more commonly, \"Regional prefecture\". The services are, however, controlled by the prefecture of the départment. \n\nThe chef-lieu of an arrondissement, commonly known as the \"sous-préfecture\" is the city or town where the sub-prefect of the arrondissement (and the services directly under his/her control) is situated, in a building called the sub-prefecture. The arrondissement where the département prefecture is located does not normally have a sub-prefect or sub-prefecture, the administration being devolved usually to the \"Secretary-general of the departmental prefecture\", who functions as sub-prefect for the arrondissement. \n\nThe chef-lieu of a canton is usually the biggest city or town within the canton, but has only a nominal role. No specific services are controlled by it. In past decades, there was always a Gendarmerie, a treasurer and a justice of the peace. \n\nThe chef-lieu of a commune is the principal area of the town or city that gives the commune its name, the other areas of the town being called hamlets. French typographers will use a capital for the ‘Le’ or ‘La’ preceding the name of places having ‘chef-lieu of town’ status, and lowercase ‘le’ or ‘la’ for hamlets.\n\nIn the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, the administrative centres are known as \"chief towns\" or \"nahias\". Nahias may be in charge of a sub-district (\"qda\"), a district (\"liwa\"), or a governorate (\"muhafazah\").\n\nThe chef-lieu indicates the principal city of the provinces of New Caledonia. So Nouméa is the chef-lieu of South Province. But the chef-lieu can also mean the principal area within a town. So Wé is part of the town of Lifou, but is the chef-lieu of Lifou. In the Loyalty Islands and the other islands, the name of the chef-lieu differs from that of the name of the town. For the towns of the mainland, the chef-lieu has the same name as the town. Nouméa is a town composed only of Nouméa.\n\nMany of the West African states which gained independence from France in the mid-20th century also inherited the French administrative structure of Departments and Communes, headed by a \"Chief-Lieu\". States still using Chief-Lieu to identify the administrative headquarters of a government subdivision include Senegal, Burkina Faso, Benin, Mali, and Nigerl. \n\nTaking Niger and Mali as examples, the administrative subdivisions down to the Commune level each have a formal place of administrative headquarters, titled the chef-lieu. The larger portion of the terminology of administrative division is inherited from colonial rule as part of French West Africa, and has survived and been somewhat modified over time. In both nations there have been remarkably parallel histories. With the decentralization process begun in both nations in the 1990s, the chef-lieu has transitioned from the location of the Governor, Commandant, or Prefect and their staff, to the location of Commune, Cercles of Mali/Departments of Niger, and Regional Councils and a variety of decentralized bodies. The \"chefs-lieux\" of a Region, Cercle or Département, is usually also a Communal chef-lieu. Both nations collect these councils in a \"High Council of Collectivites\" seated at the nation's capital. Smaller sub-divisions in Mali's Communes (Villages, Tribal councils, Quarters) are administered from or identified as a \"Place\"/\"Site\" (\"Site\" in French), so the chef-lieu is literally the \"Chief-Place\" even at the lowest level.\n\nIn Russia, the term is applied to the inhabited localities, which serve as a seat of government of entities of various levels. The only exception to this rule is the republics, for which the term \"capital\" is used to refer to the seat of government. The capital of Russia is also an entity to which the term \"administrative centre\" does not apply. A similar arrangement exists in Ukraine.\n\nThe term chef-lieu is applied to the capital of each Swiss canton. In 16 of the 26 cantons, the territory is subdivided into districts. Every district also has a city nominated as chef-lieu and each has a prefect.\n\nThe term chef-lieu is used to designate the capital of each gouvernorat (department). Each of the 24 gouvernorats is subdivided into delegations (districts) which each have a central city as chef-lieu of delegation.\n\nIn the United Kingdom it is the centre of a local authority, which is distinct from a historic county with a county town.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1464947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1464947", "title": "Alhambra Decree", "text": "Alhambra Decree\n\nThe Alhambra Decree (also known as the Edict of Expulsion; Spanish: \"Decreto de la Alhambra, Edicto de Granada\") was an edict issued on 31 March 1492, by the joint Catholic Monarchs of Spain (Isabella I of Castile and Ferdinand II of Aragon) ordering the expulsion of practicing Jews from the Kingdoms of Castile and Aragon and its territories and possessions by 31 July of that year. The primary purpose was to eliminate their influence on Spain's large \"converso\" population and ensure they did not revert to Judaism. Over half of Spain's Jews had converted as a result of the religious persecution and pogroms which occurred in 1391. Due to continuing attacks around 50,000 more had converted by 1415. A further number of those remaining chose to convert to avoid expulsion. As a result of the Alhambra decree and persecution in prior years, over 200,000 Jews converted to Catholicism and between 40,000 and 100,000 were expelled, an indeterminate number returning to Spain in the years following the expulsion.\n\nThe edict was formally and symbolically revoked on 16 December 1968, following the Second Vatican Council. This was a full century after Jews had been openly practicing their religion in Spain and synagogues were once more legal places of worship under Spain's Laws of Religious Freedom.\n\nIn 1924, the regime of Primo de Rivera granted Spanish citizenship to the entire Sephardic Jewish diaspora. In 2014, the government of Spain passed a law allowing dual citizenship to Jewish descendants who apply, to \"compensate for shameful events in the country's past.\" Thus, Sephardi Jews who can prove they are the descendants of those Jews expelled from Spain because of the Alhambra Decree can \"become Spaniards without leaving home or giving up their present nationality.\"\n\nBy the end of the 8th century, Muslim forces had conquered and settled most of the Iberian Peninsula. Under Islamic law, the Jews who had lived in the region since at least Roman times, were considered \"People of the Book,\" which was a protected status. Compared to the repressive policies of the Visigothic kingdom, who, starting in the sixth-century had enacted a series of anti-Jewish statutes which culminated in their forced conversion and enslavement, the tolerance of the Muslim Moorish rulers of \"al-Andalus\" allowed Jewish communities to thrive. Jewish merchants were able to trade freely across the Islamic world, which allowed them to flourish, and made Jewish enclaves in Muslim Iberian cities great centers of learning and commerce. This led to a flowering of Jewish culture, as Jewish scholars were able to gain favor in Muslim courts as skilled physicians, diplomats, translators, and poets. Although Jews never enjoyed equal status to Muslims, in some Taifas, such as Granada, Jewish men were appointed to very high offices, including Grand Vizier. However, Muslim forces did not control the entire peninsula.\n\nThe \"Reconquista\", or the gradual reconquest of Muslim Iberia by the Christian kingdoms in the North, was driven by a powerful religious motivation: to reclaim Iberia for Christendom following the Umayyad conquest of Hispania centuries before. By the 14th century, most of the Iberian Peninsula (present-day Spain and Portugal) had been reconquered by the Christian kingdoms of Castile, Aragon, León, Galicia, Navarre, and Portugal.\n\nDuring the Christian re-conquest, the Muslim kingdoms in Spain became less welcoming to the \"dhimmi\". In the late twelfth century, the Muslims in al-Andalus invited the fanatical Almohad dynasty from North Africa to push the Christians back to the North. After they gained control of the Iberian Peninsula, the Almohads offered the Sephardim a choice between expulsion, conversion, and death. Many Jewish people fled to other parts of the Muslim world, and also to the Christian kingdoms, which initially welcomed them. In Christian Spain, Jews functioned as courtiers, government officials, merchants, and moneylenders. Therefore, the Jewish community was both useful to the ruling classes and to an extent protected by them. The erosion of rights the Sephardim had enjoyed under the Muslims, in Christian territories was slow and in some areas barely perceptible.\n\nAs the Reconquista drew to a close, overt hostility against Jews in Christian Spain became more pronounced, finding expression in brutal episodes of violence and oppression. In the early fourteenth century, the Christian kings vied to prove their piety by allowing the clergy to subject the Jewish population to forced sermons and disputations. More deadly attacks came later in the century from mobs of angry Catholics, led by popular preachers, who would storm into the Jewish quarter, destroy synagogues, and break into houses, forcing the inhabitants to choose between conversion and death. Thousands of Jews sought to escape these attacks by converting to Christianity.These Jewish converts were commonly called \"conversos\", New Christians, or \"marranos\"; the latter two terms were used as insults. At first these conversions seemed an effective solution to the cultural conflict: many \"converso\" families met with social and commercial success. But eventually their success made these new Catholics unpopular with their neighbors, including some of the clergy of the Church and Spanish aristocrats competing with them for influence over the royal families. By the mid-fifteenth century, the demands of the Old Christians, that the Catholic Church and the monarchy differentiate them from the conversos, led to the first \"Limpieza de Sangre\" laws, which restricted opportunities for converts.\n\nThese suspicions on the part of Christians were only heightened by the fact that some of the coerced conversions were undoubtedly insincere. Some, but not all, \"conversos\" had understandably chosen to salvage their social and commercial positions or their lives by the only option open to them – baptism and embrace of Christianity – while privately adhering to their Jewish practice and faith. Recently converted families who continued to intermarry were especially viewed with suspicion. These secret practitioners are commonly referred to as crypto-Jews or \"marranos\".\n\nThe existence of crypto-Jews was a provocation for secular and ecclesiastical leaders who were already hostile toward Spain's Jewry. For their part, the Jewish community viewed conversos with compassion, because Jewish law held that conversion under threat of violence was not necessarily legitimate. Although the Catholic Church was also officially opposed to forced conversion, under ecclesiastical law all baptisms were lawful, and once baptized, converts were not allowed to rejoin their former religion. The uncertainty over the sincerity of Jewish converts added fuel to the fire of antisemitism in 15th century Spain.\n\nFrom the 13th to the 16th centuries European countries expelled the Jews from their territory on at least 15 occasions. Before the Spanish expulsion, the Jews were expelled from England in 1290 and multiple times from France between 1182 and 1354. The French case is typical of most expulsions, because whether they were local or national, the Jews were usually invited back a few years later. The Jews were also expelled from some of the German states. The Spanish expulsion was succeeded by at least five more expulsions, from other European countries. However, the expulsion of the Jews from Spain was both the largest of its kind, and officially the longest in Western European history.\n\nOver the four hundred year period the majority of these decrees were implemented, the meaning of the expulsions gradually changed. At first, the expulsions of the Jews, or lack thereof, were exercises of kingly prerogative. Jewish communities in Europe were often protected by and associated with European monarchs in the Middle Ages, because under the feudal system, the Jews were often the monarch’s only reliable tax base. Furthermore, the Jews had the reputation of moneylenders because they were the only group allowed to loan money at a profit under the prevailing interpretation of the Vulgate (Latin; official for Catholics) Bible, which forbid Christians from collecting interest. Therefore, the Jews were the creditors of the merchants, the aristocrats, and even the monarchs. Most expulsions were centered on this issue: the monarch would tax the Jewish community heavily, forcing them to call in loans, and then expel them. At the time of expulsion, the monarch would seize their remaining valuable assets, including the debts owed by the aristocrats and the merchants. Therefore, expulsion of the Jews from Spain was unique not only in scale, but in its ideological motivations.\n\nHostility towards the Jews in Spain was brought to a climax during the reign of the “Catholic Monarchs,” Ferdinand and Isabella. Their marriage in 1469, which formed a personal union of the crowns of Aragon and Castile, with coordinated policies between their distinct kingdoms, eventually led to the final unification of Spain.\n\nAlthough their initial policies towards the Jews were protective, Ferdinand and Isabella were disturbed by reports claiming that most Jewish converts to Christianity were insincere in their conversion. As mentioned above, some accusations that \"conversos\" continued to practice Judaism in secret (see Crypto-Judaism) were true, but the “Old” Christians exaggerated the scale of the problem. More serious were the accusations that the Jews were trying to draw conversos back into the Jewish fold. In 1478, Ferdinand and Isabella made a formal application to Rome to set up an Inquisition in Castile to investigate these and other suspicions. In 1487, King Ferdinand promoted the establishment of the Spanish Inquisition Tribunals in Castile. In Aragon, it had been first instituted in 13th century to combat the Albigense heresy. However, the focus of this new Inquisition was to find and punish \"conversos\" who were practicing Judaism in secret.\n\nThese issues came to a head during Ferdinand and Isabella’s final conquest of Granada. The independent Islamic Emirate of Granada had been a tributary state to Castile since 1238. Jews and conversos played an important role during this campaign, because they had the ability to raise money and acquire weapons through their extensive trade networks. This perceived increase in Jewish influence further infuriated the Old Christians and the hostile elements of the clergy. Finally, in 1491 in preparation for an imminent transition to Castilian territory, the Treaty of Granada was signed by Emir Muhammad XII and the Queen of Castile, protecting the religious freedom of the Muslims there. By 1492, Ferdinand and Isabella had won the Battle of Granada and completed the Catholic Reconquista of the Iberian Peninsula from Islamic forces. However, the Jewish population emerged from the campaign more hated by the populace and less useful to the monarchs.\n\nThe king and queen issued the Alhambra Decree less than three months after the surrender of Granada. Although Isabella was the force behind the decision, her husband Fernando did not oppose it, and both proved skillful at exploiting the hopes of the desperate Jewish population for monetary gain. That her confessor had just changed from the tolerant Hernando de Talavera to the very intolerant Francisco Jiménez de Cisneros suggests an increase in royal hostility towards the Jews. The most powerful proponent of the decision however, was Torquemada, the priest in charge of the Spanish Inquisition. The text of the decree accused the Jews of trying \"to subvert the holy Catholic faith” by attempting to \"draw faithful Christians away from their beliefs.\" These measures were not new in Europe.\n\nAfter the decree was passed, Spain's entire Jewish population was given only four months to either convert to Christianity or leave the country. The edict promised the Jews' royal \"protection and security\" for the effective three-month window before the deadline. They were permitted to take their belongings with them, excluding “gold or silver or minted money or other things prohibited by the laws of our kingdoms.\" In practice, however, the Jews had to sell anything they could not carry: their land, their houses, and their libraries, and converting their wealth to a more portable form proved difficult. The market in Spain was saturated with these goods, which meant the prices were artificially lowered for the months before the deadline. As a result, much of the wealth of the Jewish community remained in Spain. The punishment for any Jew who did not convert or leave by the deadline was summary execution.\n\nThe Sephardic Jews migrated to four major areas: North Africa, the Ottoman Empire, Portugal, and Italy. Some Spanish Jews who emigrated to avoid conversion dispersed throughout the region of North Africa known as the Maghreb. The Jewish scholars and physicians among previous Sephardic immigrants to this area had reinvigorated the Jewish communities in North Africa. However, in the 1490s, parts of the Mediterranean world, including Morocco were experiencing severe famine. As a result, a number of cities in Morocco refused to let the Spanish Jews in. This led to mass starvation among the refugees, and made the Jewish refugees vulnerable to the predation of slavers, although the regional ruler invalidated many of these sales within a few years. A good number of the Jews who had fled to North Africa returned to Spain and got converted. The Jews who stayed in North Africa often intermingled with the already existing Mizrahi Arabic or Berber speaking communities, becoming the ancestors of the Moroccan, Algerian, Tunisian and Libyan Jewish communities.\n\nMany Spanish Jews also fled to the Ottoman Empire, where they were given refuge. Sultan Bayezid II of the Ottoman Empire, learning about the expulsion of Jews from Spain, dispatched the Ottoman Navy to bring the Jews safely to Ottoman lands, mainly to the cities of Thessaloniki (currently in Greece) and İzmir (currently in Turkey). Many of these Jews also settled in other parts of the Balkans ruled by the Ottomans such as the areas that are now Bulgaria, Serbia and Bosnia. Concerning this incident, Bayezid II is alleged to have commented, \"those who say that Ferdinand and Isabella are wise are indeed fools; for he gives me, his enemy, his national treasure, the Jews.\"\n\nA majority of Sephardim migrated to Portugal, where they gained only a few years of respite from persecution. About 600 Jewish families were allowed to stay in Portugal following an exorbitant bribe, until the Portuguese king entered negotiations to marry the daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella. Caught between his desire for an alliance with Spain and his economic reliance on the Jews, Manuel I declared the Jewish community in Portugal (perhaps then some 10% of that country's population) Christians by royal decree unless they left the country. In return, he promised the Inquisition would not come to Portugal for 40 years. He then seized the Jews who tried to leave and had them forcibly baptized, after separating them from their children. It was years before the Jews who fled to Portugal were allowed to emigrate. When the ban was lifted, many of them fled to the Low Countries, or the Netherlands. \n\nThroughout history, scholars have given widely differing numbers of Jews expelled from Spain. However, the figure is likely to be below the 100,000 Jews who had not yet converted to Christianity by 1492, possibly as low as 40,000. Such figures exclude the significant number of Jews who returned to Spain due to the hostile reception they received in their countries of refuge, notably Fez (Morocco). The situation of returnees was legalized with the Ordinance of the 10 of November 1492 which established that civil and church authorities should be witness to baptism and, in the case that they were baptized before arrival, proof and witnesses of baptism were required. Furthermore, all property could be recovered by returnees at the same price at which it was sold. Similarly the Provision of the Royal Council of 24 of October 1493 set harsh sanctions for those who slandered these New Christians with insulting terms such as \"tornadizos\". After all, the Catholic monarchs were concerned with the souls of their subjects, and Catholic doctrine held that the persecution of converts would remove an important incentive for conversion. Returnees are documented as late as 1499.\n\nA majority of Spain's Jewish population had converted to Christianity during the waves of religious persecutions prior to the Decree—a total of 200,000 converts according to Joseph Pérez. The main objective of the expulsion of practicing Jews was ensuring the sincerity of the conversions of such a large convert population. Of the 100,000 Jews that remained true to their faith by 1492, an additional number chose to convert and join the converso community rather than face expulsion. Recent conversos were subject to additional suspicion by the Inquisition, which had been established to persecute religious heretics, but in Spain and Portugal was focused on finding crypto-Jews. Although Judaism was not considered a heresy, professing Christianity while engaging in Jewish practices was heretical. Additionally, \"Limpieza de Sangre\" statutes instituted legal discrimination against converso descendants, barring them from certain positions and forbidding them from immigrating to the Americas. For years, families with urban origins who had extensive trade connections, and people who were learned and multilingual were suspected of having Jewish ancestry. According to the prejudice of the time, a person with Jewish blood was untrustworthy and inferior. Such measures slowly faded away as converso identity was forgotten and this community merged into Spain's dominant Catholic culture. This process lasted until the eighteenth century, with a few exceptions, most notably the Chuetas of the island of Majorca, where discrimination lasted into early 20th Century.\n\nA Y chromosome DNA test conducted by the University of Leicester and the Pompeu Fabra University has indicated an average of nearly 20% for Spaniards having some direct patrilineal descent from populations from the Near East which colonized the region either in historical times, such as Jews and Phoenicians, or during earlier prehistoric Neolithic migrations. Between the 90,000 Jews who converted under the Visigoth persecutions, and the 100,000+ Jews who converted in the years leading up to expulsion, it is likely that many of these people have Jewish ancestry. On the other hand, genetic studies have dispelled local beliefs in the American South West that Spanish Americans are the descendants of conversos.\n\nThe Spanish government has actively pursued a policy of reconciliation with the descendants of its expelled Jews. In 1924, the regime of Primo de Rivera granted Spanish citizenship to the entire Sephardic Jewish diaspora. As stated above, the Alhambra decree was officially revoked in 1968, after the Second Vatican Council rejected the charge of deicide traditionally attributed to the Jews. In 1992, in a ceremony marking the 500th anniversary of the Edict of Expulsion, King Juan Carlos (wearing a yarmulke) prayed alongside Israeli president Chaim Herzog and members of the Jewish community in the Beth Yaacov Synagogue. The King said, \"Sefarad (the Hebrew name for Spain) isn't a nostalgic memory anymore; it is a place where it must not be said that Jews should simply 'feel' at home there, for indeed Hispano-Jews are at home in Spain...What matters is not accountability for what we may have done wrong or right, but the willingness to look to the future, and analyze the past in light of our future.\"\n\nFrom November 2012 Sephardi Jews have had the right to automatic Spanish nationality without the requirement of residence in Spain. Prior to November 2012, Sephardi Jews already had the right to obtain Spanish citizenship after a reduced residency period of two years (versus ten years for foreigners but natural from Philippines, Equatorial Guinea, Brazil and about other 20 American republics than also require 2 years.) While their citizenship is being processed, Sephardi Jews are entitled to the consular protection of the Kingdom of Spain. This makes Spain unique among European nations as the only nation that currently grants automatic citizenship to the descendants of Jews expelled during the European medieval evictions. Although these measures are popular in the Jewish community, they have also sparked some controversy. A minority of thinkers hold that these policies represent less the abnegation of prejudice as a shift to philo-semitism. As of November 2015, 4300 Sephardi Jews have benefited from this law and acquired Spanish citizenship, swearing allegiance to the Spanish Constitution. In 2013, the number of Jews in Spain was estimated to range between 40,000 and 50,000 people.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53111569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53111569", "title": "Australian Conservatives", "text": "Australian Conservatives\n\nThe Australian Conservatives is an Australian political party formed and led by Cory Bernardi as a breakaway from the Liberal Party of Australia. The party had been established as a conservative political activist group in July 2016, as response to the results of the 2016 federal election. It was formed as a political party after Bernardi's resignation from the Liberals, following disagreements with the Liberal/National Coalition, its policies and leadership under Malcolm Turnbull. The Family First Party and their two state incumbents Dennis Hood and Robert Brokenshire joined and merged with the Australian Conservatives in April 2017. Brokenshire was not re-elected at the 2018 state election; Hood left the Conservatives to join the Liberal Party of Australia on 26 March 2018.\n\nThe Australian Conservatives were established by Senator Bernardi as a conservative political activist group on 6 July 2016. The group was announced by Bernardi on his personal blog as a conservative \"movement\" to \"help change politics and to give common sense a united voice\". Bernardi cited the results of the 2016 federal election as a motivator for the group's establishment, stating that \"over 1.7m votes were cast for right-of-centre or conservative parties rather than the Liberals\", and that \"the clear mission now is to bring people together for the good of the country.\" Despite contemporary media speculation when he created the group, following numerous public expressions of disappointment towards the Liberals, its policies, and leader Malcolm Turnbull, he stated that its establishment did not signal any breakaway from the Liberals, of which he was a Senator, and that its intent was to \"make the Liberals stronger\". Within a month, the group's online newsletter reached over 50,000 subscribers.\nQueensland Liberal National Party of Queensland MP George Christensen was one of the first Coalition members of Parliament to support Bernardi and the Australian Conservatives, following his shared dissatisfaction with the election results. Despite this, Bernardi hinted otherwise in the months following, often going against Coalition policy and criticising the government, in particular over the Racial Discrimination Act debate, especially 18C. In late December 2016, Bernardi held controversial meetings with members of the United States presidential campaign of Donald Trump, allegedly in preparation for forming a breakaway party after continued dissatisfaction with the party and its policies, While he refrained from commenting on renewed speculation that he would split, he was met with negative reception from fellow party colleagues, including former Prime Minister and Liberal leader Tony Abbott.\n\nOn 7 February 2017, Bernardi announced his resignation from the Liberals through a speech in the Senate, opting to advance the Australian Conservatives as a political party, and sit on the Senate crossbench as its leader. In his speech, Bernardi claimed that \"the level of public disenchantment with the major parties, the lack of confidence in our political process and the concern about the direction of our nation is very, very strong,\" and rationalised the creation of the Conservatives as a political party with the \"need to find a better way\". Bernardi also cited the resurgence and rise of conservative parties such as Pauline Hanson's One Nation as proof of such. Although dissatisfaction with the leadership of the Coalition was still shared by many in Parliament, numerous members have since denied any intention to join the Australian Conservatives, with most of them strongly criticising Bernardi — some described his move as a \"betrayal\". Tony Pasin, in particular, described Bernardi's move as unsurprising, \"given the way that conservatives from South Australia are treated by the leadership of the Liberals\".\nOn 7 April 2017, Kirralie Smith — a former candidate for the Australian Liberty Alliance and a member of the Q Society of Australia and Senate candidate for New South Wales in 2016—joined the party. The Australian Liberty Alliance discussed the prospect of merging with the Australian Conservatives, but ultimately declined the offer. Australian Conservatives was registered as a political party with the Australian Electoral Commission on 12 April 2017. Later that month, the party formed a Senate voting bloc with the Liberal Democratic Party Senator David Leyonhjelm. The party issued a policy release in April, 2017 urging party members to petition major chocolate companies to oppose Easter Eggs being renamed Holiday Eggs. The release caused confusion on the grounds that there was no evidence any major chocolate company had ever done that in Australia, or that anyone had ever asked them to.\nIn May 2017, Bernardi met the national and Victorian state leadership of the Australian Christians to discuss a merger between the two parties. On 26 June 2017 it was revealed that Victorian MLC Rachel Carling-Jenkins was leaving the Democratic Labour Party to join the Australian Conservatives. The Democratic Labour Party declined an offer to merge with the Australian Conservatives. On 11 August 2017, former federal Liberal MP Dennis Jensen announced that he was defecting to the Australian Conservatives, and urged Liberal Party members in Western Australia to join him. In September 2017, the Victoria state leadership of the Australian Christians merged between the two parties.\n\nIn February 2018, Lyle Shelton (lobbyist) resigned from his lobbying position at Australian Christian Lobby to enter party politics, joining the Australian Conservatives as federal communications director. It has been speculated that he will be one of the party's candidates at the next federal election. Later that month, former One Nation Senator Fraser Anning joined the party's voting bloc in the Senate, but remained an independent Senator.\n\nOn 25 April 2017, it was announced that the Family First Party would merge with the Australian Conservatives, with its two members of the South Australian Legislative Council joining the party. Newly-appointed Family First senator Lucy Gichuhi did not join the Conservatives, and became an independent senator when Family First was disbanded. Gichuhi was invited to join the Australian Conservatives' voting bloc in the Senate, but ultimately chose to join the Liberal Party.\n\nFamily First was generally considered to be part of the Christian right. Though it had no formal affiliation with any particular religious organisation, Family First was strongly linked to the Pentecostal church in South Australia, and nationally with smaller Christian denominations. Family First in South Australia was viewed as an infusion of ex-Liberals via Robert Brokenshire and Bob Day. The party advocated a moral and family values agenda, but Day, who would become Family First's major donor, later reoriented Family First to emphasise issues such as industrial relations reform, free speech and smaller government, which brought Family First closer to Bernardi's Conservatives.\n\nHowever,according to John Macaulay, an executive of the Australian Conservatives Board, and the dissolution document of Family First, the Party did not merge with the Australian Conservtives. The Family First executive voted to dissolve the party, and in accordance with Australian law, they donated all their assets to the Australian Conservative Party. \n\nThe party made modest showings at the 2017 Bennelong and 2018 Batman by-elections, achieving primary vote of 4.29% and 6.41%, respectively, the latter in the absence of Liberal Party candidate, failing to elect a candidate in either instance. In March 2018, the party lost both upper house representatives in the South Australian Legislative Council, with the failure to reelect Robert Brokenshire, and the defection of parliamentary leader Dennis Hood to the Liberal Party, which nine days prior had won government in the state election. At the election, the Australian Conservatives suffered a −3.2% swing (from a Family First vote of 6.2% in 2014) for a lower house primary vote of 3.0%, and a −0.9% swing (from a Family First vote of 4.4% in 2014) for an upper house primary vote of 3.5%.\n\nFederal\n\nState\n\nThe Australian Conservatives' policies include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "455447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=455447", "title": "Ballot measure", "text": "Ballot measure\n\nA ballot measure is a piece of proposed legislation to be approved or rejected by eligible voters. Ballot measures are also known as \"propositions\" or simply \"questions\".\n\nBallot measures differ from most legislation passed by representative democracies; ordinarily, an elected legislature develops and passes laws. Ballot measures, by contrast, are an example of direct democracy.\n\nIn the United States ballot measures may be established by several different processes which vary amongst the states:\n\nIn Switzerland, same kind of ballot measures are known as \"votations\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54077442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54077442", "title": "Berkeley school of political theory", "text": "Berkeley school of political theory\n\nThe Berkeley school of political theory is a school of thought in political theory associated originally with the work of faculty at the University of California, Berkeley, some of whom formulated and popularized its ideas. The school of thought was founded by Sheldon Wolin, Hanna Pitkin, Michael Rogin, John Schaar, and Norman Jacobson, among others, and has been carried on by theorists including Wilson Carey McWilliams and J. Peter Euben.\n\nThe Berkeley school has been characterized as returning political theory back in the direction of politics and political action, and away from efforts to center \"scientific\" models such as economics, psychology, sociology, and the natural sciences, specifically behavioralism and evolutionary psychology.\n\n"}
{"id": "35592924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35592924", "title": "British Future", "text": "British Future\n\nBritish Future is a UK-based thinktank and registered charity whose stated aim is to advance the education of the public in the subjects of equality and diversity, human rights, racial and cultural harmony, citizenship and social inclusion.\n\nIncorporated in June 2011, it was initially called The Communications Organisation until was renamed British Future in December 2011. It became a charity in 2014, having been previously run as a not-for-profit organisation.\n\nIt's director is Sunder Katwala, a prominent left-wing activist and former director of the Fabian Society. He is regularly cited as an influential political thinker. British Future state that they are a non-partisan organisation.\n\nBritish Future works closely with other thinktanks, including Demos.\n\nIn 2017, research by British Future suggested that the Conservative Party (UK) would have claimed a 42-seat majority in the 2017 general election if they had the same level of support among ethnic minority Britons as they do with white voters.\n\nIt ran a campaign for shops to close, and sporting events not to be played on Remembrance Sunday 2014, ninety-six years after the ending of World War I.\n\nIts publications include \"This Sceptred Isle\", \"Team GB: How 2012 Should Boost Britain\" and \"Generation 2012: Optimism Despite Obstacles\". \n\n"}
{"id": "2615377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2615377", "title": "Canadian response to Hurricane Katrina", "text": "Canadian response to Hurricane Katrina\n\nCanada's first response to the disaster inflicted by Hurricane Katrina along the Gulf of Mexico coastline of the United States was the deployment of a Vancouver heavy urban search and rescue team, which arrived in Lafayette, Louisiana on the evening of August 31, 2005, arriving on a WestJet Airlines aircraft. Due to security and logistics issues in the disaster area surrounding New Orleans, the team started operations on September 3, saving 30 people that day. They returned to Vancouver on September 6, reportedly saving over 110 people during their deployment. It has also accepted some evacuees to stay in Canada.\n\nThe official response by the Government of Canada to the Gulf coast disaster came on September 2, following discussions between Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness Canada and the U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency. The federal government announced it was deploying a task force comprising three warships—, and —along with the Coast Guard vessel and three Sea King helicopters and one BO-105 helicopter to the area.\n\nThe Canadian Forces also provided several Griffon helicopters and crews to the New England States at the request of the United States Coast Guard whose search and rescue helicopters from that area have been assigned to Gulf Coast SAR operations. Canadian aircraft were deployed as part of a North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) military assistance pact.\n\nThe task force was organized under the name \"Operation UNISON\" and involved over 1,000 personnel from the Canadian Forces and Canadian Coast Guard who were placed under the operational command of their American counterparts who were coordinating relief operations. A precedent was established with a similar humanitarian aid response by the Government of Canada following Hurricane Andrew when the Auxiliary Oil Replenishment (AOR) ship participated in \"Operation TEMPEST\", providing relief supplies and personnel in southern Florida and the Bahamas.\n\nThe ships and aircraft had the capacity to relocate people and deliver a broad range of supplies, including tents, cots, water containers and items such as men's and women's toiletries, sun screen and insect repellent. At the same time, the Public Health Agency of Canada was in contact with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and offered whatever support was required. \"We are really prepared to operate on all fronts as requested and as co-ordinated by the United States,\" said Prime Minister Paul Martin.\n\nIn an interview on National Public Radio, Canada's Ambassador to the United States said that in addition to the basic desire to help a neighbor in need, many Canadians also remember the ancestors of Louisiana's Cajuns were expelled from what would become Canada by the British in the 18th century, which he felt gave an extra historical dimension to Canadians' desire to help the people of Louisiana during the recovery operation.\n\nOn September 4, following a request from U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the Government of Canada announced it was prepared to send thousands of beds, blankets, surgical gloves and dressings and other medical supplies. The Government of Canada announced it would also send 35 divers to help with the rescue effort. One of the divers' tasks would be to inspect levees.\n\nOn September 5, a team of 35 military divers was deployed from CFB Halifax and CFB Esquimalt to Pensacola, Florida. They were tasked with assisting their U.S. Navy counterparts to clear navigational hazards, including unsecured and sunken vessels and debris, and to inspect flood-damaged levees.\n\nOn September 6 the Operation UNISON task force of navy and coast guard ships departed Halifax Harbour for the U.S. Gulf Coast. The naval ships arrived at Pensacola, Florida several days later, having been delayed by further tropical storm activity off the east coast of Florida. The coast guard ship arrived several days later, due to its slower cruising speed. The Operation UNISON task force unloaded relief supplies at Pensacola and was deployed to assist along the Mississippi coast.\n\nOn September 19 it was announced that the three warships from the Operation UNISON task force would be returning to Halifax, leaving CCGS \"Sir William Alexander\" to continue its mission of clearing navigation hazards and repairing buoys. On September 28, the coast guard vessel was retasked to assist the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in repairing the network of weather buoys along the Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic coasts of the United States, which had been severely damaged by the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season; these buoys are one of the most important tools for forecasting and gathering data from oceanic storms. CCGS \"Sir William Alexander\" returned to Canada on October 24.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6784", "title": "Citizenship", "text": "Citizenship\n\nCitizenship is the status of a person recognized under the custom or law as being a legal member of a sovereign state or belonging to a nation.\n\nA person may have multiple citizenships. A person who does not have citizenship of any state is said to be stateless, while one who lives on state borders whose territorial status is uncertain is a border-lander.\n\nNationality is often used as a synonym for citizenship in English – notably in international law – although the term is sometimes understood as denoting a person's membership of a nation (a large ethnic group). In some countries, e.g. the United States, the United Kingdom, nationality and citizenship can have different meanings (for more information, see Nationality versus citizenship).\n\nEach country has its own policies, regulations and criteria as to who is entitled to its citizenship. A person can be recognized or granted citizenship on a number of bases. Usually citizenship based on circumstances of birth is automatic, but in other cases an application may be required.\n\n\nMany thinkers point to the concept of citizenship beginning in the early city-states of ancient Greece, although others see it as primarily a modern phenomenon dating back only a few hundred years and, for humanity, that the concept of citizenship arose with the first laws. \"Polis\" meant both the political assembly of the city-state as well as the entire society. Citizenship has generally been identified as a western phenomenon. There is a general view that citizenship in ancient times was a simpler relation than modern forms of citizenship, although this view has come under scrutiny. The relation of citizenship has not been a fixed or static relation, but constantly changed within each society, and that according to one view, citizenship might \"really have worked\" only at select periods during certain times, such as when the Athenian politician Solon made reforms in the early Athenian state.\n\nHistorian Geoffrey Hosking in his 2005 \"Modern Scholar\" lecture course suggested that citizenship in ancient Greece arose from an appreciation for the importance of freedom. Hosking explained:\n\nSlavery permitted slaveowners to have substantial free time, and enabled participation in public life. Polis citizenship was marked by exclusivity. Inequality of status was widespread; citizens (πολίτης \"politēs\" < πόλις 'city') had a higher status than non-citizens, such as women, slaves, and resident foreigners (metics). The first form of citizenship was based on the way people lived in the ancient Greek times, in small-scale organic communities of the polis. Citizenship was not seen as a separate activity from the private life of the individual person, in the sense that there was not a distinction between public and private life. The obligations of citizenship were deeply connected into one's everyday life in the polis. These small-scale organic communities were generally seen as a new development in world history, in contrast to the established ancient civilizations of Egypt or Persia, or the hunter-gatherer bands elsewhere. From the viewpoint of the ancient Greeks, a person's public life was not separated from their private life, and Greeks did not distinguish between the two worlds according to the modern western conception. The obligations of citizenship were deeply connected with everyday life. To be truly human, one had to be an active citizen to the community, which Aristotle famously expressed: \"To take no part in the running of the community's affairs is to be either a beast or a god!\" This form of citizenship was based on obligations of citizens towards the community, rather than rights given to the citizens of the community. This was not a problem because they all had a strong affinity with the polis; their own destiny and the destiny of the community were strongly linked. Also, citizens of the polis saw obligations to the community as an opportunity to be virtuous, it was a source of honour and respect. In Athens, citizens were both ruler and ruled, important political and judicial offices were rotated and all citizens had the right to speak and vote in the political assembly.\n\nIn the Roman Empire, citizenship expanded from small-scale communities to the entire empire. Romans realized that granting citizenship to people from all over the empire legitimized Roman rule over conquered areas. Roman citizenship was no longer a status of political agency, as it had been reduced to a judicial safeguard and the expression of rule and law. Rome carried forth Greek ideas of citizenship such as the principles of equality under the law, civic participation in government, and notions that \"no one citizen should have too much power for too long\", but Rome offered relatively generous terms to its captives, including chances for lesser forms of citizenship. If Greek citizenship was an \"emancipation from the world of things\", the Roman sense increasingly reflected the fact that citizens could act upon material things as well as other citizens, in the sense of buying or selling property, possessions, titles, goods. One historian explained:\n\nRoman citizenship reflected a struggle between the upper-class patrician interests against the lower-order working groups known as the plebeian class. A citizen came to be understood as a person \"free to act by law, free to ask and expect the law's protection, a citizen of such and such a legal community, of such and such a legal standing in that community\". Citizenship meant having rights to have possessions, immunities, expectations, which were \"available in many kinds and degrees, available or unavailable to many kinds of person for many kinds of reason\". The law itself was a kind of bond uniting people. Roman citizenship was more impersonal, universal, multiform, having different degrees and applications.\n\nDuring the European Middle Ages, citizenship was usually associated with cities and towns, and applied mainly to middle class folk. Titles such as burgher, grand burgher (German \"Großbürger\") and bourgeoisie denoted political affiliation and identity in relation to a particular locality, as well as membership in a mercantile or trading class; thus, individuals of respectable means and socioeconomic status were interchangeable with citizens.\n\nDuring this era, members of the nobility had a range of privileges above commoners (see aristocracy), though political upheavals and reforms, beginning most prominently with the French Revolution, abolished privileges and created an egalitarian concept of citizenship.\n\nDuring the Renaissance, people transitioned from being subjects of a king or queen to being citizens of a city and later to a nation. Each city had its own law, courts, and independent administration. And being a citizen often meant being subject to the city's law in addition to having power in some instances to help choose officials. City dwellers who had fought alongside nobles in battles to defend their cities were no longer content with having a subordinate social status, but demanded a greater role in the form of citizenship. Membership in guilds was an indirect form of citizenship in that it helped their members succeed financially. The rise of citizenship was linked to the rise of republicanism, according to one account, since independent citizens meant that kings had less power. Citizenship became an idealized, almost abstract, concept, and did not signify a submissive relation with a lord or count, but rather indicated the bond between a person and the state in the rather abstract sense of having rights and duties.\n\nThe modern idea of citizenship still respects the idea of political participation, but it is usually done through \"elaborate systems of political representation at a distance\" such as representative democracy. Modern citizenship is much more passive; action is delegated to others; citizenship is often a constraint on acting, not an impetus to act. Nevertheless, citizens are usually aware of their obligations to authorities, and are aware that these bonds often limit what they can do.\n\nFrom 1790 until the mid-twentieth century, United States law used racial criteria to establish citizenship rights and regulate who was eligible to become a naturalized citizen. The Naturalization Act of 1790, the first law in U.S. history to establish rules for citizenship and naturalization, barred citizenship to all people who were not of European descent, stating that \"any alien being a free white person, who shall have resided within the limits and under the jurisdiction of the United States for the term of two years, may be admitted to become a citizen thereof.\"\n\nUnder early U.S. laws, African Americans were not eligible for citizenship. In 1857, these laws were upheld in the US Supreme Court case Dred Scott v. Sandford, which ruled that \"a free negro of the African race, whose ancestors were brought to this country and sold as slaves, is not a 'citizen' within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States,\" and that \"the special rights and immunities guarantied to citizens do not apply to them.\"\n\nIt was not until the abolition of slavery following the American Civil War that African Americans were granted citizenship rights. The 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, ratified on July 9, 1868, stated that \"all persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside.\" Two years later, the Naturalization Act of 1870 would extend the right to become a naturalized citizen to include \"aliens of African nativity and to persons of African descent\".\n\nDespite the gains made by African Americans after the Civil War, Native Americans, Asians, and others not considered \"free white persons\" were still denied the ability to become citizens. The 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act explicitly denied naturalization rights to all people of Chinese origin, while subsequent acts passed by the US Congress, such as laws in 1906, 1917, and 1924, would include clauses that denied immigration and naturalization rights to people based on broadly defined racial categories. Supreme Court cases such as Ozawa v. United States (1922) and U.S. v. Bhagat Singh Thind (1923), would later clarify the meaning of the phrase \"free white persons,\" ruling that ethnically Japanese, Indian, and other non-European people were not \"white persons\", and were therefore ineligible for naturalization under U.S. law.\n\nNative Americans were not granted full US citizenship until the passage of the Indian Citizenship Act in 1924. However, even well into the 1960s some state laws prevented Native Americans from exercising their full rights as citizens, such as the right to vote. In 1962, New Mexico became the last state to enfranchise Native Americans.\n\nIt was not until the passage of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 that the racial and gender restrictions for naturalization were explicitly abolished. However, the act still contained restrictions regarding who was eligible for US citizenship, and retained a national quota system which limited the number of visas given to immigrants based on their national origin, to be fixed \"at a rate of one-sixth of one percent of each nationality's population in the United States in 1920\". It was not until the passage of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965 that these immigration quota systems were drastically altered in favor of a less discriminatory system.\n\nThe 1918 constitution of revolutionary Russia granted citizenship to any foreigners who were living within Russia, so long as they were \"engaged in work and [belonged] to the working class.\" It recognized \"the equal rights of all citizens, irrespective of their racial or national connections\" and declared oppression of any minority group or race \"to be contrary to the fundamental laws of the Republic.\" The 1918 constitution also established the right to vote and be elected to soviets for both men and women \"irrespective of religion, nationality, domicile, etc. [...] who shall have completed their eighteenth year by the day of election.\" The later constitutions of the USSR would grant universal Soviet citizenship to the citizens of all member republics in concord with the principles of non-discrimination laid out in the original 1918 constitution of Russia.\n\nNational Socialism or \"Nazism\", the German variant of twentieth century fascism whose precepts were laid out in Adolf Hitler's Mein Kampf, classified inhabitants of the nation into three main hierarchical categories, each of which would have different rights and duties in relation to the state: citizens, subjects, and aliens. The first category, citizens, were to possess full civic rights and responsibilities. Citizenship would be conferred only on males of German (or so-called \"Aryan\") heritage who had completed military service, and could be revoked at any time by the state. The Reich Citizenship Law of 1935 established racial criteria for citizenship in the German Reich, and because of this law Jews and others who could not prove \"German\" racial heritage were stripped of their citizenship.\n\nThe second category, subjects, referred to all others who were born within the nation's boundaries who did not fit the racial criteria for citizenship. Subjects would have no voting rights, could not hold any position within the state, and possessed none of the other rights and civic responsibilities conferred on citizens. All women were to be conferred \"subject\" status upon birth, and could only obtain \"citizen\" status if they worked independently or if they married a German citizen (see women in Nazi Germany).\n\nThe final category, aliens, referred to those who were citizens of another state, who also had no rights.\n\nCitizenship status, under social contract theory, carries with it both rights and duties. In this sense, citizenship was described as \"a bundle of rights -- primarily, political participation in the life of the community, the right to vote, and the right to receive certain protection from the community, as well as obligations.\" Citizenship is seen by most scholars as culture-specific, in the sense that the meaning of the term varies considerably from culture to culture, and over time. In China, for example, there is a cultural politics of citizenship which could be called \"peopleship\". \n\nHow citizenship is understood depends on the person making the determination. The relation of citizenship has never been fixed or static, but constantly changes within each society. While citizenship has varied considerably throughout history, and within societies over time, there are some common elements but they vary considerably as well. As a bond, citizenship extends beyond basic kinship ties to unite people of different genetic backgrounds. It usually signifies membership in a political body. It is often based on, or was a result of, some form of military service or expectation of future service. It usually involves some form of political participation, but this can vary from token acts to active service in government. \n\nCitizenship is a status in society. It is an ideal state as well. It generally describes a person with legal rights within a given political order. It almost always has an element of exclusion, meaning that some people are not citizens, and that this distinction can sometimes be very important, or not important, depending on a particular society. Citizenship as a concept is generally hard to isolate intellectually and compare with related political notions, since it relates to many other aspects of society such as the family, military service, the individual, freedom, religion, ideas of right and wrong, ethnicity, and patterns for how a person should behave in society. When there are many different groups within a nation, citizenship may be the only real bond which unites everybody as equals without discrimination—it is a \"broad bond\" linking \"a person with the state\" and gives people a universal identity as a legal member of a specific nation.\n\nModern citizenship has often been looked at as two competing underlying ideas:\n\n\nScholars suggest that the concept of citizenship contains many unresolved issues, sometimes called tensions, existing within the relation, that continue to reflect uncertainty about what citizenship is supposed to mean. Some unresolved issues regarding citizenship include questions about what is the proper balance between duties and rights. Another is a question about what is the proper balance between political citizenship versus social citizenship. Some thinkers see benefits with people being absent from public affairs, since too much participation such as revolution can be destructive, yet too little participation such as total apathy can be problematic as well. Citizenship can be seen as a special elite status, and it can also be seen as a democratizing force and something that everybody has; the concept can include both senses. According to sociologist Arthur Stinchcombe, citizenship is based on the extent that a person can control one's own destiny within the group in the sense of being able to influence the government of the group. One last distinction within citizenship is the so-called consent descent distinction, and this issue addresses whether citizenship is a fundamental matter determined by a person choosing to belong to a particular nation––by his or her consent––or is citizenship a matter of where a person was born––that is, by his or her descent.\n\nSome intergovernmental organizations have extended the concept and terminology associated with citizenship to the international level, where it is applied to the totality of the citizens of their constituent countries combined. Citizenship at this level is a secondary concept, with rights deriving from national citizenship.\n\nThe Maastricht Treaty introduced the concept of citizenship of the European Union. Article 17 (1) of the Treaty on European Union stated that: Citizenship of the Union is hereby established. Every person holding the nationality of a Member State shall be a citizen of the Union. Citizenship of the Union shall be additional to and not replace national citizenship.\n\nAn agreement known as the amended EC Treaty established certain minimal rights for European Union citizens. Article 12 of the amended EC Treaty guaranteed a general right of non-discrimination within the scope of the Treaty. Article 18 provided a limited right to free movement and residence in Member States other than that of which the European Union citizen is a national. Articles 18-21 and 225 provide certain political rights.\n\nUnion citizens have also extensive rights to move in order to exercise economic activity in any of the Member States which predate the introduction of Union citizenship.\n\nThe concept of \"Commonwealth Citizenship\" has been in place ever since the establishment of the Commonwealth of Nations. As with the EU, one holds Commonwealth citizenship only by being a citizen of a Commonwealth member state. This form of citizenship offers certain privileges within some Commonwealth countries:\n\nAlthough Ireland was excluded from the Commonwealth in 1949 because it declared itself a republic, Ireland is generally treated as if it were still a member. Legislation often specifically provides for equal treatment between Commonwealth countries and Ireland and refers to \"Commonwealth countries and Ireland\". Ireland's citizens are not classified as foreign nationals in the United Kingdom.\n\nCanada departed from the principle of nationality being defined in terms of allegiance in 1921. In 1935 the Irish Free State was the first to introduce its own citizenship. However, Irish citizens were still treated as subjects of the Crown, and they are still not regarded as foreign, even though Ireland is not a member of the Commonwealth. The Canadian Citizenship Act of 1947 provided for a distinct Canadian Citizenship, automatically conferred upon most individuals born in Canada, with some exceptions, and defined the conditions under which one could become a naturalized citizen. The concept of Commonwealth citizenship was introduced in 1948 in the British Nationality Act 1948. Other dominions adopted this principle such as New Zealand, by way of the British Nationality and New Zealand Citizenship Act of 1948.\n\nCitizenship most usually relates to membership of the nation state, but the term can also apply at the subnational level. Subnational entities may impose requirements, of residency or otherwise, which permit citizens to participate in the political life of that entity, or to enjoy benefits provided by the government of that entity. But in such cases, those eligible are also sometimes seen as \"citizens\" of the relevant state, province, or region. An example of this is how the fundamental basis of Swiss citizenship is citizenship of an individual commune, from which follows citizenship of a canton and of the Confederation. Another example is Åland where the residents enjoy a special provincial citizenship within Finland, \"hembygdsrätt\".\n\nThe United States has a federal system in which a person is a citizen of their specific state of residence, such as New Jersey or California, as well as a citizen of the United States. State constitutions may grant certain rights above and beyond what are granted under the United States Constitution and may impose their own obligations including the sovereign right of taxation and military service; each state maintains at least one military force subject to national militia transfer service, the state's national guard, and some states maintain a second military force not subject to nationalization.\n\n\"Active citizenship\" is the philosophy that citizens should work towards the betterment of their community through economic participation, public, volunteer work, and other such efforts to improve life for all citizens. In this vein, citizenship education is taught in schools, as an academic subject in some countries. By the time children reach secondary education there is an emphasis on such unconventional subjects to be included in academic curriculum. While the diagram on citizenship to the right is rather facile and depth-less, it is simplified to explain the general model of citizenship that is taught to many secondary school pupils. The idea behind this model within education is to instill in young pupils that their actions (i.e. their vote) affect collective citizenship and thus in turn them.\n\nIt is taught in the Republic of Ireland as an exam subject for the Junior Certificate. It is known as Civic, Social and Political Education (CSPE). A new Leaving Certificate exam subject with the working title 'Politics & Society' is being developed by the National Council for Curriculum and Assessment (NCCA) and is expected to be introduced to the curriculum sometime after 2012.\n\nCitizenship is offered as a General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) course in many schools in the United Kingdom. As well as teaching knowledge about democracy, parliament, government, the justice system, human rights and the UK's relations with the wider world, students participate in active citizenship, often involving a social action or social enterprise in their local community.\n\nThere are two kinds of criticism of citizenship education in schools. Firstly, some philosophers of education argue that most governments and mainstream policies stimulate and advocate questionable approaches of citizenship education. These approaches aim to develop specific dispositions in students, dispositions conducive to political participation and solidarity. But there are radically different views on the nature of good citizenship and education should involve and develop autonomy and open-mindedness. Therefore, it requires a more critical approach than is possible when political participation and solidarity are conceived of as goals of education. Secondly, some educationalists argue that merely teaching children about the theory of citizenship is ineffective, unless schools themselves reflect democratic practices by giving children the opportunity to have a say in decision making. They suggest that schools are fundamentally undemocratic institutions, and that such a setting cannot instill in children the commitment and belief in democratic values that is necessary for citizenship education to have a proper impact. Some educationalists relate this criticism to John Dewey (see critical comments on this interpretation of Dewey: Van der Ploeg, 2016).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "486450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=486450", "title": "Consequentialist justifications of the state", "text": "Consequentialist justifications of the state\n\nConsequentialist justifications of the state are philosophical arguments which contend that the state is justified by the good results it produces. \n\nThe justification of the state is the source of legitimate authority for the state or government. Typically, a justification of the state explains why the state should exist, and what a legitimate state should or should not be able to do. Consequentialist justifications of the state focus on the results that are achieved when certain institutions are put in place. They are based on consequentialist theories such as utilitarianism. Consequentialism is sometimes confused with utilitarianism, but utilitarianism is only one member of a broad family of consequentialist theories.\n\nConsequentialist theories usually maintain that the rightness or wrongness of an action depends on whether the results of the action are desirable. They are frequently contrasted to deontological theories of morality, which typically hold that certain actions are either forbidden or wrong \"per se\".\n\nIn law and political theory, a state or sovereign is an institution that legitimates a particular government. Sometimes arguments about legitimacy have a mystical side to them, as when kings claim divine right. \n\nDifferent political philosophies have distinct opinions concerning the state as a domestic organization monopolizing force.\n\nAs an example, consequentialists might observe that the state builds bridges. They would ask whether those bridges would have been built in the absence of the state and whether those bridges are valued by those who use them. If the bridges would not have otherwise been built and they are valuable to those who use them, then the existence of the state is justified.\n\nA philosopher who doubts or denies the legitimacy of the state might respond by questioning the ethical premise, saying for example that the workers who built that bridge were exploited by the government that ordered it built, and/or by the investors in the private contractors who profited. The philosopher might have a deontological theory of exploitation.\n\nAlternatively, a skeptic might concede that the bridge is a good consequence but contend that even on consequentialist grounds the argument fails. He might argue that an even better bridge might have been built under anarchist conditions. This counter-argument raises the issue of opportunity cost and the whole issue becomes an exercise in economic reasoning.\n\n"}
{"id": "599178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=599178", "title": "Cosmopolitanism", "text": "Cosmopolitanism\n\nCosmopolitanism is the ideology that all human beings belong to a single community, based on a shared morality. A person who adheres to the idea of cosmopolitanism in any of its forms is called a cosmopolitan or cosmopolite.\n\nA cosmopolitan community might be based on an inclusive morality, a shared economic relationship, or a political structure that encompasses different nations. In a cosmopolitan community individuals from different places (e.g. nation-states) form relationships of mutual respect. As an example, Kwame Anthony Appiah suggests the possibility of a cosmopolitan community in which individuals from varying locations (physical, economic, etc.) enter relationships of mutual respect despite their differing beliefs (religious, political, etc.).\n\nVarious cities and locales, past or present, have been or are identified as \"cosmopolitan\"; that does not necessarily mean that all or most of their inhabitants consciously embrace the above philosophy. Rather, locales may be called \"cosmopolitan\" simply because people of various ethnic, cultural and/or religious background live in proximity and interact with each other.\n\nIn origin, cosmopolitanism suggests the establishment of a cosmo polis or ‘world state’ that would embrace all humanity. Cosmopolitanism has come to stand for peace and harmony among nations, founded upon understanding, tolerance and interdependence.\n\nThe word derives from the , or \"kosmopolitês\", formed from \"\", \"kosmos\", i.e. \"world\", \"universe\", or \"cosmos\", and , \"politês\", i.e. \"citizen\" or \"[one] of a city\". Contemporary usage defines the term as \"citizen of the world\".\n\nDefinitions of cosmopolitanism usually begin with the Greek etymology of \"citizen of the world\". However, as Appiah points out, \"world\" in the original sense meant \"cosmos\" or \"universe\", not earth or globe as current use assumes. One definition that handles this issue is given in a recent book on political globalization:\n\nCosmopolitanism can be defined as a global politics that, firstly, projects a sociality of common political engagement among all human beings across the globe, and, secondly, suggests that this sociality should be either ethically or organizationally privileged over other forms of sociality. \n\nCosmopolitanism can be traced back to Diogenes of Sinope (c. 412 B.C.), the founding father of the Cynic movement in Ancient Greece. Of Diogenes it is said: \"Asked where he came from, he answered: 'I am a citizen of the world (kosmopolitês)'\". In Ancient Greece, the broadest basis of social identity in at that time was either the individual city-state or the Greeks (Hellenes) as a group. The Stoics, who later took Diogenes' idea and developed it, typically stressed that each human being \"dwells [...] in two communities – the local community of our birth, and the community of human argument and aspiration\".\nA common way to understand Stoic cosmopolitanism is through Hierocles' circle model of identity that states that we should regard ourselves as concentric circles, the first one around the self, next immediate family, extended family, local group, citizens, countrymen, humanity. Within these circles human beings feel a sense of \"affinity\" or \"endearment\" towards others, which the Stoics termed Oikeiôsis. The task of world citizens becomes then to \"draw the circles somehow towards the centre, making all human beings more like our fellow city dwellers, and so forth\".\n\nIn his 1795 essay \"\", Immanuel Kant stages a \"ius cosmopoliticum\" (cosmopolitan law/right) as a guiding principle to protect people from war, and morally grounds this cosmopolitan right by the principle of universal hospitality. Kant there claimed that the expansion of hospitality with regard to \"use of the right to the earth's surface which belongs to the human race in common\" (see common heritage of humanity) would \"finally bring the human race ever closer to a cosmopolitan constitution\".\n\nThe philosophical concepts of Emmanuel Levinas, on ethics, and Jacques Derrida, on hospitality, provide a theoretical framework for the relationships between people in their everyday lives and apart from any form of written laws or codes. For Levinas, the foundation of ethics consists in the obligation to respond to the Other. In Being for the Other, he writes that there is no \"universal moral law,\" only the sense of responsibility (goodness, mercy, charity) that the Other, in a state of vulnerability, calls forth. The proximity of the Other is an important part of Levinas's concept: the face of the Other is what compels the response.\n\nFor Derrida, the foundation of ethics is hospitality, the readiness and the inclination to welcome the Other into one's home. Ethics, he claims, is hospitality. Pure, unconditional hospitality is a desire that underscores the conditional hospitality necessary in our relationships with others. Levinas's and Derrida's theories of ethics and hospitality hold out the possibility of an acceptance of the Other as different but of equal standing. Isolation is not a feasible alternative in the world, therefore, it is important to consider how best to approach these interactions, and to determine what is at stake for ourselves and the others: what conditions of hospitality to impose, and whether or not we have responded to the call of the Other. Further, both theories reveal the importance of considering how best to interact with the Other and others, and what is at stake.\n\nDerrida in an interview with Bennington (1997) summarized \"cosmopolitanism\",\nA further state of cosmopolitanism occurred after the Second World War. As a reaction to the Holocaust and the other massacres, the concept of crimes against humanity became a generally accepted category in international law. This clearly shows the appearance and acceptance of a notion of individual responsibility that is considered to exist toward all of humankind.\n\nPhilosophical cosmopolitans are moral universalists: they believe that all humans, and not merely compatriots or fellow-citizens, come under the same moral standards. The boundaries between nations, states, cultures or societies are therefore morally irrelevant. A widely cited example of a contemporary cosmopolitan is Kwame Anthony Appiah.\n\nSome philosophers and scholars argue that the objective and subjective conditions arising in today's unique historical moment, an emerging planetary phase of civilization, creates a latent potential for the emergence of a cosmopolitan identity as global citizens and possible formation of a global citizens movement. These emerging objective and subjective conditions in the planetary phase include improved and affordable telecommunications; space travel and the first images of our fragile planet floating in the vastness of space; the emergence of global warming and other ecological threats to our collective existence; new global institutions such as the United Nations, World Trade Organization, or International Criminal Court; the rise of transnational corporations and integration of markets often termed economic globalization; the emergence of global NGOs and transnational social movements, such as the World Social Forum; and so on. Globalization, a more common term, typically refers more narrowly to the economic and trade relations and misses the broader cultural, social, political, environmental, demographic, values and knowledge transitions taking place.\n\nA number of contemporary theorists propose, directly and indirectly, various ways of becoming or being a cosmopolitan individual.\n\nThich Nhat Hanh discusses what he calls \"Interbeing\" as a way of living one's life in relation to others; \"Interbeing\" might easily be compared to cosmopolitanism. Nhat Hanh's philosophical beliefs are grounded in the precepts of Buddhist teachings, which involve compassion and understanding to protect and live in harmony with all people, animals, plants, and minerals. He further describes what he calls \"Mindfulness Training of the Order of Interbeing\" as being aware of sufferings created by, but not limited to, the following causes: fanaticism and intolerances that disrupt compassion and living in harmony with others; indoctrination of narrow-minded beliefs; imposition of views; anger; and miscommunication. Understanding and compassion for others seems to be achieved by the understanding of others' suffering and the root causes of suffering. Therefore, to be responsible is to recognize and understand suffering, which then leads to compassion. It is through this process that others can be recognized as people.\n\nOther theorists, philosophers, and activists contend that recognizing suffering is necessary to end violence. In \"Scared Sacred\", Velcrow Ripper takes a journey to different sites of great suffering that ultimately leads him toward developing compassion. In \"The Planet\", Paul Gilroy explores how the construction and naturalization of race and the hierarchies produced by difference shape the hatred of others. It is the deconstruction of these ideologies that can lead to the compassion and humanization of others. Thus individual responsibility is being aware of what Judith Butler calls the precariousness of life in self and other; being a cosmopolitan seems to be, above all, a social, ethical enterprise.\n\nIn \"Cosmopolitanism: Ethics in a World of Strangers\", Kwame Anthony Appiah notices something important about how social ethics seem to operate: Whatever obligation one might have to another, especially a foreign other, that obligation does not supersede the obligations one has to those people most familiar to them. However, as Judith Butler questions, \"at what cost do I establish the familiar as the criterion\" for valuing others? If one values the familiar more than the foreign, what are the consequences? Paul Gilroy offers a possible alternative to this emphasis on familiarity arguing that \"methodical cultivation of a degree of estrangement from one's own culture and history ... might qualify as essential to a cosmopolitan commitment.\" This estrangement entails a \"process of exposure to otherness\" in order to foster \"the irreducible value of diversity within sameness.\" Estrangement, therefore, could lead to de-emphasising the familiar in ethics by integrating otherness.\n\nFor Gilroy, being cosmopolitan seems to involve both a social, ethical enterprise and a cultural enterprise. In \"The Planet\", Gilroy describes the cases of Tom Hurndall and Rachel Corrie; each seems to exemplify what might be considered Gilroy's figure of the cosmopolitan. Both Hurndall and Corrie removed themselves (geographically) from their home cultures, presumably both physically and mentally estranging themselves from their own cultures and histories. Hurndall and Corrie were both killed in 2003 (in separate incidents) and their stories might serve as affirmations of familiarity, rather than models of estrangement. Gilroy’s model of estrangement might actually undermine itself through its examples; this might be construed as a failure of Gilroy’s theory to address the practical difficulties of estranging oneself from the familiar.\n\nThe Venus Project, an international, multidisciplinary educational organization created by Jacque Fresco, works to spread cosmopolitan ideas by transcending artificial boundaries currently separating people and emphasizing an understanding our interdependence with nature and each other.\n\nSome forms of cosmopolitanism also fail to address the potential for economic colonization by powerful countries over less powerful ones. Frantz Fanon, in \"The Wretched of the Earth\", observes that when nations achieved independence from European colonizers, frequently there was no system in place to secure their economic future, and they became \"manager[s] for Western enterprise...in practise set[ting] up its country as the brothel of Europe.\" When \"third world\" nations are drawn into economic partnerships with global capital, ostensibly to improve their national quality of life, often the only ones benefitting from this partnership are well-placed individuals and not the nation itself.\n\nFurther, Mahmood Mamdani in \"Good Muslim, Bad Muslim\" suggests that the imposition of Western cultural norms, democracy and Christianity to name only two, has historically resulted in nationalist violence; however, Appiah has implied that democracy is a pre-requisite for cosmopolitan intervention in developing nations. Cosmopolitanism, in these instances, appears to be a new form of colonization: the powerful exploit the weak and the weak eventually fight back.\n\nMuch of the political thinking of the last two centuries has taken nationalism and the framework of the sovereign nation-state for granted. Now, with the advance of globalization and the increased facility of travel and communication, some thinkers consider that the political system based on the nation-state has become obsolete and that it is time to design a better and more efficient alternative. Jesús Mosterín analyzes how the world political system should be organized in order to maximize individual freedom and individual opportunity. Rejecting as muddled the metaphysical notion of free will, he focuses on political freedom, the absence of coercion or interference by others in personal decisions. Because of the tendencies to violence and aggression that lurk in human nature, some constraint on freedom is necessary for peaceful and fruitful social interaction, but the more freedom we enjoy, the better.\n\nEspecially, there is no rational ground for curtailing the cultural freedoms (of language, religion and customs) in the name of the nation, the church, or the party. From this point of view, the Internet provides a much more attractive model than the nation-state. Neither is there any just reason for restraining the free circulation of people, ideas, or goods. Mosterín thinks that the nation-state is incompatible with the full development of freedom, whose blossoming requires the reorganization of the world political system along cosmopolitan lines. He proposes a world without sovereign nation-states, territorially organized in small autonomous but not-sovereign cantonal polities, complemented by strong world organizations. He emphasizes the difference between international institutions, led by representatives of the national governments, and world or universal institutions, with clearly defined aims served by directors selected by their personal qualifications, independently of any national bias or proportion.\n\nCriticizing the abstract nature of most versions of cosmopolitanism, Charles Blattberg has argued that any viable cosmopolitanism must be \"rooted,\" by which he means based upon a \"global patriotism.\"\n\nMore general philosophical reviews of cosmopolitanism and multiculturalism are also available. Carol Nicholson compares the John Searle's opposition to multiculturalism with Charles Taylor's celebration of it. She uses Richard Rorty as a triangulation point in that he remains neutral about multiculturalism, but his philosophical analysis of truth and practice can be deployed to argue against Searle and in favor of Taylor. At a conference on \"Philosophy in a Multicultural Context\", Rasmus Winther excavated the philosophical assumptions and practices connected with cosmopolitanism and multiculturalism. He develops Bruno Latour's conception of the philosopher as public diplomat.\n\nEmile Durkheim (1858–1917) observed the development of what he called the 'cult of the individual', which is a new religion that replaced the Christianity that was dying out, and which is centered around the sacredness of human dignity. This new religion would provide the new foundations of Western society, and these foundations are closely related to human rights and individual nation's constitutions. A society's sacred object would be the individual's human dignity, and the moral code guiding the society is found in that country's way of interpreting human dignity and human rights. Thus, rather than finding solidarity through national culture, or a particular traditional religious doctrine, society would be unified by its adherence to political values, i.e. individual rights and a defence of human dignity. Durkheim's cult of the individual has many similarities to John Rawls' political liberalism, which Rawls developed almost a century after Durkheim.\n\nUlrich Beck (May 15, 1944 – January 1, 2015) was a sociologist who posed the new concept of cosmopolitan critical theory in direct opposition to traditional nation-state politics. Nation-state theory sees power relations only among different state actors, and excludes a global economy, or subjugates it to the nation-state model. Cosmopolitanism sees global capital as a possible threat to the nation state and places it within a meta-power game in which global capital, states and civil society are its players.\n\nIt is important to mark a distinction between Beck's cosmopolitanism and the idea of a world state. For Beck, imposing a single world order was considered hegemonic at best and ethnocentric at worst. Rather, political and sociological cosmopolitanism rests upon these fundamental foundations:\n\nA number of philosophers, including Emmanuel Levinas, have introduced the concept of the \"Other\". For Levinas, the Other is given context in ethics and responsibility; we should think of the Other as anyone and everyone outside ourselves. According to Levinas, our initial interactions with the Other occur before we form a will—the ability to make choices. The Other addresses us and we respond: even the absence of response is a response. We are thus conditioned by the Other's address and begin to form culture and identity. After the formation of the will, we choose whether to identify with the addresses by others and, as a result, continue the process of forming identity.\n\nDuring this process, it is possible to recognize ourselves in our interactions with Others. Even in situations where we engage in the most minimal interaction, we ascribe identities to others and simultaneously to ourselves. Our dependence on the Other for the continuous formation of language, culture, and identity means that we are responsible to others and that they are responsible to us. Also once we've formed a will, it becomes possible to recognize this social interdependence. When we have gained the capacity for recognition, the imperative is to perform that recognition and thereby become ethically responsible to the Other in conscience.\n\nCosmopolitanism shares some aspects of universalism – namely the globally acceptable notion of human dignity that must be protected and enshrined in international law. However, the theory deviates in recognising the differences between world cultures.\n\nIn addition, cosmopolitanism calls for equal protection of the environment and against the negative side effects of technological development. Human dignity, however, is convoluted because it is necessary to first distinguish who has the right to be respected and second to consider what rights are protectable. Under cosmopolitanism, all humans have rights; however, history shows that recognition of these rights is not guaranteed.\n\nAs an example, Judith Butler discusses a Western discourse of \"human\" in \"Precarious Life: The Powers of Mourning and Violence\". Butler works through the idea of \"human\" and notes that \"human\" has been \"naturalized in its 'Western' mold by the contemporary workings of humanism\" (32). Thus, there is the idea that not all \"human\" lives will be supported in the same way, indeed, that some human lives are worth more protection than others. Others have extended this idea to examine how animals might be reconfigured as cosmopolitan, present the world-over with varying identities in different places.\n\nThis idea is reiterated in Sunera Thobani's \"Exalted Subjects: Studies in the Making of Race and Nation in Canada,\" where she discusses a discourse in which Muslim people fall into a good/bad dichotomy: a \"good Muslim\" is one who has been Westernized and a \"bad Muslim\" is one who visibly rejects Western cultural influences. Thobani notes that it is through media representations that these ideas become naturalized. Individuals who embrace Western ideals are considered fully \"human\" and are more likely to be afforded dignity and protection than those who defend their non-Westernized cultural identities.\n\nAccording to those who follow Beck's reasoning, a cosmopolitan world would consist of a plurality of states, which would use global and regional consensus to gain greater bargaining power against opponents. States would also utilize the power of civil society actors such as Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and consumers to strengthen their legitimacy and enlist the help of investors to pursue a cosmopolitan agenda.\n\nOther authors imagine a cosmopolitan world moving beyond today's conception of nation-states. These scholars argue that a truly cosmopolitan identity of Global Citizen will take hold, diminishing the importance of national identities. The formation of a global citizens movement would lead to the establishment of democratic global institutions, creating the space for global political discourse and decisions, would in turn reinforce the notion of citizenship at a global level. Nested structures of governance balancing the principles of irreducibility (i.e., the notion that certain problems can only be addressed at the global level, such as global warming) and subsidiarity (i.e., the notion that decisions should be made at as local a level possible) would thus form the basis for a cosmopolitan political order.\n\nDaniele Archibugi proposes a renewed model for global citizenship: institutional cosmopolitanism. It advocates some reforms in global governance to allow world citizens to take more directly a part into political life. A number of proposals have been made in order to make this possible. Cosmopolitan democracy, for example, suggests strengthening the United Nations and other international organizations by creating a World Parliamentary Assembly.\n\n\"Cosmopolitanism\" became a rhetorical weapon used by nationalists against \"alien\" ideas that went counter to orthodoxy. European Jews were frequently accused of being \"rootless cosmopolitans.\" Joseph Stalin in a 1946 Moscow speech attacked writings in which “the positive Soviet hero is derided and inferior before all things foreign and cosmopolitanism that we all fought against from the time of Lenin, characteristic of the political leftovers, is many times applauded.” In the 21st century the epithet became a weapon used by Vladimir Putin in Russia, and by nationalists in Hungary and Poland. In modern times, Stephen Miller, a Trump administration senior policy advisor, has publicly criticized CNN reporter Jim Acosta as exhibiting \"cosmopolitan bias\" during a discussion on the government's new immigration plan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21128831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21128831", "title": "Counterintelligence state", "text": "Counterintelligence state\n\nCounterintelligence state (sometimes also called intelligence state, securocracy or spookocracy) is a state where the state security service penetrates and permeates all societal institutions, including the military. The term has been applied by historians and political commentators to the former Soviet Union, the former German Democratic Republic, Cuba after the 1959 revolution, Iraq under Saddam Hussein, post-Soviet Russia under Vladimir Putin and the United States of America, especially after the Global surveillance disclosures.\n\nAccording to one definition, \"The counterintelligence state is characterized by the presence of a large, elite force acting as a watchdog of a security defined as broadly that the state must maintain an enormous vigilance and enforcement apparatus... This apparatus is not accountable to the public and enjoys immense police powers... Whether the civilian government is able to control the security bodies is an open question; indeed \"the civilian government is so penetrated by the apparatus that there is no clear distinction between the two.\"\"\n\nThere was a massive security apparatus in the Soviet Union to prevent any opposition, and \"every facet of daily life fell into the KGB's domain.\"\n\nUndercover staff of the KGB included three major categories:\n\nThe \"active reserve\" included KGB officers with a military rank who worked undercover. \"Trusted contacts\" were high placed civilians who collaborated with the KGB without signing any official working agreements, such as directors of personnel departments at various institutions, academics, deans, or writers and actors. Informers were citizens secretly recruited by the KGB, sometimes using forceful recruitment methods, such as blackmail. The precise number of people from various categories remains unknown, but one of the estimates was 11 million \"informers\" in the Soviet Union, or one out of every eighteen adult citizens.\n\nA \"Law on Foreign Intelligence\" adopted in August 1992 provided conditions for penetration by former KGB officers to all levels of the government and economy, since it stipulated that \"career personnel may occupy positions in ministries, departments, establishments, enterprises and organizations in accordance with the requirements of this law without compromising their association with foreign intelligence agencies.\" According to a Russian banker, \"All big companies have to put people from the security services on the board of directors... and we know that when Lubyanka calls, they have to answer them.\" A current FSB colonel explained that \"We must make sure that companies don't make decisions that are not in the interest of the state\".\n\nOlga Kryshtanovskaya, director of the Moscow-based Center for the Study of Elites, has found in the beginning of the 2000s that up to 78% of 1,016 leading political figures in post-Soviet Russia have served previously in organizations affiliated with the KGB or FSB. She said: \"If in the Soviet period and the first post-Soviet period, the KGB and FSB people were mainly involved in security issues, now half are still involved in security but the other half are involved in business, political parties, NGOs, regional governments, even culture... They started to use all political institutions.\"\n\n\"Under Russian Federation President and former career foreign intelligence officer Vladimir Putin, an 'FSB State' composed of chekists has been established and is consolidating its hold on the country. Its closest partners are organized criminals. In a world marked by a globalized economy and information infrastructure, and with transnational terrorism groups utilizing all available means to achieve their goals and further their interests, Russian intelligence collaboration with these elements is potentially disastrous.\", said politologist Julie Anderson.\n\nHistorian Yuri Felshtinsky compared the takeover of Russian state by siloviks with an imaginary scenario of Gestapo coming to power in Germany after World War II. He noted a fundamental difference between the secret police and ordinary political parties, even totalitarian ones, such as the Soviet Communist Party. The Russian secret police organizations use various violent active measures. Hence, according to Felstinsky, they killed Alexander Litvinenko and directed Russian apartment bombings and other terrorism acts in Russia to frighten the civilian population and achieve their political objectives.\n\nFormer KGB officer Konstantin Preobrazhenskiy shares similar ideas. When asked \"How many people in Russia work in FSB?\", he replied: \"Whole country. FSB owns everything, including Russian Army and even own Church, the Russian Orthodox Church... Putin managed to create new social system in Russia\" .\n\n\"Vladimir Putin's Russia is a new phenomenon in Europe: a state defined and dominated by former and active-duty security and intelligence officers. Not even Fascist Italy, Nazi Germany, or the Soviet Union – all undoubtedly much worse creations than Putins government – were as top-heavy with intelligence talent\", said intelligence expert Marc Gerecht.\n\nThe former NSA official William Binney describes the methods of the National Security Agency as Gestapo and Stasi-like and characterizes the NSA as corrupt and power-hungry. He takes the line that the USA is not far away from becoming to a totalitarian state.\n\n"}
{"id": "1643771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1643771", "title": "Delegate model of representation", "text": "Delegate model of representation\n\nThe delegate model of representation is a model of a representative democracy. In this model, constituents elect their representatives as delegates for their constituency. These delegates act only as a mouthpiece for the wishes of their constituency/ state, and have no from the constituency only the autonomy to vote for the actual representatives of the state. This model does not provide representatives the luxury of acting in their own conscience. Essentially, the representative acts as the voice of those who are (literally) not present.\n\nThis model was contested by Edmund Burke (1729-1797), an Irish philosopher, who also created the trustee model of representation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56100520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56100520", "title": "Deliberative referendum", "text": "Deliberative referendum\n\nA deliberative referendum is a referendum that increases public deliberation through purposeful institutional design. The term ‵deliberative referendum′ stems from deliberative democracy, which emphasises that ″the legitimacy of decisions can be increased if ... decisions are preceded by authentic deliberation.″ Deliberative design features can promote public deliberation prior to and during the referendum vote to increase its actual and perceived legitimacy. Deliberative referendums encourage open-minded and informed reasoning, rather than rigid ″pre-formed opinions.″ ″[A]fter deliberations, citizens routinely alter their preferences″.\n\nIn practice, a deliberative referendum includes a variety of institutional design features. These include using a citizens' jury to set referendum questions and educate the public, further public education via mandatory interactive tutorials before voting, and focusing referendums on broad values rather than technicalities. Some authors note how legal regulation can also aid referendum deliberation. \n\nOne deliberative referendum method increasingly in use is the Citizens' Initiative Review; this is a randomly-selected body, similar to a citizen's jury, convened specifically to deliberate on a ballot initiative or referendum that voters in the same jurisdiction (such as a city, state, province, or country) will later vote on. \n\nConstitutional deliberative referendums can ″provide citizens with a meaningful say in determining the most fundamental constitutional decisions that affect their lives.″ Voter deliberation is significant here as the referendum result could change the state’s political status or impact the enjoyment of human rights.\n"}
{"id": "30685435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30685435", "title": "Demeny voting", "text": "Demeny voting\n\nDemeny voting is the provision of a political voice for children by allowing parents or guardians to vote on their behalf. The term was coined by Warren C. Sanderson in 2007. Under a Demeny voting system, each parent would cast a proxy vote, worth half a vote, for each of their dependent children, thus allowing for a split vote if the parents' political views differ. Once children reach the minimum voting age, their parents would no longer vote on their behalf.\n\nDemeny voting is named after demographer Paul Demeny, who came up with the idea in 1986. Demeny argued that children \"should not be left disenfranchised for some 18 years: let custodial parents exercise the children's voting rights until they come of age\". Demeny's motivation behind proposing such a system was to \"make the political system more responsive to the young generation's interests\" and was part of a broader set of policy proposals aimed at combating the low fertility rate in certain countries.\n\nThe idea, however, is older than Demeny's idea; it was regularly discussed in France in the 1920s and was almost adopted by the National Assembly.\n\nIn Germany the idea was even first discussed in the 1910s. In the 1970s and the 1980s lawyers and political scientists began a discussion which is still going on. In\n2003 and 2008 the German parliament had votes on whether to introduce a \"Kinderwahlrecht\" (which is the term in German), but the proposals were defeated. In 2011 Hermann started a comprehensive economic approach to discuss it.\n\nPieter Vanhuysse (head of research and Deputy Director at the European Centre for Social Welfare Policy and Research, Vienna) argued in 2013 that in Austria, where there are relatively strong pro-elderly policies, that \"the time is ripe for at least opening a clear-headed and empirically informed democratic debate about the radical idea of giving each parent one half extra vote, to be used on behalf of each under-age child until that child reaches legal voting age\".\n\nJapan has discussed Demeny voting as a possible answer to its aging population, which gives disproportionate voice to the elderly as a result of their increasing numbers. This follows the publication of a paper by Reiko Aoki of the Centre for Intergenerational Studies at Hitotsubashi University and Rhema Vaithianathan of the University of Auckland. On 2 March 2011, the Centre for Intergenerational Studies at Hitotsubashi University hosted a conference on Demeny voting. Aoki and Vaithianathan have also conducted a number of surveys on voter attitude to Demeny Voting and found that a considerable percentage of respondents would cast their children's vote differently to their own. In July 2013, Nikkei in Japan wrote a major editorial supporting the idea as part of a debate on constitutional reform in Japan.\n\nIn Hungary, the ruling coalition has been advocating Demeny voting, but admitted in April 2011 that it probably won't come into practice for some time.\n\nPaul Demeny discussed the idea on a CBC interview. Professor Miles Corak from the University of Ottawa has also written a blog on the idea and promoted it in Canada. He suggests that it is supported on a humanitarian basis since the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child provides that children be given civil and political rights. He suggests that given the evidence that households where mothers control the purse-strings spend more on their children, it is mothers who ought to be given the proxy vote until the child comes of age. Professor Corak's thesis has been taken up by journalist Chrystia Freeland .\n\nAoki and Vaithianathan argue that Demeny voting is justified because it reduces gerontocracy. They calculate that Demeny voting in Japan would increase the parent voting bloc to 37% and lower the over-55-year-old voter-bloc to 35%.\n\nStefan Olsson argues that \"the delegation of the children's right to vote is not any stranger than when adults delegate political authority to their elected representative. After the election, the representatives have the right to make use of this authority.\" (page 71). He suggests that delegating a child's authority to the parent is perfectly reasonable. Olsson also argues that there are other areas where parents are delegated authority such as what the child eats, where he goes to school, and children are regularly represented in a court of law by parents. He says that \"Arguing that parents cannot act as their children's representative because they might abuse their position becomes absurd in comparison to all the other powers parents already have over their children.\" (page 72).\n\nIt has been suggested it would make it harder for elderly voters to vote in governments that borrow money for social security but which will only be paid back by future generations. It may ensure that the needs of children, such as education, childcare, and healthcare, are better taken into account. It could also make governments more ecologically conscious as younger people will be more affected by poor environmental policy than older voters. Finally, extending the vote to children may increase their involvement in politics, encouraging children to grow up and be more active citizens.\n\nOpponents see Demeny voting as a violation of a fundamental normative principle of democracy: 'one person, one vote'. They point to the fact that children below the minimum voting age can hold different political opinions and thus prefer different parties to their parents. There is no evidence that parents would split their votes. Instead, they would have plural votes for the same party they prefer (and have formerly preferred).\n\nSome writers argue that, like marrying or making a will, voting is an exercise of the informed will and cannot legitimately be done by proxy. Others have argued that with the right to vote comes other obligations of citizenship, such as military service. Since children do not have those obligations, it is argued they should also not have such rights. Some people worry that the power of older votes will be diluted and the interests of children might be prioritised above those of the elderly.\n\nYet others have argued that lowering the voting age to 13 or 14 or lower would be more beneficial, as many children are able to express complex opinions at that age.\nSome scholars advocate a 'flexible voting age' building on the willingness of minors to participate in elections. The ‘flexible voting age’ proposal contains a need for adolescents to register in voting lists and so differs from proposals that come under the name of ‘voting from birth on’ or ‘voting age zero’. It takes into account that infants, small children and many younger adolescents will have no interest in political participation. \n\nJon Elster has argued that if the justification for Demeny is on the basis of consequences, then said consequences should be voted on, rather than changing the voting demographic. His argument is that to advance Demeny voting on the grounds that it leads to desirable consequences is pointless, since it will be blocked by exactly those groups who will block the desired consequences (e.g. raising the pension age).\n"}
{"id": "3628628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3628628", "title": "Dual mandate", "text": "Dual mandate\n\nA dual mandate is the practice in which elected officials serve in more than one elected or other public position simultaneously. This practice is sometimes known as double jobbing in Britain and \"cumul des mandats\" in France; not to be confused with double dipping in the United States, i.e. being employed by and receiving a retirement pension from the same public authority at the same time. Thus, if someone who is already mayor of a town or city councillor becomes elected as MP or senator at the national or state legislature and retains both positions, this is a dual mandate.\n\nDual mandates are sometimes prohibited by law. For example, in federal states, federal office holders are often not permitted to hold state office. In states with a presidential system of government, membership of the executive, the legislature, or the judiciary generally disqualifies a person from simultaneously holding office in either of the other two bodies. In states with bicameral legislatures, one usually cannot simultaneously be a member of both houses. The holder of one office who wins election or appointment to another where a dual mandate is prohibited must either resign the former office or refuse the new one.\n\nA member of the European Parliament (MEP) may not be a member of the legislature of a member state. This dates from a 2002 European Union decision, which came into effect at the 2004 European elections in most member states, at the 2007 national election in the Republic of Ireland, and at the 2009 European elections in the United Kingdom.\n\nOriginally, MEPs were nominated by national parliamentarians from among their own membership. Prior to the first direct elections in 1979, the dual mandate was discussed. Some advocated banning it, arguing that MEPs who were national MPs were often absent from one assembly in order to attend the other (indeed, the early death of Peter Michael Kirk was blamed by his election agent on overwork resulting from his dual mandate). Others claimed that members with a dual mandate enhanced communication between national and European assemblies. There was a particular interest in the dual mandate question in Denmark: Eurosceptic Danish Social Democrats supported a compulsory dual mandate, to ensure that the state's MEPs expressed the same views as the national legislature, and the government of Denmark supported a compulsory dual mandate when the other eight member states supported an optional dual mandate. However, a 1976 European Parliament law preparing for the 1979 elections expressly permitted a dual mandate. In 1978 the German politician Willy Brandt suggested that one third of MEPs should be national MPs.\n\nDual mandates are rare in Australia. It is illegal to be a member of any state parliament and the Australian parliament simultaneously. A member of a state parliament seeking federal office must resign before seeking election to the Federal Parliament. It is possible but unusual to be a member of a local government and another parliament.\n\nIn 2004 Clover Moore became the independent member for Sydney in the NSW Parliament without resigning as Lord Mayor of Sydney. The issue of Moore holding both positions had brought the issue to the forefront in Australia and led the premier of New South Wales in 2012 to propose a new law, dubbed in the media as the \"Get Clover bill\", which banned this dual mandate. The proposed law was adopted and in September 2012 Moore resigned her NSW seat soon after she was reelected as mayor.\n\nAs in neighboring France, the culture of dual mandates is very strong in Belgium and that country currently has one of the highest percentage of dual mandate holders (MPs, aldermen, municipal councilors) in the world. During the 2003–2009 period, 87.3% of members of the Walloon (French-speaking) Parliament held dual mandates, followed by 86,5% in the Flemish (Dutch-speaking) Parliament, 82,0% in the Chamber of Representatives (the Federal lower house) and 68.9% in the Senate. During that same period, 76.5% of all European Parliament MPs from Belgium held dual mandates.\n\nMore than one fifth of all Belgian MPs were mayor at the same time with, by far, by the highest proportion (40%) to be found in the Walloon Parliament.\n\nIn Canada dual mandates are rare and are frequently barred by legislation at the federal, provincial, or territorial level. At the federal level, section 39 of the Constitution Act, 1867 prevents a Senator from being elected as a Member of Parliament; similarly, s. 65(c) of the Canada Elections Act makes members of provincial or territorial legislatures ineligible to be candidates to the House of Commons. At the provincial level, the situation varies from one province to another.\n\nIn other circumstances, an elected official almost always resigns their first post when elected to another. Dual representation has occurred occasionally when the member was elected to a second office shortly before their other term of office was due to expire anyway and whereby the short time frame would not merit the cost of a special by-election. In 1996, for example, Jenny Kwan continued to be a Vancouver city councillor after being elected to the provincial legislature. The British Columbia legislature had debated a \"Dual Office Prohibition Act\" which failed to pass second reading.\n\nIn the first few years after Confederation in 1867, however, double mandates were common. In the first House of Commons, there were fifteen Members of Parliament from Quebec who simultaneously held seats in the National Assembly of Quebec, including the Premier Pierre-Joseph-Olivier Chauveau. There were also four members of Parliament from Ontario who also held seats in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario, including the first two Premiers, John Sandfield Macdonald and Edward Blake. Other prominent federal politicians with double mandates included George-Étienne Cartier, Christopher Dunkin, Hector Langevin, the second Premier of British Columbia Amor de Cosmos, and two members from Manitoba, Donald Smith and Pierre Delorme. Another famous example is that of the \"de facto\" leader of the Liberals, George Brown, who ran for both federal and provincial seats in 1867. Brown lost both elections, and soon thereafter began campaigning for the prohibition of double mandates.\n\nThe double mandate was prohibited from the start in Nova Scotia and New Brunswick; it was abolished in Ontario in 1872, in Manitoba in 1873, and in 1873 the federal parliament passed a law against it; Quebec passed its own law abolishing it in 1874.\n\nHowever, dual mandates within a province remained legal. From 1867 to 1985, 305 mayors were also members of the Quebec legislative assembly (MLA). The two best-known cases were those of S.N. Parent who was simultaneously mayor of Quebec City (1894-1906), MLA and Premier of Quebec (1900-1905). Longtime Montreal Mayor Camilien Houde (1928–32, 1938–40) was also simultaneously MLA for a total of 2 /1/2 years during his mandates as mayor. However that type of dual mandate had virtually ceased when laws adopted in 1978 and 1980 prohibited MLAs from holding any local mandate.\n\nIt is common for the MPs of the Finnish Parliament to hold a mandate as a member of their local municipal council as well. 79 percent of MPs elected to parliament in 2011 were also municipal council members.\n\nThe \"cumul des mandats\" (, \"accumulation of mandates\") is a common practice in the French Fifth Republic (1958–present). It consists of simultaneously holding two or more elective offices at different levels of government — local, regional, national and European — as mayors, MPs, senators, Members of the European Parliament, and President of the General Council in their home regions. Sometimes, officials hold as many as four positions. While officials may not be elected to more than one office at the same level (such as being both an MP and a senator), they may hold offices in any combination at the municipal, departmental, regional, national and European levels. The \"cumul des mandats\" is controversial in France, being accused of fostering absenteeism and cronyism.\n\nSeveral laws to limit the practice have been introduced in recent decades. By far the most coveted local mandate is that of mayor, traditionally a highly prestigious function in France.\n\nA hotly debated law to prohibit all dual mandates, to take effect in 2017, was adopted in July 2013. Following the adoption of the law, former President Sarkozy and other members of the opposition UMP party have declared that if elected in 2017, their party would revise or even revoke that law. Many Socialist Party MPs and senators have also expressed their unease with the law imposed by President Hollande and might welcome a review of the law. In the meantime, the ubiquitous 'député-maire' (MP and mayor) and 'sénateur-maire' are still familiar figures of the French political scene.\n\n\nMultiple mandates at the legislative level\n\nParliamentary mandates are incompatible with each other:\n\n\nA member from one of the above assemblies can not combine its mandate with more than one of the following mandates :\n\n\nExceptions: They can hold a third office in a town of less than 3,500 inhabitants.\n\nThey may also hold a third office as a councillor, vice-president or president of an Urban community, an Agglomeration community or a \"Communauté de communes\", as these terms are elected by indirect universal suffrage, by municipal councils from among the councillors.\n\nFor example, a member of the National Assembly has the right to be general/regional councillor or President of a regional/general council. They cannot hold a third office unless they are the mayor, deputy mayor or municipal councillor of a city of less than 3,500 inhabitants.\n\nIn 2008, 85% of members of parliament held multiple posts Following the June 2012 legislative elections, it was still the case that 85% of all National Assembly members (438 deputies out of 577) held a double mandate (often as mayor of a mid- to large-size city) and 33 have four mandates. Currently, out of 348 senators, 152 are also mayors.\n\nThe accumulation of local mandates\n\nThey cannot have more than two local mandates.\n\nThe following mandates are incompatible each other:\n\n\nFor example, an elected official cannot be mayor and President of the Regional Council. However, all other local mandates are cumulative. A mayor can also be a general councillor and a president of a Regional Council can also be deputy-mayor of a city.\n\nExceptions are the same as those for parliamentarians (Cities of less than 3,500 inhabitants and the intercommunalities)\n\nThe accumulation of mandates and governmental functions \n\nA member of the French government cannot be a member of any assembly. However, he may retain any local mandate he or she holds. A cabinet minister can exercise a maximum of two local mandates in addition to his or her government function.\n\nFor example, the Prime Minister, a Minister or Secretary of State can be mayor, or President of a general, regional or intercommunal council or sit in one of these assemblies.\n\nCurrently, over two-thirds of the members of the French government are engaged in one or two more local mandates.\n\nThe rationales for holding multiple offices are varied. Holding a seat in the Senate, National Assembly, or European Parliament gives local mayors a valuable method of tapping funds to develop their home cities and regions. It also can give opportunities to curry favor with other important officials, with opportunities at each level. Salaries for positions can be combined (to a point) as well. For politicians with national ambitions, retaining a position in a local town can give them a down-to-earth aura that can appeal to voters. These advantages have made politicians very wary of reducing the practice of the \"cumul\" with legislation despite other moves to end perceptions of favoritism and corruption among politicians.\n\nIt has been common practice in France since the French Third Republic (1870). But there are also many cases of \"cumul\" before this period, for example, the writer Alexis de Tocqueville was a member from 1839 to 1851. In 1849 he was appointed Foreign Affairs minister, and at the same time he was elected President of the General Council of Manche from 1849 to 1851 (councillor from 1842 to 1852).\n\nThere are several reasons for this phenomenon, and one of them is that France has a long tradition of centralization, compared to countries such as Germany, Italy, and Spain. Local governments have less power and skills than that the \"Länder\" of Germany, or \"Autonomous Communities\" of Spain. The local mandates in France are less important than in other countries, and therefore politicians have more time to devote to a parliamentary mandate.\n\nThe \"cumul\" is a widespread practice and has grown much more prevalent in modern France. In 1946, 36 percent of deputies in the National Assembly held an additional office. By 1956, this number had already increased to 42 percent and by 1970, 70 percent of deputies held an additional elected office; in 1988, 96 percent did.\n\nMany of the most prominent politicians in France make use or have made use of the \"cumul\". Jacques Chirac served as Mayor of Paris between 1977 and 1995. During this same time, Chirac also served as a deputy in the National Assembly from Corrèze, briefly as Member of the European Parliament, and even as Prime Minister between 1986 and 1988. Former Prime Minister Pierre Bérégovoy served concurrently as mayor of Nevers and deputy of Nièvre in the mid-1980s.\n\nAccording to French law against accumulation of electoral mandates, Yves Jégo should have resigned from one of the following mandates before the 21st of April 2010 (one month after the Regional elections) :\nBut giving as a pretext a legal complaint from the Front National's candidates, he hold the three of them during more than one year, plus his local mandate of president of the « communauté de communes des deux fleuves » (CC2F).\n\nLionel Jospin (Prime Minister from 1997 to 2002) imposed on his government ministers an unwritten rule of having no local office. For example, Catherine Trautmann stepped down as Mayor of Strasbourg (while remaining a member of the city council) to become Minister of Culture; conversely, Martine Aubry stepped down from the Ministry of Labour when elected Mayor of Lille in 2001. This rule was more or less upheld by Jacques Chirac during the governments of Jean-Pierre Raffarin and Dominique de Villepin for the 2002-2007 term, with a few notable exceptions (Jean-François Copé was mayor of Meaux, Nicolas Sarkozy was President of the Hauts-de-Seine General Council); for instance, Philippe Douste-Blazy had to step down from the Toulouse mayorship upon joining the government.\n\n, no such rule was stated for the François Fillon government: Alain Juppé, former Minister for Development was mayor of Bordeaux, and was defeated in his National Assembly constituency (a third cumulative mandate) by 50.9% to 49.1% of the votes by the Socialist candidate. Additionally, Hervé Morin, the Minister of Defense, is mayor of Épaignes, and Éric Besson, Minister of Immigration and National Identity, is the mayor of Donzère.\n\nIn Hong Kong, dual mandate is common for members of the territory's Legislative Council, who serve concurrently as members of one of the territory's eighteen district councils. Before the abolition of the two municipal councils in the territory in 1999, it was common for politicians to serve concurrently at all three levels.\n\nThe instability caused by the close result of the 1981 general election was exacerbated by the number of government TDs who also served as MEPs and for whom the opposition refused pairing when they were abroad. This led to further elections in February 1982 and again in November.\n\nIn 1991, cabinet ministers and junior ministers were prohibited from serving as local councillors. The prohibition was extended to other Oireachtas members by the Local Government (No. 2) Act 2003, an amendment to the Local Government Act 2001. Attempts to include it in the 2001 Act failed after a rebellion by Fianna Fáil backbenchers; the 2003 Act passed after a compensation package was agreed for those losing out.\n\nThe 2001 Act prohibited being a member of multiple county or city councils, or multiple town councils, or both a town and city council. Brian O'Shea was a member of both Waterford City Council and Waterford County Council until 1993. County councillors were allowed to sit on a town council, and many did so. The 2003 Act provided that a candidate elected simultaneously to a forbidden combination of local councils has three days to choose which seat to take up, with the other or others then being considered vacant. The Local Government Reform Act 2014 abolished town councils and instead subdivided most counties into municipal districts; the county council's members are the district councillors for all districts within the county.\n\nSome members of the Irish republican party Sinn Féin held the office as a Member of The Northern Ireland Assembly and Member of Parliament within the respective houses. Martin McGuinness, former Deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland held the office as Member of the Northern Ireland Assembly and simultaneously was a MP in the House of Commons. However, in 2012 Sinn Féin committed to end dual jobbing; this resulted in McGuinness' resignation from the House of Commons in 2013.\n\nPer the Spanish Constitution, legislators in the regional assemblies of the Autonomous Communities are barred from being elected to a seat in the Congress of Deputies, the lower house of the Cortes Generales. More precisely, regional legislators can run for the seat, but if elected they must choose between the regional and national parliaments. Nevertheless, members of lower tiers of the Spanish decentralized structure, such as provincial councillors or members of local councils, including mayors, can and have held seats in the Congress of Deputies. The rule barring regional legislators does not apply to the upper house of the Cortes, the Senate: in fact, regional legislatures are entitled to appoint a varying number of members from their ranks to the Senate, according to the population of the region. Currently, the Autonomous Communities appoint 56 Senators, the other 208 being directly elected in general elections.\n\nAt the EU level, prior to the 2009 European Parliament elections, there were a small number of members of the European Parliament who were also members of the House of Lords. However, it is now European law that a member of the European Parliament (MEP) may not be a member of the legislature of a member state. This, with regard to the United Kingdom, therefore applies to the House of Commons and the House of Lords, as the constituent bodies forming that member state's legislature. As it is impossible to disclaim a life peerage, it has been ruled that peers (who sit as members of the House of Lords) must take a \"leave of absence\" from the Lords in order to be an MEP; this is also the procedure for when a peer is the UK's European Commissioner, which has in recent times usually been the case.\n\nThere have been members of the House of Commons also holding seats in the devolved bodies in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. The November 2009 report by the Committee on Standards in Public Life into the controversy surrounding MPs' expenses noted that \"double jobbing\" was \"unusually ingrained in the political culture\" of Northern Ireland, where 16 of 18 MPs were MLAs, compared to one Scottish MP being an MSP (First Minister Alex Salmond), and no Welsh MPs being AMs. The Committee recommended that Westminster ban multiple mandates from the 2011 assembly elections. Parties in Northern Ireland agreed to a ban from the 2015 elections. The ability to dual mandate between the Assembly of Northern Ireland and the House of Commons (or the Irish Dáil Éireann) ended as from the Northern Ireland Assembly election, 2016 following the Northern Ireland (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2014. The Wales Act 2014 also applied a similar restriction on the National Assembly for Wales (in that its members cannot also be members of the House of Commons) as from the assembly election in 2016.\n\nNothing in UK law prohibits a member of the House of Commons or the House of Lords from being simultaneously a mayor, council leader, or other locally elected official. Thus Ken Livingstone remained MP for Brent East until the dissolution of Parliament despite his election as Mayor of London a year before. Boris Johnson resigned his seat as MP for Henley on being elected mayor in 2008, but became an MP again in 2015, a year prior to the end of his second term as mayor (he did not seek a third term). Sadiq Khan, elected as the Labour mayor in the 2016 election, resigned his seat as MP for Tooting soon after his election to the mayoralty. Numerous members of the House of Lords however hold positions in local government.\n\nAt a lower level, it is common for people to hold seats on both a district council and a county council. Several MPs have also retained their council seats, most often until the expiration of their terms; Mike Hancock simultaneously held a council seat and a seat in Parliament between his election to Parliament in 1997 and his defeat in the local elections in 2014.\n\n\"The term dual mandate is also applied to the twin objectives of the Federal Reserve Bank: to control inflation and promote employment.\"\n\nThe practice is banned by the constitutions of many U.S. states, but as of 1992 it was still legal in Connecticut, Illinois, New Jersey and New York. The U.S. Constitution prohibits members of the Senate or House from holding positions within the Executive Branch (Art. I, Sec. 6, cl. 2), and limits the president to his salary as chief executive, saying he may not \"receive... any other Emolument from the United States, or any of them\" (Art. II, Sec. 1, cl. 7).\n\nIn April 1984, Governor of Florida Bob Graham received legislation that passed unanimously in both houses of the Florida Legislature that would forbid public officials from receiving retirement pay and regular pay simultaneously for the same position.\n\nIn August 2008, Governor of Illinois Rod Blagojevich proposed legislation that would prohibit dual-office holding as part of changes to the state's ethics bill, stating that \"dual government employment creates the potential for a conflict of interest because a legislator's duties to his or her constituents and his or her public employer are not always consistent.\" Critics, such as Representative Susana Mendoza, called the actions \"spite\" on the part of the governor.\n\nFulfilling a campaign pledge that he had made when first running for the New Jersey Legislature, Jack Sinagra sponsored a bill passed by the New Jersey Senate in 1992 that would ban the practice. At the time that the legislation first passed, there were some twenty elected officials who served in the New Jersey Legislature and another elected office, including Assemblyman Bill Pascrell, who was also mayor of Paterson, New Jersey; State Senator Ronald Rice, who also served on the Newark City Council; and Assemblyman John E. Rooney, who was also mayor of Northvale. These officials protested the proposed ban as interfering with the will of voters to elect officials as they see fit. A newspaper called former State senator Wayne R. Bryant the \"king of double dipping\" because he was collecting salaries from as many as four public jobs he held simultaneously.\n\nGovernor of New Jersey Jon Corzine signed legislation in September 2007 that banned the practice statewide, but the 19 legislators holding multiple offices as of February 1, 2008, were grandfathered into the system and allowed to retain their positions. As of January 2013, only four of the nineteen (listed in bold) continue to hold a dual mandate.\nSenators:\nAssembly members:\n\nIn February 2001, Jean Schmidt introduced legislation in the Ohio House of Representatives that would forbid public officials from receiving a government pension while still serving in office.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "745163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=745163", "title": "Dual power (Russian Revolution)", "text": "Dual power (Russian Revolution)\n\n\"Dual Power\" () was a term first used by communist Bolshevik leader Vladimir Lenin (1870-1924), which described a situation in the wake of the February Revolution, the first of two Russian Revolutions in that tumultuous year of 1917. Two powers coexisted with each other and competed for legitimacy: the Soviets (workers councils), particularly the Petrograd Soviet, and the continuing official state apparatus of the Provisional Government of democratic socialists.\n\nLenin argued that this essentially unstable situation constituted a unique opportunity for the Soviets and Bolsheviks to seize power by smashing the weak tottering Provisional Government and establishing themselves as the basis of a new form of state power.\n\nThis notion has informed the strategies of subsequent communist-led revolutions elsewhere in the world, including the Chinese Revolution of 1949 led by Mao Zedong (1893-1976) after the Chinese Civil War (1927-1931 and 1946-1949) and in eastern Europe after World War II (1939-1945), such as in Czechoslovakia where after three years of post-war agitation and occupation by the invading Russian Red Army finally overthrew a moderate government with the Communists seizing power in 1948.\n\nAfter Tsar Nicholas II abdicated the throne, the resulting February Revolution led to the establishment of the Provisional Government and its counterpart, the Petrograd Soviet. The Provisional Government was composed of former State Duma representatives with approval from the Petrograd Soviet, whereas the Petrograd Soviet was made up of socialist leaders elected by a proletariat constituency. With the Russian government moving from an autocracy to this system of \"dual power\" with the Provisional Government and Petrograd Soviet constantly vying for power, there was much confusion on how both could coexist and govern effectively.\n\nIn this confusion, the Provisional Government realized the Soviet had the people's trust and enthusiasm. In the hopes of appeasing the Soviet and keeping the support of the population, the Provisional Government launched several very bold liberal acts and promoted civil liberties through means of freedom of speech, press, and assembly. Yet, other than strategic political motives, the Provisional Government understood that their power was illegitimate, due to the fact that they were not elected by the people. To solve the problem of illegitimacy, the Provisional Government was in the process of establishing the Constituent Assembly, whose members would be democratically elected by the people. The Constituent Assembly would never come to be under the Provisional Government's rule, as the elections were set after the Bolsheviks seized power in the October Revolution.\n\nAfter the February Revolution, Lenin published his April Theses and in it he expressed unhappiness with the February Revolution as he described it as a \"Bourgeois Revolution\". He pushed for the slogan \"All Power to the Soviets\". Lenin mentioned that a Proletariat Revolution is necessary, and expressed that he has no interest in cooperating with the Provisional Government or the other Soviet leaders who are willing to compromise. Other Soviet leadership were skeptical to Lenin's ideas since they were afraid that Lenin and the Bolsheviks were advocating for anarchism. Lenin also criticized the Petrograd Soviet for governing alongside the Provisional Government, and accused them of forgetting and abandoning socialist ideas and the proletariat revolution.\n\nThe Provisional Government's members primarily consisted of former State Duma members under Nicholas II's reign. Its members were mainly members of the Constitutional Democratic Party (known as the Kadets party), as the Kadets were the only formal political party functioning in the Provisional Government at its conception. The ideological and political ideas differed wildly throughout the party's leadership and members, but most were moderates, offering both liberal and conservative views at times. The Kadets and the Provisional Government alike pushed for new policies including the release of political prisoners, a decree of freedom of press, cessation of the Okhrana, abolition of the death penalty, and rights for minorities. The Provisional Government and the Kadets also wanted Russia to continue to be involved in World War I, much to the dismay of the Soviets. Despite certain political ideas, the Kadets became slightly more conservative overall with the rise of left-wing parties and left-wing thought within both the Provisional Government and the Petrograd Soviet. The Provisional Government realized that their power was not legitimate since they were former Duma members, and not elected by a general public. They knew that to be seen as a legitimate government body, they would need to be elected by the people, and they established the Constituent Assembly and scheduled popular elections to take place later in the year.\n\nAlexander Kerensky, a former member of the Fourth Duma and a chairmen of the Soviet Executive Committee and eventually the Prime Minister for the Provisional Government, was brought into the Provisional Government as a way to gain support from left-wing parties and the Petrograd Soviet. Kerensky was a moderate socialist, and believed that cooperation with the Provisional Government was necessary. Historian S.A. Smith explains that after the appointment of Kerensky \"Thus was born 'dual power', an institutional arrangement under which the Provisional Government enjoyed formal authority, but where the Soviet Executive Committee had real power.\" The Provisional Government feared the Soviets immense growing power, and through this fear they tried to appease them as much as possible. When Kerensky became Prime Minister, he attempted to work with the Soviets including arming the Soviets and their followers during the Kornilov affair. The attempts of Kerensky would not last for a while, as the Bolsheviks did not believe in compromise and overthrew the Provisional Government in the October Revolution.\n\nThe Soviet of Workers' and Soldiers' Deputies in Petrograd served as the voice of the smaller councils of deputies elected by commoners, specifically soldiers and workers. The Petrograd Soviet, therefore, could claim a much better understanding of the people's will, since it was composed of many orators whom the lower class population elected. The Soviet was established after the February Revolution, composed of numerous socialist revolutionaries. However, its rapid rise to power meant the Petrograd Soviet did not have any legitimate claim to power, like its counterpart, the Provisional Government.\n\nThe workers and soldiers of Russia saw hope in the Petrograd soviets, and elected deputies to it en masse, causing it to gain membership at an alarming rate (1200 seats had been filled in a week). The Petrograd Soviet was seen as a benefactor that would bring them land, bread, and peace.\n\nThe Executive Committee was initially made up of Nikolai Ckheidze, Matvei Skobelev, and Alexander Kerensky. These men were socialists, but feared radicalism. To keep radical mentality from spreading and provoking a 'counter-revolutionary movement,' they chose to support the Provisional Government where necessary. This led to the uneasy balance of power called \"Dual Power.\"\n\nThe events of the July Days would solidify the issues of dual power within government between the Provisional Government and Petrograd Soviet. Between the dates of July 3 and July 7 (Julian Calendar date), a Bolshevik uprising, still disputed if intentional by Lenin, occurred. In what is seen as a \"grass roots\" uprising, workers and lower ranks of soldiers violently demonstrated in the streets, calling for the Soviet to take power over the Provisional Government. The uprising was supported by the Bolshevik Military Organization and Petersburg Committee, who sent in more support, but the leaders of the party had less concrete opinions about the demonstration.\n\nAlexander Kerenksy, head of the Provisional Government, led a crackdown on those involved with the events of the July Days and overthrow of the Provisional Government. The military was used to gather and arrest violent demonstrators, retake government buildings from Bolshevik forces, and dissolve military units that had participated in the attempted overthrow. The Provisional Government also attempted to undermine Lenin and his party by revealing their investigation of his ties to Germany, Russia's enemy during World War I. These combined actions would quell the Bolshevik uprising and support until August 1917 (Julian).\n\nThe reinstatement of the death penalty for soldiers, and Kerensky transferring the Provisional Government into the Winter Palace were among the actions that led to accusations of counterrevolutionary activity (reestablishment of autocratic government) by the Provisional Government. A new kind of duality between the classes (proletariat and bourgeoisie) was a split noticeable not only in government, but also in everyday life for Russians. This led to increased tensions between both theaters, and made it difficult for groups to collaborate. The Petrograd Soviet represented the Proletariat, while the Provisional Government members were part of the former State Duma, representing the old government under the tsar. This divide was also evident in the military, between rank-and-file soldiers and military officers. As World War I continued on, soldiers started to mutiny or to disobey orders from their superiors, while supporting the soviets, hoping to bring an end to Russia's involvement in the war.\n\nAlthough the Bolshevik party was largely put down after the events of the July Days, Lenin still believed that the group could gain power in government because of unsteadiness due to the dual power situation. In April he wrote that the time was not yet right for revolution, as the Petrograd Soviet was still involved and working with the Provisional Government, as well as stating, \"we do not as yet know a type of government superior to and better than the Soviets.\" With the July Days seen as \"Lenin's worst blunder,\" even though it was not necessarily his intention, the Bolsheviks were still not in place to take over the Provisional Government and Petrograd Soviet.\n\nHowever, with the Kornilov affair of August 1917 (Julian-style date), the Bolsheviks regained both power in their party, but also with the masses. With Kornilov's soldiers moving towards the capital of Petrograd (modern day Saint Petersburg) and the Provisional Government, Kerensky had released many Bolshevik leaders arrested during the July Days and also provided arms in order for the Bolsheviks to defend the Provisional Government. By arming and calling on those who he had earlier punished, the Bolsheviks saw that they truly were gaining power in the government and Russian society. The Russian population lost faith in the Provisional Government because of how it handled Kornilov's coup, and many began supporting the Bolsheviks, with the group winning elections throughout Petrograd, especially in districts made up of the working class. This event, coupled with food shortages, the continuation of Russian involvement in World War I, and mass unemployment, worked in the Bolsheviks favor, turning people away from the government in charge and toward the party that promised \"Bread, Peace, Land.\"\n\nWhen the Bolsheviks overthrew the Provisional Government during the October Revolution, they were able to do so with little resistance. The Provisional Government realized that their power was limited at the point of takeover, as the Bolsheviks had been gaining supporters and had more revolutionaries. When the actual overthrow occurred between the days of October 25 and 26 (Julian), Bolsheviks first seized means of transportation and communication, such as roads, bridges, railways, and post offices. Lenin then went to the Second Congress of Soviets of Workers' and Soldiers' Deputies to present the overthrow of the Provisional Government and state authority by the Bolshevik party. The Winter Palace (at the time, the home of the Provisional Government) was seized without a causality the morning of the 26th, and the Congress had no choice but to approve Lenin's decree. With this, the period of dual power between the Provisional Government and Petrograd Soviet came to a close.\n\nAs the ideological monopoly of dominant institutions is broken and people increasingly rely on Alternative Institutions (AIs), those who benefited from existing arrangements may seek to dismantle their upstart competitors. At the same time, those who seek fundamental changes in society or who find the alternative ways of organizing it valuable may seek to enlarge and strengthen the alternative infrastructure. Counter institutions (XIs) are created both to defend the AIs and to promote their growth. These work to challenge and attack the status quo while creating, defending, and securing space for opposition and alternative institutions. They do this with everything from political protests, to direct appropriation (of plantations, government buildings, factories, etc.) for the use of alternative institutions, to civil disobedience or armed resistance. The line between AIs and XIs is seldom entirely clear as many alternative institutions are also self-promoting or defending. Together the AIs and XIs form an alternative source of power in society which is \"necessarily autonomous from, and competitive with, the dominant system, seeking to encroach upon the latter's domain, and, eventually, to replace it.\"\n\nDuring the process of building the alternative institutions and the ideology that supports them, the advantage of dual power is the creation of real, and not merely political, momentum towards the revolutionary transformation of society. Actual changes are ongoing, rather than postponed to a revolutionary moment, so needs unmet by the pre-existing order are being met during the struggle and no sector of society is told that its concerns can only be dealt with after victory is achieved. That is, creation of AIs and the political space for them has intrinsic benefits, apart from the advancement of the revolutionary project. Over the course of building AIs, the society at large is empowered, committed to change, and skilled in running society. Simultaneously, the credibility of a revolutionary vision is increased immensely by putting it into practice and by refining and improving it over time. It is also conceivable that factional splits between revolutionaries and reformers (and all the shades in between) could be reduced by having a common project that both find useful. Those forces that would be sent to suppress a revolutionary movement find themselves confronting people who have taken control over their own lives, rather than armed cadre attempting to impose a vision on the country, potentially obviating military conflict or at least reducing its severity. \n\nSuccessful dual-power rebellions end with the acceptance of the new social forms by much of the populace and the realization by the old rulers that they are no longer capable of using their systems of force against the revolutionary movement. This can occur because noncooperation has crippled the old structures of power, because too few people remain loyal to the old rulers to enforce their will, or because the rulers themselves undergo an ideological conversion. At this point, there is not general confusion. The disappearance of old leaders and structures of power is accommodated by the expansion of the alternative system. The alleged \"necessity\" for a revolutionary vanguard to guide the revolutionary impulse is shown to have no basis: because the people have already learned how to govern their own affairs, they need no tutelage from above. The possibility of co-option is minimized: \"When the people recognize their true power, it cannot be taken away by rhetoric or […] imposition.\"\n\nDual power is a strategy, rather than an ideology, and it could plausibly be used to advance a variety of forms of social change. However, the advantages of the strategy make it most compatible with perspectives that emphasize the exercise of power at the community level, that seek to make the revolutionary movement accountable to the people, that see the capability to revision and transform society as common rather than rare, and that seek decentralized forms of power. Call this version of the strategy grassroots dual power, the bottom-up transformation and replacement of the mechanisms of society.\n\nLibertarian socialists have more recently appropriated the term to refer to the nonviolent strategy of achieving a libertarian socialist economy and polity by means of incrementally establishing and then networking institutions of direct participatory democracy to contest the existing power structures of state and capitalism. This does not necessarily mean disengagement with existing institutions; for example, Yates McKee describes a dual-power approach as \"forging alliances and supporting demands on existing institutions — elected officials, public agencies, universities, workplaces, banks, corporations, museums — while at the same time developing self-organized counter-institutions.\" In this context, the strategy itself is sometimes also referred to as \"counterpower\" to differentiate it from the term's Leninist origins.\n"}
{"id": "4514687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4514687", "title": "E-participation", "text": "E-participation\n\ne-participation (\"also written\" eParticipation \"and\" e-Participation) is the term referring to \"ICT-supported participation in processes involved in government and governance\". Processes may concern administration, service delivery, decision making and policy making. E-participation is hence closely related to e-government and e-governance participation. The need for the term has emerged as citizen interests have received less attention than those of the service providers in e-government development. It also emerged as the need to distinguish between the roles of citizen and customer has become more pressing.\n\nA more detailed definition sees e-participation as \"the use of information and communication technologies to broaden and deepen political participation by enabling citizens to connect with one another and with their elected representatives\". This definition includes all stakeholders in democratic decision-making processes and not only citizen related top-down government initiatives. So e-participation can be seen as part of e-democracy, the use of ICT by governments in general used by elected officials, media, political parties and interest groups, civil society organizations, international governmental organizations, or citizens/voters within any of the political processes of states/regions, nations, and local and global communities.\n\nThe complexity of e-participation processes results from the large number of different participation areas, involved stakeholders, levels of engagement, and stages in policy making. .\n\nThe term emanated in the early 2000s and draws generally on three developments.\n\n\nThe term 'participation' means taking part in joint activities for the purpose of reaching a common goal. This encompasses both trivial situations in which participation mainly has a technical meaning, ”doing things together”. For example, a football team needs 11 players, and dancing often requires two or more people acting in a coordinated manner. But participation, even in trivial situations, also has a goal-oriented aspect which means decision making and control are involved. Participation in political science and theory of management refers to direct public participation in political, economical or management decisions. The two are not completely separated but belong on a spectrum of complexity and context. When participation becomes complicated, decision making becomes necessary. Hence, any participatory process is potentially important for the rule system governing the activities. In terms of points 2 and 3 above, this means that when service processes become complex, the implementation of them will not be in all details based on political decisions but also on what is found to be practical.\n\nInstead of taking in and accepting knowledge as is disseminated by the media and government, by participating, one becomes an active citizen and further contributes to a democratic society. When such practical doings become implemented in government (e)service systems, they will affect decision making, as many changes will later be hard to make simply because existing procedures are implemented in ICT systems and government agencies’ procedures. There are many theories dealing with institutionalization, for example structuration theory, institutional theory, and actor-network theory. These theories all, in different ways, deal with how \"ways of doing things\" become established or rejected, and how those that become established increasingly affect the ways we \"normally\" do things.\n\nA number of tools and models have emerged as part of Web 2.0 that can be used or inspire the design of architecture for e-participation. In particular, \"the emergence of online communities oriented toward the creation of useful products suggests that it may be possible to design socially mediating technology that support public-government collaborations\" .\n\n\n\n\nTo demonstrate e-participation at work, one can turn to one of its types - crowdsourcing. This is generally defined as the enlisting of a group of humans to solve problems via the World Wide Web. The idea is that this platform is able to collect human resources from the most unlikely and remotest places, contributing to the general store of intellectual capital. Crowdsourcing can be applied in different stages of the policy-making process and these could transpire on the information, consultation, and active participation levels. At the information level, there is a one-way relationship, wherein the participants receive information from the government. The consultation process entails a two-way interaction where citizens already provide their inputs, feedback, and reactions. Finally, active participation can refer to the deeper participatory involvement where citizens directly contribute in the formulation of policy content. This level of e-participation is increasingly being practiced through tools such as online petition, e-referendum, e-panels, citizen e-juries, and participatory GIS, among others.\n\neParticipation is the Preparatory Action lasts for three years (2006–2008). The EU is taking the lead in using online tools to improve the legislative process for its citizens. eParticipation which launched on January 1, 2007 will run as a series of linked projects which each contribute to a greater awareness and involvement by citizens in the legislation process from initial drafting to implementation at a regional and local level.\n\nThe individual projects will concentrate on ensuring that the legislative language and process is more transparent, understandable and accessible to citizens. In addition the projects emphasis on the communication of legislation will be used to enhance and grow citizens' involvement and contribution in the process of creating and implementing the legislation.\n\nSo far, 21 projects have been funded. The European Parliament, national parliaments and local and regional authorities are actively involved. State-of-the-art ICT tools are being tested to facilitate the writing of legal texts, including translation into different languages, and the drafting of amendments as well as making the texts easier for non-specialists to find and understand. New digital technologies are also being used to give citizens easier access to information and more opportunity to influence decisions that affect their lives. A report , which was published as a MOMENTUM white paper, highlights the major facts and figures of those projects while providing some initial policy recommendations for future use.\n\nThe European Commission has now launched a number of actions aiming at further advancing the work of supporting eParticipation.\n\nExamples:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54388816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54388816", "title": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Germany", "text": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Germany\n\nThe Representative Office of Palestine in the Federal Republic of Germany () is the diplomatic mission of the Palestine in Germany. It is located in Berlin. The German Democratic Republic (GDR, East Germany) recognized the State of Palestine in 1988 prior to the German reunification in 1990 with West Germany although the current government does not recognize the State of Palestine.\n\n"}
{"id": "53251617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53251617", "title": "Far-right subcultures", "text": "Far-right subcultures\n\nFar-Right subcultures refers to the symbolism, values and traits that hold relevance to various politically extreme right-wing groups and organisations. There are three kinds of subcultures within far-right movements to distinguish: subcultural parasitism, subcultural creation around ideology and subcultures that are networking with far-right movements, as some football hooligans did with neo-nazis.\n\nFar-right ideologists try to infiltrate subcultures to spread their ideas amongst them. These attempts are defined as subcultural parasitism. The probably most known subculture, which got taken over by the far-right and neo-nazis is the Skinhead scene, which started originally in Great Britain. Some examples for subculture parasitism: the Nipster, infiltration of the Hipster (contemporary subculture) by neo-nazis (Nazi Hipster), Nazi punk, infiltration of the Heavy metal subculture, known as National Socialist black metal (NSBM/NSCH). Subcultures as the Goth subculture and the Hip Hop subculture got also infiltrated by far-right movements and ideologists. Some other examples for far-right or neo-Nazi subcultures: Esoteric Nazism and Nazi Satanism.\n\nThere is another strategy of neo-nazis and far right movements, that is called cultural subversion. This strategy uses already existing forms of expression and organization and fills them with far right meaning. Some examples: \n\nDuring the regime the National Fascist Party heavily influenced fashion in the pursuit for autarchy and the importance of aesthetics and symbolism: clothes had to be produced in Italy and had to reflect the values of the Italian people. Pieces of clothing such as the black shirts became associated with the dreaded Volunteer Militia for the Safety of the Nation and even to the regime itself. \nNowadays neo-fascists still care a great deal about clothing, but with different approaches. Symbols and clothes like the Celtic Cross and the black clothing are still present and associated to the new filo-fascists political parties and movements, but, similarly to the neo-nazism case, there has also been a growing interest in \"trendiness\" and fashion, with new clothing brands that offer casual and formal clothing more in line with today's consumerist culture. This has led to three different types of brands usage by the neo-fascist subculture that still cares a big deal about clothing as a way to show their political affiliation, while caring about what is trendy as well:\n\nThe arbitrary appropriation of modern devices of today's consumer culture in addition to the ones typical of its \"ancestor\" in Neo-fascism is not just limited to fashion, examples of modern culture products that were not born with this political affiliation but were used by neo-fascists to frame their values and the adherence of its affiliates to them are Tolkien's novels, which led to the \"Campi Hobbit\" (Hobbit Camps) experience: real political camps where space was given to topics often overlooked by typical political institutions, with right wing music groups, visual artists, radio podcasts performances and social issues discussions about topics such as young people's unemployment together with paramilitary activities being carried out. Another very famous example is the politicization of football, with the Ultras groups often affiliated with certain ideologies. The majority of ultras groups in fact present small \"bands\" within them that are openly neo-fascist or at least far-right extremists, with groups such as Hellas Verona's \"Brigate Gialloblu\" or Juventus' \"Vikings\" having an infamous record of violence episodes, which are not related to the sport nor their supported teams' ideals.\n\n\n\"Main Article\": Identitarian Movement\n\nThe Identitarian movement is one of the most renowned far-right youth culture in Germany and part of the New Right. Within the New Right it has four unique position features: youthfulness, excessive desire for action, pop culture and Corporate Identity. The German Identitarian movement uses Facebook as its main platform, where it spreads quotations of famous thinkers of the Conservative Revolutionary movement such as Ernst Jünger and Carl Schmitt, articles of the far-right journal \"Sezession\" and videos of various campaigns.\n\n\"Main Article\": Alt-Right\n\nAlso referred to as the alternative right, the alt-right is a recent political movement which holds strong views on a wide array of political, cultural, racial and religious subjects, with a central theme being white supremacy and white nationalism. The political movement of the American Alternative Right is a political movement that has gained significant prominence since the buildup to the consequent election of Donald Trump in the 2016 US election. The typical alt-right supporter is a white US citizen, most likely of a family lineage without recent immigration to the USA. While there are numerous recorded cases of anti-Semitic and anti-Muslim behaviour and supporters to be of predominantly Christian background, personal religious disposition does not prove to be of great importance beyond those which are discriminated against.\n\nSince Donald Trump's victory in November 2016, the exposure and symbolism associated with the alt-right has become more distinct. In mid-November 2016 at an alt-right conference with approximately 200 people in Washington, D.C. One of the speakers at this event was president of the National Policy Institute and white supremacist; Richard Spencer. Audience members cheered and gave the Nazi salute when he said, \"Hail Trump, hail our people, hail victory!\" The parallel theme of cultural purity combined with the totalitarian and ominous connotations associated with Nazi history provide an aesthetic appeal to the themes and ideas of the alt-right. Due to the highly superficial nature of the group, understanding of the key concepts behind these other far-right political movements is secondary to the imagery and visual culture associated with them.\n\nFashion label abuse means in this case, far-right movements, use specific labels and connect their ideology. Some prominent examples are Lonsdale, Fred Perry and New Balance. The British sport label Lonsdale became popular in the German neo-nazi movement because of the letters 'NSDA' in the name, which refers to the National Socialist German Workers' Party (NSDAP, Nazi Party), that was active between 1920 and 1945. The popularity of Fred Perry can be explained through the demand in the skinhead scene. On top of that the brand offers polo shirts with a collar in the colors black-white-red, which was the flag color used by the nazi regime and is therefore as well prominent in German neo-nazi movements. Both brands distance themselves from any association. In November 2016 Matthew LeBretton, New Balance's vice president of public affairs, criticized the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement, that the Obama administration led and Donald Trump opposes. After New Balance defended its opposition to TTP, Andrew Anglin, publisher of the American neo-nazi news and commentary website The Daily Stormer, declared New Balance the “Official Shoes of White People”.\n\nThere are also fashion labels that got created for neo-nazis, by neo-nazis.\nSome examples for nazi fashion labels: Ansgar Aryan, Consdaple, Eric and Sons, Masterrace Europe, Outlaw, Reconquista, Rizist, Thor Steinar, Troublemaker, Dryve by Suizhyde, Greifvogel Wear, Hate-Hate, Hermannsland, Sport Frei, Pro Violence.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "25359904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25359904", "title": "Financial irregularities during the Manuel Zelaya administration", "text": "Financial irregularities during the Manuel Zelaya administration\n\nAlleged Financial irregularities during the Manuel Zelaya administration received attention of many Hondurans.\nIn late 2008, Zelaya went as far as refusing to send Congress a budget, claiming that it was impossible to come up with numbers, even though the constitution required the president to provide budget. The alleged irregularities are currently being investigated by the post coup government.\n\nAt least 20 alleged corruption scandals came to light during his first year. By February 2007, his administration had prosecuted four cases, and three had been dismissed while the others were still being investigated.\n\nOne of the early instances of alleged financial irregularities in the administration was a contract to resurface 94 miles of road from Tegucigalpa to Danli. The company was paid the full price of the contract, but it resurfaced only 50 kilometers.\n\nZelaya spent millions of dollars on consulting and professional costs without documentation.\nA joint investigation by auditors in Honduras has so far identified alleged squandering of presidential expenses amounting to 123,025,613.63 lempiras.\n\nHondutel was the best-documented case of embezzlement. Manuel Zelaya's nephew Marcelo Chimirri is one of the suspects. The investigations were helped by evidence retrieved by the FBI. After the scandal was published in Honduran media, Chimirri sued the journalists. Renato Alvarez was sentenced to 2 years and 8 months in prison.\n\nZelaya allegedly earmarked 5.4 million lempiras on mobilizing supporters of the country's accession to the Bolivarian Alternative for the Americas (ALBA), an organization founded by Hugo Chávez. The pro-ALBA \"demonstration\" took place on August 25, 2008. The beneficiaries included 38 individuals, union leaders, unions, and owners transport companies.\n\nThe constitution of Honduras requires that the President files the budget by September 15. Zelaya refused. He claimed that it was impossible to come up with numbers. Julio Raudales, Zelaya’s former deputy minister, said the budgetary black hole cost the country some $400 million in funding. Cardinal Rodríguez criticized Zelaya for using public money to promote his plans instead of spending it on the poor. He said \"We were good friends. But he changed drastically... It was Chávez.\"\n\nOn September 30, 2008 Zelaya issued emergency executive decree 46-A-2208, which authorized transfer of 30 million lempiras of public money to advertising of his fourth ballot box. Soon after he issued another emergency executive decree which is identical except that the money is transferred to his office.\nAuditors later found documentation of 29 checks and total 29,995,887.62 lempiras. The expenses weren't well documented.The supposed advertisers paid no sales tax.\nOn May 30, 2009, auditors found that Zelaya had directly spent more than 2 billion lempiras without competitive bidding.\n\nOn June 24, Enrique Flores Lanza, Zelaya's chief of staff, withdrew millions of dollars from the Central Bank of Honduras. The money was taken \"to help the Ministry of the Presidency\" and transported by car to Lanza's office. The suspected theft was captured by surveillance cameras.\n\n"}
{"id": "45008603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45008603", "title": "Flyer (pamphlet)", "text": "Flyer (pamphlet)\n\nA flyer is a form of paper advertisement intended for wide distribution and typically posted or distributed in a public place, handed out to individuals or sent through the mail. In the 2010s, flyers range from inexpensively photocopied leaflets to expensive, glossy, full-color circulars.\n\nA flyer is also called a \"flier\", \"circular\", \"handbill\", \"pamphlet\", \"poster\", \"lit'\" (literature), \"weekly ad\", \"catalogue\" or \"leaflet\".\n\nFlyers may be used by individuals, businesses, not-for-profit organizations or governments to:\n\nLike postcards, pamphlets and small posters, flyers are a low-cost form of mass marketing or communication. There are many different flyer formats. Some examples include:\nFlyers are inexpensive to produce and they required only a basic printing press from the 18th century to the 20th century. Their widespread use intensified in the 1990s with the spread of less expensive desktop publishing systems. In the 2010s, inexpensive black and white flyers can be produced with just a personal computer and a computer printer. In the 2010s, the ordering of flyers through traditional printing services has been supplanted by Internet services. Customers send designs, review proofs online or via e-mail and receive the final products by mail.\n\nFlyers are not a new medium: prior to the War of American Independence some colonists were outraged with the Stamp Act (1765) and gathered together in anti-stamp act congresses and meetings. In these congresses they had to win support, and issued handbills and leaflets, pamphlets, along with other written paraphernalia, to do so.\n\nIn the 2000s, some jurisdictions have laws or ordinances banning or restricting leafleting or flyering in certain locations. Owners of private property may put up signs saying \"Post No Bills\"; this occurs particularly on wooden fences surrounding building sites or vacant lots.\n\nFlyers are handed out on the street (a practice known as \"flyering\" or \"leafleting\"), distributed door-to-door through the mail, posted on bulletin boards, put under windshield wipers of cars, given away at events or on the street, or affixed to telephone poles, walls, or other surfaces. Bulletin boards are found on college campuses, in cafés, community meeting houses, laundromats and small markets. Cheap to produce, contemporary flyers are frequently produced in 300 g/m glossy card, whereas a leaflet might be produced on a 130 g/m–170 g/m weight paper and can be a very effective form of direct marketing.\n\nIn the 2010s, some individuals and organizations send flyers through e-mail, a tactic that avoids spending money on paper, printing and mailing or hiring people to post the flyers on telephone poles or hand them out. The electronic flyer may be embedded into the body of the e-mail or added as an attachment to be opened.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "327620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=327620", "title": "Gabo Reform", "text": "Gabo Reform\n\nThe Gabo Reform, also known as the Kabo Reform, describes a series of sweeping reforms suggested to the government of Korea beginning in 1894 and ending in 1896 during the reign of Gojong of Korea in response to the Donghak Peasant Revolution. Historians debate the degree of Japanese influence in this program, as well as its effect in encouraging modernization. The name Gabo (갑오, 甲午) comes from the name of the year 1894 in the traditional sexagenary cycle.\n\nThe disarray and blatant corruption in the Korean government, particularly in the three main areas of revenues – land tax, military service and the state granary system – weighed heavily on the Korean peasantry which represented 90% of the population and was uniformly illiterate. Of special note is the corruption of the local functionaries (Hyangi) who could purchase an appointment as administrators and so cloak their predations on the farmers with an aura of officialdom. Yangban families, formerly well-respected for their status as a noble class, were increasingly seen as little more than commoners who were unwilling to meet their responsibilities to their communities. Faced with increasing corruption in the government, brigandage of the disenfranchised -(such as the mounted fire brigands, or \"Hwajok\", and the boat-borne water brigands or \"Sujok\")- as well as abuse by the military, many poor village folk sought to pool their resources such as land, tools and production in order to survive. Despite the government abolishing slavery and burning the records in 1801, increasing numbers of peasants and farmers become involved in KYE or \"mutual assistance associations\". Institutions such as the Catholic and Protestant missions, with the egalitarian nature of their teachings garnered followings among the Yangban, though commonly in the more urban areas.\n\nArguably of greater influence were the religious teachings of Choi Che-u, (최제우, 崔濟愚, 1824–1864) called Donghak or \"Eastern Learning\" which became especially popular in rural areas. Themes of Exclusionism (of foreign influences), Nationalism, Salvation and Social Consciousness were set to music allowing illiterate farmers to understand and accept them more readily. Choe, as well as many Koreans, was also alarmed by the intrusion of Christianity and the Anglo-French occupation of Beijing during the 2nd Opium War. He believed that the best way to counter foreign influence in Korea was to introduce democratic and human rights reforms internally. Nationalism and social reform struck a chord among the peasant guerrillas, and Donghak spread all across Korea. Progressive revolutionaries organized the peasants into a cohesive structure. Arrested in 1863 following the Chinju Uprising led by YU Kye-cheun, Choe was charged with \"misleading the people and sowing discord in society\". Choe was executed in 1864, sending many of his followers into hiding in the mountains and leaving the Korean populace to continue to suffer.\n\nKing Kojong (r. 1864-1910), enthroned at the age of twelve, succeeded King Cheolchong (r. 1849 - 1863). King Kojong's father, Heungseon Daewongun(Yi Ha-Ung; 1820-1898), ruled as the de facto regent and inaugurated far-ranging reform to strengthen the central administration. Among his targeted reforms was addressing the inherited rule by a few elite ruling families by the adoption of a merit system for official appointments. In addition, [Seowon] (private academies), which threatened to develop a parallel system to the corrupt government and enjoyed special privileges and large land-holdings, were repressed through taxes despite bitter opposition from Confucian scholars. The decision to rebuild palace buildings and finance it through additional levies on the population caused Heungseon Daewongun's attempted reforms to antagonize the three largest constituencies supporting the government: the ruling elite, the Confucian scholars and the general population. Heungseon Daewongun was impeached in 1873 and forced into retirement by the supporters of Empress Myeongseong.\n\nOn 27 February 1876, the Japan–Korea Treaty of 1876, also known in Japan as the Japanese-Korea Treaty of Amity (Japanese language: 日朝修好条規 Nitchō-shūkōjōki, Korean language: 강화도조약 江華島條約 Ganghwado joyak) was signed. It was designed to open up Korea to Japanese trade, and the rights granted to Japan under the treaty were similar to those granted Western powers in Japan following the visit of Commodore Perry in 1854.[9]. However, the treaty ended Korea's status as a protectorate of China, forced open three Korean ports to Japanese trade, granted extraterritorial rights to Japanese citizens and was an unequal treaty signed under duress of the Unyo Incident of 1875 (gunboat diplomacy).[9] Daewongun remained opposed to any concessions to Japan or the West, helped organize the Mutiny of 1882 Imo Incident, an anti-Japanese outbreak against the Empress and her allies. Motivated by resentment of the preferential treatment given to newly trained troops, Daewongun's forces, or \"old military\", killed Japanese training cadre and attacked the Japanese legation. Japanese diplomats, policemen, students and some Min clan members were also killed during the incident. Daewongun was restored to power briefly, only to be forcibly taken to China by Chinese troops dispatched to Seoul to prevent further disorder. In August 1882, the Treaty of Chemulpo (Japan–Korea Treaty of 1882) idemnified the families of the Japanese victims, paid reparation to the Japanese government in the amount of 500,000 yen and allowed a company of Japanese guards to be stationed at the Japanese legation in Seoul.\n\nThe struggle between Heungseon Daewongun's followers and those of Empress Myeongseong was further complicated by competition from a Korean independence faction known as the Progressive Party (Kaehwadang) as well as Conservative faction. While the former sought Japan's support, the latter sought China's support. On 4 December 1884, the Korean independence group, assisted by the Japanese, attempted a coup (Kapsin Chongbyon; Coup d'État of 1884) and established a pro-Japanese government under the reigning king, dedicated to the independence of Korea from Chinese suzerainty. However, this proved short-lived, as conservative Korean officials requested the help of Chinese forces stationed in Korea. The coup was put down by Chinese troops, and a Korean mob killed both Japanese officers and Japanese residents in retaliation. Some leaders of the independence faction, including Kim Okgyun, fled to Japan, while others were executed.\n\nThe outbreak of the Donghak Peasant Revolution in 1894 provided a seminal pretext for direct military intervention by Japan in the affairs of Korea. Seeking redress of long-standing hardship and corruption disparate factions among the Korean peasant population coalesced into a militant force and revolted against the Korean administration. In April, 1894 the Korean government asked for Chinese assistance in ending the Donghak Peasant Revolt. In response Japanese leaders, citing a violation of Convention of Tientsin as a pretext, decided upon military intervention to challenge China. China requested Japan withdraw her troops, Japan refused and proposed that the Qing and Japan co-ordinate to reform the Korean government. The Qing refused. On May 3, 1894, 1,500 Qing Dynasty forces appeared in Incheon. The same day, 6,000 Japanese forces also landed in Incheon leading to the Sino-Japanese War. Japan deposed the Korean government and installed a new government which demanded the Qing leave, and began a programme of reform. Japan won the First Sino-Japanese War, and China signed the Treaty of Shimonoseki in 1895. Among its many stipulations, the treaty recognized \"the full and complete independence and autonomy of Korea,\" thus ending Korea's tributary relationship with the Chinese Qing Dynasty, leading to the proclamation of full independence of Joseon Korea in 1895. At the same time, Japan suppressed the Donghak Revolution with Korean government forces. Though the revolt had been ended, the issues and complaints of the Korean peasant population remained unaddressed.\n\nThe reforms were done largely in three stages, according to the changing members of the reform council and the involvement of Japan. There were three stages of development.\n\nThe first reforms took place from July to October 1894, based on the original reform bill presented by Japanese ambassador Otori Keisuke (大鳥圭介), that had been previously refused by the Joseon court and Qing dynasty. As Japan was focused more on the Sino-Japanese War, many of the first reforms reflected the desired reforms of the progressive council members and some of the reforms demanded by the peasants of the Donghak Peasant Revolution did not go undenied. The deliberate Council passed 210 reform bills by Kim Hongjip. At the first stage of reform, there was little interference from Japan.\n\nTwo-hundred and ten articles were established, most notably the restructuring of central government by greatly reducing the king's responsibilities and placing more power in the \"Uijeongbu\". The \"gwageo\" system was abolished and replaced by a Japanese bureaucratic system. The administration of financial affairs were centralized, the taxation system redressed, a new monetary system allowed the use of Japanese currency, and the measurement system was changed to that of Japan. \nOther social reforms were addressed as well; discrimination based on the class system, slavery, underage marriage were all banned and widows were granted the right to remarry. These reforms would legally change the traditional feudal system that had been followed for hundreds of years.\n\nThe second state of reform took place from December 1894 to July 1895. Japan closed down the \"Gunguk Gimucheo\" in December 1894 as the outcome of the Sino-Japanese War was leaning to their favor and set up a new coalition cabinet consisting of Kim Hongjip and Park Younghyo. The cabinet presented a new law, \"Hongbeom 14jo\" (홍범 14조, \"Exemplary Rules\" 14 articles), which proclaimed the severance of the subordinate relationship with China, abolishment of nepotism in government, restructure of government offices and their duties. With this law as foundation, 213 new articles were created.\nThe names of \"Uijeongbu\" and its subsidiaries were changed to the modern \"naegak\" (내각, cabinet) and \"bu\" (부, department). Administrative districts were reorganized to 23 \"bu\"(부, region) and 337 \"gun\"(군, district). New financial bureaus were installed throughout the nation to overlook tax affairs, military and police systems were rehauled and modernized, judicial systems were changed with new courthouse and judiciary laws.\n\nThe second reform measures were halted when Park Young Hyo, who had been at the center of the reform efforts, fled to Japan after being accused of conspiracy to treason by those who were against the reformations that were taking place.\n\nThe Japanese minister to Korea, Miura Gorō, orchestrated a plot against 43-year-old Queen Min\n(later given the title Empress Myeongseong), and on 8 October 1895, she was assassinated by Japanese agents. In 2001, Russian reports on the assassination were found in the archives of the Foreign Ministry of the Russian Federation. The documents included the testimony of King Gojong, several witnesses of the assassination, and Karl Ivanovich Weber's report to Aleksey Lobanov-Rostovsky, the Foreign Minister of Russia. Weber was the chargé d'affaires at the Russian legation in Seoul at that time. According to a Russian eyewitness, Seredin-Sabatin (Середин-Cабатин), an employee of the Korean king, a group of Japanese agents entered Gyeongbokgung, killed Queen Min and desecrated her body in the north wing of the palace.\n\nWhen he heard the news, Heungseon Daewongun returned to the royal palace the same day. On 11 February 1896, King Gojong and the crown prince moved from Gyeongbokgung to the Russian legation in Jeong-dong, Seoul, from where they governed for about one year, an event known as the Korea royal refuge at the Russian legation. After returning to the royal palace, the royal family was still guarded by Russian guards.\n\nIn the midst of disarray in Joseon politics at this time, a series of Seonbi scholars mobilized volunteers to fight against the external foreign influence on the government. This also led to the uprising of the Eulmi temporary armies aimed at avenging the assassination of Queen Min.\n\nSpurred greatly by the assassination of the queen and subsequent unrest, the government, then led by a new progressive cabinet headed by Kim Hong-jip and Yu Kil-chun, carried out reforms from October 1895 to February 1896. A special reform body, \"Gunguk Gimucheo\" (군국기무처, Deliberative Council), was created to establish rules. Their policies resulted in the official discarding of the lunar calendar in favor of the modern Gregorian solar calendar, the official designation of regnal years independent of the Chinese tradition, the creation of a postal service, the introduction of primary schools and a new educational system and the renewal of the military system.\n\nThe most controversial reform at this time was the proclamation of the \"Short Hair Act\" (), i.e. cutting off the traditional Korean male sangtu and reformation of traditional attire. It triggered many protests among the people, most notably the conservative scholars, who were already disillusioned by the pro-Japanese cabinet. They had created the Righteous Army and had actively protested nationwide; protests which escalated after the assassination of Empress Myeongseong in 1895. After King Gojong and the Crown Prince fled for refuge to the Russian legation in 1896, this opposition resulted in the murders of Kim Hongjip and other cabinet members, and the reformations came to an end.\n\nThe Gabo Reform was similar to the Meiji Restoration in Japan and produced the following sweeping changes and declarations:\n\nAfter the Royal Refuge, some Korean activists established the Independence Club (독립협회, 獨立協會) in 1896. They claimed that Korea should negotiate with Western powers, particularly Russia, to counterbalance the growing influence of Japan and Russia. This club had contributed to the construction of Independence Gate, and they held regular meetings at the Jongno streets, demanding democratic reforms as Korea became a constitutional monarchy, and an end to Japanese and Russian influence in Korean affairs. In October 1897, King Gojong decided to return to his other palace, Deoksugung, and proclaimed the founding of the Korean Empire. During this period, the Korean government conducted a westernization policy. It was not an enduring reform, however, and the Independence Club was dissolved on 25 December 1898 as Emperor Gojong officially announced a prohibition on unofficial congresses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53341844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53341844", "title": "Golus nationalism", "text": "Golus nationalism\n\nGolus nationalism (Yiddish: גלות נאַציאָנאַליזם \"Golus natsionalizm\" after golus), or Diaspora Nationalism, is a national movement of the Jewish people that argued for furthering Jewish national and cultural life in the large Jewish centers throughout the world, while at the same time seeking recognition for a Jewish national identity from world powers.\n\nGolus Nationalism was conceived by Nathan Birnbaum, the Austrian philosopher who had given Zionism its name. Although Birnbaum was an early theorist of Zionism and participated in the First Zionist Congress (1897), he broke with the movement shortly after. Birnbaum began to develop a theory of pan-Judaism (\"Alljudentum\"), which embraced Jewish life in the Diaspora.\n\nBirnbaum was opposed to the idea that Jewish assimilation was inevitable, inspired by the Jews of Eastern Europe, who had retained Yiddish as a language, had a robust folk culture, and banded together in recognizably distinct communities.\n\nBirnbaum made several attempts to have a Jewish national identity recognized by state powers. In 1907, he unsuccessfully advocated for Yiddish to be included as a Jewish national language in the Austro-Hungarian census. The following year, he ran a popular but fruitless campaign for a seat in Parliament. In 1910, he again attempted to have Yiddish recognized. Birnbaum felt that if he could get state recognition for elements of Jewish nationhood, he could petition for Jews to have shared control of a province in Galicia. He was encouraged by the fact that the Austro-Hungarian Empire was offering the possibility of autonomous regions to ethnic groups and nationalities.\n\nBirnbaum also propagandized on behalf of Yiddish as a language, coining the words \"Yiddishism\" and \"Yiddishist.\" He organized Yiddish events in Vienna, translate Yiddish authors into German, and in 1905 established a student organization for the furtherance of the language called \"Yidishe Kultur\". In 1908, he organized an international conference on the Yiddish language in Czernowitz, in which different Jewish factions squared off as to whether Yiddish should be declared the official language of Jewish nationalism or instead one of several Jewish languages.\n\nGolus nationalism prefigured a variety of attempts to reconcile Jewish identity with the experience of diaspora. Rabbi Mordecai M. Kaplan would wrestle with similar themes, developing a theory that Judaism should be seen as a civilization, rather than a religion, and founding Reconstructionist Judaism on this theory. Yiddishist Abraham Golomb wrote frequently about maintaining a Jewish identity in the Diaspora, and the centrality of Yiddish and Hebrew in this pursuit.\n"}
{"id": "711728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=711728", "title": "Governmentality", "text": "Governmentality\n\nGovernmentality is a concept first developed by the French philosopher Michel Foucault in the later years of his life, roughly between 1977 and his death in 1984, particularly in his lectures at the Collège de France during this time.\n\nThe concept has been elaborated further from an \"Anglo-Neo Foucauldian\" perspective in the social sciences, especially by authors such as Peter Miller, Nikolas Rose, and Mitchell Dean. Governmentality can be understood as:\n\nGovernmentality may also be understood as:\n\nThis term was thought by some commentators to be made by the \"...linking of governing (\"gouverner\") and modes of thought (\"mentalité\")\". In fact, it was not coined by uniting words \"gouvernement\" and \"mentalité\", but simply by making \"gouvernement\" into \"gouvernementalité\" just like \"musical\" into \"musicalité\" [i.e. government + -al- \"adjective\" + -ité \"abstract noun\"] (see Michel Senellart's \"Course Context\" in Foucault's \"Security, territory, population\" lectures). To fully understand this concept, it is important to realize that in this case, Foucault does not only use the standard, strictly political definition of \"governing\" or government used today, but he also uses the broader definition of governing or government that was employed until the eighteenth century. That is to say, that in this case, for Foucault, \"...'government' also signified problems of self-control, guidance for the family and for children, management of the household, directing the soul, etc.\" In other words, for our purposes, government is \"...the conduct of conduct...\"\n\nIn his lectures at the Collège de France, Foucault often defines governmentality as the \"art of government\" in a wide sense, i.e. with an idea of \"government\" that is not limited to state politics alone, that includes a wide range of control techniques, and that applies to a wide variety of objects, from one's control of the self to the \"biopolitical\" control of populations. In the work of Foucault, this notion is indeed linked to other concepts such as biopolitics and power-knowledge. The genealogical exploration of the modern state as \"problem of government\" does not only deepen Foucault's analyses on sovereignty and biopolitics; it offers an analytics of government which refines both Foucault's theory of power and his understanding of freedom.\n\nThe concept of \"governmentality\" develops a new understanding of power. Foucault encourages us to think of power not only in terms of hierarchical, top-down power of the state. He widens our understanding of power to also include the forms of social control in disciplinary institutions (schools, hospitals, psychiatric institutions, etc.), as well as the forms of knowledge. Power can manifest itself positively by producing knowledge and certain discourses that get internalised by individuals and guide the behaviour of populations. This leads to more efficient forms of social control, as knowledge enables individuals to govern themselves.\n\n\"Governmentality\" applies to a variety of historical periods and to different specific power regimes. However, it is often used (by other scholars and by Foucault himself) in reference to \"neoliberal governmentality\", i.e. to a type of governmentality that characterizes advanced liberal democracies. In this case, the notion of governmentality refers to societies where power is de-centered and its members play an active role in their own self-government, e.g. as posited in neoliberalism. Because of its active role, individuals need to be regulated from 'inside'. A particular form of governmentality is characterized by a certain form of knowledge (\"savoir\" in French). In the case of neoliberal governmentality (a kind of governmentality based on the predominance of market mechanisms and of the restriction of the action of the state) the knowledge produced allows the construction of auto-regulated or auto-correcting selves.\n\nIn his lecture titled Governmentality, Foucault gives us a definition of governmentality:\nAs Foucault's explicit definition is rather broad, perhaps further examination of this definition would be useful.\n\nWe shall begin with a closer inspection of the first part of Foucault's definition of governmentality:\n\nThis strand of the three-part definition states that governmentality is, in other words, all of the components that make up a government that has as its end the maintenance of a well-ordered and happy society (population). The government's means to this end is its \"apparatuses of security,\" that is to say, the techniques it uses to provide this society a feeling of economic, political, and cultural well-being. The government achieves these ends by enacting \"political economy,\" and in this case, the meaning of economy is the older definition of the term, that is to say, \"economy at the level of the entire state, which means exercising towards its inhabitants, and the wealth and behavior of each and all, a form of surveillance and control as attentive as that of the head of a family over his household and his goods\". Thus, we see that this first part of the definition states that governmentality is a government with specific ends, means to these ends, and particular practices that should lead to these ends.\n\nThe second part of Foucault's definition (the \"resulting, on the one hand, in formation of a whole series of specific governmental apparatuses, and, on the other, in the development of a whole complex of savoirs\") presents governmentality as the long, slow development of Western governments which eventually took over from forms of governance like sovereignty and discipline into what it is today: bureaucracies and the typical methods by which they operate.\n\nThe next and last part of Foucault's definition of governmentality can be restated as the evolution from the Medieval state, which maintained its territory and an ordered society within this territory through a blunt practice of simply imposing its laws upon its subjects, to the early Renaissance state, which became more concerned with the \"disposing of things\", and so began to employ strategies and tactics to maintain a content and thus stable society, or in other words to \"render a society governable\".\n\nThus, if one takes these three definitions together, governmentality may be defined as the process through which a form of government with specific ends (a happy and stable society), means to these ends (\"apparatuses of security\"), and with a particular type of knowledge (\"political economy\"), to achieve these ends, evolved from a medieval state of justice to a modern administrative state with complex bureaucracies.\n\nThe concept of governmentality segues from Foucault's ethical, political and historical thoughts from the late 1970s to the early 1980s. His most widely known formulation of this notion is his lecture entitled \"Security, territory and population\" (1978). A deeper and richer reflection on the notion of governmentality is provided in Foucault's course on \"The Birth of Biopolitics\" at the Collège de France in 1978-1979. The course was first published in French in 2004 as \"Naissance de la biopolitique: Cours au Collège de France (1978-1979)\" (Paris: Gallimard & Seuil). This notion is also part of a wider analysis on the topic of disciplinary institutions, on neoliberalism and the \"Rule of Law\", the \"microphysics of power\" and also on what Foucault called biopolitics. In the second and third volumes of \"The History of Sexuality\", namely, \"The Use of Pleasure\" (1984) and \"The Care of the Self\" (1984), and in his lecture on \"Technologies of the Self\" (1982), Foucault elaborated a distinction between subjectivation and forms of subjectification by exploring how selves were fashioned and then lived in ways which were both heteronomously and autonomously determined. Also, in a series of lectures and articles, including \"The Birth of Biopolitics\" (1979), \"\"Omnes et Singulatim\": Towards a Criticism of Political Reason\" (1979), \"The Subject and Power\" (1982) and \"What is Enlightenment?\" (1984), he posed questions about the nature of contemporary social orders, the conceptualization of power, human freedom and the limits, possibilities and sources of human actions, etc. that were linked to his understanding of the notion of \"governmentality\".\n\nThe notion of governmentality (not to confuse with governance) gained attention in the English-speaking academic world mainly through the edited book \"The Foucault Effect\" (1991), which contained a series of essays on the notion of governmentality, together with a translation of Foucault's 1978 short text on \"gouvernementalité\".\n\nHunt and Wickham, in their work \"Foucault and Law\" [1994] begin the section on governmentality with a very basic definition derived from Foucault's work. They state, \"governmentality is the dramatic expansion in the scope of government, featuring an increase in the number and size of the governmental calculation mechanisms\" [1994:76]. In other words, governmentality describes the new form of governing that arose in the mid-eighteenth century that was closely allied with the creation and growth of the modern bureaucracies. In giving this definition, Hunt and Wickham conceive of the term as consisting of two parts 'governmental' and '–ity' - governmental meaning pertaining to the government of a country; and the suffix –ity meaning the study of. They acknowledge that this definition lacks some of Foucault's finer nuances and try to redress this by explaining some more of Foucault's ideas, including reason of state, the problem of population, modern political economy, liberal securitisation, and the emergence of the human sciences\" [1994:77].\n\nKerr's approach to the term is more complex. He conceives of the term as an abbreviation of \"governmental rationality\" [1999:174]. In other words, it is a way of thinking about the government and the practices of the government. To him it is not \"a zone of critical-revolutionary study, but one that conceptually reproduces capitalist rule\" [1999:197] by asserting that some form of government (and power) will always be necessary to control and constitute society. By defining governmentality only in terms of the state, Kerr fails to take account of other forms of governance and the idea of mentalities of government in this broader sense.\n\nDean's understanding of the term incorporates both other forms of governance and the idea of mentalities of government, as well as Hunt and Wickham's, and Kerr's approaches to the term. In line with Hunt and Wickham's approach, Dean acknowledges that in a very narrow sense, governmentality can be used to describe the emergence of a government that saw that the object of governing power was to optimise, use and foster living individuals as members of a population [1999:19]. He also includes the idea of government rationalities, seeing governmentality as one way of looking at the practices of government. In addition to the above, he sees government as anything to do with conducting oneself or others. This is evident in his description of the word in his glossary: \"Governmentality: How we think about governing others and ourselves in a wide variety of contexts...\" [1999:212]. This reflects that the term government to Foucault meant not so much the political or administrative structures of the modern state as the way in which the conduct of individuals or of groups may be directed. To analyse government is to analyse those mechanisms that try to shape, sculpt, mobilise and work through the choices, desires, aspirations, needs, wants and lifestyles of individuals and groups [Dean, 1999:12].\n\nDean's main contribution to the definition of the term, however, comes from the way he breaks the term up into 'govern' 'mentality', or mentalities of governing—mentality being a mental disposition or outlook. This means that the concept of governmentality is not just a tool for thinking about government and governing but also incorporates how and what people who are governed think about the way they are governed. He defines thinking as a \"collective activity\" [1999:16], that is, the sum of the knowledge, beliefs and opinions held by those who are governed. He also raises the point that a mentality is not usually \"examined by those who inhabit it\" [1999:16]. This raises the interesting point that those who are governed may not understand the unnaturalness of both the way they live and the fact that they take this way of life for granted—that the same activity in which they engage in \"can be regarded as a different form of practice depending on the mentalities that invest it\" [1999:17]. Dean highlights another important feature of the concept of governmentality—its reflexivity. He explains:\n\"On the one hand, we govern others and ourselves according to what we take to be true about who we are, what aspects of our existence should be worked upon, how, with what means, and to what ends. On the other hand, the ways in which we govern and conduct ourselves give rise to different ways of producing truth. [1999:18]\n\nBy drawing attention to the 'how and why', Dean connects \"technologies of power\" [Lemke, 2001:191] to the concept of governmentality. According to Dean any definition of governmentality should incorporate all of Foucault's intended ideas. A complete definition of the term governmentality must include not only government in terms of the state, but government in terms of any \"conduct of conduct\" [Dean, 1999:10]. It must incorporate the idea of mentalities and the associations that go with that concept: that it is an attitude towards something, and that it is not usually understood \"from within its own perspective\" [1999:16], and that these mentalities are collective and part of a society's culture. It must also include an understanding of the ways in which conduct is governed, not just by governments, but also by ourselves and others.\n\nThe semantic linking of governing and mentalities in governmentality indicates that it is not possible to study technologies of power without an analysis of the mentality of rule underpinning them. The practice of going to the gym, expounded below, is a useful example because it shows how our choices, desires, aspirations, needs, wants and lifestyles have been mobilised and shaped by various technologies of power.\n\nA mentality of rule is any relatively systematic way of thinking about government. It delineates a discursive field in which the exercise of power is 'rationalised' [Lemke, 2001:191]. Thus Neo-liberalism is a mentality of rule because it represents a method of rationalising the exercise of government, a rationalisation that obeys the internal rule of maximum economy [Foucault, 1997:74]. Fukuyama [in Rose, 1999: 63] writes \"a liberal State is ultimately a limited State, with governmental activity strictly bounded by the sphere of individual liberty\". However, only a certain type of liberty, a certain way of understanding and exercising freedom is compatible with Neo-liberalism. If Neo-liberalist government is to fully realize its goals, individuals must come to recognize and act upon themselves as both free and responsible [Rose, 1999:68]. Thus Neo-liberalism must work to create the social reality that it proposes already exists. For as Lemke states, a mentality of government \"is not pure, neutral knowledge that simply re-presents the governing reality\" [Lemke, 2001:191] instead, Neo-liberalism constitutes an attempt to link a reduction in state welfare services and security systems to the increasing call for subjects to become free, enterprising, autonomous individuals. It can then begin to govern its subjects, not through intrusive state bureaucracies backed with legal powers, the imposition of moral standards under a religious mandate, but through structuring the possible field of action in which they govern themselves, to govern them through their freedom. Through the transformation of subjects with duties and obligations, into individuals, with rights and freedoms, modern individuals are not merely 'free to choose' but obliged to be free, \"to understand and enact their lives in terms of choice\" [Rose, 1999:87]. This freedom is a different freedom to that offered in the past. It is a freedom to realize our potential and our dreams through reshaping the way in which we conduct our lives.\n\nCartographic mapping has historically been a key strategy of governmentality. Harley, drawing on Foucault, affirms that State-produced maps \"extend and reinforce the legal statutes, territorial imperatives, and values stemming from the exercise of political power\". Typically, State-led mapping conforms to Bentham's concept of a panopticon, in which 'the one views the many'. From a Foucauldian vantage point, this was the blueprint for disciplinary power.\n\nThrough processes of neoliberalism, the State has \"hollowed out\" some of its cartographic responsibilities and delegated power to individuals who are at a lower geographical scale. 'People's cartography' is believed to deliver a more democratic spatial governance than traditional top-down State-distribution of cartographic knowledge. Thus subverting Harley's theory that mapping is uniquely a source of power for the powerful. Joyce challenges Foucauldian notions of Panopticism, contending that neoliberal governmentality is more adequately conceptualised by an omniopticon - 'the many surveilling the many'. Collaborative mapping initiatives utilising GPS technology are arguably omniopticons, with the ability to reverse the panoptic gaze.\n\nThrough our freedom, particular self-governing capabilities can be installed in order to bring our own ways of conducting and evaluating ourselves into alignment with political objectives [Rose, 1996:155]. These capabilities are enterprise and autonomy. Enterprise here designates an array of rules for the conduct of one's everyday existence: energy, initiative, ambition, calculation, and personal responsibility. The enterprising self will make an enterprise of its life, seek to maximize its own human capital, project itself a future, and seek to shape life in order to become what it wishes to be. The enterprising self is thus both an active self and a calculating self, a self that calculates about itself and that acts upon itself in order to better itself [Rose, 1996:154]. Autonomy is about taking control of our undertakings, defining our goals, and planning to achieve our needs through our own powers [Rose, 1996:159]. The autonomy of the self is thus not the eternal antithesis of political power, but one of the objectives and instruments of modern mentalities for the conduct of conduct [Rose, 1996:155].\n\nThese three qualities: freedom, enterprise and autonomy are embodied in the practice of going to the gym. It is our choice to go the gym, our choice which gym to go to. By going to the gym we are working on ourselves, on our body shape and our physical fitness. We are giving ourselves qualities to help us perform better than others in life, whether to attract a better mate than others, or to be able to work more efficiently, more effectively and for longer without running out of steam to give us an advantage over our competitors. When we go to the gym, we go through our own discipline, on our own timetable, to reach our own goals. We design and act out our routine by ourselves. We do not need the ideas or support of a team, it is our self that makes it possible. The practice of going to the gym, of being free, enterprising, autonomous, is imbued with particular technologies of power.\n\nTechnologies of power are those \"technologies imbued with aspirations for the shaping of conduct in the hope of producing certain desired effects and averting certain undesired ones\" [Rose, 1999:52]. The two main groups of technologies of power are technologies of the self, and technologies of the market. Foucault defined technologies of the self as techniques that allow individuals to effect by their own means a certain number of operations on their own bodies, minds, souls, and lifestyle, so as to transform themselves in order to attain a certain state of happiness, and quality of life. Technologies of the market are those technologies based around the buying and selling of goods that enable us to define who we are, or want to be. These two technologies are not always completely distinct, as both borrow bits of each other from time to time.\n\nTechnologies of the self refer to the practices and strategies by which individuals represent to themselves their own ethical self-understanding. One of the main features of technologies of self is that of expertise. Expertise has three important aspects. First, its grounding of authority in a claim to scientificity and objectivity creates distance between self-regulation and the state that is necessary with liberal democracies. Second, expertise can \"mobilise and be mobilised within political argument in distinctive ways, producing a new relationship between knowledge and government. Expertise comes to be accorded a particular role in the formulation of programs of government and in the technologies that seek to give them effect\" [Rose, 1996:156]. Third, expertise operates through a relationship with the self-regulating abilities of individuals. The plausibility inherent in a claim to scientificity binds \"subjectivity to truth and subjects to experts\" [Rose, 1996:156]. Expertise works through a logic of choice, through a transformation of the ways in which individuals constitute themselves, through \"inculcating desires for self-development that expertise itself can guide and through claims to be able to allay the anxieties generated when the actuality of life fails to live up to its image [Rose, 1999:88].\n\nThe technologies of the self involved in the practice of, for example, going to the gym are the: technology of responsibilisation, technology of healthism, technology of normalisation and technology of self-esteem.\n\nIn line with its desire to reduce the scope of government (e.g. welfare) Neo-liberalism characteristically develops indirect techniques for leading and controlling individuals without being responsible for them. The main mechanism is through the technology of responsibilisation. This entails subjects becoming responsibilised by making them see social risks such as illness, unemployment, poverty, etc. not as the responsibility of the state, but actually lying in the domain for which the individual is responsible and transforming it into a problem of 'self-care' [Lemke, 2001:201] and of 'consumption'. The practice of going to the gym can be seen as a result of responsibilisation, our responsibility to remain free of illness so as to be able to work and to care for our dependants (children, elderly parents etc.) This technology somewhat overlaps with the technology of healthism.\n\nHealthism links the \"public objectives for the good health and good order of the social body with the desire of individuals for health and well-being\" [Rose, 1999:74]. Healthy bodies and hygienic homes may still be objectives of the state, but it no longer seeks to discipline, instruct, moralise or threaten us into compliance. Rather \"individuals are addressed on the assumption that they want to be healthy and enjoined to freely seek out the ways of living most likely to promote their own health\" [Rose, 1999:86-87] such as going to the gym. However while the technology of responsibilisation may be argued to be a calculated technique of the state, the wave of Healthism is less likely to be a consequence of state planning, but arising out of the newer social sciences such as nutrition and human movement. Healthism assigns, as do most technologies of the self, a key role to experts. For it is experts who can tell us how to conduct ourselves in terms of safe, precise techniques to improve cardiovascular fitness, muscle strength, and overall health. The borrowing from technologies of the market by technologies of the self can be clearly seen in the area of healthism. The idea of health, the goal of being healthy, the joys brought by good health and the ways of achieving it are advertised to us in the same manner as goods and services are marketed by sales people. By adhering to the principles of healthism, our personal goals are aligned with political goals and we are thus rendered governable.\n\nAnother technology of power arising from the social sciences is that of normalisation. The technology of norms was given a push by the new methods of measuring population. A norm is that \"which is socially worthy, statistically average, scientifically healthy and personally desirable\". The important aspect of normality, is that while the norm is natural, those who wish to achieve normality will do so by working on themselves, controlling their impulses in everyday conduct and habits, and inculcating norms of conduct into their children, under the guidance of others. Norms are enforced through the calculated administration of shame. Shame entails an anxiety over the exterior behaviour and appearance of the self, linked to an injunction to care for oneself in the name of achieving quality of life [Rose, 1999:73]. Norms are usually aligned with political goals, thus the norm would be fit, virile, energetic individuals, able to work, earn money, and spend it and thus sustain the economy. For instance, the practice of going to the gym allows one to achieve this 'normality'. Through shame we are governed into conforming with the goals of Neo-liberalism.\n\nSelf-esteem is a practical and productive technology linked to the technology of norms, which produces of certain kinds of selves. Self-esteem is a technology in the sense that it is a specialised knowledge of how to esteem ourselves to estimate, calculate, measure, evaluate, discipline, and to judge our selves. The 'self-esteem' approach considers a wide variety of social problems to have their source in a lack of self-esteem on the part of the persons concerned. 'Self-esteem' thus has much more to do with self-assessment than with self-respect, as the self continuously has to be measured, judged and disciplined in order to gear personal 'empowerment' to collective yardsticks. These collective yardsticks are determined by the norms previously discussed. Self-esteem is a technology of self for \"evaluating and acting upon ourselves so that the police, the guards and the doctors do not have to do so\". By taking up the goal of self-esteem, we allow ourselves to be governable from a distance. The technology of self-esteem and other similar psychological technologies also borrow from technologies of the market, namely consumption. A huge variety of self-help books, tapes, videos and other paraphernalia are available for purchase by the individual.\n\nThe technologies of the market that underlie the practice of going to the gym can be described as the technology of desire, and the technology of identity through consumption. The technology of desire is a mechanism that induces in us desires that we work to satisfy. Marketers create wants and artificial needs in us through advertising goods, experiences and lifestyles that are tempting to us. These advertisements seek to convey the sense of individual satisfaction brought about by the purchase or use of this product. We come to desire these things and thus act in a manner that allows us to achieve these things, whether by working harder and earning more money or by employing technologies of the self to shape our lifestyle to the manner we desire . The borrowing of technologies of the self by technologies of the market extends even further in this case. Marketers use the knowledge created by psyche- discourses, especially psychological characteristics as the basis of their market segmentation. This allows them to appeal more effectively to each individual. Thus we are governed into purchasing commodities through our desire.\n\nThe technology of identity through consumption utilises the power of goods to shape identities. Each commodity is imbued with a particular meaning, which is reflected upon those who purchase it, illuminating the kind of person they are, or want to be. Consumption is portrayed as placing an individual within a certain form of life. The technology of identity through consumption can be seen in the choices that face the gym attendee. To go to an expensive gym because it demonstrates wealth/success or to go to a moderately priced gym so as to appear economical. The range of gym wear is extensive. Brand name to portray the abilities portrayed in its advertising, expensive to portray commitment, or cheap to portray your unconcern for other people's opinions. All of these choices of consumption are used to communicate our identity to others, and thus we are governed by marketers into choosing those products that identify with our identity.\n\nThese technologies of the market and of the self are the particular mechanisms whereby individuals are induced into becoming free, enterprising individuals who govern themselves and thus need only limited direct governance by the state. The implementation of these technologies is greatly assisted by experts from the social sciences. These experts operate a regime of the self, where success in life depends on our continual exercise of freedom, and where our life is understood, not in terms of fate or social status, but in terms of our success or failure in acquiring the skills and making the choices to actualise ourself. If we engage in the practice of going to the gym, we are undertaking an exercise in self-government. We do so by drawing upon certain forms of knowledge and expertise provided by gym instructors, health professionals, of the purveyors of the latest fitness fad. Depending on why we go to the gym, we may calculate number of calories burned, heart-rate, or muscle size. In all cases, we attend the gym for a specific set of reasons underpinned by the various technologies of the self and the market. The part of ourselves we seek to work upon, the means by which we do so, and who we hope to become, all vary according to the nature of the technology of power by which we are motivated [Dean, 1999:17]. All of these various reasons and technologies are underpinned by the mentality of government that seeks to transform us into a free, enterprising, autonomous individual: Neo-liberalism. Furthermore, Neo-liberalism seeks to create and disseminate definitions of freedom, autonomy and what it means to be enterprising that re-create forms of behavior amenable to neo-liberal goals.\n\nEcogovernmentality (or eco-governmentality) is the application of Foucault's concepts of biopower and governmentality to the analysis of the regulation of social interactions with the natural world. Timothy W. Luke theorized this as environmentality and green governmentality. Ecogovernmentality began in the mid-1990s with a small body of theorists (Luke, Darier, and Rutherford) the literature on ecogovernmentality grew as a response to the perceived lack of Foucauldian analysis of environmentalism and in environmental studies.\n\nFollowing Michel Foucault, writing on ecogovernmentality focuses on how government agencies, in combination with producers of expert knowledge, construct \"The Environment.\" This construction is viewed both in terms of the creation of an object of knowledge and a sphere within which certain types of intervention and management are created and deployed to further the government's larger aim of managing the lives of its constituents. This governmental management is dependent on the dissemination and internalization of knowledge/power among individual actors. This creates a decentered network of self-regulating elements whose interests become integrated with those of the State.\n\nAccording to Foucault, there are several instances where the Western, \"liberal art of government\" enters into a period of crisis, where the logic of ensuring freedom (which was defined against the background of risk or danger) necessitates actions \"which potentially risk producing exactly the opposite.\"\n\nThe inherently contradictory logics that lead to such contradictions are identified by Foucault as:\n\n1. Liberalism depends on the socialization of individuals to fear the constant presence of danger, e.g., public campaigns advocating savings banks, public hygiene, and disease prevention, the development of detective novels as a genre and of news stories of crime, and sexual anxieties surrounding \"degeneration.\"\n\n2. Liberal freedom requires disciplinary techniques that manage the individual's behaviour and everyday life so as to ensure productivity and the increase in profit through efficient labour, e.g., Bentham's Panopticon surveillance system. Liberalism claims to supervise the natural mechanisms of behaviour and production, but must intervene when it notices \"irregularities.\"\n\n3. Liberalism must force individuals to be free: control and intervention becomes the entire basis of freedom. Freedom must ultimately be manufactured by control rather than simply \"counterweighted\" by it.\n\nExamples of this contradictory logic which Foucault cites are the policies of the Keynesian welfare state under F.D. Roosevelt, the thought of the German liberals in the Freiburg school, and the thought of American libertarian economists such as the Chicago School which attempt to free individuals from the lack of freedom perceived to exist under socialism and fascism, but did so by using state interventionist models.\n\nThese governmental crises may be triggered by phenomena such as a discursive concern with increasing economic capital costs for the exercise of freedom, e.g., prices for purchasing resources, the need for excessive state coercion and interventionism to protect market freedoms, e.g., anti-trust and anti-monopoly legislation that leads to a \"legal strait-jacket\" for the state, local protests rejecting the disciplinary mechanisms of the market society and state. and finally, the destructive and wasteful effects of ineffective mechanisms for producing freedom.\n\nScholars have recently suggested that the concept of governmentality may be useful in explaining the operation of evidence-based health care and the internalization of clinical guidelines relating to best practice for patient populations, such as those developed by the American Agency for Health Care Research and Quality and the British National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE). Recent research by Fischer and colleagues at the University of Oxford has renewed interest in Foucault's exploration of potential resistance to governmentality, and its application to health care, drawing on Foucault's recently published final lectures at the College de France.\n\nJeffreys and Sigley (2009) highlight that governmentality studies have focused on advanced liberal democracies, and preclude considerations of non-liberal forms of governmentality in both western and non-western contexts. Recent studies have broken new ground by applying Foucault's concept of governmentality to non-western and non-liberal settings, such as China. Jeffreys (2009) for example provides a collection of essay on China's approach to governance, development, education, the environment, community, religion, and sexual health where the notion of 'Chinese governmentally' is based not on the notion of 'freedom and liberty' as in the western tradition but rather, on a distinct rational approach to planning and administration. Such new studies thus use Foucault's Governmentalities to outline the nature of shifts in governance and contribute to emerging studies of governmentality in non-western contexts.\n\n\nhttp://www.inderscience.com/info/inarticle.php?artid=67421\nhttps://eurasianpublications.com/Eurasian-Journal-of-Economics-and-Finance/Vol.4-No.2-2016.aspx\nhttps://eurasianpublications.com/Eurasian-Journal-of-Economics-and-Finance/Vol.4-No.2-2016.aspx\n"}
{"id": "40211753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40211753", "title": "Greek government-debt crisis timeline", "text": "Greek government-debt crisis timeline\n\nThe Greek government-debt crisis began in 2009 and, as of November 2017, was still ongoing. During this period, many changes had occurred in Greece. The income of many Greeks has declined, levels of unemployment have increased, elections and resignations of politicians have altered the country's political landscape radically, the Greek parliament has passed many austerity bills, and protests have become common sights throughout the country.\n\nGreece joined the European Communities (subsequently subsumed by the European Union) on 1 January 1981, ushering in a period of sustained growth. Widespread investments in industrial enterprises and heavy infrastructure, as well as funds from the European Union and growing revenues from tourism, shipping and a fast-growing service sector raised the country's standard of living to unprecedented levels. The country adopted the Euro in 2001 and over the next 7 years the country's GDP per capita more than doubled, from $13,070 in 2001 to $28,660 in 2008. The Greek government, encouraged by the European Commission, European Central Bank, private banking institutions, and the Greek business community also took out loans to pay Greek and foreign infrastructure companies for a wide variety of infrastructure projects such as those related to the 2004 Summer Olympic Games in Athens. Government deficits were also consistently underreported. As the Financial crisis of 2007–08 began to affect Greece's economy, the country's GDP stagnated between 2008 and 2010 and the government's capacity to repay its creditors was drastically reduced.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOn June 21, 2018, Greece's creditors agreed on a 10-year extension of maturities on 96.6 billion euros of loans (i.e., almost a third of Greece's total debt), as well as a 10-year grace period in interest and amortization payments on the same loans. Greece successfully exited (as declared) the bailouts on August 20, 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43349992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43349992", "title": "Historical determinism", "text": "Historical determinism\n\nHistorical determinism is the stance that events are historically predetermined or currently constrained by various forces. Historical determinism can be understood in contrast to its negation, i.e. the rejection of historical determinism.\n\nSome political philosophies (e.g. Early and Stalinist Marxism) assert a historical materialism of either predetermination or constraint, or both.\n\nUsed as a pejorative, it is normally meant to designate an overdetermination of present possibilities by historical conditions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45638053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45638053", "title": "Index of gun politics articles", "text": "Index of gun politics articles\n"}
{"id": "13926601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13926601", "title": "Issue advocacy ads", "text": "Issue advocacy ads\n\nIssue advocacy ads (also known as interest advocacy ads or issue only ads) are communications intended to bring awareness to a certain problem. Groups that sponsor this form of communication are known by several names including: interest advocacy group, issue advocacy group, issue only group, or special interest group. The problems these groups raise awareness of can be either a social or political issue.\n\nThe bright-line test doesn't cover forms of communication that are indirect or debatable. Consider this message to voters:\n\n\nIn a communication like this, there is no mention about voting, however, the plain intention is to cast doubt on voters that supported candidate X. \n\nCampaigning like this is typically called negative campaigning, making attack ads, or making thinly veiled promotional ads on the behalf of the candidate.\n\nInterest advocacy is the act of making generalized communication regarding a public issue or problem without advocating voters to take a specific action at the election booth.\n\nIdentification of a pure \"issue only ads\" made by interest advocacy groups is difficult. Groups that sponsored messages needed to make it clear, to a voter with reasonable intelligence, that the voter should cast their ballot in a manner the group wanted.\n\nKeeping an advertisement issue important to only groups like 501(c)(3) non-profits. They were subject to limits or absolute prohibitions on engaging in political activities. Organizations can participate in nonpartisan voter education efforts, including registration and \"get-out-the-vote\" drives and issue advocacy.\n\nExpress advocacy is largely used in connection with a debate in the US regarding when issue advocacy turns into campaigning. \n\nMany groups that made what appeared to most to be campaign advertisements claimed that their communications to voters were really issue advocacy and not express advocacy. To help understand the difference, examine these two communications to voters: \n\n\nIn both examples the message's intention is clear. Using a standard that looks for specific words or phrases in a communication is called conducting a bright-line test. Bright-line is a standard if there is no mistake. One or more of the \"Eight Magic Words\" or their is present or not present. \n\nExpress advocacy is associated with independent expenditures.\n\nIn the 1970s, changes to regulations permitted non-candidate organizations to make independent expenditures and use their money in election season. They could neither give it directly to a candidate nor make advertisement on a candidates behalf. Typical expenditures were described as being \"party building\" and get out the vote campaigns. Organizations, especially non-profits were supposed to do it on a nonpartisan basis. However, groups tended to focus efforts on signing up and getting the type of voters to the polls that were most likely to hold similar views.\n\nThe only barrier stopping a group from campaigning directly for their favorite candidate or cause was something called the \"reasonable person\" test: if a reasonable person, viewing the communication, comes to the conclusion the sponsor wants them to vote in one way, it is express advocacy, not interest advocacy. \n\nOne problem with the reasonable person test is it is not definitive or a bright-line rule. There was no clear line that clearly stated if you cross this point you are on the wrong side. In an attempt to help the situation, in 1976 a footnote was included in a US Supreme Court ruling provided eight examples. \n\nHowever, rather than using them as examples, many found it easier to just leave out the \"magic words\" and claim their communications to voters were fine. By 1996, interest advocacy groups were spending millions of dollars on campaigns claiming their advertisements were \"issue only\" since they left out the \"magic words.\"\n\nBy 2000, voters were inundated with $500 million worth of this type of advertisement. Owing to the \"shame issue ads,\" scandals, and the amount of spending, Congress held a congressional investigation. It reinvigorated campaign finance reform, and led to the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act in 2002, which is more commonly known as McCain-Feingold.\n\nIn 2003, in \"McConnell v. Federal Election Commission\", the Court detailed the difference between interest versus express advocacy. It ruled looking for \"magic words\" as \"functionally meaningless\" since an advertiser can communicate its intention to voters without them. Therefore, instead of looking for words, the Court again ruled that if a communication to voters had \"no reasonable interpretation other than as an appeal to vote for, or against, a specific candidate,\" it is \"the functional equivalent of express advocacy.\"\n\nIn the United States presidential election, 2004, \"issue only\" ads continued and some famous ones were made by a group called Swift Boat. They claimed their advertisements were issue only ads, not express advocacy. According to at least one analyst, voters voted exactly how the sponsors intended and the advertisements \"torpedoed\" Massachusetts Democrat John Kerry presidential campaign, 2004. Additionally, a political action committee Progress of America, ran an advertisement that showed the horrors of terrorism and stated that Osama bin Laden and Al-Qaeda want to kill American citizens. At the end, ot asked, \"Would you trust Kerry against these killers?\" \"George Bush did not start this War, but he will end it.\" The \"magic words\" are missing. \n\nIn 2007, the US Supreme Court in \"Federal Election Commission v. Wisconsin Right to Life, Inc.\" ruled that issue ads may not be banned from the months preceding a primary or general election. The test to tell the difference between interest and express advocacy remained the reasonable person test.\n\nHowever, that is said to have created a difficulty. A test that requires someone to consider how a reasonable person views a communication to voters requires someone to decide. The only definitive answer comes from a judge and that takes time. Election commissions are not judges, but they can issue advisory opinion on the matter. That led to a concern that in federal elections, that officials at the Federal Election Commission and state-level commissions would have to do work. Anyone cautious, wanting to make sure the communication to voters, was interest and not express advocacy would contact it for an opinion. Communications to voters covers a wide range of areas including advertisements, e-mails, signs, and even speeches on the pulpit might want to ask someone. \n\nTo resolve this issue, the US Supreme Court looked back at a prior ruling. In 1976, in \"Buckley v. Valeo\", the Supreme Court held that one thing of key importance was protecting free speech. \n\nIn 2010, \"Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission\" determined, among other things, that it would be basically not possible for the federal government to be in the business of determining what does and does not constitute issue advocacy or express advocacy.\n\nIn 2010, \"Citizens United\" \"expressly rejected the contention that election-law disclosure requirements are limited to express\nadvocacy or its functional equivalent.\" While it and a subsequent case affected certain spending limitations, it did not permit those making the spending from evading disclosure requirements by claiming they were performing issue advocacy.\n\nAlso in 2010 in a case known as \"Doe v. Reed\", the Supreme Court rejected an appeal to keep signatures upon a referendum from voters, based upon a claim it violated the First Amendment.\n\nLower courts are already applying these new standards to uphold a gamut of state disclosure laws ranging from ballot measures to candidate elections, and from express advocacy to issue advocacy.\n\n"}
{"id": "208564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=208564", "title": "Leader of the Opposition", "text": "Leader of the Opposition\n\nThe Leader of the Opposition is a title traditionally held by the leader of the largest party not in government in a Westminster System of parliamentary government. The Leader of the Opposition is seen as the alternative Prime Minister, Premier or Chief Minister to the incumbent and heads a rival alternative government known as the Shadow Cabinet or Opposition Front Bench.\n\nIn many Commonwealth realms the full title is \"Leader of Her Majesty's Loyal opposition\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12476895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12476895", "title": "Libertarian conservatism", "text": "Libertarian conservatism\n\nLibertarian conservatism or conservative libertarianism is a political philosophy and ideology that combines right-libertarian politics and conservative values. Libertarian conservatism advocates the greatest possible economic liberty and the least possible government regulation of social life, mirroring \"laissez-faire\" liberalism, but harnesses this to a belief in a more traditional and conservative social philosophy emphasizing authority and duty. Libertarian conservatism prioritizes liberty as its main emphasis, promoting free expression, freedom of choice and free market capitalism to achieve socially and culturally conservative ends as they reject liberal social engineering, or in the opposite way but not excluding the above, libertarian conservatism could be understood as promoting civil society through conservative institutions and authority - as family, fatherland, religion, education - in the quest of libertarian ends for less state power.\n\nFor Larry Johnston, in political science, the term \"libertarian conservatism\" is used to refer to ideologies that combine the advocacy of economic principles such as fiscal discipline, respect for contracts, defense of private property and free markets and the traditional conservative stress on self-help and freedom of choice under a \"laissez-faire\" and economically liberal capitalist society with social tenets such as the importance of religion and the value of traditional morality through a framework of limited, constitutional, representative government.\n\nFor Margaret Randall, libertarian conservatism began as an expression of individualism and the demand for personal freedom. \n\n\"Freedom and Virtue: The Conservative/Libertarian Debate\", edited by George W. Carey, contains essays which describe \"the tension between liberty and morality\" as \"the main fault line dividing the two philosophies\".\n\nNelson Hultberg wrote that there is \"philosophical common ground\" between libertarians and conservatives. \"The true conservative movement was, from the start, a blend of political libertarianism, cultural conservatism, and non-interventionism abroad bequeathed to us via the Founding Fathers\". He said that such libertarian conservatism was \"hijacked\" by neoconservatism, \"by the very enemies it was formed to fight – Fabians, New Dealers, welfarists, progressives, globalists, interventionists, militarists, nation builders, and all the rest of the collectivist ilk that was assiduously working to destroy the Founders' Republic of States\".\n\nThomas DiLorenzo wrote that libertarian conservative constitutionalists believe that the way to limit government is to enforce the United States Constitution. However, DiLorenzo criticized them by writing: \"The fatal flaw in the thinking of the libertarian/conservative constitutionalists stems from their unawareness or willful ignorance of how the founders themselves believed the Constitution could be enforced: by the citizens of the free, independent, and sovereign states, not the federal judiciary\". He wrote that the powers accrued to the federal government during the American Civil War overthrew the Constitution of 1787.\n\nIn the 1950's Frank Meyer, a prominent contributor to the \"National Review\", called his own combination libertarianism and conservatism as \"fusionism\".\n\nIn the 1990s, Lew Rockwell, Murray Rothbard and others described their libertarian conservative views as paleolibertarianism. They continued libertarian opposition to \"all forms of government intervention – economic, cultural, social, international\", but also upholding cultural conservatism in social thought and behavior. They opposed a licentious libertarianism which advocated \"freedom from bourgeois morality, and social authority\". Rockwell later stated that they dropped that self-description because people confused it with paleoconservatism, which they rejected.\n\nLaurence M. Vance wrote: \"Some libertarians consider libertarianism to be a lifestyle rather than a political philosophy... They apparently don't know the difference between libertarianism and libertinism\".\n\nFriedrich Hayek, Ludwig von Mises, Milton Friedman, Richard Posner, Richard Epstein and Albert Jay Nock have been described as libertarian conservatives. Former U.S. Congressman Ron Paul and his son U.S. Senator Rand Paul have been described as combining libertarian and conservative \"small government\" ideas and showing how the Constitution defends the individual and most libertarian views.\n\nIn 1975, Ronald Reagan stated: \"I believe the very heart and soul of conservatism is libertarianism\". However, some libertarians criticized Reagan for un-libertarian policy positions.\n\nEdward Feser emphasized that libertarianism does not require individuals to reject traditional conservative values. Libertarianism supports the ideas of liberty, privacy and ending the war on marijuana at the legal level without changing personal values.\n\nLibertarian conservatism subscribes to the libertarian idea of free market capitalism, advocating minimal to no government interference in the market. A number of libertarian conservatives favor Austrian economics and are critical of fiat money, with many supporting policies like pay what you want cafes. Libertarian conservatives also advocate for ways to privatize services run by the government, from airports to toll booths.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6152771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6152771", "title": "List of wars between democracies", "text": "List of wars between democracies\n\nThis is an incomplete list of wars between entities that have a constitutionally democratic form of government and actually practice it. Two points are required: that there has been a war, and that there are democracies on at least two opposing sides. For many of these entries, whether there has been a war, or a democracy, is a debatable question; all significant views should be given. For example, see list of types of democracy.\n\nAlmost all of these depend on the definition of \"democracy\" (and of \"war\") employed. As James Lee Ray points out, with a sufficiently restrictive definition of democracy, there will be no wars between democracies: define democracy as true universal suffrage, the right of all – including children – to vote, and there have been no democracies, and so no wars between them.\n\nOn the other hand, Ray lists the following as having been called wars between democracies, with broader definitions of democracy: The American Revolution including the Fourth Anglo-Dutch War, the French Revolutionary Wars, the War of 1812, the Belgian Revolution, the Sonderbund War, the war of 1849 between the Roman Republic and the Second French Republic, the American Civil War, the Spanish–American War, the Second Philippine War, the Second Boer War, World War I, World War II (as a whole, and also the Continuation War by itself), the Israeli War of Independence, the Indo-Pakistani War of 1947–1948, the Six-Day War, the Yugoslav Wars, and the Armenia-Azerbaijan War. Many Native American tribes also had democratic forms of government, and they often fought each other up until the late 19th century, as did many tribes of Norsemen during the Middle Ages.\n\nSimilarly, the school of Ted Robert Gurr, founder of the Polity IV dataset, divides regimes into three classes: democracies, autocracies, and \"anocracies\"; the last being the sort of weak or new states which are marginal democracies or marginal autocracies; many of the wars below involve weak or marginal democracies.\n\nThe Peloponnesian war included a great many conflicts among Greek city-states. The principal war was between Athens and her allies (most of them democracies) on one side, and Sparta and her allies (most of them oligarchies—although most of them held elections among a citizen body) on the other. But the war lasted for twenty-seven years, with a brief armistice, and a great many side-conflicts occurred; and states changed from democracy to oligarchy and back again. Most notable of the wars between democracies was the Sicilian Expedition, 415–413 BC, in which Athens went to war with Syracuse. Bruce Russett finds 13 conflicts between \"clear\" democratic pairs (most of these being Athens and allies in the Sicilian Expedition) and 25 involving \"other\" democratic pairs. Classicist Mogens Herman Hansen thinks one of Russett's examples unlikely, but adds several instances of wars between democracies before and after the Peloponnesian War.\n\nThe constitution of the Roman Republic, before its collapse in the late 1st century BC, is amply documented; its magistrates (including the Roman Senate, which was composed of current and former magistrates) were elected by universal suffrage by adult (male) citizens; all male citizens were eligible. There was a political class of wealthy men; most successful candidates belonged to this class, and all of them were supported by a party drawn from it, but this does not distinguish Rome from other democracies—nor, indeed, from non-democratic states; freedom of speech was, however, a characteristic difference between the Republic and the later Roman Empire.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1580458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1580458", "title": "Meta-rights", "text": "Meta-rights\n\nIn philosophy, meta-rights are the entitlements of individuals to their rights, including the possibility to waive, transfer or sell their rights. When we talk of the rights of individuals, we do not always distinguish between rights which can be waived or sold and rights which are non-negotiable. Yet that distinction and often the distinction is made implicitly. When we say a person has a right to her house, we usually mean that she also has the meta right to sell the right. On the other hand, when we say a person has the right to his body parts, we usually assume this comes without the accompanying meta right to sell these rights. Economic efficiency usually comes with having rights which come together with the meta right to sell the right. It is arguable that we should be much more explicit about when rights come together with meta rights and when without, and the moral basis that accompany these decisions.\n\n"}
{"id": "14458641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14458641", "title": "National liberalism", "text": "National liberalism\n\nNational liberalism is a variant of liberalism, combining liberal policies and issues with elements of nationalism and/or a term used to describe a series of European political parties that have been especially active in the 19th century in several national contexts such as Central Europe, the Nordic countries and Southeast Europe.\n\nNational liberalism, whose goals were the pursuit of individual/economic freedom and national sovereignty, refers primarily to an ideology and a movement of the 19th century, but national-liberal parties exist also today.\n\nJózsef Antall, a historian and Christian democrat who served as the first post-communist Prime Minister of Hungary, described national liberalism as \"part and parcel of the emergence of the nation state\" in 19th-century Europe.\n\nAccording to Oskar Mulej, \"in terms of both ideologies and political party traditions it may be argued that in the Central European lands a distinct type of liberalism, peculiar to this region evolved through the nineteenth century\" and citing Maciej Janowski, \"the word 'national' acted as more or less synonymous with 'liberal'\" (\"'national' alone was sufficient to arouse suspicions of liberal associations\"). Also according to Mulej, in Southeast Europe \"'national liberals' also played visible if not central roles, but with rather different, region-specific characteristics, which to a considerable extent distinguished them from their Central European counterparts\".\n\nIn his book \"Up From Conservatism,\" Michael Lind defines \"national liberalism\" in a way that \"The Progressive\" describes as matching historian Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.'s use of the expression \"Vital Center\". Lind himself defines \"national liberalism\" as uniting \"moderate social conservatism with moderate economic liberalism\".\n\nGordon Smith, a leading scholar of comparative European politics, understands national liberalism as a political concept that lost popularity when the success of nationalist movements in creating nation states rendered it no longer necessary to specify that a liberal ideal, party or politician was \"national\".\n\nThe roots of national liberalism are to be found in the 19th century, when conservative liberalism and/or classical liberalism was the ideology of the political classes in most European countries and in particular those of Central Europe, then governed by hereditary monarchies.\n\nAt their origin, national liberals, although pro-business, were not necessarily advocates of free trade and economic liberalism per se and sometimes favoured cooperation between the government and the national industry, moderate levels of protectionism, the establishment of preferential custom unions, subsidies for infant industry or companies considered of national strategic importance and various forms of industrial planning.\n\nNational liberalism was popular in a number of countries including Germany, Austria, Denmark, Sweden, Finland and Romania during the 19th century. In Germany, Austria and Romania, national liberals and/or \"National Liberal\" parties were long in government. More specifically, in German-speaking countries national liberals were also in favour of a more authoritarian or conservative political regime because of the multi-ethnic character or heterogeneous nature of countries like the Austrian Empire (later officially renamed Austria-Hungary) or the newly created Germany under Chancellor Otto von Bismarck.\n\nIn 19th-century Germany, believers in national liberalism differed from liberal nationalists in that they believed in a more authoritarian presence in Europe and a strong German Empire. Liberal nationalists, such as Max Weber, were looking towards a democratic Germany in cooperation with the other European powers.\n\nAt the time of the German Empire, national liberalism was represented by the National Liberal Party (NLP), the largest in the Reichstag for several years. National Liberals supported Bismarck, who served as Chancellor from 1871 (unification of Germany) to 1890, until the late 1870s when the Chancellor reversed his early free trade policies, became a proponent of protectionism, opposed increasing parliamentary powers and ultimately pandered for the support of the German Conservative Party (largely representing the wealthy landowning elite Junkers of Prussia). Additionally, the NLP (which had obtained around 30% in the first three federal elections, including 30.1% in the 1871 federal election) suffered huge losses in the 1878 federal election and especially the 1881 federal election (when it was reduced to 14.6%). Later, the party experienced a steady decline in its share of vote, contextually with the rise of the Social Democratic Party and the Centre Party at the turn of the century.\n\nDuring the Weimar Republic, the NLP was succeeded by the German People's Party (DVP), whose main leader was Gustav Stresemann, Chancellor (1923) and Minister of Foreign Affairs (1923–1929). The DVP, which was joined by some moderate elements of the Free Conservative Party (FKP) and the Economic Union (WV), was generally thought to represent the interests of the great German industrialists and has been classified as a national-liberal party by several observers. Its platform stressed Christian family values, secular education, lower tariffs, opposition to welfare spending and agrarian subsidies and hostility to \"Marxism\" (that is to say, both the Communist Party and the Social Democratic Party). After Stresemann's death, the DVP, whose ranks included several anti-republicans, veered sharply to the right.\n\nThe current Free Democratic Party (FDP), which was the joint successor of the DVP and the social liberal German Democratic Party (DDP), originally featured conservative and partly nationalist efforts, which were particularly strong in some state associations until the 1950s and more occasionally after that (an interesting example is that of Jürgen Möllemann, FDP leader in North Rhine-Westphalia in 1983–1994 and 1996–2002) and still includes a national-liberal faction, which holds a consistently Eurosceptic position, differently from the rest of the party. Some right-wing elements, including Sven Tritschler (former leader of the Stresemann Club), have more recently joined the Alternative for Germany (AfD), which has in turn been characterised by some observers as national liberal.\n\nIn Austria-Hungary, the Constitutional Party was the main representative of national liberalism. In Austria, national liberalism has remained the basis of one of the three \"Lager\", or ideological camps, in the country, dating back to the Revolutions of 1848 in the Austrian Empire. During the interwar period, the national-liberal camp was gathered into the Greater German People's Party. By 1938, with the \"Anschluss\" of Austria into Nazi Germany, the national-liberal camp had been swallowed whole by Austrian National Socialism and all other parties were eventually absorbed into Nazi totalitarianism. Both Socialists and Christian Socials were persecuted under the Nazi regime and the national-liberal camp was scarred after the war due to guilt by association with National Socialism.\n\nIn 1949, the Federation of Independents (VdU) was founded as a national-liberal alternative to the main Austrian parties. It incorporated an array of political movements, including free market liberals, populists, former Nazis and German nationalists, all of whom had been unable to join either of the two main parties. The VdU evolved into the Freedom Party of Austria (FPÖ) in 1955–1956. When Jörg Haider was chosen as new FPÖ leader in 1986, the party started an ideological turn towards right-wing populism, which resulted in the split of most liberals, who formed the Liberal Forum (LiF), which took over the FPÖ's membership in the Liberal International and would later eventually merge into NEOS. Haider himself would split from the party and form the Alliance for the Future of Austria in 2005.\n\nIn Denmark, from the 1840s the core concept of national liberalism was that the nation and the state should have the same extent. National liberals supported the union the Kingdom of Denmark and the Duchy of Schleswig under a common constitutional framework. On the economy, the state should not interfere with trade and the national-liberal economic vision was transposed in the 1857 Law on Freedom of Business, which abolished the last remnants of the feudal monopolies which had previously formed the framework for the craft of the cities. Danish national liberals supported Scandinavism and thus Scandinavian unity.\n\nIn Sweden, in the 1860s liberals described themselves as national liberals (\"nationalliberaler\") and constituted a coalition of monarchists and liberal reformists in support of parliamentary reforms. Swedish national liberals also supported Scandinavism.\n\nIn the Grand Duchy of Finland, an autonomous part of the Russian Empire, where as many as 80% of the population was Protestant and Finnish-speaking, somewhat under 20% Protestant Swedish speakers (Sweden ruled Finland until 1809) and a small number Russian Orthodox, the term \"national liberal\" was used by the elite Swedish-speakers of the Svecoman movement who advocated liberal ideals, but wanted to keep Swedish as the dominant language, an idea opposed by Finnish-speaking nationalists of the Fennoman movement. The Svecoman movement gave birth to the Swedish Party, which was later renamed Swedish People's Party in Finland, which has since moved to mainstream liberalism and social liberalism and is often a party of government in the country.\n\nIn Russia, \"national liberalism\" was a 1990s movement claiming to be redefining \"liberal\" principles as understood in the Western tradition to produce a \"national liberalism\" better suited to Russian culture, being practically a variety of Russian nationalism.\n\nPresidential candidate in 2018 presidential election, Ksenia Sobchak of Civic Initiative, considers herself a national liberal.\n\nIn Romania, the National Liberal Party (PNL), founded in 1875, revived in 1990 and enlarged in 2014 (when it absorbed the Democratic Liberal Party, PDL), has also been part of the national-liberal tradition. Today, it is one of the country's two main parties. President Klaus Iohannis hails from it. The PNL is now mainly liberal-conservative and pro-Europeanist placed on the centre-right of the political spectrum concerning economy, society, culture, freedom of expression and civil liberties.\n\nFreedom and Solidarity (SaS), the liberal and libertarian main opposition party after the 2016 parliamentary election in Slovakia, has been shifting from liberalism to Euroscepticism and nationalism and/or combining liberalism and nationalism. As a fact, SaS is not a member of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Party, but of the Alliance of Conservatives and Reformists in Europe, along with conservative and Eurosceptic parties. SaS leader Richard Sulík described himself both as a liberal and as a nationalist, but later corrected himself by saying that he was a liberal and a patriot while condemning chauvinism, racism and religious fanaticism and opposing the withdrawal of Slovakia from the European Union. However, the party has never been classified as national-liberal by third-party sources.\n\nIn Austria-Hungary the Young Czech Party, emerged in 1874 after a split from the Old Czech Party, was a national-liberal force. During Czechoslovakia's era (1918–1992), a few parties were described as national-liberal: Czechoslovak National Democracy, the National Labour Party and, after 1989, the Czech National Social Party.\n\nToday, the conservative Civic Democratic Party (ODS) in the Czech Republic has been described as a national-liberal party. The ODS is a member of the Alliance of Conservatives and Reformists in Europe, as Slovakia's Freedom and Solidarity, and the International Democrat Union.\n\nSeveral political parties have included \"national liberal\" in their names or ideology. A list is available at National Liberal Party.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38129142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38129142", "title": "Negara: The Theatre State in Nineteenth-Century Bali", "text": "Negara: The Theatre State in Nineteenth-Century Bali\n\nNegara: The Theatre State in Nineteenth-Century Bali is a 1980 book written by anthropologist Clifford Geertz. Geertz argues that the pre-colonial Balinese state was not a \"hydraulic bureaucracy\" nor an oriental despotism, but rather, an organized spectacle. The noble rulers of the island were less interested in administering the lives of the Balinese than in dramatizing their rank and hence political superiority through large public rituals and ceremonies. These cultural processes did not support the state, he argues, but \"were\" the state.\n\nIt is perhaps most clear in what was, after all, the master image of political life: kingship. The whole of the negara - court life, the traditions that organized it, the extractions that supported it, the privileges that accompanied it - was essentially directed toward defining what power was; and what power was what kings were. Particular kings came and went, 'poor passing facts' anonymized in titles, immobilized in ritual, and annihilated in bonfires. But what they represented, the model-and-copy conception of order, remained unaltered, at least over the period we know much about. The driving aim of higher politics was to construct a state by constructing a king. The more consummate the king, the more exemplary the centre. The more exemplary the centre, the more actual the realm.\n\nGeertz used the Balinese case to develop an abstract model of the Theatre state applicable to all the South East Asian Indic polities. To succinctly summarize his theory, \"Power served pomp, not pomp power.\" Other anthropologists have contested the ahistorical, static nature of the model. They point out that he has depoliticized a political institution by emphasizing culture while ignoring its material base.\n\nClifford Geertz was an American anthropologist who is remembered for his influence on the practice of symbolic anthropology, and who was considered \"for three decades...the single most influential cultural anthropologist in the United States.\"\n\nGeertz used this model to provide \"an alternate conception of what politics is about\"; to advance an approach to history as a succession of broad cultural schemata; and to contribute to the cultural dimension of the discussion on Southeast Asian polities.\n\nThe book is a consideration of many elements of Balinese life, such as cremation ceremonies, that many would not consider a part of a state apparatus. In order to understand why cremation ceremonies should be so key to the \"Theatre state\" Geertz provides a detailed description of Balinese social organization in its own cultural terms. Particular aspects of Balinese life have been over-emphasized, according to some, to accommodate his model. Those aspects focus, in particular, on the role of irrigation.\n\nFor most of the nineteenth century, there were seven principal kingdoms, of which Klungkung was considered the oldest and most sacred. The others were Tabanan, Badung, Gianyar, Karengasem, Bangli, and Mengwi. They were primarily located on the plain on the south side of the island. Each of the kingdoms controlled a riverine valley and hence the water supply required for rice irrigation.\n\nThe kingdoms of Bali were said to have been founded by Javanese refugees from the Hinduized kingdom of Majapahit which had just fallen to Muslim invaders. They, in turn, invaded in 1352 at Gelgel and established an Indic state based upon the caste system.\n\nThe caste system only loosely resembled the caste system in India. The three noble castes were referred to as \"\"triwangsa\",\" (three peoples), the \"insiders\" (\"wong jero\") as opposed to the commoners (\"wong jaba\", outsiders). MacRae argues that this emphasis on the Indic heritage of Bali is overdrawn, and points out that Geertz himself admits that caste is a misnomer in Bali, and \"that the Indic surface of Balinese political institutions has acted to inhibit a comparative reference eastwards... towards the Pacific.\"\n\nThe basic unit of the triwangsa castes was the \"noble house\" or dadia. The commoners, for the most part, lacked these corporate kin groups. The dadia was a kinship group whose leadership passed through the line of the eldest male, from father to son. Younger sons remained identified with the group, lived nearby, but had less status. The children of the core line also had more status than the children of the junior lines. Geertz refers to this as the principle of \"sinking status.\" Each of these junior lines could potentially sever itself and form an independent dadia. This process of schism formed the internal politics within the royal houses, as distinct from political conflict between houses. The status differentials both within and between houses made patron-client relations the basic idiom of politics. These client relationships were especially important between castes, linking the priestly caste (\"padanda\") with noble houses in a teacher-disciple tie.\n\nBesides these patron-client ties within dadia, alliances also formed between dadia in different kingdoms. These alliances were frequently codified in treaties, although the issues they covered seemed \"designed more to codify the pretexts upon which alliances could be broken than to establish the bases upon which they could be built.\"\n\nThe Balinese ruling classes seemed fragmented, internally torn by intrigues within dadia, and weakly allied between kingdoms. This poor political integration was aggravated by the political independence of the villages under royal dadia rule. The Balinese state was composed of institutions that cross-cut villages. Villages were not independent, self-contained \"village republics\" but were cross-cut by membership in three separate locally based political institutions that organized local life: the hamlet (\"banjar\"), the irrigation society (\"subak\"), and the temple congregation (\"pemaksan\"). Villages were also crosscut by tax obligations to different lords.\n\nThe Balinese village has been falsely described in the colonial literature as a \"village republic\", bounded, self-contained and wholly autonomous. According to Geertz, an important part of this book was to disrupt colonial images of the closed corporate village. Geertz emphasizes that the village controlled only certain aspects of the everyday life of Balinese villagers, and that the tax and temple systems cross-cut village membership. That is, the members of a single village might pay taxes through several \"perbekel\" and be part of different temple congregations.\n\nThe village did have a constitution, which spelled out its members responsibilities for road making, upkeep of public facilities, night watch, and settlement of civil disputes. The village had its own leadership (\"klian banjar\"). This range of duties led Geertz to conclude \"In brief, perhaps the bulk (though as we shall see, far from the whole) of Balinese government, in the strict sense of authoritative regulation of social life, was carried out by the hamlet, leaving the state free to dramatize power rather than to administer it.\"\n\nAlthough focused on religious rites, the pemaksan was a corporate public body that was also an agency of government because of the link between religion and custom, i.e. forms of worship and social behaviour in Bali. Such religious rites were considered \"adat\" (custom), \"the entire framework of social action in which both men and gods are enclosed.\" The variety of small variations in adat defined the boundaries between pemaksan. The pemaksan thus stands as the moral community, next to the civil community embodied in the hamlet and the economic community in the irrigation society. The pemaksan will draw on one to ten villages for its members.\n\nThe pemaksan will maintain the \"Three Great Temples\" (\"Kahyangan Tiga\"): 1) the Origin Temple (\"Pura Puseh\") which commemorates the human settlement of the area. 2) The Death Temple (\"Pura Dalem\") used to pacify the not yet cremated and hence dangerous dead. And 3) the Great Council Temple (\"Pura Balai Agung\") for ensuring the overall fertility of the pemaksan.\n\nAccording to Geertz, one of the most important of state institutions in Bali is the irrigation society (\"subak\") given the theoretical emphasis placed upon irrigation in the materialist models of the \"Asiatic mode of production.\" These models viewed the control of irrigation by lords as the major means of also controlling the population that depended on those irrigation works for their sustenance. Geertz views the subak as an autonomous organization separate from the state, much like the banjar. The system of dams, dikes and canals were the property of the subak, and hence controlled by the farmers themselves. Geertz thus dismisses any notion of \"primitive communism\" - and its spectre, \"state capitalism.\"\n\nA subak controls the water flowing from a single up-river dam. The water flows through its rice terraces to other subaks farther downstream. Once water flowed into a subak it was divided through a series of weirs so that each farmer would get the amount of water they needed at the right time. The regulation of water is thus a serious issue, and encounters regular bottlenecks where control of the supply for a whole subak can be seized. Controlling the complex flow of water within a subak was accomplished through a highly regimented series of rituals. Water temples placed at points of water division would coordinate the flow of water through carefully timed rituals. Geertz emphasizes that there is no central control of the timing of these rituals, and hence that the state is not an \"oriental despotism\" controlling the population through the control of water.\n\nIt is Geertz's characterization of the irrigation system as headless that has attracted critique. Stephen Lansing's examination of Balinese irrigation shows that the need for effective water management links thousands of farmers in clear hierarchies, beginning with the most sacred temples dedicated to the Goddess of the volcanic Crater Lake (Mount Agung) that all Balinese hold sacred, and descending into the plains and low-lying rice fields. Drawing on nineteenth century Balinese records, Brigitta Hauser-Schaublin has shown that regional lords and kings played a large role in managing irrigation, and that this role was lost only in the Dutch colonial period. She argues that Geertz's failure to see the larger state role in water management reflects this change in colonial practice, thereby weakening the \"theatre state\" model.\n\nThe free, land-owning \"kawulas\" made up 90% of the population. Kawulas were attached to a perbekel, a \"political foreman\" to whom they owed specific obligations and taxes. The perbekels were attached to punggawas, the lords of dadia. Unlike the village, none of these political roles was based upon territorial residence. In other words, membership in the village was cross-cut by obligations to different perbekels and their lords. Bali was thus not a feudal realm where lords controlled land and people within a fiefdom. Lords and kawulas owned their own land, and lords did not generally seek their kawulas as tenants on their land. Kawulas had only two obligations to their perbekels: ritual service and military support: \"He was a stagehand, spear carrier, and claqueur in an endless political opera.\"\n\nAlthough Bali lies along major Indonesian trade roots in the north, its mountainous geography orients it to the south; its only navigable port was at Kuta, on a southern peninsula. The bulk of trade remained in foreign hands, including the Chinese, Javanese, Buginese and Europeans. Foreigners were largely restricted to these insulated ports of trade. Trade within Bali occurred in rotating markets characterized by traditional fixed exchange rates. Goods and services were also circulated through large scale redistributive ceremonies.\n\nThe organization of international trade was leased out by the king to a \"subandar\" (harbour master), who served as an intermediary between the traders and the dadia of the royal house, to whom he paid the rent. This rent was paid to each Lord of the royal house whenever they held a ceremony. The more ceremonies held, the greater share a Lord would receive of the spoils of trade. The point of trade then, was to hold larger spectacles.\n\nGeertz argues that state ceremonials in the Negara were \"metaphysical theatre\"; that is, theatre designed to express a vision of the ultimate nature of reality that at the same time tried to shape current conditions to match that reality. Ritual events all re-created social relations of jero (\"inner\", to whom one surrendered power in the ritual event thereby making them powerful) and jaba (\"outer\", a provider of services to those who are jero) between lords and their kawula. Every ritual performance reproduced jero-jaba relations as both symbolic ideal and pragmatic reality, thereby reinforcing social order. Thus, although the state was cross-cut by the conflicting jurisdictions of temples, hamlets, and irrigation societies, they all come together for mass state rituals in which the ideal social order of the state is made real.\n\nThe cremation ceremony was the largest and most ostentatious of the state rituals, attended by all the political dependants of a lord. At the centre of the ritual was the cremation tower (badé) on which the body of the deceased lord rested in state until the whole was consumed in fire. The cremation tower itself symbolized the cosmic order the ritual sought to make real. At its base were the world of demons (winged serpents), above which stood a platform called the House, representing the world of man. Above that were the tiers of roofs symbolizing the world of the gods, to which the deceased was ascending; a commoner would ascend to the first heaven (1 tier), whereas a king to the eleventh.\n\nWhile having an eleven storey tower was iconic of regal status, accomplishing a cremation ritual was an accomplishment - a struggle - that justified that status. The first part of the ceremony, for example, involved transporting the tower in a procession to the cremation ground, a mob scene involving thousands; some of these carried the bier forward, while others tried to stop it. The struggle could potentially prevent those who lacked the status and resources from making what others felt were false claims; the scene \"was a bit like a playful riot - a deliberated, even studied, violence, designed to set off a no less deliberated and even more studied stillness, which the variously imperturbable priests, agnates, widows and tributary dead contrived to gather about the central tower.\"\n\nAlthough Geertz considered this the pinnacle of his thinking on politics and history, reactions to the book have been mixed, \"combining admiration for its scope and ambition with scepticism about its claims.\"\n\nOne source of the scepticism is that the book is clearly not a history of a specific polity, but a generalized ideal-type model intended to guide representations of the Southeast Asian Indic states found in Bali, Java, Malaysia, Thailand and Burma in the fifth to fifteenth centuries. As such, it is one of several models, such as that of O.W. Wolters \"mandala\" model, or Stanley Tambiah's model of the \"Galactic polity.\"\n\nGeertz made it clear that his emphasis was a general model of the \"theatre state\" and not a specific Balinese kingdom by referring to the Balinese state with the Indic term Negara, whereas the Balinese refer to their pre-colonial state as a \"kerajaan\". As such, it over-estimates the Indic influence on Bali, and under-estimates its similarities with Polynesian kingdoms in Tahiti, Samoa and Hawaii.\n\nCritiques of the book have focused on:\n\n1) As a culturalist approach to history, it is remarkably static and ahistorical. Fredrik Barth argued that it \"depoliticized\" a political institution as a result.\n\n2) By subordinating power to culture, the book ignores the material base of power. Since Geertz's book was published, several other historical studies of particular kingdoms have appeared which emphasize the more conventional political economic forms of power underlying the state.\n\n3) Geertz makes the ritual aspect of Balinese culture \"more exotic, more extraordinary and more other than the evidence warrants.\"\n\n4) Tambiah notes that Geertz presents the Balinese kings as, at once, the focus of ritual theatre that creates the exemplary centre as a still point, \"immobilized into passivity and reflective trances\" yet at the same time \"Rent by virtually continuous intrigue, dispute, violence and an enormous amount of micro-upheaval.\" Despite his best effort, Geertz does not transcend the break between expressive and instrumental action, or between power as pomp and power as control of people and resources. He thus leaves himself open to Marxist critiques that view the state as a mystification, an \"illusory representation of the unity of the village communities (as Marx put it in his sketch of 'oriental despotism'), and that the ceremonies of state are nothing but the spiritualizing of material interests and the covering up of material conflicts.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33844194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33844194", "title": "New Man (utopian concept)", "text": "New Man (utopian concept)\n\nThe New Man is a utopian concept that involves the creation of a new ideal human being or citizen replacing un-ideal human beings or citizens. The meaning of a New Man has widely varied and various alternatives have been suggested by a variety of religions and political ideologies, including Christianity, communism, classical liberalism, fascism, and utopian socialism.\n\nThe doctrines of Paul the Apostle speak of Adam both as the fallen \"Old Adam\" and a \"New Adam\" as referring collectively to the fallen Old Man of humanity and a resurrected \"New Man\" (Ephesians 2:15, The Holy Bible) following Jesus.\n\nPhilosopher Friedrich Nietzsche's concept of an \"Übermensch\" (\"Overman\") was that of a New Man who would be a leader by example to humanity through an existentialist will to power that was vitalist and irrationalist in nature. Nietzsche developed the concept in response to his view of the herd mentality of and inherent nihilism of Christianity, and the void in existential meaning that is realized with the death of God. The Übermensch emerges as the new meaning of the Earth, a norm-repudiating individual who overcomes himself and is the master in control of his impulses and passions.\n\nThomas Paine and William Godwin believed that the spread of liberalism in France and the United States constituted the birth of a New Man and a new era.\n\nUtopian socialists such as Henri de Saint-Simon, Charles Fourier and Robert Owen saw a future Golden Age led by a New Man who would reconstruct society.\n\nMarxism, though heavily critical of utopianism, postulates the development of a New Man and New Woman in a communist society following the values of a non-essential nature of the state and the importance of freely associated work for the affirmation of a person's humanity. Marxism does not see the New Man/Woman as a goal or prerequisite for achieving full communism, but rather as a product of the social conditions of pure communism. Che Guevara's essay \"Socialism and man in Cuba\" and Oscar Wilde's \"The Soul of Man under Socialism\" are two examples of the 'new man' archetype in socialist literature.\n\nFascism supports the creation of a New Man who is a figure of action, violence, and masculinity, committed as a component of a disciplined mass that has shorn itself of individualism. One example of this was the idea of the Political Soldier, which was developed by the leaders of the Official National Front in the UK in the 1980s and became part of the ideology of the Third Position.\n\nTranshumanism welcomes the creation of a literal \"new man\" by enhancements through cybernetics and other \"human enhancements\", and look to the singularity as that point in time when the new man arrives, his birthday if you will. Scholar Klaus Vondung argues that Transhumanism represents the final revolution. Others have made similar observations.\n\nThe poem \"The Unknown Citizen\" by W. H. Auden is considered a parody of attempts to honor (and hence, to encourage) a certain kind of behavior in modern society. It challenges the \"New Man\" ideologies listed here and deprecates the meme of encouraging conformity via societal pressure.\n"}
{"id": "50223327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50223327", "title": "Open ballot system", "text": "Open ballot system\n\nIn Nigeria, open ballot system, also known as Option A4, is a voting method in which voters vote openly by queuing or otherwise, indicating the candidate of their choice. This is as opposed to a secret ballot, where a voter's choices are confidential. The system minimizes incidences of election rigging that comes with the secret ballot system as well as other electoral fraudulent-related practices.\n\nThe open ballot system was the norm prior to Australia adopting the secret ballot in 1856. In modern times, the open ballot was first adopted in the Third Nigerian Republic during the 1993 Nigerian presidential election, an election that was widely regarded as the freest and fairest in the country's political history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24493", "title": "Outline of public affairs", "text": "Outline of public affairs\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to public affairs:\n\nPublic affairs – catch-all term that includes public policy as well as public administration, both of which are closely related to and draw upon the fields of political science and economics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17093445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17093445", "title": "Political communication", "text": "Political communication\n\nPolitical communication(s) is a subfield of communication and political science that is concerned with how information spreads and influences politics and policy makers, the news media and citizens. Since the advent of the World Wide Web, the amount of data to analyze has exploded, and researchers are shifting to computational methods to study the dynamics of political communication. In recent years, machine learning, natural language processing, and network analysis have become key tools in the subfield. It deals with the production, dissemination, procession and effects of information, both through mass media and interpersonally, within a political context. This includes the study of the media, the analysis of speeches by politicians and those that are trying to influence the political process, and formal and informal conversations among members of the public, among other aspects. The media acts as bridge between government and public. Political communication can be defined as the connection concerning politics and citizens and the interaction modes that connect these groups to each other. Whether the relationship is formed by the modes of persuasion, Pathos, Ethos or Logos. \n\nThe study and practice of political communication focuses on the ways and means of expression of a political nature. Robert E. Denton and Gary C. Woodward, two important contributors to the field, in \"Political Communication in America\" characterize it as the ways and intentions of message senders to influence the political environment. This includes public discussion (e.g. political speeches, news media coverage, and ordinary citizens' talk) that considers who has authority to sanction, the allocation of public resources, who has authority to make decision, as well as social meaning like what makes someone American. In their words \"the crucial factor that makes communication 'political' is not the source of a message, but its content and purpose.\" David L. Swanson and Dan Nimmo, also key members of this sub-discipline, define political communication as \"the strategic use of communication to influence public knowledge, beliefs, and action on political matters.\" They emphasize the strategic nature of political communication, highlighting the role of persuasion in political discourse. Brian McNair provides a similar definition when he writes that political communication is \"purposeful communication about politics.\" For McNair this means that this not only covers verbal or written statements, but also visual representations such as dress, make-up, hairstyle or logo design. With other words, it also includes all those aspects that develop a \"political identity\" or \"image\". Reflecting on the relationship between political communication and contemporary agenda-building, Vian Bakir defines Strategic Political Communication (SPC) as comprising 'political communication that is manipulative in intent, that utilises social scientific techniques and heuristic devices to understand human motivation, human behavior and the media environment, to inform effectively what should be communicated – encompassing its detail and overall direction – and what should be withheld, with the aim of taking into account and influencing public opinion, and creating strategic alliances and an enabling environment for government policies – both at home and abroad'. \n\nThere are many academic departments and schools around the world that specialize in political communication. These programs are housed in programs of communication, journalism and political science, among others. The study of political communication is clearly interdisciplinary.\n\nThe \"Bush Administration’s torture-for-intelligence policy\", initiated soon after 9/11, was kept secret for several years, as remains the level of complicity of many other nation-states' governments. While this secret policy was gradually revealed from 2004 onwards, initiated by the Abu Ghraib torture photos, the Bush administration engaged in SPC to publicly reframe and protect its secret policy. SPC included \"silencing\" and \"persuasive\" discursive activity.\n\nThe field of political communication is focused on 4 main areas:\n\n\nAccording to James Chesebro, there are five critical approaches to contemporary Political communications:\n\nSocial media has dramatically changed the way in which modern political campaigns are run. With more digital native citizens coming into the voting population, social media is the platform on which the politicians need to establish themselves and engage with the voters. In a digital age, social media will be more important than traditional media to the politicians.\n\nTaking Australia as an example below: 86% of Australians access the Internet, and with a 17,048,864 voting age population, around 14,662,023 voting population has access to Internet, and 65% of them use social media, which means 9,530,314 Australian voters use social media. (The 2013 Yellow™ Social Media Report found that among internet users 65% of Australians use social media, up from 62% last year.) \n\nWith almost half of Australian voting population active on social media, political parties are adapting quickly to influence and connect with their voters.\n\nSocial media experience relies heavily on the user themselves due to the platforms' algorithms which tailor consumer experience for each user. This results in each person seeing more like-minded news due to the increase in digital social behavior. Additionally, social media has changed politics because it has given politicians a direct medium to give their constituents information and the people to speak directly to the politicians. This informal nature can lead to informational mistakes because it is not being subjected to the same \"fact-checking processes as institutional journalism.\" \n\nSocial media creates greater opportunity for political persuasion due to the high number of citizens that regularly engage and build followings on social media. The more that a person engages on social media, the more influential they believe themselves to be, resulting in more people considering themselves to be politically persuasive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1183635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1183635", "title": "Political culture", "text": "Political culture\n\nPolitical culture is defined by the \"International Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences\" as the \"set of attitudes, beliefs and sentiments that give order and meaning to a political process and which provide the underlying assumptions and rules that govern behavior in the political system\". It encompasses both the political ideals and operating norms of a polity. Political culture is thus the manifestation of the psychological and subjective dimensions of politics. A political \"culture\" is the product of both the history of a political system and the histories of the members. Thus, it is rooted equally in public events and private experience.\n\nIn 1963, two Americans, Gabriel Almond and Sidney Verba, outlined three types of political culture that can be combined to create civic culture. These three key features expressed by both men were composed to establish a link between the public and the government. The first of these features is \"deference\", which considers the concepts of respect, acknowledgment of \"inferiority\" or \"superiority\", and authority in society.\n\nThe second key feature is \"consensus\" which represents the key link between government and public agreement and appeasement. Support for appeasement may not always be shared by the whole nation, but as a whole, people agree to sustain it, meaning it is a common agreement. There are various \"Examples of Consensus\" in British political culture: how people are governed as a whole, consensus regarding the welfare state, agreement as to who acts as head of state, and with what powers.\n\nThe third feature of British political culture is \"homogeneity\". Church attendance as a whole is decreasing. Sections of the Scottish and Welsh populations have called for independence.\n\nThe term political culture was brought into political science to promote the American political system. The concept was used by Gabriel Almond in the late 50s, and outlined in \"The Civic Culture\" (1963, Almond & Verba), but was soon opposed by two European political scientists, Gerhard Lehmbruch and Arend Lijphart. Lehmbruch analysed politics in Switzerland and Austria and Lijphart analysed politics in Netherlands. Both argued that there are political systems that are more stable than the one in the USA.\n\nDifferent typologies of political culture have been proposed. According to political scientist William S. Stewart, all political behavior can be explained as participating in one or more of eight political cultures: anarchism, oligarchy, Tory corporatism, fascism, classical liberalism, radical liberalism, democratic socialism, and Leninist socialism. Societies that exemplify each of these cultures have existed historically.\n\nGabriel Almond and Sidney Verba in \"The Civic Culture\" outlined three pure types of political culture based on level and type of political participation and the nature of people's attitudes toward politics:\n\nAlmond and Verba wrote that these types of political culture can combine to create the civic culture, which mixes the best elements of each.\n\nArend Lijphart wrote that there are different classifications of political culture:\n\nLijphart also classified the structure of society:\nMaría Eugenia Vázquez Semadeni defines political culture as \"the set of discourses and symbolic practices by means of which both individuals and groups articulate their relationship to power, elaborate their political demands and put them at stake.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12804607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12804607", "title": "Politics of Harry Potter", "text": "Politics of Harry Potter\n\nThere are many published theories about the politics of the Harry Potter books by J. K. Rowling, which range from them containing criticism of racism to anti-government sentiments. According to \"Inside Higher Ed\", doctoral theses have been devoted to the Harry Potter books. There are also several university courses centred on analysis of the Potter series, including an upper division political science course.\n\n\"Time\" magazine noted the political and social aspects of Harry Potter in their 2007 Person of the Year issue where Rowling placed third behind politicians Vladimir Putin and Al Gore. Harry Potter's potential social and political impact was called similar to the 19th-century phenomenon of Harriet Beecher Stowe's popular, but critically maligned book, \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\", which fuelled the abolitionist movement leading up to the American Civil War.\n\nWhen asked about the politics and message in \"Harry Potter\", Rowling explained, \"I wanted Harry to leave our world and find exactly the same problems in the wizarding world. So you have the intent to impose a hierarchy, you have bigotry, and this notion of purity, which is this great fallacy, but it crops up all over the world. People like to think themselves superior and that if they can pride themselves in nothing else they can pride themselves on perceived purity. [...]. It wasn't really exclusively that. I think you can see in the Ministry even before it's taken over, there are parallels to regimes we all know and love.\" She also said, \"You should question authority and you should not assume that the establishment or the press tells you all of the truth.\"\n\nThe \"Wall Street Journal\" compared Neville Chamberlain to Rowling's Cornelius Fudge, saying both were eager to help their constituents look the other way to avoid war. \"Throughout the '30s, Chamberlain, fearing that Churchill was out for his job, conducted a campaign against his fellow Tory. Chamberlain tried evading war with Germany, and ridiculed Churchill as a 'warmonger'. He used \"The Times\"—the government's house organ—to attack Churchill and suppress dispatches from abroad about the Nazis that would have vindicated him.\" Rowling confirmed Chamberlain was her inspiration in the Spanish newspaper magazine \"XLSemanal\".\n\nRowling also told the Dutch newspaper \"de Volkskrant\" that Voldemort was modeled on Hitler and Stalin, as a megalomaniac and paranoid figure, and that she was influenced by the Second World War, which is \"anchored in all our minds\": discussing Draco Malfoy, she claimed \"Draco Malfoy does indeed stand for that type of boy. He wouldn’t have killed Dumbledore, he couldn’t. As long as things are imaginary, okay, but once it becomes reality, the thing becomes more difficult.\", on the other hand, \"No, that I gave him that light blonde hair is not because I wanted to make him into a scary Nazi. You give your characters the appearance that you find attractive\".\n\n\"Entertainment Weekly\" noted that the post-9/11 generation's \"ideas about war, about leadership, about the dangers of consolidation of power and of dictatorship, about the importance of dissent, and about heroism and sacrifice, have been shaped at least in part by Rowling,\" and that their concept of freedom of speech has been influenced by Rowling's weathering of her books' routine challenges.\n\nBill O'Reilly joined in the political fray over Harry Potter character Albus Dumbledore's outing by asking if it was part of a \"gay agenda\" to indoctrinate children. He called J. K. Rowling a provocateur for telling fans about Dumbledore's sexuality after the books were written. His guest, \"Entertainment Weekly\" Senior Editor Tina Jordan, called his \"indoctrination\" claims \"a shallow argument\", saying \"indoctrination is a very strong word\" because \"we all know gay people, whether we know it or not.\" O'Reilly continued the following day saying that the real problem is Rowling is teaching \"tolerance\" and \"parity for homosexuals with heterosexuals\". His guest Dennis Miller said that tolerance was good and didn't think you could indoctrinate a child into being gay.\n\nZenit, a news agency dedicated to promoting the message of the Catholic Church, accused Rowling of betraying her readers by disclosing Dumbledore's sexuality, and said Rowling is the wealthiest woman in Britain thanks to the lack of political, social or moral propaganda in her books. The head of Human Life International, an American-based Roman Catholic activist pro-life organisation, taking a negative view of the books and \"their literary offspring\", said that Harry Potter indoctrinates young souls in the language and mechanics of the occult and said that Rowling's portrayal of Dumbledore socialises if not indoctrinates young people into tolerance of gays. The \"Berkeley Beacon\" said that one parent's perception of indoctrination is another's education, in their article, \"No Politics in Harry Potter\", which countered charges that Rowling promoted homosexuality in her books. Discussing the controversy, Rowling told the BBC that \"Christian fundamentalists were never my base\" and thought it ridiculous to question if a gay person could be a moral compass in the 21st century.\n\nDiscussing the values and morality of her characters Draco and Dudley, Rowling explained that both were indoctrinated with their parents' beliefs. \"The moment Draco got what he thought he wanted, to become a Death Eater, and given a mission by Lord Voldemort, as he did in \"Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince,\" reality finally hit him,\" Rowling said, because his dream was \"so very different\". She said that there was a real moral cowardice to Draco, but that he was not wholly bad.\n\nAnalysts note the criticism of racism in J. K. Rowling's texts.\n\nWhen asked about the theme of racism and if her books have changed how people think, Rowling said, \"I do not think I am pessimistic but I think I am realistic about how much you can change deeply entrenched prejudice, so my feeling would be that if someone were a committed racist, possibly \"Harry Potter\" is not going to have an effect.\"\n\nWhen asked in a post-\"Deathly Hallows\" webchat about Hermione's future, Rowling said, \"Hermione began her post-Hogwarts career at the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures where she was instrumental in greatly improving life for house-elves and their ilk. She then moved to the Department of Magical Law Enforcement where she was a progressive voice who ensured the eradication of oppressive, pro-pureblood laws.\"\n\nAfter the publication of \"Deathly Hallows\", Rowling responded to queries about metaphors in the books for ethnic cleansing: \"Well, it is a political metaphor. But... I didn't sit down and think, <nowiki>'</nowiki>I want to recreate Nazi Germany<nowiki>'</nowiki>, in the—in the wizarding world. Because—although there are—quite consciously overtones of Nazi Germany, there are also associations with other political situations. So I can't really single one out.\" Rowling also compared her character Voldemort to paranoid megalomaniacs like Adolf Hitler and Joseph Stalin.\n\nIn her 2007 book tour Rowling further discussed the topic, stating \"It wasn't really exclusively that. I think you can see in the Ministry even before it's taken over, there are parallels to regimes we all know and love.\" She prefaced the remark, saying \"People like to think themselves superior and that if they can pride themselves in nothing else they can pride themselves on perceived purity.\"\n\nRowling stated on her website that the \"Harry Potter\" phrases 'pure-blood', 'half-blood' and 'Muggle-born' compared to \"some of the real charts the Nazis used to show what constituted 'Aryan' or 'Jewish' blood. I saw one in the Holocaust Museum in Washington when I had already devised the 'pure-blood', 'half-blood' and 'Muggle-born' definitions, and was chilled to notice the similarity.\"\n\nChristopher Hitchens noted in \"The New York Times\" that the lightning bolt—the shape of the scar which Harry received as a result of Voldemort's curse, now considered to be emblematic of the series—is also the symbol of Sir Oswald Mosley's British Union of Fascists, a prominent group of Nazi sympathisers during the 1930s and 1940s. The Nazis themselves, in their SS, made use of the symbol too. In the same article, Hitchens noted that \"The prejudice against bank-monopoly goblins is modeled more or less on anti-Semitism and the foul treatment of elves is meant to put us in mind of slavery\".\n\nJ. K. Rowling mentions in an article that Mosley was married to Diana Mitford, sister of her heroine, Jessica Mitford. Jessica, after whom Rowling named her daughter, never forgave Diana's Nazi sympathies. Oswald and Diana married in 1936, in the Berlin home of Nazi chief Joseph Goebbels with Adolf Hitler as a guest. J. K. Rowling also noted that Mitford's other sister Unity, to whom Jessica was closest in youth, became an arch-fascist and favourite of Adolf Hitler's.\n\nJessica's story may have thus inspired a part of Harry's story: Narcissa Black (analogue to Diana Mosley) married a Death Eater, Lucius Malfoy (Oswald Mosley). Her sister, Bellatrix (Unity Mitford), was herself a Death Eater, and a favourite of Lord Voldemort (Adolf Hitler). Andromeda (Jessica Mitford) married the Muggle-born Ted Tonks against her family's wishes (as Jessica eloped with her cousin Esmond Romilly) and was blasted out of the family-tree tapestry. These parallels were noted in the American communist newspaper \"People's Weekly World\".\n\nIn an act commemorating the Holocaust, actor Daniel Radcliffe, whose mother is Jewish, donated his first pair of Harry Potter glasses to an art exhibition inspired by a famous World War II photo of a mangled mountain of spectacles of victims of ethnic cleansing. Radcliffe's \"Potter\" co-star Jason Isaacs, who played Lucius Malfoy in the films, himself a Jewish Briton, was due to participate in the commemorations on National Holocaust Memorial Day, leading a service at Liverpool's Philharmonic Hall.\n\nAviva Chomsky (daughter of famed academic Noam Chomsky) in the \"Providence Journal\" suggests that \"Harry Potter\" is a parable on immigration rights, noting that US \"immigration, citizenship and naturalization laws are based explicitly on discrimination on the basis of national origin. Where you were born, and what passport you carry, determine whether you have the right to come here, to visit, to work, or to live here.\"\n\nOn the \"Harry Potter\" series, Rowling said on her United States book tour in October 2007, \"I very consciously wanted to show what is one of the great evils of war, which is that totally innocent people are slaughtered... Another great evil of war is that children lose their families.\"\n\n\"Time\" magazine said in 2005, \"Rowling adapts an inherently conservative genre for her own progressive purposes. Her Hogwarts is secular and sexual and multicultural and multiracial and even sort of multimedia, with all those talking ghosts.\" To mark the French publication of \"Deathly Hallows\", prominent French center-left paper \"Liberation\" devoted the front cover and two more pages to answering the question \"Why Harry Potter is of the Left\".\n\nIn 2007, responding to a question from a child about Dumbledore's love life, Rowling revealed, \"I always saw Dumbledore as gay.\" Filling in a few more details, she said, \"Dumbledore fell in love with Grindelwald... Don't forget, falling in love can blind us. [He] was very drawn to this brilliant person. This was Dumbledore's tragedy.\"\n\nMelissa Anelli, webmaster of the fan site The Leaky Cauldron, told The Associated Press, \"Jo Rowling calling any Harry Potter character gay would make wonderful strides in tolerance toward homosexuality... By dubbing someone so respected, so talented and so kind, as someone who just happens to be also homosexual, she's reinforcing the idea that a person's gayness is not something of which they should be ashamed.\" Of the ensuing controversy, Rowling said, \"I know that it was a positive thing that I said it, for at least one person, because one man 'came out' at Carnegie Hall.\" \"Entertainment Weekly\"s Mark Harris said \"her choice to make a beloved professor-mentor gay in a world where gay teachers are still routinely slandered as malign influences was, I am certain, no accident.\" Harris also says that there is a drastic underrepresentation of gays in the population, and it is a failure of decency and nerve on the entertainment industry— \"including the tremendous number of gay producers, writers, and executives who sacrifice their convictions so they don't look too \"strident\" or \"political.\"\"\n\nAccording to Think Progress, a progressive news site, conservative blogs say Rowling's revelation about Dumbledore vindicates Jerry Falwell's attacks on homosexuality in children's media that were lambasted by the mass media. \"What's stopping her from saying that [Harry's friend] Neville grows up to be a paedophile?\" said David Baggett, an associate philosophy professor at Falwell's Liberty University's School of Religion. Baggett, who coauthored the book \"Harry Potter and Philosophy: If Aristotle Ran Hogwarts\", says he was taken aback not only by Rowling's announcement, but by the fact that it came on the heels of her confirming many Potter fans' belief that the series had Christian themes.\n\n\"Slate Magazine\" quotes an attendee of the book talk who said, \"It was clear that JKR didn't plan to out Dumbledore. She just cares about being true to her readers.\" Mike Thomas of the \"Orlando Sentinel\" said that upon reflection, Dumbledore was gay from the beginning, and that this neatly explains the behaviour of his character and his relationship with Grindelwald. Thomas notes the skill Rowling displays in writing a gay character without having to put a gay label on him.\n\nAccording to Reuters, Rowling was surprised over the fuss and declined to say whether her \"outing\" of Dumbledore might alienate those who disapprove of homosexuality. \"It has certainly never been news to me that a brave and brilliant man could love other men. He is my character. He is what he is and I have the right to say what I say about him,\" she said. Reaction has been mainly supportive on fans' Web sites, such as The Leaky Cauldron and MuggleNet.\n\nActor David Thewlis (Remus Lupin) said that he was surprised about Dumbledore's sexuality, because while he was filming \"Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban\" director Alfonso Cuarón had the idea that \"Lupin was gay, and he described my character like a 'gay junkie'.\"\n\nCatholic fantasy author Regina Doman wrote an essay titled \"In Defense of Dumbledore\", in which she argued that the books actually support Catholic teaching on homosexuality because Dumbledore's relationship with the dark wizard Grindelwald leads to obviously terrible results, as he becomes interested in dark magic himself, neglects his responsibilities towards his younger sister and ultimately causes her death.\n\nThe South Florida \"Sun-Sentinel\"s book reviewer Chauncey Mabe says that it was wrong for Rowling to disclose Dumbledore's sexual orientation. Mabe was clear that this was not due to Dumbledore's being gay, but to his own objections to authors continuing to talk about their books after they are written. He called for Rowling to \"please be quiet, please\" in \"public gatherings\", which is contrary to the massive popularity of Rowling's book talks and her fans' thirst for more information about characters in the Harry Potter books. Mabe notes that 1,000 children attended the \"reading\" before they were given autographed books. Robin Berkowitz, \"Sun-Sentinel\" Entertainment Editor says of Rowling's comments, and other revelations she might make about her characters \"We don't need to know any of them to appreciate the books fully,\" \"Don't ask, don't spell\" a reference to the U.S. military's former policy on homosexuality, Don't ask, don't tell. These sentiments are mirrored by Jeffrey Weiss in his article, \"Harry Potter and the author who wouldn't shut up\", published in the \"Dallas Morning News\".\n\nThe \"Washington Post\"s Michael Gerson says \"tolerance is one of the main themes of the Harry Potter books. In a marvelous social comparison, lycanthropy is treated as a kind of chronic disease, with werewolves subject to discrimination as if they had AIDS.\"\n\nAccording to Philip Nel of Kansas State University, the Potter series can be seen as \"political novels that critique racism and racial superiority. Rowling, who worked for Amnesty International, evokes her social activism through Hermione's passion for oppressed elves and the formation of her \"Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare.\" Dobby the house elf has been compared to the labour lawyer Dobby Walker who introduced Rowling's heroine, Jessica Mitford, to the Communist Party.\nHermione is depicted as starting a campaign to emancipate the enslaved House elves, using the methods of real-world campaigns on social and political issues such as badges with slogans. She persists in this campaigning also when it is considered quixotic even by her close friends and not much appreciated even by most of the House elves themselves. But in \"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows\", the campaign turns out to have had enormous unforeseen results, with House elves joining the struggle and making several indispensable contributions to Voldemort's final defeat and saving the main protagonists' lives. Rowling said in an early interview that Hermione and her political conscience about the rights of elves was fairly autobiographical.\n\nGerson of the \"Washington Post\" also described what he considered to be the very subversive nature of the Harry Potter books in the answer they offer to death. Voldemort believes that death must be mastered and \"beaten\". In contrast, Harry accepts the necessity of his own death for the sake of love. Gerson also suggests that some will ask the book series about tolerance also be a book series about religion. He answers that many others \"believe – not in spite of their faith but because of it – that half-bloods, werewolves and others should be treated with kindness and fairness. Above all, believers are called to love, even at the highest cost.\"\n\nIn a 1999 interview with Rowling, \"The Guardian Unlimited\"s Joanna Carey said, \"JK Rowling is every bit as witty and subversive as you'd expect. Rowling described her admiration of Jessica Mitford since age 14, her time at Exeter University \"not quite the chance to be the 'radical' I planned\", and said the later books dealing with Harry's hormones, and deaths would be unlike other children's series like the Famous Five. Carey suggested a parallel between Harry Potter and Prince Harry which Rowling laughs off saying a friend said never let the press make you discuss the royal family.\"\n\nJames Morone, a political science professor at Brown University, wrote in the liberal \"American Prospect\" in 2001, \"Magical headmaster Albus Dumbledore practically awards bonus points for breaking rules. Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry is unruly, even slightly anarchic. Harry's classmate Hermione 'had become a bit more relaxed about breaking the rules,' writes Rowling near the end of \"Philosopher's Stone\", 'and she was much nicer for it.' There's more than a touch of anarchy when all the students sing to their own tune. In her books, the kids are the central agents of their own lives. They make choices. Weigh judgments. Wrestle with freedom.\"\n\nIsabelle Smadja of \"Le Monde\" wrote that Harry Potter is the first fictional hero of the anti-globalist, anti-capitalist, pro-Third World, \"Seattle\" generation. She wrote that \"Examination of the text suggests that they are, in fact, a ferocious critique of consumer society and the world of free enterprise.\"\n\nThe right-wing U.S. John Birch Society has objected to Rowling's books and her public statements. In his article for the John Birch Society's magazine \"The New American\", Constitution Party Communications Director Steve Bonta compared \"Harry Potter\" negatively to \"The Lord of the Rings\", saying, \"The Potter books read in places like diatribes against the modern middle class, especially whenever Harry confronts his ludicrously dysfunctional and downright abusive adopted family, the Dursleys.\"\n\nThe critic Anthony Holden wrote in \"The Observer\" on his experience of judging \"Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban\" for the 1999 Whitbread Awards. His overall view of the series was very negative—\"the Potter saga was essentially patronising, very conservative, highly derivative, dispiritingly nostalgic for a bygone Britain.\" A review in \"The Guardian\" echoed this interpretation and stated that \"despite all of the books' gestures to multiculturalism and gender equality, Harry Potter is a conservative; a paternalistic, One-Nation Tory, perhaps, but a Tory nonetheless.\" Salon.com critic Christine Schoefer has also criticised the books as sexist, claiming that the series presents a patriarchal world filled with stereotypes and adherence to \"the conventional assumption that men do and should run the world\".\n\nWhen an interviewer suggested her books portrayed a conservative world, Rowling replied, \"So I'm told repeatedly. The two groups of people who are constantly thanking me are Wiccans and boarding schools. And really, don't thank me. I'm not with either of them. New ageism leaves me completely cold, and [my daughter] would never go to boarding school. I went to a comprehensive.\"\n\nRowling says she gets frustrated with the \"conservative world thing\". She made Hogwarts a boarding school so that action could happen in the middle of the night and to create a sense of community among the characters. Harry also reflects the modern world, she argues, in that he is mixed race — his father being pure-blood, his mother being Muggle-born.\" She also says her feminist conscience is saved by Hermione, \"who's the brightest character\" and is a \"very strong female character\".\n\nIn an article published in prominent French newspaper \"Le Monde\", literary scholar Ilias Yocaris argued that \"Harry Potter\" \"probably unintentionally ... appears as a summary of the social and educational aims of neoliberal capitalism.\" According to Yocaris' analysis, all life at Hogwarts is dominated by a culture of competition: \"competition among students to be prefect; competition among Hogwarts houses to gain points; competition among sorcery schools to win the Triwizard tournament; and, ultimately, the bloody competition between the forces of Good and Evil.\" The free market plays a prominent and positive role, while the state (the Ministry of Magic) is presented as inefficient and bureaucratic. In this \"pitiless jungle\", education only aims to \"give students an immediately exploitable practical knowledge that can help them in their battle to survive,\" while artistic subjects and social sciences are useless or absent. Yocaris concludes that \"like Orwellian totalitarianism, this capitalism tries to fashion not only the real world, but also the imagination of consumer-citizens,\" producing literature that suggests that no alternative is possible. In an article published in \"Journal of Contemporary Religion\", Michael Ostling also argued that the series depicts a modern capitalist and consumerist society, where the role of gadgetry is played by magic. The article by Yocaris provoked the response by Isabelle Smadja cited previously.\n\n\"\" noted that Rowling admires Roddy Doyle and Jane Austen, saying \"both of whom write about class distinctions,\" and asked if the reason Rowling wrote about class was a conscious decision. Rowling replied, \"kids are acutely aware of money—before they're aware of class. A kid isn't really going to notice how another kid holds his knife and fork. But a kid will be acutely aware that he doesn't have pocket money. Or that he doesn't have as much pocket money. I think back to myself at 11. Kids can be mean, very mean. So it was there in Ron not having the proper length robes, you know? And not being able to buy stuff on the trolley. He's got to have sandwiches his mum made for him, even though he doesn't like the sandwiches. Having enough money to fit in is an important facet of life—and what is more conformist than a school?\"\n\nSome political commentators have seen J. K. Rowling's portrayal of the bureaucratised Ministry of Magic and the oppressive measures taken by the Ministry in the later books (like making attendance at Hogwarts School compulsory and the \"registration of Mudbloods\" with the Ministry) as an allegory criticising the state.\n\nThe \"People's Weekly World\", the newspaper of the Communist Party USA, claims the books draw you \"into the politics of the wizarding world—the 'Educational Decrees' from the toad-like Ministry of Magic representative, the high-level connections of 'war criminals' from the last rise of Voldemort, the against 'mudbloods' and 'half-breeds.'\" They suggest connections \"to the world we live in, to the similarities and differences between the Fudge administration and the Bush administration\".\n\nPhilosopher Jean-Claude Milner claimed \"Harry Potter is a war machine against the Thatcherite-Blairist world and the 'American Way of Life'\" in France's \"Libération\".\n\nUniversity of Tennessee law professor Benjamin Barton discusses libertarian aspects of \"Harry Potter\" in his paper \"Harry Potter and the Half-Crazed Bureaucracy\", published in the \"Michigan Law Review\". Barton says, \"Rowling's scathing portrait of government is surprisingly strident and effective. This is partly because her critique works on so many levels: the functions of government, the structure of government, and the bureaucrats who run the show. All three elements work together to depict a Ministry of Magic run by self-interested bureaucrats bent on increasing and protecting their power, often to the detriment of the public at large. In other words, Rowling creates a public-interest scholar's dream—or nightmare—government.\"\n\nRowling describes the beloved wizard Dumbledore as Machiavellian and says \"I wanted you to question Dumbledore. It is right to question him, because he was treating people like puppets, and he was asking Harry to do a job that most men twice his age wouldn't have been able to do.\"\n\n\"Newsweek\" magazine asked Alfonso Cuarón, director of the third film based on Rowling's \"Prisoner of Azkaban\" if the villainous wizard Voldemort still reminded him of George W. Bush. Cuarón confirmed, \"In combination with Saddam. They both have selfish interests and are very much in love with power. Also, a disregard for the environment. A love for manipulating people. I read books four and five, and Fudge is similar to Tony Blair. He's the ultimate politician. He's in denial about many things. And everything is for the sake of his own persona, his own power. The way the Iraq thing was handled was not unlike the way Fudge handled affairs in book four.\"\n\n\"Slate Magazine\" also says Rowling takes jabs at the Bush and Blair administrations suggesting the Ministry of Magic's security pamphlet recalls the much-scorned Operation TIPS (Terrorism Information and Prevention System). The author also suggests that Azkaban, the wizard penitentiary, is a stand-in for Guantanamo Bay.\n\nRowling has never confirmed these interpretations in \"Harry Potter\"; however, when the then Chancellor Gordon Brown once asked her to endorse the Labour Party while Tony Blair was Prime Minister, Rowling refused. Rowling attacked the Blair government's policy on single parent families. She said that Labour could do \"a good deal more\" and then donated £500,000 to the One Parent Families charity to set an example. Rowling said that Brown's measures for children 'would have made a real difference to my family's life' when she was poor. Blair stepped down shortly before the release of Rowling's seventh book, and Brown was appointed Prime Minister. Rowling subsequently donated £1 million to the Labour Party during the 2010 general election which Labour lost.\n\nTeachers have hailed \"Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix\" as a \"blistering satire on years of politically motivated interference in the running of schools\".\n\nRowling describes her character Dolores Umbridge, the Ministry-appointed headmistress of Hogwarts and under-secretary to the minister, Cornelius Fudge, saying \"She has good contacts at the Ministry. She is one of those people, and they do exist in real life, who will always side with the established order. As far as she is concerned authority cannot be wrong so she doesn't question it, and I would go as far as to say that whatever happened and whoever took over at the Ministry, Umbridge would be there, she likes power. So she is going to side with the people who give her the authority.\"\n\nAndrew Slack, founder of the Harry Potter Alliance, says in \"In These Times\", \"Harry Potter supersedes news about genocide, men assess their 'worth' by their paychecks, women's bodies are treated as commodities and our educational system preoccupies itself not with stimulating children's curiosity but rather getting them to efficiently regurgitate information on standardised tests.\"\n\nHungarian Secretary of State for Education Rózsa Hoffmann and her reforms have often been compared to Dolores Umbridge and her actions in the novels.\n\nThe Capitalism Magazine website says that, \"With a long-term war in progress and threats of further terrorist attacks on American soil,\" \"Harry Potter\" isn't mere escapism and \"shows a world in which happiness can be achieved, villains can be defeated, and the means of success can be learned.\"\n\n\"Time\" magazine says that by \"Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix\", \"Harry is embroiled in a borderless, semi-civil war with a shadowy, hidden leader whose existence the government ignored until disaster forced the issue and who is supported by a secret network of sleeper agents willing to resort to tactics of shocking cruelty. The kids who grew up on Harry Potter—you could call them Generation Hex—are the kids who grew up with the pervasive threat of terrorism, and it's inevitable that on some level they'll make a connection between the two.\"\n\n\"Slate Magazine\"s Julia Turner compares \"Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince\" to the War on Terror in the context of the fight against Osama bin Laden saying Voldemort takes up terrorism by destroying bridges, murdering innocents, and forcing children to kill their elders. She also notes the parallels in the community's response saying Fred and George Weasley's shop makes a mint selling Shield Cloaks and the new Minister of Magic jails an innocent man, hoping to stave off panic and create the impression that he's taking action.\n\nRowling said \"I've never thought, 'It's time for a post-9/11 Harry Potter book,' no. But what Voldemort does, in many senses, is terrorism, and that was quite clear in my mind before 9/11 happened... but there are parallels, obviously. I think one of the times I felt the parallels was when I was writing about the arrest of Stan Shunpike, you know? I always planned that these kinds of things would happen, but these have very powerful resonances, given that I believe, and many people believe, that there have been instances of persecution of people who did not deserve to be persecuted, even while we're attempting to find the people who have committed utter atrocities. These things just happen, it's human nature. There were some very startling parallels at the time I was writing it.\"\n\nAcademic Steven Fielding argues in \"A State of Play: British Politics on Screen, Stage and Page, from Anthony Trollope to The Thick of It\" that the changing portray of the Ministry of Magic – from incompetent to authoritarian – reflects Rowling's views on the War on Terror.\n\nIn response to restricted access to the \"Harry Potter\" books children began a letter-writing campaign, forming clubs and organising petitions, which ultimately merged into an internet site called Muggles for Harry Potter. The site evolved into kidSPEAK!, a forum for children to tackle censorship in general, and to fight for Harry Potter specifically.\n\nAndrew Slack, an actor/comedian and Harry Potter aficionado, co-founded the Harry Potter Alliance to highlight the crisis in Sudan and social inequities. \"In These Times\" featured Slack in 2007, in an article about Muggle Activists where Slack said, \"The Harry Potter parallel to Darfur is simple: With both the Ministry of Magic and the Daily Prophet (the Wizarding World's mainstream news source) in denial that Voldemort has returned and evil is afoot, Harry and his underground rebel group, 'Dumbledore's Army,' work with the adult group, 'The Order of the Phoenix,' to awake the world. We in the Alliance seek to be Dumbledore's Army for the real world, working with anti-genocide organisations, such as 'Fidelity Out of Sudan' and the 'Genocide Intervention Network,' to wake our governments, corporations and media up to the fact that 'never again' means 'never again.'\"\n\nWhen \"Time\" magazine asked about The Harry Potter Alliance, Rowling said, \"It's incredible, it's humbling, and it's uplifting to see people going out there and doing that in the name of your character. What did my books preach against throughout? Bigotry, violence, struggles for power, no matter what. All of these things are happening in Darfur. So they really couldn't have chosen a better cause.\" Rowling awarded The Harry Potter Alliance a Fan Site Award in December 2007.\n\nIn February 2010, the HPA ran a massive fundraiser to support those in dire need after the tragic event of the Haiti earthquake. Live webcasts were held in which celebrities (especially those a part of the Harry Potter Fandom) performed and encouraged viewers to donate money. Donations came through an auction that did not guarantee you the prize. Some items that were up for bid were: a signed set of the Harry Potter books, a guitar signed by actor Tom Felton, handmade earrings from actress Evanna Lynch, and a one thousand word story about whatever the winner wishes it to be written by Maureen Johnson and John Green. The webcasts were rather successful, garnering over $125,000. The original plan of Helping Haiti Heal was to have three plane fulls of aid (each one dubbed: Harry, Hermione, and Ron) shipped off to Haiti. As of June the same year, five planes were sent to Haiti, Harry, Hermione, Ron, DFTBA (Don't Forget To Be Awesome) and the last being Dumbledore. On 28 June, there was a livestream video celebrating the landing of Dumbledore. Evanna Lynch was present at the stream and even answered questions asked by fans. Ophelia Dahl, the daughter of the late British author Roald Dahl was also present since she worked with Partners in Health, who the Harry Potter Alliance teamed up with for Helping Haiti Heal.\n\nIn March 2010, The Harry Potter Alliance had a campaign for people to send in their books to the Mississippi Delta which went to Rwanda. As of June, when the campaign ended, they donated over 40,000 books. In July 2010, The Harry Potter Alliance won $250,000 in the Chase Community Giving contest. The money will go towards literacy, LGBT rights, and online community building.\n\nWal-Mart Watch uses parodies of Harry Potter to compare WalMart to Lord Voldemort and draws analogies between House elves and forced labour.\n\nStop Big Media gained support from \"Rocking Out Against Voldemedia\", a compilation of ten original songs by ten Harry Potter-themed \"Wizard Rock\" bands. Andrew Slack and The Harry Potter Alliance compare media consolidation in the U.S. to the control of the Ministry of Magic over the \"Daily Prophet\" in the \"Harry Potter\" books, saying \"Once Voldemort took over every form of media in the Wizarding World, Dumbledore's Army and the Order of the Phoenix formed an independent media movement called \"Potterwatch\". Now the HP Alliance and Wizard Rock have come together to fight for a Potterwatch movement in the real world to fight back against Big VoldeMedia from further pushing out local and foreign news, minority representation, and the right to a Free Press.\"\n\nA worldwide campaign to \"save Harry Potter from the clutches of the Coca-Cola Company\" was launched by the nonprofit Center for Science in the Public Interest. The group says that by aggressively marketing sugar- and caffeine-laden drinks to young fans of the Harry Potter series, Coke is helping fuel the childhood obesity epidemic.\n\nIn a parody of \"Harry Potter\", Campaign for America's Future cast Seinfeld alumnus, Jason Alexander as \"Lord Rovemort\", a Karl Rove figure that coordinates Republican \"obstruction\" in Congress.\n\nLibrary of Congress: Rowling, J. K. Criticism and interpretation\nCarrie-Ann Biondi ed., \"Imagining Better: Philosophical Issues in Harry Potter,\" collection of essays on philosophy and politics of \"Harry Potter\" in \"Reason Papers: A Journal of Interdisciplinary Normative Studies\", vol. 34, no. 2 (June 2012).\n"}
{"id": "47584139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47584139", "title": "Popular Unity (Greece)", "text": "Popular Unity (Greece)\n\nPopular Unity (, \"Laïkí Enótita\", LAE) is a left-wing political party in Greece.\n\nPopular Unity was founded on 21 August 2015 by twenty five parliamentarians formerly affiliated to the Coalition of the Radical Left (Syriza), as a reaction to Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras' handling of the Greek bailout agreement of 2015. It is led by the former Minister of Energy Panagiotis Lafazanis. Due to receiving 2.86% (vs. the required 3%) of the popular vote in the September 2015 election it has no seats in the Parliament.\n\nPopular Unity was founded on 21 August 2015 by 25 parliamentarians formerly affiliated to the Coalition of the Radical Left (Syriza), as a reaction to Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras' handling of the Greek bailout agreement of 2015. At foundation Popular Unity was the third largest party in the Greek parliament. It is led by the former Minister of Energy in the Tsipras cabinet, Panagiotis Lafazanis. Dimitris Stratoulis (former Alternate Minister of Social Security) and Costas Isychos (former Alternate Minister of National Defence), who were sacked in July 2015, also joined the new party.\n\nOn 2 September 2015, the party programme for the snap election on September 20 was published. The party received about 2.9% of the vote, below the 3% threshold to win any seats in parliament. In response to the result the party said, 'we lost the game but not the war'.\n\nThe name of the party is inspired by Popular Unity, the Chilean political alliance led by Salvador Allende.\n\nThe party favours Greek withdrawal from the eurozone and reinstating the drachma as Greece's national currency. According to founding member Stathis Kouvelakis, a former member of Syriza's Central Committee, the new party supports socialist internationalism, pacifism, Greece's exit from NATO, and breaking military agreements with Israel.\n\nThe 26 Members of the Hellenic Parliament, that all defected from Syriza, were, in alphabetical order:\n\n"}
{"id": "348010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=348010", "title": "Redshirts (Italy)", "text": "Redshirts (Italy)\n\nRedshirts or Red coats is the name given to the volunteers who followed Giuseppe Garibaldi in southern Italy during his expedition of the Thousand to southern Italy, but sometimes extended to other campaigns of his. The name derived from the color of their shirts or loose fitting blouses (complete uniforms were beyond the finances of the Italian patriots).\n\nThe red shirts were started by Giuseppe Garibaldi. During his years of exile, Garibaldi was involved in a military action in Uruguay, where, in 1843, he originally used red shirts from a stock destined for slaughterhouse workers in Buenos Aires. Later, he spent time in private retirement in New York City. Both places have been claimed as the birthplace of the Garibaldian red shirt.\n\nThe formation of his force of volunteers in Uruguay, his mastery of the techniques of guerilla warfare, his opposition to the Emperor of Brazil and Argentine territorial ambitions (perceived by liberals as also imperialist), and his victories in the battles of Cerro and Sant'Antonio in 1846 that assured the independence of Uruguay, made Garibaldi and his followers heroes in Italy and Europe. Garibaldi was later hailed as the \"Gran Chico Fornido\" on the basis of these exploits.\n\nIn Uruguay, calling on the Italians of Montevideo, Garibaldi formed the Italian Legion in 1843. In later years, it was claimed that in Uruguay the legion first sported the red shirts associated with Garibaldi's \"Thousand\", which were said to have been obtained from a factory in Montevideo which had intended to export them to the slaughter houses of Argentina. Red shirts sported by Argentinian butchers in the 1840s are not otherwise documented, however, and the famous \"camicie rosse\" did not appear during Garibaldi's efforts in Rome in 1849–50.\n\nLater, after the failure of the campaign for Rome, Garibaldi spent a few years, circa 1850–53, with the Italian patriot and inventor, Antonio Meucci, in a modest gothic frame house (now designated a New York City Landmark), on Staten Island, New York City, before sailing for Italy in 1853. There is a Garibaldi-Meucci museum on Staten Island.\n\nIn New York, during the pre-Civil War era, rival companies of volunteer firemen were the great working-class heroes of the city. Their courage, their civic spirit, and the lively comradeship they demonstrated inspired fanatic followers throughout New York, the original \"fire buffs\".\n\nVolunteer fire companies varied in the completeness and details of their uniforms, but they all wore the red flannel shirt. When Garibaldi returned to Italy after his New York stay, the red shirts made their first appearance among his followers.\n\nGaribaldi remained a local hero among European immigrants back in New York. The \"Garibaldi Guard\" (39th New York State Volunteers) fought in the American Civil War, 1861–65. As part of their uniform, they wore red woolen \"Garibaldi Shirts\" at least, all enlisted men did. The \"New York Tribune\" sized them up:\nA woman's fashion, the Garibaldi shirt, was begun in 1860 by the Empress Eugénie of France, and the blousy style remained popular for some years, eventually turning into the Victorian shirt waist and modern woman's blouse.\n\nGiuseppe Garibaldi's son, Ricciotti Garibaldi, later led redshirt volunteer troops that fought with the Greek Army in the Greco-Turkish War of 1897 and the First Balkan War of 1912–13.\n\nThe Redshirts gave inspiration to Mussolini, to form the Fascist blackshirts units and, from there, to Hitler's brownshirted Sturmabteilung (SA) units, as well as, the quasi-fascist Irish Blueshirts, under Eoin O'Duffy. However, whilst being vaguely nationalistic in tone, Garibaldi and his men are not widely considered as having been protofascist. Nottingham Forest FC now proudly wear the Garibaldi red shirts since their inception in 1865.\n"}
{"id": "28168498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28168498", "title": "Regulatory competition", "text": "Regulatory competition\n\nRegulatory competition, also called competitive governance or policy competition, is a phenomenon in law, economics and politics concerning the desire of law makers to compete with one another in the kinds of law offered in order to attract businesses or other actors to operate in their jurisdiction. Regulatory competition depends upon the ability of actors such as companies, workers or other kinds of people to move between two or more separate legal systems. Once this is possible, then the temptation arises for the people running those different legal systems to compete to offer better terms than their \"competitors\" to attract investment. Historically, regulatory competition has operated within countries having federal systems of regulation - particularly the United States, but since the mid-20th century and the intensification of economic globalisation, regulatory competition became an important issue internationally.\n\nOne opinion is that regulatory competition in fact creates a \"race to the top\" in standards, due to the ability of different actors to select the most efficient rules by which to be governed. The main fields of law affected by the phenomenon of regulatory competition are corporate law, labour law, tax and environmental law. Another opinion is that regulatory competition between jurisdictions creates a \"race to the bottom\" in standards, due to the decreased ability of any jurisdiction to enforce standards without the cost of driving investment abroad.\n\nThe concept of regulatory competition emerged from the late 19th and early 20th century experience with charter competition among US states to attract corporations to domicile in their jurisdiction. In 1890 New Jersey enacted a liberal corporation charter, which charged low fees for company registration and lower franchise taxes than other states. Delaware attempted to copy the law to attract companies to its own state. This competition ended when Woodrow Wilson as Governor tightened New Jersey's laws again through a series of seven statutes.\n\nIn academic literature the phenomenon of regulatory competition reducing standards overall was argued for by AA Berle and GC Means in \"The Modern Corporation and Private Property\" (1932) while the concept received formal recognition by the US Supreme Court in a decision of Justice Louis Brandeis in the 1933 case \"Ligget Co. v. Lee\" In 1932 Brandeis also coined the term “laboratories of democracy” in \"New State Ice Company v. Liebmann\", noting that the Federal government was capable of ending experiment.\n\nAmerican corporate law scholars have debated on the role of the regulatory competition on corporate law for more than one decade. A Comparative Bibliography\nIn the United States legal academia, corporate law is conventionally said to be the product of a \"race\" among states to attract incorporations by making their corporate laws attractive to those who choose where to incorporate. Given that it has long been possible to incorporate in one state while doing business primarily in other states, US states have rarely been able or willing to use law tied to where a firm is incorporated to regulate or constrain corporations or those who run them. However, U.S. states have long regulated corporations with other laws (e.g., environmental laws, employment laws) that are not tied to where a firm is incorporated, but are based on where a firm does business.\n\nFrom the \"race\" to attract incorporations, Delaware has emerged as the winner, at least among publicly traded corporations. The corporate franchise tax accounts for between 15% and 20% of the state's budget.\n\nIn Europe, regulatory competition has long been prevented by the real seat doctrine prevailing in private international law of many EU and EEA member countries, which essentially required companies to be incorporated in the state where their main office was located. However, in a series of cases between 1999 and 2003 (Centros Ltd. vs. Erhvervs- og Selskabsstyrelsen, Überseering BV v Nordic Construction Company Baumanagement GmbH, Kamer van Koophandel en Fabrieken voor Amsterdam v Inspire Art Ltd.), the European Court of Justice has forced member states to recognize companies chartered in other member states, which is likely to foster regulatory competition in European company law. For instance, in 2008, Germany adopted new regulations on the GmbH (Limited Liability Company), allowing the incorporation of Limited Liability Companies without a minimum capital of EUR 25,000 (though the earnings have to be retained until this threshold is reached).\n\nCountries may, for instance, seek to attract foreign direct investment by enacting a lower minimum wage than other countries, or by making the labor market more flexible.\n\n\nLegal scholars often cite environmental law as a field in which regulatory competition is particularly likely to produce a “race to the bottom” due to the externalities produced by changes in any individual state’s environmental law. Because a state is unlikely to bear all of the costs associated with any environment damage caused by industries in that state, it has an incentive to lower standards below the level that would be desirable if the state were forced to bear all of the costs. One commonly cited example of this effect is clean air laws, as states may be incentivized to lower their standards to attract business, knowing that the effects of the increased pollution will be spread across a wide area, and not simply localized within the state. Furthermore, a reduction in the standards of one state will incentivize other states to similarly lower their standards so as to not lose business.\n\nSometimes higher-level governing bodies institute incentives to competition among lower-level governing bodies, an example being the Race to the Top program, designed by the United States Department of Education to spur reforms in state and local district K-12 education.\n\nThe German Federal Ministry of Education and Research likewise has initiated a program called InnoRegio to reward innovative practices.\n\nThe high degree of politicization of the genetically modified organism issue made it a key battleground for competition for leadership, particularly between the European Commission and the European Council of Ministers. The result has been a protracted battle over agenda setting and issue framing and a cycle of competitive regulatory reinforcement.\n\nThe struggle between insurgents and various Afghanistan states for power, control, popular support and legitimacy in the eyes of the public has been described as competitive governance.\n\nWhile during the Cold War security was provided by centralized institutions such as NATO and the Warsaw Pact, now competing profit-seeking firms provide personal, national, and international security.\n\nArnold Kling notes, \"In democratic government, people take jurisdictions as given, and they elect leaders. In competitive government, people take leaders as given, and they select jurisdictions.\" Competitive governance has thus far not produced an ultra-libertarian government; although Zac Gochenour has pointed out the role of potential international migrants' switching costs in hindering consumer choice from creating greater intergovernmental competition, Bryan Caplan has stated that \"[t]he bigger problem is that almost all existing governments are either non-profits (the democracies), have short time horizons (the unstable dictatorships), or reasonably worry that if they liberalize they're lose power (the stable dictatorships).\" Indeed, it has been argued by Maria Brouwer that most autocracies prefer stagnation to the vagaries inherent to expansion and other forms of innovation, since the exploration of new possibilities could lead to failure, which would undermine autocratic authority. There has been some question as to whether competitive governance can be revived in Australia.\n\nBrennan and Buchanan (1980) argue that the public sector is a 'Leviathan' which is inherently biased towards extracting money from taxpayers, but that competitive government structures can minimize such exploitation. It has also been argued that a decentralized competitive government structure allows for an experimentation of new public policies without doing too much harm if they fail.\n\nAn alternative to market-based or competitive governance is civic-based or partnership governance. Alleged disadvantages of competitive governance, compared to collaborative government, include less potential to harness the power of knowledge sharing, cooperation and collaboration within government.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47554936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47554936", "title": "Ronggo", "text": "Ronggo\n\nRonggo was an administrative title used by the Dutch in the Dutch East Indies in Indonesia (specifically Java and Borneo.)\n\nRonggo of \"Afdeeling\" Bandjarmasin was held by Kiahi Mas Djaja Samoedra (circa 1899) (EYD or \"advanced spelling\": Kiai Mas Jaya Samudera). The region saw much international trade with Asia and the Middle East. After a period of warfare dominated much of the late 1500s to mid 1600s, Portugal controlled the area for a short time.\n\nFollowing Portuguese control, the Dutch East India Company awarded a monopoly on trade and colonization in the area utilizing an exceptional financial backing, better organization, strategy, weapons and ships, but were still unable to completely dominate the Indonesian spice trade. In the 1800s, the Dutch East India Company dissolved due to bankruptcy and the Netherlands turned it into a nationalized colony.\n\nBandjarmasi leadership structure:\n\n\n\nhttp://european-heritage.org/netherlands/alkmaar/dutch-east-india-company\n\nhttp://www.abbreviations.com/EYD\n\nhttp://www.worldatlas.com/webimage/countrys/asia/id2.htm#page\n"}
{"id": "30844867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30844867", "title": "Seattle process", "text": "Seattle process\n\nThe Seattle process or Seattle way is a term stemming from the political procedure in Seattle and King County, and to a lesser extent other cities and the Washington state government. The term has no strict definition but refers to the pervasively slow process of dialogue, deliberation, participation, and municipal introspection before making any decision and the time it takes to enact any policy. An early definition came from a 1983 editorial in the \"Seattle Weekly\", \"the usual Seattle process of seeking consensus through exhaustion.\"\n\n\"In its positive connotation the Seattle Way values popular participation, transparent process and meaningful debate. More negatively, it has been decried as a culture that values process and debate over results, that bogs down and can't get important things done.\"—Mark Purcell, Recapturing Democracy.\n\n\"The Seattle Way usually is defined as circular consultation reaching indecision. But it also consists of an uninvolved electorate and public decisions taken carelessly, without regard for experience elsewhere and unmindful of consequence.\"—Ted Van Dyk, contributing columnist to the Seattle Post-Intelligencer\n\nPrior to the election of Wes Uhlman as mayor in 1969, civic decision making was relatively quick and powerful groups could influence civic leaders without seeking wide consensus. \n\nProponents of the Seattle process, such as former city councilman Richard Conlin, praised it as a thoughtful method of generating the best results at the expense of time. In return, opponents referred to Conlin in 2005 as the \"Duke of Dither\" for his devotion to process.\n\nAs the Seattle process became more drawn out, it has been criticized, usually by business interests as too slow and dithering. As an example, during the massive redevelopment of the Cascade and South Lake Union neighborhoods in the early 21st century it was criticized by Vulcan Inc. and Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center that an in-depth discussion of all of the ideas would wear out the patience of other groups providing financial capital. Meanwhile, neighborhood activists complained that the proposed development ignored the neighborhood plans that were previously, and laboriously, developed in a consensual process. City neighborhood activists generally like the deliberative process.\n\nThe process has also been criticized for bland results.\n\nThe Seattle process as an informal method values study, discussion and civic engagement. It will involve numerous stakeholder groups. It requires the community to present effective data, and for organizers to translate data from different constituencies into useful reports for decision makers. Using process to seek out consensus and hearing all opinions even extends to the corporate boardroom, not just government.\n\nMethods of participation typically include council meetings, neighborhood forums, ballot measures, and marches. Stakeholder groups are all-inclusive and usually include citizens, corporations, non-profits, neighborhood representatives, and identity or issue specific groups.\n\nDespite being called a \"process\" there is no definitive methodology to the Seattle process; in fact, while writing about Seattle taking four decades to build a light-rail line, \"The New York Times\" called it a \"mysterious and maddening phenomenon\".\n\nOutside of the public meetings and methods open to the public, the Seattle process also causes delay while politicians either tinker with, or obstruct, proposals. Other cities in the area declare their ability to get projects because of the lack of Seattle process.\n\nThe Seattle process, and claimed devotion to it, has been an issue in political races. In the 2001 Mayoral Election candidate Greg Nickels used devotion to Seattle process as an issue against his opponent, city attorney Mark Sidran, who promised a more decisive style. However, eight years later Nickel's style as Mayor would be criticized in a re-election race as top-down, autocratic, and antithetical to the Seattle process.\n\n"}
{"id": "11274915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11274915", "title": "Shorenstein Prize", "text": "Shorenstein Prize\n\nThe Shorenstein Journalism Award is awarded annually by the Walter H. Shorenstein Asia Pacific Research Center at Stanford University. The Prize honour a journalist for distinguished writing and reporting that helps Americans to better understand the complexities of Asia. In 2018 this award was given to Indian citizen Siddharth Vardarajan for courageous accounts of India's domestic and foreign policies. He is the founder of online news website The Wire. It is well known for excellence and innovation in journalism.\nPrevious recipients of the Shorenstein Prize include Stanley Karnow, Orville Schell, Don Oberdorfer, John Pomfret and Nayan Chanda.\nhttp://www.thehindu.com/news/national/award-for-siddharth-varadarajan/article23516547.ece\n"}
{"id": "2988239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2988239", "title": "Student fee", "text": "Student fee\n\nA student fee is a fee charged to students at a school, college, university or other place of learning that is in addition to any matriculation and/or tuition fees. It may be charged to support student organizations and student activities (for which it can be called an activity fee) or for intercollegiate programs such as intramural sports or visiting academics; or, at a public university or college, as a means to remedy shortfalls in state funding (in which case it can often be called a technology fee). Further fees may then be charged for features and facilities such as insurance, health and parking provision.\n\nIn the United States, the constitutionality of mandatory student activity fees has been adjudicated several times by the Supreme Court. Most recently, the Court has ruled that public universities may subsidize by means of a mandatory student activity fees so long as such fees (see \"Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System v. Southworth\" ).\n\n"}
