{"id": "17718427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17718427", "title": "Academic grading in Costa Rica", "text": "Academic grading in Costa Rica\n\nAcademic grading in Costa Rica is based on a 100-point scale. \n\nFor primary school level, a score of 65 is good enough to pass, while in high school and further levels the pass grade is 70/100. Students who attain between 60 and the passing grade get the chance to take an extra test that reviews the whole year's curriculum, and in which a 70 is needed to achieve a passing score.\n\nOften high schools will raise the pass grade to 75 in order to push their students to achieve a higher grade. This only applies to the highest high school grades, which are 10th and 11th grade. This method is primarily focused on improving grades by encouraging a higher cumulative grade point average throughout both years, leading towards a set of final exams in which this average grade becomes critically important.\n"}
{"id": "28051541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28051541", "title": "Bharath Sriraman", "text": "Bharath Sriraman\n\nBharath Sriraman (born 1971) is an Indian-born mathematician, educator and academic editor, known for his interdisciplinary contributions at the nexus of math-science-arts, theory development in mathematics education, creativity research, and alternative education.\n\nBharath Sriraman is a professor of mathematics at the University of Montana – Missoula with an adjunct appointment in the department of Central and Southwest-Asian Studies. Sriraman is the founder and editor-in-chief of \"The Mathematics Enthusiast\", an independent open access journal hosted by University of Montana. He is the co-founder/co-editor-in-chief of two series with Springer Science+Business Media namely \"Advances in Mathematics Education\" and \"Creativity Theory and Action in Education\". He is also the series editor for a number of book series on alternative education published by Sense Publishers, and various topics in mathematics education with Information Age Publishing In addition to editing he is a prolific scholar with over 300 publications to date in numerous areas of research, and held numerous visiting professorships including those as International Fulbright Specialist at institutions in Nordic countries, Eurasia and South America \n\nBharath Sriraman graduated with a B.S. in mathematics from the University of Alaska Fairbanks in 1995 and obtained his Ph.D. in mathematical sciences in 2002 from Northern Illinois University under the analyst Robert Wheeler. In 2009, Northern Illinois University named him as one of 50 \"Golden alumni\" in the last 50 years for his significant contributions to research in mathematics education, gifted education and interdisciplinary research at the intersection of mathematics-science-arts. He previously received the School Science and Mathematics Association Early Scholar Award in 2007. In 2016 he was the recipient of the University of Montana Distinguished Scholar Award\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58572360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58572360", "title": "Bishop Hannon High School", "text": "Bishop Hannon High School\n\nBishop Hannon High School was a Roman Catholic comprehensive school on Beechley Drive, Pentrebane, Cardiff, Wales.\n\nThe school was built in the 1960s on a 17 acre site on the edge of what was then the new housing estates of Fairwater. Fifty pupils started in September 1965, before the school was completed in January 1966. The school was designed to take 600 pupils.\n\nBy the early 1980s the school had 670 pupils. \n\nThe school was closed in 1987 and its pupils transferred to other Roman Catholic schools in the city.\n"}
{"id": "30046267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30046267", "title": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Gujranwala", "text": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Gujranwala\n\nThe Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Gujranwala (BISE Gujranwala) is a body corporate under section 3(2) of Punjab Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education Act 1976. The Gujranwala city is located on the famous GT road 68 km on north side from Lahore and 220 km on southern side from the capital city of Islamabad & Rawalpindi.The campus of Board is 1 km away from Lohianwala Bypass, GT road. This Board conducted its first examination in 1976.\n\nBoard started functioning by obtaining buildings on rent. These building were actually residential houses in the area of Satellite Town, Gujranwala. First building acquired on rent was 162-D satellite town Gujranwala. Then during the tenure of Qari Ghulam Sadiq Chairman with his devoted team Ch. Nisar Ahmad Secretary and Mr. Abdul Sattar Rashid Security Officer acquired a piece of land comprising 231 kanals or 28.8 acres near sialkot bypass, Lohianwala under Punjab Land Acquisition Act 1894 and started construction of its own campus. The boundary wall was completed during the tenure of Prof. Muhammad Amin, Chairman and under his supervision a team composed of Ch. Muhammad Ahsan, Secretary, Mr. Fazal Karim Engineer and Mr. Abdul Sattar Rashid Security Officer completed the task to take over the area with construction of a boundary wall around the campus. Then services of a famous consultant M/s Elire H.N. Murat Khan and Associates were hired for supervision of construction of the campus. The main office building was constructed by M/s Alicon (Pvt) Limited under the technical supervision of the consultant during the tenure of Dr. Sardar Muhammad Mian and Dr. Abdul Qayyum Khan Lodhi, Chairman with the help of their team composed of Ch. Muhammad Sharif Abid, Secretary, Mr. Najeeb Ashraf Warraich, Estate Officer, Mr. Abdul Sattar Rashid, Security Officer and Mr. Fazal Karim Engineer. The offices were shifted during December 1992 to March 1993. \n\nThe jurisdiction of the Gujranwala Board includes following districts:\n\nThe Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education conducts Matriculation and Intermediate Exams every year within its jurisdiction. Matriculation and Intermediate Exams are mostly held in March and April respectively and the result of both exams is mostly announced in July and August or in the start of September.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11157523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11157523", "title": "Cobb Virtual Academy", "text": "Cobb Virtual Academy\n\nCobb Virtual Academy (CVA) is an online education program created and provided by the Cobb County School District in Georgia, United States. It is a separate entity from the Georgia Virtual School, an initiative by the Georgia Department of Education to provide online learning to students in public and private schools. Many students choose to take various courses provided by CVA to complete or add to their high school education.\n\nStudents are expected to do relatively the same amount of work as in any offline course. Preliminary meetings, finals, and End of Course Tests are all done in person. Most assignments simply require composing a text document or completing a downloaded worksheet and emailing it to a teacher.\n\nWhile somewhat expensive, one or two of these classes may be taken during each of the normal school years with limited seats for each. There are currently 45 different classes available.\n\n"}
{"id": "17604522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17604522", "title": "Compensatory education", "text": "Compensatory education\n\nCompensatory education offers supplementary programs or services designed to help children at risk of cognitive impairment and low educational achievement succeed.\n\nPoor children do worse in school than their well-off peers. They are more likely to experience learning\ndisabilities and developmental delays. Poor children score between 6 and 13 points lower on various standardized tests of IQ, verbal ability, and achievement. Poverty also has a negative impact on high-school graduation and college attendance. \nChildren raised by a single parent, children who have more than two siblings, children by teenaged parents and children raised in poverty-stricken neighbourhoods are also at risk of low academic achievement.\n\nNumerous programs have been created in order to help children at risk reach their full potential. Among the American programs of compensary education are Head Start, the Chicago Child-Parent Center Program, High/Scope, Abecedarian Early Intervention Project, SMART (Start Making a Reader Today), the Milwaukee Project and the 21st Century Community Learning Center. In Germany and Great Britain Early Excellence Centres are widely discussed programs of compensatory education. Not all of that programs have been proven to be effective. However scientists were able to identify social programmes that work. Among these are the High/Scope Perry Preschool Project, the Abecedarian Project, and SMART.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37969099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37969099", "title": "Conference of the Americas on International Education", "text": "Conference of the Americas on International Education\n\nThe Conference of the Americas on International Education (CAIE) is an international conference that takes place once every 18 months within the Americas. It is organized by the Inter-American Organization for Higher Education, which has its headquarters in Montreal, Canada, and the CAIE General Secretariat is located there.\n\nThe conference brings together education decision-makers including university presidents, vice-presidents, directors and professors, academic researchers, international organizations, government officials and representatives from both the private and philanthropic sectors from the Americas and around the world. Discussions and debates at the conference, as well as through various webinars and collaborative projects, focus on issues related to internationalization and higher education within the Americas.\n\nEach conference includes a plenary debate on a preselected internationalization topic, a plenary interview with guest speakers, workshops with preset themes, a series of concurrent sessions at which research findings are presented, and networking sessions on specific topics.\n\nThe first edition of the CAIE was held in October 2010, in Calgary, Canada, and was organized by led by three founding organizations (IOHE, CONAHEC and CBIE). The theme of the conference was “Internationalization: An Essential Component of Quality Education of the 21st Century”. Topics included best practices, current trends, paradigm shifts, and aspects and challenges related to the internationalization of higher education. 650 participants from 44 countries attended plenary sessions and workshops, as well as the networking between the various organizations.\n\nIn 2011 representatives of a group of a number of national, regional, and inter-American university associations. signed a memorandum of understanding in Vancouver, Canada by the CAIE stakeholder organizations. This founding document defined the CAIE committees and their respective responsibilities.\n\nThe second CAIE took place in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in April 2012, and continued with CAIE 2010’s theme of internationalization with a particular focus on “Higher Education and the Inter-American Dialogues”. One topic of discussion was the international movement of students and educators between schools. The event attracted about 615 participants from 32 countries, About 300 higher education institutions, 40 national, regional and international university associations, and governmental agencies/authorities of eight countries were represented.\n\nSpeakers included Amaro Henrique Pessoa Lins, Secretary of Higher Education of the Brazilian Ministry of Education, Roberto de Souza Salles, President of the Universidade Federal Fluminense, and Marcia Rubio Correa, President of the Pontifica Universidad Católica del Perú and President of the IOHE. The CAIE 2012 also welcomed David Johnston, Governor General of Canada, Alvaro Toubes Prata, National Secretary for Technological Development and Innovation of Brazil, and Mexican writer Carlos Fuentes.\n\nThe third CAIE was held the 16-18 of October, 2013, in Monterrey, Mexico, under the theme “Knowledge Mobility: Responsibility and Resources”. Seventy 70 conferences, workshops, and sessions were planned, and there were about 900 attendees.\n\nThe fourth conference took place in Quito Ecuador, in 2015. The fifth is planned for Montreal, Canada in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "46590042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46590042", "title": "Corps Berlin", "text": "Corps Berlin\n\nThe Corps Berlin is a fraternity (\"Studentenverbindung\") in Berlin, Germany, founded on February 9, 2009 with roots dating back to December 2, 1859. It is one of 162 \"German Student Corps\" in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Belgium, Latvia and Hungary today. The Corps is a member of the Weinheimer Senioren-Convent (WSC), the second oldest federation of classical European fraternal corporations, with roots dating back to the 15th century and fraternities founded in several European countries.\n\nMembership in the fraternity is open to honorable men studying at one of Berlin's universities and is based exclusively on personality, good moral standing, and strength of character. Members of the Corps Berlin value and engage in the tradition of academic fencing as a way to sharpen and prove their character under pressure. Continuing a practice dating back into the 1700s, Corps Berlin's members wear the traditional couleur, colored stripes, in green-white-black. The fraternity teaches and expects tolerance from its members, stemming from diverse ethnic, national, religious and political backgrounds.\n\nLike all \"German Student Corps\", Corps Berlin expects tolerance from its members in political, scientific and religious affairs. Members are encouraged to have their own point of view about the world and be able to argue it, but Corps Berlin as an entity always remains neutral. This \"neutrality\" is a fundamental pillar of all Corps and differentiates them from fraternities who require a certain political or religious affinity. The fraternity encourages freshly admitted (pledging \"fox\") members with diverse ethnic, national, religious and political backgrounds to prove themselves as valuable Corps brothers, purely on the basis of personal character and merit, before becoming eligible to be fully incorporated (\"Rezeption\"). The fraternity has about 220 members of all ages (including alumni) coming from or currently residing in Europe, Asia, the Americas and Africa. Every full member is a member for life.\nMembers of the Corps Berlin value and practice the tradition of engagements in \"academic fencing\", or \"Mensur\" in German, with members of other old-school fraternities. Academic fencing, originating in the German school of fencing, is understood as a way to exercise good judgement and prove character, allowing participants to show determination by standing their ground under pressure, while enhancing the bonds between the Corps brothers at the same time. Mark Twain described one of these fencing duels/challenges in his day and age; his description is remarkably similar to current practices. Corps Berlin's members identify themselves wearing the traditional \"couleur\", colored stripes, as well as caps and/or other specific garments at official occasions. This tradition, known as \"wearing colors\" (German: \"Farben tragen\"), provides means to recognize members of other fraternities and, likewise, identification for the Corps brothers with each other and their traditions.\n\n\"Activity\" and \"responsibility\" are two fundamental expectations for fraternity members. With the goal to achieve members who are prepared to become active leaders in society, every Corps brother is expected to hold a leadership position at least once for a term (\"Semester\") while a student. Members are further encouraged to organize internal and open fraternity events that draw attention from other fraternities and guests from industry, academia, politics and other active societies. Allocating the necessary resources appropriately and living up to set expectations teaches responsibility. All members must show active participation in the regular fraternity Convents, providing the foundation for the fraternity's members to meet and discuss past, present and future developments. Decisions are cast in a democratic manner, sometimes after intense debates. Participation at such Convents teaches a better understanding of proper argumentation, group dynamics and critical analysis of other members' views, plans and arguments, thereby preparing its participants to become active members of society. Similarly, every member must finish his higher educational degree with good academic standing in order to advance to the status of \"Alter Herr\" (alumnus).\n\nLong-term guidance is expected from and provided by said \"Alte Herren\", who often remain very engaged and well connected with the fraternity. Every year at the end of May, student and alumni members of all German Student Corps meet in one of two cities (Weinheim and Bad Kösen) for three days to refresh their bonds with their fraternity and friends from the entire Corps network (WSC/KSCV). In addition to these international meetings once a year, alumni join the student members for multiple local meetings, lasting an evening or a weekend. These regular meetings result in strong bonds spanning the generations within the fraternity.\n\nThe fraternity was founded by joining three Corps on February 9, 2009: \"Corps Cheruscia\" with its original founding date December 2, 1859; \"Corps Rheno-Guestphalia\" with its original founding date February 4, 1870; and \"Corps Teutonia\" with its original founding date July 1, 1870.\n\nThe fraternity has official relationships with the Corps Altsachsen Dresden, Corps Saxo-Thuringia München in Munich and Corps Hannoverania in Hanover, forming the \"Blaues Kartell\" of four fraternities throughout Germany that understand the cartel as one large fraternity in four different cities.\n\nCorps Berlin is a member of the \"Blaues Kartell\", a circle of four German Student Corps that understand the union as \"one fraternity spanning four cities\" (Berlin, Dresden, Hanover, and Munich).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "142910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142910", "title": "Creativity", "text": "Creativity\n\nCreativity is a phenomenon whereby something new and somehow valuable is formed. The created item may be intangible (such as an idea, a scientific theory, a musical composition, or a joke) or a physical object (such as an invention, a literary work, or a painting).\n\nScholarly interest in creativity is found in a number of disciplines, primarily psychology, business studies, and cognitive science, but also education, technology, engineering, philosophy (particularly philosophy of science), theology, sociology, linguistics, and economics, covering the relations between creativity and general intelligence, personality type, mental and neurological processes, mental health, or artificial intelligence; the potential for fostering creativity through education and training; the fostering of creativity for national economic benefit, and the application of creative resources to improve the effectiveness of teaching and learning.\n\nThe lexeme in the English word \"creativity\" comes from the Latin term \"creō\" \"to create, make\": its derivational suffixes also come from Latin. The word \"create\" appeared in English as early as the 14th century, notably in Chaucer, to indicate divine creation (in The Parson's Tale). However, its modern meaning as an act of human creation did not emerge until after the Enlightenment.\n\nIn a summary of scientific research into creativity, Michael Mumford suggested: \"Over the course of the last decade, however, we seem to have reached a general agreement that creativity involves the production of novel, useful products\" (Mumford, 2003, p. 110), or, in Robert Sternberg's words, the production of \"something original and worthwhile\". Authors have diverged dramatically in their precise definitions beyond these general commonalities: Peter Meusburger reckons that over a hundred different analyses can be found in the literature. As an illustration, one definition given by Dr. E. Paul Torrance described it as \"a process of becoming sensitive to problems, deficiencies, gaps in knowledge, missing elements, disharmonies, and so on; identifying the difficulty; searching for solutions, making guesses, or formulating hypotheses about the deficiencies: testing and retesting these hypotheses and possibly modifying and retesting them; and finally communicating the results.\"\n\nTheories of creativity (particularly investigation of why some people are more creative than others) have focused on a variety of aspects. The dominant factors are usually identified as \"the four Ps\" — process, product, person, and place (according to Mel Rhodes). A focus on \"process\" is shown in cognitive approaches that try to describe thought mechanisms and techniques for creative thinking. Theories invoking divergent rather than convergent thinking (such as Guilford), or those describing the staging of the creative process (such as Wallas) are primarily theories of creative process. A focus on creative \"product\" usually appears in attempts to measure creativity (psychometrics, see below) and in creative ideas framed as successful memes. The psychometric approach to creativity reveals that it also involves the ability to produce more.\nA focus on the nature of the creative \"person\" considers more general intellectual habits, such as openness, levels of ideation, autonomy, expertise, exploratory behavior, and so on. A focus on \"place\" considers the circumstances in which creativity flourishes, such as degrees of autonomy, access to resources, and the nature of gatekeepers. Creative lifestyles are characterized by nonconforming attitudes and behaviors as well as flexibility.\n\nMost ancient cultures, including thinkers of Ancient Greece, Ancient China, and Ancient India, lacked the concept of creativity, seeing art as a form of discovery and not creation. The ancient Greeks had no terms corresponding to \"to create\" or \"creator\" except for the expression \"poiein\" (\"to make\"), which only applied to \"poiesis\" (poetry) and to the \"poietes\" (poet, or \"maker\") who made it. Plato did not believe in art as a form of creation. Asked in \"The Republic\", \"Will we say, of a painter, that he makes something?\", he answers, \"Certainly not, he merely imitates.\"\n\nIt is commonly argued that the notion of \"creativity\" originated in Western culture through Christianity, as a matter of divine inspiration. According to the historian Daniel J. Boorstin, \"the early Western conception of creativity was the Biblical story of creation given in the \"Genesis\".\" However, this is not creativity in the modern sense, which did not arise until the Renaissance. In the Judaeo-Christian tradition, creativity was the sole province of God; humans were not considered to have the ability to create something new except as an expression of God's work. A concept similar to that of Christianity existed in Greek culture, for instance, Muses were seen as mediating inspiration from the Gods. Romans and Greeks invoked the concept of an external creative \"daemon\" (Greek) or \"genius\" (Latin), linked to the sacred or the divine. However, none of these views are similar to the modern concept of creativity, and the individual was not seen as the cause of creation until the Renaissance. It was during the Renaissance that creativity was first seen, not as a conduit for the divine, but from the abilities of \"great men\".\n\nThe rejection of creativity in favor of discovery and the belief that individual creation was a conduit of the divine would dominate the West probably until the Renaissance and even later. The development of the modern concept of creativity begins in the Renaissance, when creation began to be perceived as having originated from the abilities of the individual, and not God. This could be attributed to the leading intellectual movement of the time, aptly named humanism, which developed an intensely human-centric outlook on the world, valuing the intellect and achievement of the individual. From this philosophy arose the Renaissance man (or polymath), an individual who embodies the principals of humanism in their ceaseless courtship with knowledge and creation. One of the most well-known and immensely accomplished examples is Leonardo da Vinci.\n\nHowever, this shift was gradual and would not become immediately apparent until the Enlightenment. By the 18th century and the Age of Enlightenment, mention of creativity (notably in aesthetics), linked with the concept of imagination, became more frequent. In the writing of Thomas Hobbes, imagination became a key element of human cognition; William Duff was one of the first to identify imagination as a quality of genius, typifying the separation being made between talent (productive, but breaking no new ground) and genius.\n\nAs a direct and independent topic of study, creativity effectively received no attention until the 19th century. Runco and Albert argue that creativity as the subject of proper study began seriously to emerge in the late 19th century with the increased interest in individual differences inspired by the arrival of Darwinism. In particular, they refer to the work of Francis Galton, who through his eugenicist outlook took a keen interest in the heritability of intelligence, with creativity taken as an aspect of genius.\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th centuries, leading mathematicians and scientists such as Hermann von Helmholtz (1896) and Henri Poincaré (1908) began to reflect on and publicly discuss their creative processes.\n\nThe insights of Poincaré and von Helmholtz were built on in early accounts of the creative process by pioneering theorists such as Graham Wallas and Max Wertheimer. In his work \"Art of Thought\", published in 1926, Wallas presented one of the first models of the creative process. In the Wallas stage model, creative insights and illuminations may be explained by a process consisting of 5 stages:\nWallas' model is often treated as four stages, with \"intimation\" seen as a sub-stage.\n\nWallas considered creativity to be a legacy of the evolutionary process, which allowed humans to quickly adapt to rapidly changing environments. Simonton provides an updated perspective on this view in his book, \"Origins of genius: Darwinian perspectives on creativity\".\n\nIn 1927, Alfred North Whitehead gave the Gifford Lectures at the University of Edinburgh, later published as \"Process and Reality.\" He is credited with having coined the term \"creativity\" to serve as the ultimate category of his metaphysical scheme: \"Whitehead actually coined the term – our term, still the preferred currency of exchange among literature, science, and the arts. . . a term that quickly became so popular, so omnipresent, that its invention within living memory, and by Alfred North Whitehead of all people, quickly became occluded\".\n\nThe formal psychometric measurement of creativity, from the standpoint of orthodox psychological literature, is usually considered to have begun with J. P. Guilford's 1950 address to the American Psychological Association, which helped popularize the topic and focus attention on a scientific approach to conceptualizing creativity. (It should be noted that the London School of Psychology had instigated psychometric studies of creativity as early as 1927 with the work of H. L. Hargreaves into the Faculty of Imagination, but it did not have the same impact.) Statistical analysis led to the recognition of creativity (as measured) as a separate aspect of human cognition to IQ-type intelligence, into which it had previously been subsumed. Guilford's work suggested that above a threshold level of IQ, the relationship between creativity and classically measured intelligence broke down.\n\nJames C. Kaufman and Beghetto introduced a \"four C\" model of creativity; \"mini-c\" (\"transformative learning\" involving \"personally meaningful interpretations of experiences, actions, and insights\"), \"little-c\" (everyday problem solving and creative expression), \"Pro-C\" (exhibited by people who are professionally or vocationally creative though not necessarily eminent) and \"Big-C\" (creativity considered great in the given field). This model was intended to help accommodate models and theories of creativity that stressed competence as an essential component and the historical transformation of a creative domain as the highest mark of creativity. It also, the authors argued, made a useful framework for analyzing creative processes in individuals.\n\nThe contrast of terms \"Big C\" and \"Little c\" has been widely used. Kozbelt, Beghetto and Runco use a little-c/Big-C model to review major theories of creativity. Margaret Boden distinguishes between h-creativity (historical) and p-creativity (personal).\n\nRobinson and Anna Craft have focused on creativity in a general population, particularly with respect to education. Craft makes a similar distinction between \"high\" and \"little c\" creativity. and cites Ken Robinson as referring to \"high\" and \"democratic\" creativity. Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi has defined creativity in terms of those individuals judged to have made significant creative, perhaps domain-changing contributions. Simonton has analysed the career trajectories of eminent creative people in order to map patterns and predictors of creative productivity.\n\nThere has been much empirical study in psychology and cognitive science of the processes through which creativity occurs. Interpretation of the results of these studies has led to several possible explanations of the sources and methods of creativity.\n\nIncubation is a temporary break from creative problem solving that can result in insight. There has been some empirical research looking at whether, as the concept of \"incubation\" in Wallas' model implies, a period of interruption or rest from a problem may aid creative problem-solving. Ward lists various hypotheses that have been advanced to explain why incubation may aid creative problem-solving, and notes how some empirical evidence is consistent with the hypothesis that incubation aids creative problem-solving in that it enables \"forgetting\" of misleading clues. Absence of incubation may lead the problem solver to become fixated on inappropriate strategies of solving the problem. This work disputes the earlier hypothesis that creative solutions to problems arise mysteriously from the unconscious mind while the conscious mind is occupied on other tasks. \nThis earlier hypothesis is discussed in Csikszentmihalyi's five phase model of the creative process which describes incubation as a time that your unconscious takes over. This allows for unique connections to be made without your consciousness trying to make logical order out of the problem.\n\nJ. P. Guilford drew a distinction between convergent and divergent production (commonly renamed convergent and divergent thinking). Convergent thinking involves aiming for a single, correct solution to a problem, whereas divergent thinking involves creative generation of multiple answers to a set problem. Divergent thinking is sometimes used as a synonym for creativity in psychology literature. Other researchers have occasionally used the terms \"flexible\" thinking or fluid intelligence, which are roughly similar to (but not synonymous with) creativity.\n\nIn 1992, Finke et al. proposed the \"Geneplore\" model, in which creativity takes place in two phases: a generative phase, where an individual constructs mental representations called preinventive structures, and an exploratory phase where those structures are used to come up with creative ideas. Some evidence shows that when people use their imagination to develop new ideas, those ideas are heavily structured in predictable ways by the properties of existing categories and concepts. Weisberg argued, by contrast, that creativity only involves ordinary cognitive processes yielding extraordinary results.\n\nHelie and Sun recently proposed a unified framework for understanding creativity in problem solving, namely the Explicit–Implicit Interaction (EII) theory of creativity. This new theory constitutes an attempt at providing a more unified explanation of relevant phenomena (in part by reinterpreting/integrating various fragmentary existing theories of incubation and insight).\n\nThe EII theory relies mainly on five basic principles, namely:\nA computational implementation of the theory was developed based on the CLARION cognitive architecture and used to simulate relevant human data. This work represents an initial step in the development of process-based theories of creativity encompassing incubation, insight, and various other related phenomena.\n\nIn \"The Act of Creation\", Arthur Koestler introduced the concept of \"bisociation\" — that creativity arises as a result of the intersection of two quite different frames of reference. This idea was later developed into conceptual blending. In the 1990s, various approaches in cognitive science that dealt with metaphor, analogy, and structure mapping have been converging, and a new integrative approach to the study of creativity in science, art and humor has emerged under the label conceptual blending.\n\nHoning theory, developed principally by psychologist Liane Gabora, posits that creativity arises due to the self-organizing, self-mending nature of a worldview. The creative process is a way in which the individual hones (and re-hones) an integrated worldview. Honing theory places emphasis not only on the externally visible creative outcome but also the internal cognitive restructuring and repair of the worldview brought about by the creative process. When faced with a creatively demanding task, there is an interaction between the conception of the task and the worldview. The conception of the task changes through interaction with the worldview, and the worldview changes through interaction with the task. This interaction is reiterated until the task is complete, at which point not only is the task conceived of differently, but the worldview is subtly or drastically transformed as it follows the natural tendency of a worldview to attempt to resolve dissonance and seek internal consistency amongst its components, whether they be ideas, attitudes, or bits of knowledge.\n\nA central feature of honing theory is the notion of a potentiality state. Honing theory posits that creative thought proceeds not by searching through and randomly ‘mutating’ predefined possibilities, but by drawing upon associations that exist due to overlap in the distributed neural cell assemblies that participate in the encoding of experiences in memory. Midway through the creative process one may have made associations between the current task and previous experiences, but not yet disambiguated which aspects of those previous experiences are relevant to the current task. Thus the creative idea may feel ‘half-baked’. It is at that point that it can be said to be in a potentiality state, because how it will actualize depends on the different internally or externally generated contexts it interacts with.\n\nHoning theory is held to explain certain phenomena not dealt with by other theories of creativity, for example, how different works by the same creator are observed in studies to exhibit a recognizable style or 'voice' even through in different creative outlets. This is not predicted by theories of creativity that emphasize chance processes or the accumulation of expertise, but it is predicted by honing theory, according to which personal style reflects the creator's uniquely structured worldview. Another example is in the environmental stimulus for creativity. Creativity is commonly considered to be fostered by a supportive, nurturing, trustworthy environment conducive to self-actualization. However, research shows that creativity is also associated with childhood adversity, which would stimulate honing.\n\nIn everyday thought, people often spontaneously imagine alternatives to reality when they think \"if only...\". Their counterfactual thinking is viewed as an example of everyday creative processes. It has been proposed that the creation of counterfactual alternatives to reality depends on similar cognitive processes to rational thought.\n\nThere was a \"creativity quotient\" developed similar to the intelligence quotient (IQ). It makes use of the results of divergent thinking tests (see below) by processing them further. It gives more weight to ideas that are radically different from other ideas in the response.\n\nJ. P. Guilford's group, which pioneered the modern psychometric study of creativity, constructed several tests to measure creativity in 1967:\n\nBuilding on Guilford's work, Torrance developed the Torrance Tests of Creative Thinking in 1966. They involved simple tests of divergent thinking and other problem-solving skills, which were scored on:\n\nSuch tests, sometimes called \"Divergent Thinking (DT)\" tests have been both supported and criticized.<ref name=\"doi10.1080/10400419.2011.545713\"></ref>\n\nConsiderable progress has been made in automated scoring of divergent thinking tests using semantic approach. When compared to human raters, NLP techniques were shown to be reliable and valid in scoring the originality. The reported computer programs were able to achieve a correlation of 0.60 and 0.72 respectively to human graders.\n\nSemantic networks were also used to devise originality scores that yielded significant correlations with socio-personal measures. Most recently, an NSF-funded team of researchers led by James C. Kaufman and Mark A. Runco combined expertise in creativity research, natural language processing, computational linguistics, and statistical data analysis to devise a scalable system for computerized automated testing (SparcIt Creativity Index Testing system). This system enabled automated scoring of DT tests that is reliable, objective, and scalable, thus addressing most of the issues of DT tests that had been found and reported. The resultant computer system was able to achieve a correlation of 0.73 to human graders.\n\nSome researchers have taken a social-personality approach to the measurement of creativity. In these studies, personality traits such as independence of judgement, self-confidence, attraction to complexity, aesthetic orientation, and risk-taking are used as measures of the creativity of individuals. A meta-analysis by Gregory Feist showed that creative people tend to be \"more open to new experiences, less conventional and less conscientious, more self-confident, self-accepting, driven, ambitious, dominant, hostile, and impulsive.\" Openness, conscientiousness, self-acceptance, hostility, and impulsivity had the strongest effects of the traits listed. Within the framework of the Big Five model of personality, some consistent traits have emerged. Openness to experience has been shown to be consistently related to a whole host of different assessments of creativity. Among the other Big Five traits, research has demonstrated subtle differences between different domains of creativity. Compared to non-artists, artists tend to have higher levels of openness to experience and lower levels of conscientiousness, while scientists are more open to experience, conscientious, and higher in the confidence-dominance facets of extraversion compared to non-scientists.\n\nAn alternative are biographical methods. These methods use quantitative characteristics such as the number of publications, patents, or performances of a work. While this method was originally developed for highly creative personalities, today it is also available as self-report questionnaires supplemented with frequent, less outstanding creative behaviors such as writing a short story or creating your own recipes. For example, the Creative Achievement Questionnaire, a self-report test that measures creative achievement across 10 domains, was described in 2005 and shown to be reliable and valid when compared to other measures of creativity and to independent evaluation of creative output. Besides the English original, it was also used in a Chinese, French, and German-speaking version. It is the self-report questionnaire most frequently used in research.\n\nThe potential relationship between creativity and intelligence has been of interest since the late 1900s, when a multitude of influential studies – from Getzels & Jackson, Barron, Wallach & Kogan, and Guilford – focused not only on creativity, but also on intelligence. This joint focus highlights both the theoretical and practical importance of the relationship: researchers are interested not only if the constructs are related, but also how and why.\n\nThere are multiple theories accounting for their relationship, with the 3 main theories as follows:\n\n\nSternberg and O’Hara proposed a framework of 5 possible relationships between creativity and intelligence:\n\nA number of researchers include creativity, either explicitly or implicitly, as a key component of intelligence.\n\n\"Examples of theories that include creativity as a subset of intelligence\"\n\n\nIn this relationship model, intelligence is a key component in the development of creativity.\n\n\"Theories of creativity that include intelligence as a subset of creativity\"\n\n\nThis possible relationship concerns creativity and intelligence as distinct, but intersecting constructs.\n\n\"Theories that include Creativity and Intelligence as Overlapping Yet Distinct Constructs\"\n\n\nIn support of the TT, Barron reported finding a non-significant correlation between creativity and intelligence in a gifted sample; and a significant correlation in a non-gifted sample. Yamamoto in a sample of secondary school children, reported a significant correlation between creativity and intelligence of \"r\" = .3, and reported no significant correlation when the sample consisted of gifted children. Fuchs-Beauchamp et al. in a sample of preschoolers found that creativity and intelligence correlated from \"r\" = .19 to \"r\" = .49 in the group of children who had an IQ below the threshold; and in the group above the threshold, the correlations were \"r\" = <.12. Cho et al. reported a correlation of .40 between creativity and intelligence in the average IQ group of a sample of adolescents and adults; and a correlation of close to \"r\" = .0 for the high IQ group. Jauk et al. found support for the TT, but only for measures of creative potential; not creative performance.\n\nMuch modern day research reports findings against TT. Wai et al. in a study using data from the longitudinal Study of Mathematically Precocious Youth – a cohort of elite students from early adolescence into adulthood – found that differences in SAT scores at age 13 were predictive of creative real-life outcomes 20 years later. Kim’s meta-analysis of 21 studies did not find any supporting evidence for TT, and instead negligible correlations were reported between intelligence, creativity, and divergent thinking both below and above IQ's of 120. Preckel et al., investigating fluid intelligence and creativity, reported small correlations of \"r\" = .3 to \"r\" = .4 across all levels of cognitive ability.\n\nUnder this view, researchers posit that there are no differences in the mechanisms underlying creativity in those used in normal problem solving; and in normal problem solving, there is no need for creativity. Thus, creativity and Intelligence (problem solving) are the same thing. Perkins referred to this as the ‘nothing-special’ view.\n\nWeisberg & Alba examined problem solving by having participants complete the 9-dot problem (see Thinking outside the box#Nine dots puzzle) – where the participants are asked to connect all 9 dots in the 3 rows of 3 dots using 4 straight lines or less, without lifting their pen or tracing the same line twice. The problem can only be solved if the lines go outside the boundaries of the square of dots. Results demonstrated that even when participants were given this insight, they still found it difficult to solve the problem, thus showing that to successfully complete the task it is not just insight (or creativity) that is required.\n\nIn this view, creativity and intelligence are completely different, unrelated constructs.\n\nGetzels and Jackson administered 5 creativity measures to a group of 449 children from grades 6-12, and compared these test findings to results from previously administered (by the school) IQ tests. They found that the correlation between the creativity measures and IQ was \"r\" = .26. The high creativity group scored in the top 20% of the overall creativity measures, but were not included in the top 20% of IQ scorers. The high intelligence group scored the opposite: they scored in the top 20% for IQ, but were outside the top 20% scorers for creativity, thus showing that creativity and intelligence are distinct and unrelated.\n\nHowever, this work has been heavily criticised. Wallach and Kogan highlighted that the creativity measures were not only weakly related to one another (to the extent that they were no more related to one another than they were with IQ), but they seemed to also draw upon non-creative skills. McNemar noted that there were major measurement issues, in that the IQ scores were a mixture from 3 different IQ tests.\n\nWallach and Kogan administered 5 measures of creativity, each of which resulted in a score for originality and fluency; and 10 measures of general intelligence to 151 5th grade children. These tests were untimed, and given in a game-like manner (aiming to facilitate creativity). Inter-correlations between creativity tests were on average \"r\" = .41. Inter-correlations between intelligence measures were on average \"r\" = .51 with each other. Creativity tests and intelligence measures correlated \"r\" = .09.\n\nThe neuroscience of creativity looks at the operation of the brain during creative behaviour. It has been addressed in the article \"Creative Innovation: Possible Brain Mechanisms.\" The authors write that \"creative innovation might require coactivation and communication between regions of the brain that ordinarily are not strongly connected.\" Highly creative people who excel at creative innovation tend to differ from others in three ways:\n\nThus, the frontal lobe appears to be the part of the cortex that is most important for creativity.\n\nThis article also explored the links between creativity and sleep, mood and addiction disorders, and depression.\n\nIn 2005, Alice Flaherty presented a three-factor model of the creative drive. Drawing from evidence in brain imaging, drug studies and lesion analysis, she described the creative drive as resulting from an interaction of the frontal lobes, the temporal lobes, and dopamine from the limbic system. The frontal lobes can be seen as responsible for idea generation, and the temporal lobes for idea editing and evaluation. Abnormalities in the frontal lobe (such as depression or anxiety) generally decrease creativity, while abnormalities in the temporal lobe often increase creativity. High activity in the temporal lobe typically inhibits activity in the frontal lobe, and vice versa. High dopamine levels increase general arousal and goal directed behaviors and reduce latent inhibition, and all three effects increase the drive to generate ideas. A 2015 study on creativity found that it involves the interaction of multiple neural networks, including those that support associative thinking, along with other default mode network functions.\n\nVandervert described how the brain's frontal lobes and the cognitive functions of the cerebellum collaborate to produce creativity and innovation. Vandervert's explanation rests on considerable evidence that all processes of working memory (responsible for processing all thought) are adaptively modeled for increased efficiency by the cerebellum. The cerebellum (consisting of 100 billion neurons, which is more than the entirety of the rest of the brain) is also widely known to adaptively model all bodily movement for efficiency. The cerebellum's adaptive models of working memory processing are then fed back to especially frontal lobe working memory control processes where creative and innovative thoughts arise. (Apparently, creative insight or the \"aha\" experience is then triggered in the temporal lobe.)\n\nAccording to Vandervert, the details of creative adaptation begin in \"forward\" cerebellar models which are anticipatory/exploratory controls for movement and thought. These cerebellar processing and control architectures have been termed Hierarchical Modular Selection and Identification for Control (HMOSAIC). New, hierarchically arranged levels of the cerebellar control architecture (HMOSAIC) develop as mental mulling in working memory is extended over time. These new levels of the control architecture are fed forward to the frontal lobes. Since the cerebellum adaptively models all movement and all levels of thought and emotion, Vandervert's approach helps explain creativity and innovation in sports, art, music, the design of video games, technology, mathematics, the child prodigy, and thought in general.\n\nEssentially, Vandervert has argued that when a person is confronted with a challenging new situation, visual-spatial working memory and speech-related working memory are decomposed and re-composed (fractionated) by the cerebellum and then blended in the cerebral cortex in an attempt to deal with the new situation. With repeated attempts to deal with challenging situations, the cerebro-cerebellar blending process continues to optimize the efficiency of how working memory deals with the situation or problem. Most recently, he has argued that this is the same process (only involving visual-spatial working memory and pre-language vocalization) that led to the evolution of language in humans. Vandervert and Vandervert-Weathers have pointed out that this blending process, because it continuously optimizes efficiencies, constantly improves prototyping attempts toward the invention or innovation of new ideas, music, art, or technology. Prototyping, they argue, not only produces new products, it trains the cerebro-cerebellar pathways involved to become more efficient at prototyping itself. Further, Vandervert and Vandervert-Weathers believe that this repetitive \"mental prototyping\" or mental rehearsal involving the cerebellum and the cerebral cortex explains the success of the self-driven, individualized patterning of repetitions initiated by the teaching methods of the Khan Academy. The model proposed by Vandervert has, however, received incisive critique from several authors.\n\nCreativity involves the forming of associative elements into new combinations that are useful or meet some requirement. Sleep aids this process. REM rather than NREM sleep appears to be responsible. This has been suggested to be due to changes in cholinergic and noradrenergic neuromodulation that occurs during REM sleep. During this period of sleep, high levels of acetylcholine in the hippocampus suppress feedback from the hippocampus to the neocortex, and lower levels of acetylcholine and norepinephrine in the neocortex encourage the spread of associational activity within neocortical areas without control from the hippocampus. This is in contrast to waking consciousness, where higher levels of norepinephrine and acetylcholine inhibit recurrent connections in the neocortex. It is proposed that REM sleep adds creativity by allowing \"neocortical structures to reorganize associative hierarchies, in which information from the hippocampus would be reinterpreted in relation to previous semantic representations or nodes.\"\n\nSome theories suggest that creativity may be particularly susceptible to affective influence. As noted in voting behavior, the term \"affect\" in this context can refer to liking or disliking key aspects of the subject in question. This work largely follows from findings in psychology regarding the ways in which affective states are involved in human judgment and decision-making.\n\nAccording to Alice Isen, positive affect has three primary effects on cognitive activity:\n\nBarbara Fredrickson in her broaden-and-build model suggests that positive emotions such as joy and love broaden a person's available repertoire of cognitions and actions, thus enhancing creativity.\n\nAccording to these researchers, positive emotions increase the number of cognitive elements available for association (attention scope) and the number of elements that are relevant to the problem (cognitive scope).\n\nVarious meta-analyses, such as Baas et al. (2008) of 66 studies about creativity and affect support the link between creativity and positive affect.\n\nJürgen Schmidhuber's formal theory of creativity postulates that creativity, curiosity, and interestingness are by-products of a simple computational principle for measuring and optimizing learning progress. Consider an agent able to manipulate its environment and thus its own sensory inputs. The agent can use a black box optimization method such as reinforcement learning to learn (through informed trial and error) sequences of actions that maximize the expected sum of its future reward signals. There are extrinsic reward signals for achieving externally given goals, such as finding food when hungry. But Schmidhuber's objective function to be maximized also includes an additional, intrinsic term to model \"wow-effects.\" This non-standard term motivates purely creative behavior of the agent even when there are no external goals. A wow-effect is formally defined as follows. As the agent is creating and predicting and encoding the continually growing history of actions and sensory inputs, it keeps improving the predictor or encoder, which can be implemented as an artificial neural network or some other machine learning device that can exploit regularities in the data to improve its performance over time. The improvements can be measured precisely, by computing the difference in computational costs (storage size, number of required synapses, errors, time) needed to encode new observations before and after learning. This difference depends on the encoder's present subjective knowledge, which changes over time, but the theory formally takes this into account. The cost difference measures the strength of the present \"wow-effect\" due to sudden improvements in data compression or computational speed. It becomes an intrinsic reward signal for the action selector. The objective function thus motivates the action optimizer to create action sequences causing more wow-effects. Irregular, random data (or noise) do not permit any wow-effects or learning progress, and thus are \"boring\" by nature (providing no reward). Already known and predictable regularities also are boring. Temporarily interesting are only the initially unknown, novel, regular patterns in both actions and observations. This motivates the agent to perform continual, open-ended, active, creative exploration.\n\nAccording to Schmidhuber, his objective function explains the activities of scientists, artists, and comedians.\nFor example, physicists are motivated to create experiments leading to observations obeying previously unpublished physical laws permitting better data compression. Likewise, composers receive intrinsic reward for creating non-arbitrary melodies with unexpected but regular harmonies that permit wow-effects through data compression improvements.\nSimilarly, a comedian gets intrinsic reward for \"inventing a novel joke with an unexpected punch line, related to the beginning of the story in an initially unexpected but quickly learnable way that also allows for better compression of the perceived data.\"\nSchmidhuber argues that ongoing computer hardware advances will greatly scale up rudimentary artificial scientists and artists based on simple implementations of the basic principle since 1990.\nHe used the theory to create low-complexity art and an attractive human face.\n\nA study by psychologist J. Philippe Rushton found creativity to correlate with intelligence and psychoticism. Another study found creativity to be greater in schizotypal than in either normal or schizophrenic individuals. While divergent thinking was associated with bilateral activation of the prefrontal cortex, schizotypal individuals were found to have much greater activation of their \"right\" prefrontal cortex. This study hypothesizes that such individuals are better at accessing both hemispheres, allowing them to make novel associations at a faster rate. In agreement with this hypothesis, ambidexterity is also associated with schizotypal and schizophrenic individuals. Three recent studies by Mark Batey and Adrian Furnham have demonstrated the relationships between schizotypal and hypomanic personality and several different measures of creativity.\n\nParticularly strong links have been identified between creativity and mood disorders, particularly manic-depressive disorder (a.k.a. bipolar disorder) and depressive disorder (a.k.a. unipolar disorder). In \"Touched with Fire: Manic-Depressive Illness and the Artistic Temperament\", Kay Redfield Jamison summarizes studies of mood-disorder rates in writers, poets, and artists. She also explores research that identifies mood disorders in such famous writers and artists as Ernest Hemingway (who shot himself after electroconvulsive treatment), Virginia Woolf (who drowned herself when she felt a depressive episode coming on), composer Robert Schumann (who died in a mental institution), and even the famed visual artist Michelangelo. A different case study suggested for Schumann a difference between bipolar disorder and \"creative bipolarity\".\n\nA study looking at 300,000 persons with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, or unipolar depression, and their relatives, found overrepresentation in creative professions for those with bipolar disorder as well as for undiagnosed siblings of those with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. There was no overall overrepresentation, but overrepresentation for artistic occupations, among those diagnosed with schizophrenia. There was no association for those with unipolar depression or their relatives. Another case study suggested a difference between severe mood disorders and \"creative melancholy\", pointing out mild and moderate depression may inspire creative achievements while severe depression inhibits and may even destroy creative activity.\n\nAnother study involving more than one million people, conducted by Swedish researchers at the Karolinska Institute, reported a number of correlations between creative occupations and mental illnesses. Writers had a higher risk of anxiety and bipolar disorders, schizophrenia, unipolar depression, and substance abuse, and were almost twice as likely as the general population to kill themselves. Dancers and photographers were also more likely to have bipolar disorder.\n\nHowever, as a group, those in the creative professions were no more likely to suffer from psychiatric disorders than other people, although they were more likely to have a close relative with a disorder, including anorexia and, to some extent, autism, the Journal of Psychiatric Research reports.\n\nAccording to psychologist Robert Epstein, PhD, creativity can be obstructed through stress.\n\nCreativity can be expressed in a number of different forms, depending on unique people and environments. A number of different theorists have suggested models of the creative person. One model suggests that there are kinds to produce growth, innovation, speed, etc. These are referred to as the four \"Creativity Profiles\" that can help achieve such goals.\n\nResearch by Dr Mark Batey of the Psychometrics at Work Research Group at Manchester Business School has suggested that the creative profile can be explained by four primary creativity traits with narrow facets within each\n\nThis model was developed in a sample of 1000 working adults using the statistical techniques of Exploratory Factor Analysis followed by Confirmatory Factor Analysis by Structural Equation Modelling.\n\nAn important aspect of the creativity profiling approach is to account for the tension between predicting the creative profile of an individual, as characterised by the psychometric approach, and the evidence that team creativity is founded on diversity and difference.\n\nOne characteristic of creative people, as measured by some psychologists, is what is called \"divergent production\". \"Divergent production\" is the ability of a person to generate a diverse assortment, yet an appropriate amount of responses to a given situation. One way of measuring \"divergent production\" is by administering the Torrance Tests of Creative Thinking. The Torrance Tests of Creative Thinking assesses the diversity, quantity, and appropriateness of participants responses to a variety of open-ended questions.\n\nOther researchers of creativity see the difference in creative people as a cognitive process of dedication to problem solving and developing expertise in the field of their creative expression. Hard working people study the work of people before them and within their current area, become experts in their fields, and then have the ability to add to and build upon previous information in innovative and creative ways. In a study of projects by design students, students who had more knowledge on their subject on average had greater creativity within their projects.\n\nThe aspect of motivation within a person's personality may predict creativity levels in the person. Motivation stems from two different sources, intrinsic and extrinsic motivation. Intrinsic motivation is an internal drive within a person to participate or invest as a result of personal interest, desires, hopes, goals, etc. Extrinsic motivation is a drive from outside of a person and might take the form of payment, rewards, fame, approval from others, etc. Although extrinsic motivation and intrinsic motivation can both increase creativity in certain cases, strictly extrinsic motivation often impedes creativity in people.\n\nFrom a personality-traits perspective, there are a number of traits that are associated with creativity in people. Creative people tend to be more open to new experiences, are more self-confident, are more ambitious, self-accepting, impulsive, driven, dominant, and hostile, compared to people with less creativity.\n\nFrom an evolutionary perspective, creativity may be a result of the outcome of years of generating ideas. As ideas are continuously generated, the need to evolve produces a need for new ideas and developments. As a result, people have been creating and developing new, innovative, and creative ideas to build our progress as a society.\n\nIn studying exceptionally creative people in history, some common traits in lifestyle and environment are often found. Creative people in history usually had supportive parents, but rigid and non-nurturing. Most had an interest in their field at an early age, and most had a highly supportive and skilled mentor in their field of interest. Often the field they chose was relatively uncharted, allowing for their creativity to be expressed more in a field with less previous information. Most exceptionally creative people devoted almost all of their time and energy into their craft, and after about a decade had a creative breakthrough of fame. Their lives were marked with extreme dedication and a cycle of hard-work and breakthroughs as a result of their determination.\n\nAnother theory of creative people is the \"investment theory of creativity\". This approach suggest that there are many individual and environmental factors that must exist in precise ways for extremely high levels of creativity opposed to average levels of creativity. In the \"investment\" sense, a person with their particular characteristics in their particular environment may see an opportunity to devote their time and energy into something that has been overlooked by others. The creative person develops an undervalued or under-recognised idea to the point that it is established as a new and creative idea. Just like in the financial world, some investments are worth the buy in, while others are less productive and do not build to the extent that the investor expected. This \"investment theory of creativity\" views creativity in a unique perspective compared to others, by asserting that creativity might rely to some extent on the right investment of effort being added to a field at the right time in the right way.\n\nMalevolent creativity (MC) focuses on the \"darker side\" of creativity. This type of creativity is not typically accepted within society and is defined by the intention to cause harm to others through original and innovative means. MC should be distinguished from negative creativity in that negative creativity may unintentionally cause harm to others, whereas MC is explicitly malevolently motivated. MC is often a key contributor to crime and in its most destructive form can even manifest as terrorism. However, MC can also be observed in ordinary day-to-day life as lying, cheating and betrayal. Although everyone shows some levels of MC under certain conditions, those that have a higher propensity towards malevolent creativity have increased tendencies to deceive and manipulate others to their own gain. Although levels of MC appear to dramatically increase when an individual is placed under unfair conditions, personality is also a key predictor in anticipating levels of malevolent thinking. Researches Harris and Reiter-Palmon investigated the role of aggression in levels of MC, in particular levels of implicit aggression and the tendency to employ aggressive actions in response to problem solving. The personality traits of physical aggression, conscientiousness, emotional intelligence and implicit aggression all seem to be related with MC. Harris and Reiter-Palmon's research showed that when subjects were presented with a problem that triggered malevolent creativity, participants high in implicit aggression and low in premeditation expressed the largest number of malevolently-themed solutions. When presented with the more benign problem that triggered prosocial motives of helping others and cooperating, those high in implicit aggression, even if they were high in impulsiveness, were far less destructive in their imagined solutions. They concluded premeditation, more than implicit aggression controlled an individual’s expression of malevolent creativity.\n\nThe current measure for malevolent creativity is the 13 item test Malevolent Creativity Behaviour Scale (MCBS) \n\nMalevolent creativity has strong links with crime. As creativity requires deviating from the conventional, there is a permanent tension between being creative and producing products that go too far and in some cases to the point of breaking the law. Aggression is a key predictor of malevolent creativity, and studies have also shown that increased levels of aggression also correlates to a higher likelihood of committing crime.\n\nCreativity is viewed differently in different countries. For example, cross-cultural research centred on Hong Kong found that Westerners view creativity more in terms of the individual attributes of a creative person, such as their aesthetic taste, while Chinese people view creativity more in terms of the social influence of creative people e.g. what they can contribute to society. Mpofu et al. surveyed 28 African languages and found that 27 had no word which directly translated to 'creativity' (the exception being Arabic). The principle of linguistic relativity, i.e. that language can affect thought, suggests that the lack of an equivalent word for 'creativity' may affect the views of creativity among speakers of such languages. However, more research would be needed to establish this, and there is certainly no suggestion that this linguistic difference makes people any less (or more) creative; Africa has a rich heritage of creative pursuits such as music, art, and storytelling. Nevertheless, it is true that there has been very little research on creativity in Africa, and there has also been very little research on creativity in Latin America. Creativity has been more thoroughly researched in the northern hemisphere, but here again there are cultural differences, even between countries or groups of countries in close proximity. For example, in Scandinavian countries, creativity is seen as an individual attitude which helps in coping with life's challenges, while in Germany, creativity is seen more as a process that can be applied to help solve problems.\n\nIt has been the topic of various research studies to establish that organizational effectiveness depends on the creativity of the workforce to a large extent. For any given organization, measures of effectiveness vary, depending upon its mission, environmental context, nature of work, the product or service it produces, and customer demands. Thus, the first step in evaluating organizational effectiveness is to understand the organization itself — how it functions, how it is structured, and what it emphasizes.\n\nAmabile argued that to enhance creativity in business, three components were needed:\n\nThere are two types of motivation:\n\nSix managerial practices to encourage motivation are:\n\nNonaka, who examined several successful Japanese companies, similarly saw creativity and knowledge creation as being important to the success of organizations. In particular, he emphasized the role that tacit knowledge has to play in the creative process.\n\nIn business, originality is not enough. The idea must also be appropriate—useful and actionable. Creative competitive intelligence is a new solution to solve this problem. According to Reijo Siltala it links creativity to innovation process and competitive intelligence to creative workers.\n\nCreativity can be encouraged in people and professionals and in the workplace. It is essential for innovation, and is a factor affecting economic growth and businesses. In 2013, the sociologist Silvia Leal Martín, using the Innova 3DX method, suggested measuring the various parameters that encourage creativity and innovation: corporate culture, work environment, leadership and management, creativity, self-esteem and optimism, locus of control and learning orientation, motivation, and fear.\n\nSimilarly, social psychologists, organizational scientists, and management scientists who conduct extensive research on the factors that influence creativity and innovation in teams and organizations have developed integrative theoretical models that emphasize the roles of team composition, team processes, and organizational culture, as well as the mutually reinforcing relationships between them in promoting innovation.\n\nThe investigation by Loo (2017) on creative working in the knowledge economy brings together studies of creativity as delineated in this web page. It offers connections with the sections on the ‘”Four C” model’, ‘Theories of creative processes’, ‘Creativity as a subset of intelligence’, ‘Creativity and personality’, and ‘In organisations’ It is the last section that the investigation addresses.\n\nResearch studies of the knowledge economy may be classified into three levels: macro, meso and micro. Macro studies refer to investigations at a societal or transnational dimension. Meso studies focus on organisations. Micro investigations centre on the minutiae workings of workers. There is also an interdisciplinary dimension such as research from businesses (e.g. Burton-Jones, 1999; Drucker, 1999), economics (e.g. Cortada, 1998; Reich, 2001; Florida, 2003), education (e.g. Farrell and Fenwick, 2007; Brown, Lauder and Ashton, 2011), human resource management (e.g. Davenport, 2005), knowledge and organizational management (Alvesson, 2004; Defillippi, Arthur and Lindsay, 2006; Orr, Nutley, Russell, Bain, Hacking and Moran, 2016), sociology, psychology, and knowledge economy-related sectors – especially information technology (IT) software (e.g. O’Riain, 2004; Nerland, 2008) and advertising (e.g. Grabher, 2004; Lury, 2004) (Loo, 2017).\n\nLoo (2017) studies how individual workers in the knowledge economy use their creativity and know-how in the advertising and IT software sectors. It examines this phenomenon across three developed countries of England, Japan and Singapore to observe global perspectives. Specifically, the study uses qualitative data from semi-structured interviews of the related professionals in the roles of creative directing and copywriting (in advertising), and systems software developing and software programme managing.\n\nThe study offers a conceptual framework (Loo, 2017, p. 49) of a two-dimensional matrix of individual and collaborative working styles, and single and multi-contexts. The investigation draws on literature sources from the four disciplines of economics (e.g. Reich, 2001; Quah, 2002), management (e.g. ,Drucker, 1994; Nonaka and Takeuchi, 1995; von Hippel, 2006), sociology (e.g. Zuboff, 1988; Bell, 1973; Lash and Urry, 1994; Castells, 2000; Knorr Cetina, 2005), and psychology (e.g. Gardner, 1984; Csikszentmihalyi, 1988; Sternberg, Kaufman and Pretz, 2004). The themes arising from the analysis of knowledge work and creativity literature serve to create a distinct theoretical framework of creative knowledge work. These workers apply their cognitive abilities, creative personalities and skill sets in the areas of science, technology, or culture industries to invent or discover new possibilities – e.g. a medium, product or service. These work activities may be done individually or collectively. Education, training and ‘encultured environments’ are necessary for the performance of these creative activities. Acts of creativity are viewed as asking new questions over and above those questions asked by an intelligent person, seeking novelty when reviewing a situation (Gardner, 1993), and creating something that is different and novel, i.e. a ‘variation’ on the idea of existing ideas in a domain (Csikszentmihalyi, 1988). This framework is evidenced by the empirical chapters on the micro-workings of creative workers in the two knowledge economy sectors from global perspectives.\n\nThis investigation identifies a definition of creative work, three types of work and the necessary conditions for it to occur. These workers use a combination of creative applications including anticipatory imagination, problem-solving, problem seeking, and generating ideas and aesthetic sensibilities. Taking aesthetic sensibilities as an example, for a creative director in the advertising industry, it is a visual imagery whether still or moving via a camera lens, and for a software programmer, it is the innovative technical expertise in which the software is written. There are specific creative applications for each of the sectors such as emotional connection in the advertising sector, and the power of expression and sensitivity in the IT software sector. In addition to the creative applications, creative workers require abilities and aptitudes to carry out their roles. Passion for one’s job is generic. For copywriters, this passion is identified with fun, enjoyment and happiness alongside attributes such as honesty (regarding the product), confidence, and patience in finding the appropriate copy. Knowledge is also required in the disciplines of the humanities (e.g. literature), the creative arts (e.g. painting and music) and technical-related know-how (e.g. mathematics, computer sciences and physical sciences). In the IT software, technical knowledge of computer languages (e.g. C++) is especially significant for programmers whereas the degree of technical expertise may be less for a programme manager, as only knowledge of the relevant language is necessary to understand the issues for communicating with the team of developers and testers.\n\nThere are three types of work. One is intra-sectoral (e.g. ‘general sponge’ and ’in tune with the zeitgeist’ [advertising], and ‘power of expression’ and ‘sensitivity’ [IT software]). The second is inter-sectoral (e.g. ‘integration of advertising activities’ [advertising], and ‘autonomous decentralized systems’ [ADS] [IT software]). The third relates to changes in culture/practices in the sectors (e.g. ‘three-dimensional trust’ and ‘green credentials’ [advertising], and ‘collaboration with HEIs and industry’ and ‘ADS system in the Tokyo train operator’ [IT software]).\n\nThe necessary conditions for creative work to exist are a supportive environment such as supportive information, communications and electronic technologies (ICET) infrastructure, training, work environment and education.\n\nThis investigation has implications for lifelong learning of these workers informally and formally. Teaching institutions need to offer multi-disciplinary knowledge of humanities, arts and sciences and it has impacts on the programme structure, delivery approaches and assessments. At a macro level, governments need to offer a rich diet of cultural activities, outdoor activities and sports fixtures that inform potential creative workers in the areas of video gaming and advertising. This study has implications for work organisations that support and encourage collaborative working alongside individual working, offer opportunities to engage in continuous professional development (formally and informally), and foster an environment, which promotes experiential functioning and supports experimentation.\n\nTeam Composition\n\nDiversity between team members’ backgrounds and knowledge can increase team creativity by expanding the total collection of unique information that is available to the team and introducing different perspectives that can integrate in novel ways. However, under some conditions, diversity can also decrease team creativity by making it more difficult for team members to communicate about ideas and causing interpersonal conflicts between those with different perspectives. Thus, the potential advantages of diversity must be supported by appropriate team processes and organizational cultures in order to enhance creativity.\n\nTeam Processes\n\nTeam communication norms, such as respecting others’ expertise, paying attention to others’ ideas, expecting information sharing, tolerating disagreements, negotiating, remaining open to others’ ideas, learning from others, and building on each other’s ideas, increase team creativity by facilitating the social processes involved with brainstorming and problem solving. Through these processes, team members are able to access their collective pool of knowledge, reach shared understandings, identify new ways of understanding problems or tasks, and make new connections between ideas. Engaging in these social processes also promotes positive team affect, which facilitates collective creativity.\n\nOrganizational Culture\n\nSupportive and motivational environments that create psychological safety by encouraging risk taking and tolerating mistakes increase team creativity as well. Organizations in which help-seeking, help giving, and collaboration are rewarded promote innovation by providing opportunities and contexts in which team processes that lead to collective creativity can occur. Additionally, leadership styles that downplay status hierarchies or power differences within an organization and empower people to speak up about their ideas or opinions also help to create cultures that are conducive to creativity.\n\nEconomic approaches to creativity have focussed on three aspects — the impact of creativity on economic growth, methods of modelling markets for creativity, and the maximisation of economic creativity (innovation).\n\nIn the early 20th century, Joseph Schumpeter introduced the economic theory of \"creative destruction\", to describe the way in which old ways of doing things are endogenously destroyed and replaced by the new. Some economists (such as Paul Romer) view creativity as an important element in the recombination of elements to produce new technologies and products and, consequently, economic growth. Creativity leads to capital, and creative products are protected by intellectual property laws.\n\nMark A. Runco and Daniel Rubenson have tried to describe a \"psychoeconomic\" model of creativity. In such a model, creativity is the product of endowments and active investments in creativity; the costs and benefits of bringing creative activity to market determine the supply of creativity. Such an approach has been criticised for its view of creativity consumption as always having positive utility, and for the way it analyses the value of future innovations.\n\nThe \"creative class\" is seen by some to be an important driver of modern economies. In his 2002 book, \"The Rise of the Creative Class\", economist Richard Florida popularized the notion that regions with \"3 T's of economic development: Technology, Talent and Tolerance\" also have high concentrations of creative professionals and tend to have a higher level of economic development.\n\nSeveral different researchers have proposed methods of increasing the creativity of an individual. Such ideas range from the psychological-cognitive, such as Osborn-Parnes Creative Problem Solving Process, Synectics, science-based creative thinking, Purdue Creative Thinking Program, and Edward de Bono's lateral thinking; to the highly structured, such as TRIZ (the Theory of Inventive Problem-Solving) and its variant Algorithm of Inventive Problem Solving (developed by the Russian scientist Genrich Altshuller), and Computer-Aided morphological analysis.\n\nDaniel Pink, in his 2005 book \"A Whole New Mind\", repeating arguments posed throughout the 20th century, argues that we are entering a new age where creativity is becoming increasingly important. In this \"conceptual age\", we will need to foster and encourage \"right-directed thinking\" (representing creativity and emotion) over \"left-directed thinking\" (representing logical, analytical thought). However, this simplification of 'right' versus 'left' brain thinking is not supported by the research data.\n\nNickerson provides a summary of the various creativity techniques that have been proposed. These include approaches that have been developed by both academia and industry:\n\nSome see the conventional system of schooling as \"stifling\" of creativity and attempt (particularly in the preschool/kindergarten and early school years) to provide a creativity-friendly, rich, imagination-fostering environment for young children. Researchers have seen this as important because technology is advancing our society at an unprecedented rate and creative problem solving will be needed to cope with these challenges as they arise. In addition to helping with problem solving, creativity also helps students identify problems where others have failed to do so. See the Waldorf School as an example of an education program that promotes creative thought.\n\nPromoting intrinsic motivation and problem solving are two areas where educators can foster creativity in students. Students are more creative when they see a task as intrinsically motivating, valued for its own sake. To promote creative thinking, educators need to identify what motivates their students and structure teaching around it. Providing students with a choice of activities to complete allows them to become more intrinsically motivated and therefore creative in completing the tasks.\n\nTeaching students to solve problems that do not have well defined answers is another way to foster their creativity. This is accomplished by allowing students to explore problems and redefine them, possibly drawing on knowledge that at first may seem unrelated to the problem in order to solve it. In adults, mentoring individuals is another way to foster their creativiy. However, the benefits of mentoring creativity apply only to creative contributions considered great in a given field, not to everyday creative expression.\n\nIn the Scottish education system, creativity is identified as a core skillset for learning, life and work and is defined as “a process which generates ideas that have value to the individual. It involves looking at familiar things with a fresh eye, examining problems with an open mind, making connections, learning from mistakes and using imagination to explore new possibilities.” The need to develop a shared language and understanding of creativity and its role across every aspect of learning, teaching and continuous improvement was identified as a necessary aim and a set of four skills is used to allow educators to discuss and develop creativity skills across all subjects and sectors of education – curiosity, open—mindedness, imagination and problem solving. Distinctions are made between creative learning (when learners are using their creativity skills), creative teaching (when educators are using their creativity skills) and creative change (when creativity skills are applied to planning and improvement). Scotland’s national Creative Learning Plan supports the development of creativity skills in all learners and of educators’ expertise in developing creativity skills. A range of resources have been created to support and assess this including a national review of creativity across learning by Her Majesty’s Inspectorate for Education. \n\nCreativity has also been identified as one of the key 21st century skills and as one of the Four Cs of 21st century learning by educational leaders and theorists in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3103477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3103477", "title": "Culturally relevant teaching", "text": "Culturally relevant teaching\n\nCulturally relevant or responsive teaching is a pedagogy grounded in teachers' displaying cultural competence: skill at teaching in a cross-cultural or multicultural setting. They enable each student to relate course content to his or her cultural context.\n\nWhile the term often deals specifically with instruction of African American students in the United States, it has been proven to be an effective form of pedagogy for students of all racial and ethnic backgrounds. For instance, in Canada, research reflects the need to bridge the gap between traditional Aboriginal education and Western education systems by including spirituality in Aboriginal educational practices. By making education culturally relevant, it is thought to improve academic achievement. Although the majority of this practice is undertaken in a primary or secondary school setting, Baumgartner and Johnson-Bailey (2008), have experienced the implementation and discussions of culturally relevant teaching within a higher education environment.\n\nCulturally relevant teaching was made popular by Dr. Gloria Ladson-Billings in the early 1990s, the term she created was defined as one \"that empowers students to maintain cultural integrity, while succeeding academically.\" Culturally relevant pedagogy can also be found in the literature as “culturally appropriate” (Au & Jordan, 1981), “culturally congruent” (Mohatt & Erickson, 1981), “culturally responsive” (Au, 2009; Cazden & Leggett, 1981; Erickson & Mohatt, 1982; Lee, 1998), and “culturally compatible” (Jordan, 1985; Vogt, Jordan & Tharp, 1987). Ladson-Billings (1992) also provides some clarification between critical and culturally relevant pedagogy, with the difference being that culturally relevant pedagogy urges collective action grounded in cultural understanding, experiences, and ways of knowing the world. This has become more widely known and accepted in the education field. For example, the U.S. Department of Education's Equity Assistance Centers, such as the Equity Alliance at ASU help states, school districts and schools to establish the conditions for equitable educational outcomes for all students, using cultural responsiveness as one of the measures of the needed capabilities of teachers, principals and school communities as a whole. \nThe theory surrounding culturally relevant teaching is connected to a larger body of knowledge on multicultural education and helping culturally diverse students excel in education. Researchers argue that there are gaps in academic achievement between mainstream culture and immigrants or ethnic cultural groups. Early theories suggest, the disconnect between these groups were due to student/teacher language difficulties or that ethnic cultures don’t value education as heavily as the Western culture does. Often placing, culturally diverse students unnecessarily in special education classes simply because of linguistic and cultural differences. In response to these challenges, some researchers and teachers believe that education should be adapted to \"match the cultures students bring with them from home.\" One key educational researcher who has contributed significantly to the progression of culturally relevant teaching is Geneva Gay. In her landmark book, \"Culturally Responsive Teaching: Theory, Research, and Practice\", Geneva Gay expanded the traditional view of culture beyond race and ethnicity. She wrote, \"Even without being consciously aware of it, culture determines how we think, believe, and behave\" In other words, culture is a student's beliefs, motivations, and even social groups and norms. Thus, the teacher who practices culturally relevant teaching understands that culture manifests in a variety of adaptations within how students prefer to learn. A culturally responsive teacher uses differentiated instruction to tailor learning to every aspect of a student's culture.\n\nMany of these researchers and educators support the constructivist theories of education because such perspectives recognize the value of multiple cultural viewpoints. In constructivism, learners are taught to question, challenge, and critically analyze information rather than blindly accept what it taught; which leads to exactly the type of teaching advocated by the originators of culturally relevant teaching. James Banks lays out 5 dimensions of multicultural education. These dimensions laid the foundation for the move toward culturally relevant teaching. The first dimension is content integration where teachers make a conscious effort to represent a variety of cultures in the curriculum and teaching. The second dimension of knowledge construction asks learners to begin questioning and critically analyzing the biased, and previously accepted, curriculum. In the third dimension, the teaching focus shifts to encouraging cross-cultural interactions in an effort to reduce prejudice. By the fourth dimension, equitable pedagogy, the teacher uses culturally relevant teaching to change teaching approaches. The purpose of Banks' fourth dimension is to tailor teaching methods to ensure success of students from all cultures. If successful, the fourth dimension and culturally relevant teaching will manifest into Banks' fifth dimension of an empowered school culture. It is in this stage when teachers and learners critically examine the institution of education for inequities. Banks' fourth and fifth dimensions are the perfect example of culturally relevant teaching. Teachers who achieve these dimensions, and thus fully realize the impact of culturally relevant teaching, cherish learners who question, seek answers through inquiry, and embrace a mindset of social justice. All of which are the key components of constructivism.\n\nJames Scheurich believes that culturally relevant pedagogy has a significant importance on our youth because it benefits students no matter what the ethnic background or culture of the students. In a video James Scheurich explains how the success of our country is in the hand of our children and in a society where students of color will no longer be the minority, he expresses how teachers must teach to their audience in order for students to be successful. (Scheurich James, N/A)\n\nIn multicultural cities like Toronto, Ontario CRP is currently being used in arts-education alongside other pedagogies, including Purpose Driven Education, that encourage authenticity, reclaiming personal power, and self-love through exploration of one's own familial and ethnic history.\n\nA number of authors, including Gay and Lipman have identified characteristics of culturally responsive teaching. These characteristics are:\n\n\nIn the context of British University Business Schools, Jabbar and Hardaker (2013). have proposed a five pillar framework that is designed to support academics in understanding the pertinent aspects of developing pedagogy for students from culturally and ethnically diverse backgrounds in UK Higher Education \n\n\nIn order to be culturally relevant, teachers must create an accommodating and inviting classroom culture, if they are to reach diverse audiences. Classrooms have become more and more diverse as generations of students enter the school system, so it has become increasingly important to integrate cultural awareness in the classroom. Teachers must demonstrate that they care for their students and their cultural needs, because a genuine attitude of interest is likely to yield positive emotions that empower and motivate students. One way teachers can make their classroom less intimidating is through reciprocal teaching, where students and teachers take turns leading the class discussions. In this method, the students' voice is heard, and the classroom teacher becomes more of a facilitator than a \"director\". Students then feel more empowered, and autonomous in their own learning. Reciprocal teaching such as through this method, gives students the opportunity to express the material according to their cultural viewpoints, which is very important according to the constructivist and progressive educator.\n\nGloria Ladson-Billings has several research projects and articles where she interviewed diverse schools. She mainly focused on low socioeconomic schools. After identifying several exceptional teachers in public schools in low-socioeconomic, mostly African American school districts, Ladson-Billings spent time observing and trying to explain their success with students who are typically pushed to the margins by public education. Ladson-Billings found that all of the teachers shared pride in and commitment to their profession and had an underlying belief that all children could be successful.The participating teachers maintained relationships with their students that were “fluid and equitable” and often attended community events in order to demonstrate support for their students. These teachers also believed in creating bonds with students and developing a “community of learners,” which means that all students worked collaboratively to become responsible for each other's learning. Ladson-Billings maintains that in order for teachers to use culturally relevant pedagogy successfully, they must also show respect for students and “understand the need for the students to operate in the dual worlds of their home community and the white community.” \n\nSimilarly, many educators recommend cooperative learning methods as effective teaching strategies to promote culturally relevant learning. Rather than fostering competitiveness among students, group learning strategies encourage collaboration in the completion of assignments. This way students learn to work together towards common goals. Students learn important skills such as teamwork, and embracing other learning styles.\n\nThere have been many studies done in response to how students respond to teachers that exhibit the above characteristics, incorporating the principles and use of these strategies within the classroom. In the article \"Telling Their Side of the Story: African American Students' Perceptions of Culturally Relevant Teaching.\" Tyrone C. Howard looked at the \"perceptions and interpretations\" of students who have experienced this type of learning environment. The qualitative data which included students response, is evidence that this is a positive and effective form of pedagogy.\n\nGames and cross-cultural activities allow students personal interaction with different cultures. For instance, in the three-hour game, \"Ba Fa Ba Fa\", students participate in one of two very different cultures and must learn the languages and customs of that cultural group. Similar to this activity, is the program \"Tribes\" implemented into many elementary classrooms, to help stunts understand their school and classroom as unique and diverse communities.\n\nOther suggested strategies include family history research where students interview family members and learn about familial cultural influences on their own lives, and reflective writing where students write about and share their beliefs and cultural assumptions. Meta-reflection through these activities is very important to student learning, about themselves and their peers. Students may choose to write about their cultural identity and its connection with their educational experiences, or they may choose to look at a different culture altogether, which they have learned about from a peer. Learning about new cultures through this activity can be very engaging for students.\n\nIt is very important that teachers advocate for students sharing their own personal experiences with their classmates. This allows students to learn more about one another and new cultures in general. As a teacher prepares to implement culturally relevant teaching into the classroom, it is most effective for the teacher to recognize the student's diversity and incorporate their backgrounds into the lesson and classroom environment. The 21st century classroom, and learner are always evolving, and it is important that our students are global thinkers. Understanding and embracing the variety of cultural backgrounds which make up a classroom is pivotal to lifelong learning, and developing transformative skills for life beyond the education system.\n\nUsing Technology to Promote CRT\n\nOptimistically, technology offers the unique chance for educators to bridge the curriculum of school to the 21st century learner, as culturally relevant teaching intends. The most significant barrier to the implementation of culturally relevant teaching has been the prevailing disconnect between school learning and the real-world needs of students - particularly minority students. Yet, when used correctly, \"computer technology can provide students with an excellent tool for applying concepts in a variety of contexts, thereby breaking the artificial isolation of school subject matter from the real-world situations\" Technology permeates the real-world environment of the 21st century student. It is literally integral in the culture of the digital native learner. According to their literature review, Conole et al. found that for today's students, technology is transferable, integrated, personalized, organized, adaptive, and pervasive. Today's student is continuously connected and in many cases far more of an expert than their teacher. Thus, if schools utilize technology, the curriculum becomes truly relevant and responsive to the learner of the 21st century. In school learning mirrors the learning they engage in outside of school.\n\nWith technology, students possess the ability to connect and interact with colleagues, across the globe, who share their views and beliefs. In interviews, digital natives report that, \"lost cost communication technologies such as Skype, MSN chat, and email were considered invaluable forms of communication.\" With technology, learners are able to form social groups and engage in cross-cultural interactions that provide instant feedback and learning challenges beyond the capacity of a single textbook, classroom, or neighborhood. These cross-cultural interactions, nearly impossible before global technologies, lead to the depth of questioning and critical thought needed to be successful in the 21st century, global society. In short, students use social networking and technological connections to connect with social and cultural peers but ultimately engage in interactions with members of a variety of cultural groups. These interactions can be quite empowering for modern learners.\n\nThe 21st century learner is what Neil Selwyn refers to as an, \"empowered digital native\". This empowered learner is no longer held hostage to the culturally insensitive curriculum of public schools. In contrast, they are proficient at using technology to tailor their own learning. Within seconds, learners can access a wealth of information and knowledge and no longer must trust solely the limited perspective presented in their textbook. The 21st century learner is accustomed to using technology to challenge preconceived information. \"Research indicates that computer technology can help support learning, and that it is especially useful in developing the higher-order skills of critical thinking analysis, and scientific inquiry.\" Clearly, technology offers the potential of helping students achieve and benefit from culturally relevant teaching.\n\nOther suggested best practices in teaching race and diversity into the curriculum are:\n\n1. Create a positive learning environment: attentive skills, teaching skills, and teacher/student interaction (Radical Pedagogy, 2003).\n\n2. Utilize a diverse curriculum (Gollnick and Chinn, 2013).\n\n3. Know, understand, and work with families that come from different race and ethnicities (Gonzalez-Mena and Pulido-Tobiassen, 1999).\n\n4. Expose children to role models from their own culture as well as those from other cultures (Gonzalez-Mena and Pulido-Tobiassen, 1999).\n\n5. Utilize student's cultures to help them learn the subjects and skills taught in school (Gollnick and Chinn, 2013).\n\n6. Start teaching multi-cultural education to students at an early age (Russel, 2007).\n\n7. Use literacy and children's books in the classroom to promote culturally relevant teaching. By using texts that have characters of all different backgrounds, students can easily learn about new cultures (Ladson-Billings, 1992).\n\nNot all educators favor culturally relevant teaching. Indeed, there are many practical challenges to implementing culturally relevant pedagogy including a lack of enforcement of culturally relevant teaching methods, and the tendency to view students as individual units only, rather than seeing them as linked inseparably with their cultural groups. \nIn culturally relevant pedagogy, new teachers must be taught how to adapt their curriculum, methodology, teaching methods, and instructional materials to connect with students’ values and cultural norms. Therefore, another challenge for educators is to prepare reflective practitioners who can connect with diverse students and their families. Even though some schools of education acknowledge credibility in training culturally relevant educators, many wrestle with how fit such training into their program and \"grudgingly add a diversity course to their curriculum.\" One contributor to this reluctance comes from the education professors’ discomfort with or fear of addressing issues such as racism in their courses.\n\"The student population of America's classrooms has changed. Currently, 43% of students in our nation's schools come from racially and ethnically diverse backgrounds. Latinos account for 20% of the school population and Blacks 17%. Nationally, white students now represent 57% of public school enrollment, down from 61% in the 1993-94 school year. Given these demographics, Kenneth Fasching-Varner and Vanessa Dodo-Seriki have suggested that disconnects in teacher and student identity lead to \"Free and Reduced Pedagogy,\" or a non-student first approach that reduces students to cultural differences, discrediting students based on their identitites and differences in identities between teachers and students. In the largest school districts, half or more of the students are non-white. Demographic projections predict that cultural and ethnic diversity will increase. Students of color will become the majority in the United States by 2023.\" (James Scheurich, N/A)\n\nThere are many examples of culturally relevant programs:\nAdvancement via Individual Determination (AVID) is a program from the San Diego (California) public schools that helps underrepresented students (including those from different cultural groups) by mixing low-achieving students with high-achieving students in college preparation programs. \"AVID employs many principles of cooperative learning in its \"writing, inquiry, and collaboration\" approach to curriculum and instruction. \n\nAnother California-based group focused on culturally relevant teaching is the Umoja Community. This program roots itself in the principles and practices of Culturally Relevant Teaching. Umoja works with students, colleges and the community to promote awareness, instill values and provide the foundations needed to achieve success, particularly for African American students, although it is committed to helping all students. The Umoja Community is recognized by the California Community Colleges Board of Directors and helps serve over 2,000 students a year.\n\nThe Russian Mission School in Alaska incorporates Native American culture with the standard curriculum and emphasizes hands-on activities that are relevant to their local lifestyle. \n\nIn her book \"The Dreamkeepers: Successful Teachers of African American Children\", Gloria Ladson-Billings presents several examples of excellent cultural relevant teaching in African American classrooms.\n\n"}
{"id": "35033623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35033623", "title": "Derek Cabrera", "text": "Derek Cabrera\n\nDerek Cabrera (born 1970) is a systems theorist and cognitive scientist who applies systems-based concepts to the development of models in human development and learning (education), organizational learning design, management and leadership, organizational change. Models he has formulated include DSRP, MAC (for learning design), VMCL and NFST (for organizational design). He is also the inventor of MetaMaps and ThinkBlocks.\n\nCabrera received a Ph.D. from Cornell University with a dissertation entitled \"Systems Thinking,\" a synthesis of his research in complexity science and cognition. Cabrera focused his work on the importance of the intersection of ontology and epistemology in understanding human thought and our interactions with the world around us.\n\nTrained as an evolutionary epistemologist, Cabrera says that knowing how we know things is equally important to what we know, and that humans build knowledge not by merely receiving information but through the interactive, dynamic relationship between information and thinking, which he terms DSRP. His book \"Thinking at Every Desk\" expounds upon these ideas in the field of education and was republished by W. W. Norton & Company. His self-published book \"Systems Thinking Made Simple\" explains the patterns of DSRP and VMCL for a general audience and is used as a textbook at Cornell University and West Point Military Academy's Systems Engineering Department.\n\nCabrera serves on the faculty at Cornell, where he designed and teaches a graduate-level courses on systems thinking. He received a post-doctoral fellowship at Cornell where he was awarded a large-scale NSF grant to apply his DSRP theory to the evaluation of large-scale science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) programs. Cabrera's seminal work in the field of systems evaluation led to the development of \"netway\" models (\"networked pathways\"). Cabrera's systems and netway models form the theoretical basis of Cornell's Office for Research and Evaluation.\n\nHe has received several awards and competitive fellowships for his work, including a National Science Foundation IGERT fellowship in nonlinear systems in the Center for Applied Mathematics and the Department of Theoretical & Applied Mechanics at Cornell University and the Association of American Colleges and Universities K. Patricia Cross Future Leaders Award. He was profiled in a chapter of the book \"Heroes of Giftedness\".\n\nHe was a research fellow at the Santa Fe Institute, where he further developed the mathematical basis for DSRP theory, led a team to create multimedia modules about complexity science and Network theory and also developed a new model that applied systems thinking to the field of evaluation of science programs.\n\nA social entrepreneur, Cabrera established several non-profit and cause-based organizations, including leading fundraising for the Aceh Relief Fund after the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami. He co-founded an organization called Children of Rural Africa, which builds schools and community development projects in rural Nigeria.\n\nIn 2007, concerned about his experiences teaching ivy league students who were not prepared in terms of thinking skills and abilities, Cabrera and his academic colleague Laura Colosi, also a Ph.D. and Cornell faculty, founded a movement to advance research, innovation, and public understanding of systems thinking and metacognition. Much of their early work focused in the area of education and was based on getting thinking into instruction. They created this movement to ensure that thinking skills were taught to every student nationwide and eventually worldwide. Since its founding, numerous offshoots have been created internationally, in South Korea, Singapore, and Malaysia.\n\nCabrera works with educators from K-12 to college and even with organizations to infuse thinking skills into existing curricula using the Patterns of Thinking method (also known as DSRP), which Cabrera created. In the DSRP method, students are encouraged to explore any given concept by recognizing and explicating the distinctions, systems, relationships, and perspectives that characterize the concept. They then physically model the concept using a tactile manipulative Cabrera invented called ThinkBlocks, or graphically represent the concept in terms of DSRP using DSRP diagrams.\n\nCabrera pioneered the theory of DSRP, which states that distinctions, systems, relationships, and perspectives are foundational patterns to all human thought (cognition). D, S, R, and P are implicit in all thinking and Cabrera believes that people can improve their thinking skills by learning to explicitly recognize and explicate (e.g., metacognition) the distinctions, systems, relationships, and perspectives underlying anything they wish to understand more deeply or with greater clarity. Through his work at Cornell University and Cabrera Research Lab, Cabrera has applied DSRP to various fields, including: education, evaluation, organizational design, leadership and management, STEM, water science, public policy, leadership and management, psychology, pedagogy and andragogy, and network theory. He frequently speaks at professional conferences and is a leader in efforts to reform the United States' educational system.\n\nIn 2008, a special section of the journal \"Evaluation and Program Planning\" was dedicated to examining the DSRP theory and method.\n\nOn December 13, 2011, Cabrera was awarded a U.S. patent for \"a method of teaching thinking skills and knowledge acquisition\" - the Patterns of Thinking, or DSRP method.\n\nOn October 26, 2011, Cabrera gave a TEDx talk titled \"How Thinking Works.\" The talk focused on American students' lack of thinking skills, and how students at all levels of education can benefit from learning how they think – in terms of distinctions, systems, relationships, and perspectives. He gave another TEDx talk in 2012 titled \"A Big Toe\" (Theory of Everything) which further elaborates on the details and dynamics of DSRP.\n\nIn July 2014, Cabrera gave the plenary address for the 58th Meeting of the International Society for the Systems Sciences at the School of Business at George Washington University, Washington DC. In July 2014, Cabrera gave the keynote address, with Sir Ken Robinson, at the E3 Conference honoring Cabrera's work in education.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "533263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=533263", "title": "Dumbing down", "text": "Dumbing down\n\nDumbing down is the deliberate oversimplification of intellectual content in education, literature, and cinema, news, video games and culture. The term \"dumbing down\" originated in 1933, as movie-business slang used by screenplay writers, meaning: \"[to] revise so as to appeal to those of little education or intelligence\". Dumbing-down varies according to subject matter, and usually involves the diminishment of critical thought, by undermining intellectual standards within language and learning; thus trivializing meaningful information, culture, and academic standards, as in the case of popular culture.\n\nIn \"Distinction: A Social Critique of the Judgement of Taste\" (1979), the sociologist Pierre Bourdieu (1930–2002) proposed that, in a society in which the cultural practices of the ruling class are rendered and established as the legitimate culture of that society, that action then devalues the cultural capital of the subordinate social classes, and thus limits their social mobility within their own society.\n\nIn the late 20th century, the proportion of young people attending university in the UK increased sharply, including many who previously would not have been considered to possess the appropriate scholastic aptitude. In 2003, the UK Minister for Universities, Margaret Hodge, criticised Mickey Mouse degrees as a negative consequence of universities dumbing down their courses to meet \"the needs of the market\": these are degrees conferred for studies in a field of endeavour \"where the content is perhaps not as [intellectually] rigorous as one would expect, and where the degree, itself, may not have huge relevance in the labour market\": thus, a university degree of slight intellectual substance, which the student earned by \"simply stacking up numbers on Mickey Mouse courses, is not acceptable\".\n\nIn 2007 Wellington Grey, a high school physics instructor in London, published an Internet petition objecting to what he described as a dumbed-down curriculum. He wrote: \"I am a physics teacher. Or, at least, I used to be\"; and complained that \"[Mathematical] calculations – the very soul of physics – are absent from the new General Certificate of Secondary Education.\" Among the examples of dumbing-down that he provided were: \"Question: Why would radio stations broadcast digital signals, rather than analogue signals? Answer: Can be processed by computer/ipod\" to \"Question: Why must we develop renewable energy sources?\" (a political question).\n\nIn \"\" (1991, 2002), John Taylor Gatto presented speeches and essays, including \"The Psychopathic School\", his acceptance speech for the 1990 New York City Teacher of the Year award, and \"The Seven-Lesson Schoolteacher\", his acceptance speech upon being named as the New York State Teacher of the Year for 1991. Gatto writes that while he was hired to teach English and literature, he came to believe he was employed as part of a social engineering project. The \"seven lessons\" at the foundation of schooling were never explicitly stated, Gatto writes, but included teaching students that their self-worth depended on outside evaluation; that they were constantly ranked and supervised; and that they had no opportunities for privacy or solitude. Gatto speculated:\n\nIn examining the seven lessons of teaching, Gatto concluded that \"all of these lessons are prime training for permanent underclasses, people deprived forever of finding the center of their own special genius.\" That \"school is a twelve-year jail sentence, where bad habits are the only curriculum truly learned. I teach school, and win awards doing it. I should know.\"\n\nIncreased business competition and the introduction of econometric methods changed the business practices of the mass communications media. The business monopoly practice of media consolidation reduced the breadth and the depth of the journalism practiced and provided for the information of the public. The reduction of operating costs (overhead expenses) eliminated foreign news bureaus and reporters, in favour of presenting the public relations publications (news releases) of governments, businesses, and political parties as fact.\n\nRefinements in measurement of approval ratings and audience size increased the incentive for journalists and TV producers to write simplistic material, diminishing the intellectual complexity of the argument presented, usually at the expense of factual accuracy and rationality. Cultural theorists, such as Richard Hoggart, Raymond Williams, Neil Postman, Henry Giroux, and Pierre Bourdieu, invoked these effects as evidence that commercial television is an especially pernicious contributor to the dumbing-down of communications. Nonetheless, the cultural critic Stuart Hall said that the people responsible for teaching critical thinking – parents and academic instructors – can improve the quality (breadth and depth) of their instruction by occasionally including television programmes.\n\nIn France, Michel Houellebecq has written (not excluding himself) of \"the shocking dumbing-down of French culture and intellect as was recently pointed out, [2008] sternly but fairly, by \"TIME\" magazine.\"\n\nSoftware used on computers and mobile devices, can do complex tasks sometimes requiring users to have a lot of technical knowledge\".\" Similarly, user operated devices, such as a washing machine or a camera, perform many complex operations. A lot of effort has been put into making these easier to use. Sometimes by use of good ergonomics, known as usability. And sometimes by removing some of the choices and functionality available. The process of reducing the functionality is often known as dumbing down. For some users, this removes confusing barriers and gives them confidence to use the software or device. For others, the missing functionality may be frustrating and too restrictive. \n\nReplacing a user operated function with an automatic function that achieves the same result would not be considered dumbing down. However, any loss of flexibility in this automation would be the actual dumbing down. \n\nAn example of dumbing down in software is where an email application on a smartphone or tablet computer may lack certain functions which are available on a desktop computer, such as the ability to create email folders or email rules.\n\nThe science fiction film \"Idiocracy\" (2005) portrays the U.S. as a greatly dumbed-down society 500 years in the future, in which low cultural and Philistinism were unintentionally achieved by eroding language and education coupled with dysgenics, where people of lower intelligence reproduced faster than the people of higher intelligence. Similar concepts appeared in earlier works, notably the science fiction short story \"The Marching Morons\" (1951), by Cyril M. Kornbluth which also features a modern-day protagonist in a future dominated by low-intelligence persons. Moreover, the novel \"Brave New World\" (1931), by Aldous Huxley, discussed the ways a utopian society was deliberately dumbed down in order to maintain political stability and social order by eliminating complex concepts unnecessary for society to function (e.g., the Savage tries reading Shakespeare to the masses and is not understood). More malevolent uses of dumbing down to preserve the social order are also portrayed in \"The Matrix\", \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" and many dystopian movies.\n\nThe social critic Paul Fussell touched on these themes (\"prole drift\") in his non-fiction book \"Class: A Guide Through the American Status System\" (1983) and focused on them specifically in \"BAD: or, The Dumbing of America\" (1991).\n\nThe musical groups Chumbawamba, The Divine Comedy, Ugly Duckling, and Lupe Fiasco each have a song titled \"Dumb It Down\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11620122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11620122", "title": "Early college high school", "text": "Early college high school\n\nThe Early College High School Initiative in the United States allows students to receive a high school diploma and an associate degree, or up to two years of college credit, by taking a mixture of high school and college classes. This differs from dual enrollment, where students are enrolled in a traditional high school and take college classes, whereas early college students take high school classes in preparation for full college workloads. At early colleges, students also have fewer high school classes because some of their college classes replace their high school classes. Early colleges differ from closely related middle colleges. ECHS students spend their school day at college, and go to their home school occasionally for events such as football games, homecoming, and prom. \n\nThe ECHS Initiative began in 2002 with funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, among others. The first early college in the United States, Bard College at Simon's Rock, was founded in 1966. Today, more than 230 early colleges across 28 states serve 50,000+ students.\n\n\nFourteen intermediary partners work directly with early college schools, school districts, and postsecondary institutions. They provide start-up and ongoing technical support, guidance, and professional development for their networks of schools.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31066642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31066642", "title": "Educational measurement", "text": "Educational measurement\n\nEducational measurement refers to the use of educational assessments and the analysis of data such as scores obtained from educational assessments to infer the abilities and proficiencies of students. The approaches overlap with those in psychometrics.\nEducational measurement is the assigning of numerals to traits such as achievement, interest, attitudes, aptitudes, intelligence and performance. \n\nThe aim of theory and practice in educational measurement is typically to measure abilities and levels of attainment by students in areas such as reading, writing, mathematics, science and so forth. Traditionally, attention focuses on whether assessments are reliable and valid. In practice, educational measurement is largely concerned with the analysis of data from educational assessments or tests. Typically, this means using total scores on assessments, whether they are multiple choice or open-ended and marked using marking rubrics or guides.\n\nIn technical terms, the pattern of scores by individual students to individual items is used to infer so-called scale locations of students, the \"measurements\". This process is one form of scaling. Essentially, higher total scores give higher scale locations, consistent with the traditional and everyday use of total scores. If certain theory is used, though, there is not a strict correspondence between the ordering of total scores and the ordering of scale locations. The Rasch model provides a strict correspondence provided all students attempt the same test items, or their performances are marked using the same marking rubrics.\n\nIn terms of the broad body of purely mathematical theory drawn on, there is substantial overlap between educational measurement and psychometrics. However, certain approaches considered to be a part of psychometrics, including Classical test theory, Item Response Theory and the Rasch model, were originally developed more specifically for the analysis of data from educational assessments.\n\nOne of the aims of applying theory and techniques in educational measurement is to try to place the results of different tests administered to different groups of students on a single or common scale through processes known as test equating. The rationale is that because different assessments usually have different difficulties, the total scores cannot be directly compared. The aim of trying to place results on a common scale is to allow comparison of the scale locations inferred from the totals via scaling processes.\n\n"}
{"id": "944016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=944016", "title": "Fartlek", "text": "Fartlek\n\nFartlek, which means \"speed play\" in Swedish, is continuous training with interval training. Fartlek runs are a very simple form of a long distance run. Fartlek training “is simply defined as periods of fast running intermixed with periods of slower running.\" For some people, this could be a mix of jogging and sprinting, but for beginners it could be walking with jogging sections added in when possible. A simple example of what a runner would do during a fartlek run is “sprint all out from one light pole to the next, jog to the corner, give a medium effort for a couple of blocks, jog between four light poles and sprint to a stop sign, and so on, for a set total time or distance.\" The variable intensity and continuous nature of the exercise places stress on both the aerobic and anaerobic systems. It differs from traditional interval training in that it is unstructured; intensity and/or speed varies, as the athlete wishes. Fartlek training is generally associated with running, but can include almost any kind of exercise.\n\nSwedish coach Gösta Holmér developed fartlek in 1937, and, since then, many physiologists have adopted it. It was designed for the downtrodden Swedish cross country running teams that had been beaten throughout the 1920s by Paavo Nurmi and the Finns. Holmér's plan used a faster-than-race pace and concentrated on both speed and endurance training.\n\nThis is the first session that was designed by Gösta Holmér for a cross country (multi-terrain) runner. This is also an example of what a fartlek session might look like, but fartlek sessions should be designed for an athlete's own event or sport, as well as catering to their individual needs. Sessions should be at an intensity that causes the athlete to work at 60% to 80% of his or her maximum heart rate. This should mean that the body will not experience too much discomfort while exercising. An athlete should also include a good warm up at the beginning of the session, and a cool down at the end of the session, to improve performance, minimize post-workout muscle soreness, to decrease the chances of injury and for other reasons.\n\nRunners hypothetically “run hard for two mailboxes, recover for three, run hard for three, recover for two.\" When executing this type, the runner continues like this for the allotted time or distance determined. \n\nRunners speed up when they get close to a dog in order to pass them; after passing the dog, they would then slow down for the recovery period. \n\nMany runners use music while they run. Runners can use their music as a template for their fartlek run by changing their speed according to different parts of a song. For example, they can speed up during the chorus and slow down for the rest of the song.\n\nIn order to add more variety and complexity, runners can add another speed into the run. Within any run, “there is no reason why three different paces should not be included.\" This would change a normal fartlek by doing a jog, run, and a full out sprint.\n\nSteve Moneghetti (Mona) devised this session with his coach Chris Wardlaw over the phone back in 1983 when he was just 20. He wanted a solid fartlek session, one that would help improve his speed as well as endurance and stimulate an ability to change pace mid-run, something that helped later on his career when competing against African athletes, who tended to speed up mid-race. A session would consist of: 2×90sec, 4×60sec, 4×30sec, 4×15sec with a slower tempo for recovery of the same time between each repetition. The session takes 20 minutes in total.\n\nSince this workout is very easily manipulated, “fartlek training allows you to add an endless variety of intervals to your aerobic workouts, which helps to keep you stimulated.\" A great plus to performing this workout is the variety it adds to fitness regimens; it is possible to change the amount of distance, time, fast bursts, recovery periods, and even the time at which you do each component.\n\nFor competitive runners, fartleks and all other types of interval runs are the key for race day readiness. The alternating speeds that are the defining point of fartleks allow runners to work “both the aerobic and anaerobic training systems while simulating the ebb and flow nature of competitive running.\" \n\nFartleks keep runners' bodies at top shape so that they can keep racing. Putting fartlek runs in a workout routine keeps “muscles, tendons, nerves, etc. used in running going at top capacity.\" In other words, regularly implementing fartleks keeps your body strong enough to maintain the mechanics of racing.\n\nBy alternating the “intensity of your workouts, you will burn more calories than you would by keeping a steady pace.\" While running, the runner's body first burns the stored sugars and then begins to burn fat after the sugar is depleted. During a fartlek workout while the body is trying to replace the sugar storage, “fat stores are burned in a metabolic effect that lasts long after your workout.\" Fartleks are a great option for people that run for their health because the fat burning portion makes it a very efficient exercise.\n\nFartleks can be specially tailored to fit the needs of different types of athletes. An example includes basketball, where “you must exert maximum effort while running a fast break, while you exert very little effort while standing at the foul line.\" It is possible to alter the type and timing of the fartlek in order to mimic the intensity of an average basketball game. This can be done for other sports such as tennis, soccer, and football as well.\n\nComparable runs include the traditional interval training, tempo runs, and ladders. These workouts are very similar to fartleks, but there are slight differences that distinguish one from another.\n\nTempo runs are typically run for 20 to 25 minutes at a 6 or 7 RPE. This exercise is “like an Oreo cookie, with the warmup and cooldown as the cookie, and a run at an effort at or slightly above your anaerobic threshold (the place where your body shifts to using more glycogen for energy) as the filling.\" What runners do here is warm up at a slow and steady pace, then run harder than they would on a normal distance jog for an allotted amount of time, and then do a cool down with a very similar speed to the warm up. \n\nIntervals “are short, intense efforts followed by equal or slightly longer recovery time.\" By the end of a short burst of speed, the runner is barely able to keep up that pace. Unlike fartleks, interval runs are much more structured; usually running the fast and slow spurts at exact times or distances. Interval runs and tempo runs differ in the fact that tempo runs maintain a slightly fast pace for a set amount of time, while interval runs consist of alternating between sprints and slow sections instead of keeping one speed.\n\nThis workout is defined as “a speed workout in which the fast parts vary in length.\" Basically, athletes will run a small amount at a hard pace, work their way up, and work their way back down with timed breaks in between. Ladders are similar to interval training in that they require more structure, but they are different because the faster speed sections vary in time or distance. Although ladders are most similar to interval runs, the fact that the portions performed at the faster speed vary in length or time mirrors fartlek runs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19830039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19830039", "title": "Federal Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education", "text": "Federal Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education\n\nFederal Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, () Islamabad, commonly known as FBISE, is a federal government board for examining the intermediate and secondary education in Pakistan and abroad for Pakistan International School. It is authorized with financial and administrative authority to organize, manage, regulate, develop and control intermediate and secondary education in general and accomplish examinations in the institutions affiliated with it.\n\nThe federal board of intermediate and secondary education was established under the FBISE Act 1975. The FBISE is an autonomous body of the Ministry of Federal Education and Professional Training.\n\nThe Jurisdiction of the Federal Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Islamabad consists of the following:\n\n\nThe FBISE board held the following exams both across Pakistan and also abroad for overseas Pakistanis:\n\n"}
{"id": "52084206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52084206", "title": "Flexible seating classrooms", "text": "Flexible seating classrooms\n\nA flexible seating classroom is one in which traditional seating charts are replaced with seating arrangements that allow the students to seat where they choose. One of its principal objectives is to reduce the number/duration of sedentary periods of time, which research has identified as a danger to health. The Albemarle County Public School system in Virginia adopted this approach with reported success.\n\nStudies have found that extended sitting affects the development of the musculoskeletal system, leading to health disorders such as cardiovascular problems, poor posture, back pain and neck pain.\n\nAccording to Dieter Breithecker at Germany's Federal Institute for Posture and Mobilisation Support, brain activity slows down when the body becomes stationary, for example when sitting in a traditional classroom. Breithecker recommended flexible seating arrangements to remedy these dangers.\n\nFlexible seating classroom designs include:\n"}
{"id": "29571376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29571376", "title": "Foundation programme", "text": "Foundation programme\n\nA foundation programme, foundation program, foundation year, foundation year programme or foundation year program is a one-year introductory course to a full multi-year degree curriculum offered by many universities in the Commonwealth and elsewhere. These programmes may be intended for students not yet in a degree program or may form part of a specific degree course. Some programmes are designed specifically for either domestic or international students.\n\nIn the UK, foundation year programmes, also known as \"year zero\" or \"gateway programmes\", are designed to develop skills and subject-specific knowledge to ensure a student to advance to a degree course. They may be offered as stand-alone one-year courses or integrated into degree programmes. Some programmes are for students who have not received suitable grades at A Level or IB while others are aimed at students who did not have the opportunity to take such qualifications. As of August 2018, foundation year programmes were available at 97 institutions through UCAS.\n\nLady Margaret Hall, Oxford offers a foundation year exclusively to students from poor socio-economic backgrounds. This aims to help them overcome disadvantages that would hinder their application process to the University.\n\nFor international students, Study Group offers international foundation year programmes in conjunction with a number of British universities including (as of August 2018) Coventry (London campus), Durham, Huddersfield, Istituto Marangoni (London campus), Keele, Kingston, Lancaster, Leeds, Leeds Beckett, Leicester, Liverpool John Moores, Lincoln, Royal Holloway, Sheffield, Strathclyde, Surrey and Sussex. Some universities offer their own international foundation programmes, including Warwick (since 1983).\n\nAt Boston University the SABIC Foundation Year Program is a university preparation course aimed specifically at Saudi students.\n\nAt Jacobs University in Germany, the Foundation Year Programme is a preparatory year.\n\nAt the University of King's College, their Foundation Year Program is a historical survey of western culture for first-year students.\n\nAt Maastricht University, the Foundation Programme trains motivated international students to make them eligible (to apply) for a bachelor's programme at Maastricht University.\n\nAt the University of Queensland, the Foundation Year Programme is a university preparation program for students who are not citizens or permanent residents of Australia.\n\nAt Vanderbilt University, the Foundation Year Programme aims to prepare students from outside the United States to enter the American university system.\n"}
{"id": "11541500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11541500", "title": "Freshman", "text": "Freshman\n\nA freshman, first year, or frosh, is a person in the first year at an educational institution, usually a secondary or post-secondary school.\n\nIn much of the Arab world, a first-year is called a \"Sanfoor\" (Pl. Sanaafir), which is Arabic for Smurf.\n\nIn Brazil, students that pass the vestibulares and begin studying in a college or university are called \"calouros\" or more informally \"bixos\" (\"bixetes\" for girls), an alternate spelling of \"bicho\", which means \"animal\". Calouros are often subject to hazing, which is known as \"trote\" (lit. \"prank\") there. The first known hazing episode in Brazil happened 1831 at the Law School of Olinda and resulted in the death of a student. In 1999, a Chinese Brazilian calouro of the University of São Paulo Medicine School named Edison Tsung Chi Hsueh was found dead at the institution's swimming pool; this has since become one of the most well known episodes of violent hazing and has received extensive national media coverage since that year.\n\nIn Scotland, the first year of compulsory education is Primary 1 (P1). The first year of secondary school is known as \"S1\" but one can freely use \"first year\".\n\nAt the four ancient Scottish universities the traditional names for the four years at university are Bejan (\"Bejant\" at the University of St Andrews)(1st), Semi (2nd), Tertian (3rd) and Magistrand (4th), though all Scottish universities will have a \"freshers' week\" (as with all British universities) and the term is as widely used with more traditional terms.\n\nFreshman is commonly in use as a US English idiomatic term to describe a beginner or novice, someone who is naive, a first effort, instance, or a student in the first year of study (generally referring to high school or university study).\n\nNew members of Congress in their first term are referred to as \"freshmen senators\" or \"freshmen congressmen or congresswomen\", no matter how experienced they were in previous government positions.\n\nHigh school first year students are almost exclusively referred to as freshmen, or in some cases by their grade year, 9th graders. Second year students are sophomores, or 10th graders, then juniors or 11th graders, and finally seniors or 12th graders.\n\nAt college or university, freshman denotes students in their first year of study. The grade designations of high school are not used, but the terms sophomore, junior, and senior are kept at most schools. Some colleges, including historically women's colleges, do not use the term freshman but use first year, instead. Beyond the fourth year, students are simply classified as fifth year, sixth year, etc. Some institutions use the term freshman for specific reporting purposes.\n\n"}
{"id": "422315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=422315", "title": "Gifted education", "text": "Gifted education\n\nGifted education (also known as Gifted and Talented Education (GATE), Talented and Gifted (TAG), or G/T) is a broad term for special practices, procedures, and theories used in the education of children who have been identified as gifted or talented.\n\nThe main approaches to gifted education are enrichment and acceleration. An enrichment program teaches additional, related material, but keeps the student progressing through the curriculum at the same rate. For example, after the gifted students have completed the normal work in the curriculum, an enrichment program might provide them with additional details about a subject in the curriculum. An acceleration program advances the student through the standard curriculum faster than normal. When gifted students have completed the normal work, they move on to the next subject in the curriculum, even though the rest of the class is still working on the first subject.\n\nThere is no standard global definition of what a gifted student is. Multiple definitions of giftedness are used by different groups. Most of these definitions select the students who are the most skilled or talented in a given area, e.g., the students with the most skill or talent in music, language, logical reasoning, or mathematics. The percentage of students selected varies, generally with 10% or fewer being selected for gifted education programs. However, since students vary in their aptitudes and achievements, a student who is not gifted in one area, such as music, may be considered gifted in another, such as language. Consequently, even if all programs agreed to include only the top 5% of students in their area, more than just 5% of students would be identified as gifted.\n\nGifted and talented education dates back thousands of years. Plato (c. 427–c. 347 BCE) advocated providing specialized education for intellectually gifted young men and women. In China's Tang Dynasty (580-618 CE), child prodigies were summoned to the imperial court for specialized education. Throughout the Renaissance, those who exhibited creative talent in art, architecture, and literature were supported by both the government and private patronage.\n\nOne of the earliest Western studies of human abilities was conducted by Sir Francis Galton, who between 1888 and 1894 developed and compiled measurements of over 7,500 individuals to gauge their natural intellectual abilities. In his studies he determined that if a parent deviates from the norm, so will the child, but to a lesser extent, one of the earliest observed examples of regression toward the mean. Galton believed that individuals could be improved through interventions in heredity, a movement he named eugenics. He categorized people into gifted, capable, average, or degenerate, and recommended breeding between the first two categories, and forced abstinence for the latter two. His term for the most intelligent and talented people was \"eminent,\" and after studying England's most prominent families, concluded that one's eminence was directly related to his direct hereditary line.\n\nAt Stanford University in 1918, Lewis Terman adapted Alfred Binet's Binet-Simon intelligence test into the Stanford-Binet test, and introduced intelligence quotient (IQ) scoring for the test. According to Terman, the IQ was one's mental age compared to one's chronological age, based on the mental age norms he compiled after studying a sample of children. He defined intelligence as \"the ability to carry on abstract thinking\". During World War I Terman was a commissioned officer of the United States Army, and collaborated with other psychologists in developing intelligence tests for new recruits to the armed forces. For the first time, intelligence testing was given to a wide population of drafted soldiers.\n\nAfter the war, Terman undertook an extensive longitudinal study of 643 children in California who scored at IQ 140 or above, the Genetic Studies of Genius, continuing to evaluate them throughout their lives. Subjects of these case studies were called \"Termites\" and the studies contacted the children in 1921, and again in 1930, 1947, and 1959 after his death. Terman's studies have to date been the most extensive on high-functioning children, and are still quoted in psychological literature today. Terman claimed to have disproven common misconceptions, such as that highly intelligent children were prone to ill physical and mental health, that their intelligence burned out early in their lives, or that they either achieved greatly or underachieved.\n\nA professional colleague of Terman's, Leta Hollingworth was the first in the United States to study how best to serve students who showed evidence of high performance on tests. Although recognizing Terman's and Galton's beliefs that heredity played a vital role in intelligence, Hollingworth gave similar credit to home environment and school structure. Hollingworth worked to dispel the pervasive belief that \"bright children take care of themselves\" and emphasized the importance of early identification, daily contact, and grouping gifted children with others with similar abilities. Hollingworth performed an 18-year-long study of 50 children in New York City who scored 155 or above on the Stanford-Binet, and studied smaller groups of children who scored above a 180. She also ran a school in New York City for bright students that employed a curriculum of student-led exploration, as opposed to a teacher providing students with a more advanced curriculum they would encounter later in life.\n\nOne unforeseen result of the launch of Sputnik by the Soviet Union was the immediate emphasis on education for bright students in the United States, and this settled the question whether the federal government should get involved in public education at all. The National Defense Education Act (NDEA) was passed by Congress in 1958 with $1 billion US to bolster science, math, and technology in public education. Educators immediately pushed to identify gifted students and serve them in schools. Students chosen for gifted services were given intelligence tests with a strict cutoff, usually at 130, which meant that students who scored below the 130 were not identified.\n\nThe impact of the NDEA was evident in schools for years after, but a study on how effective education was meeting the needs of gifted students was initiated by the United States Department of Education in 1969. The Marland Report, completed in 1972, for the first time presented a general definition of giftedness, and urged districts to adopt it. The report also allowed students to show high functioning on talents and skills not measurable by an intelligence test. The Marland Report defined gifted as \"Children capable of high performance include those with demonstrated achievement and/or potential ability in any of the following areas, singly or in combination:\n\nIn 1983, the result of an 18-month-long study of secondary students was published as \"A Nation at Risk\", and claimed that students in the United States were no longer receiving superior education, and in fact, could not compete with students from other developed countries in many academic exercises. One of the recommendations the book made was to increase services to gifted education programs, citing curriculum enrichment or acceleration specifically. The US federal government was also urged to create standards for the identification and servicing of gifted students.\n\nThe Jacob Javits Gifted and Talented Students Education Act was passed in 1988 as part of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA). Instead of funding district-level gifted education programs, the Javits Act instead has three primary components: the research of effective methods of testing, identification, and programming, which is performed at the National Research Center on the Gifted and Talented; the awarding of grants to colleges, states, and districts that focus on underrepresented populations of gifted students; and grants awarded to state and districts for program implementation.\n\nAnnual funding for grants must be passed by US Congress, and totaled $9.6 million US in 2007, but the money isn't promised. While he was President, George W. Bush eliminated the money every year of his term, but members of Congress overrode the president to make sure the grant money was distributed.\n\nThe most recent US federal education initiative was signed into law in 2002. The goal of No Child Left Behind (NCLB) is to bring proficiency of all students to grade level, but critics note it does not address the needs of gifted students who perform above grade level. The act imposes punishments on schools, administrators, and teachers when students do not achieve to the plan's designs, but does not address any achievement standards for high functioning students, forcing schools and teachers to spend their time with low achieving students. An article in \"The Washington Post\" declared, \"The unmistakable message to teachers -- and to students -- is that it makes no difference whether a child barely meets the proficiency standard or far exceeds it.\" Gifted services have been recently eroding as a result of the new legislation, according to a 2006 article in \"The New York Times\".\n\nIn 2004, the John Templeton Foundation sponsored a report titled A Nation Deceived: How Schools Hold Back America's Brightest Students, highlighting the disparity between the research on acceleration (which generally supports it, both from an academic and a psychological point of view), and the educational practices in the US that are often contrary to the conclusions of that research. The Institute for Research and Policy on Acceleration (IRPA) was established in 2006 at The Connie Belin & Jacqueline N. Blank International Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development at the University of Iowa College of Education through the support of the John Templeton Foundation following the publication of this report.\n\nThe development of early intelligence tests by Alfred Binet led to the Stanford-Binet IQ test developed by Lewis Terman. Terman began long-term studies of gifted children with a view to checking if the popular view \"early ripe, early rot\" was true. The Terman Genetic Studies of Genius longitudinal study has been described by successor researchers who conducted the study after Terman's death and also by an independent researcher who had full access to the study files.\n\nModern studies by James and Kulik conclude that gifted students benefit \"least\" from working in a mixed-level class, and benefit \"most\" from learning with other similarly advanced students in accelerated or enriched classes.\n\nEducational authorities differ on the definition of giftedness: even when using the same IQ test to define giftedness, they may disagree on what gifted means - one may take up the top 2 percent of the population, another might take up the top 5 percent of a population, which may be within a state, district, or school. Within a single school district, there can be substantial differences in the distribution of measured IQ. (The IQ for the top percentile at a high-performing school may be quite different from that at a lower performing school.)\n\nDr Peter Marshall obtained his doctorate in 1995, for research carried out in this field in the years from 1986. At the time, he was the first Research Director of The Mensa Foundation for Gifted Children. His work challenged the difficult childhood hypothesis, concluding that gifted children, by and large, do not have any more difficult childhoods than mainstream children and, in fact, that where they do, their giftedness probably helps them cope better than mainstream children. His thesis is published under the title Growing up Gifted – Triangulations with the Gulbenkian Project and provided the material for his subsequent book Educating a Gifted Child\n\nHe has acted as consultant to schools and local education authorities such as Cumbria County Council and Blackburn, Hyndburn and Ribble Valley Health Authority and Thorncliffe Grammar in Barrow in Furness and he has been chosen to give the Mensa Lecture on the Subject at Trinity College Cambridge in August 2018.\n\nIn his book, Educating a Gifted Child, he analyses a large range of causes of underachievement, explains the social attitudes to giftedness, lists the range of non-intellective aspects of giftedness, and explores the concepts of intelligence and IQ tests.\n\nDr Marshall is the President of The International Association for High Ability (IAFHA), which aims to help gifted individuals from all backgrounds to fulfil their potential for the benefit of themselves, their society and the human race in general.\n\nIn \"Identifying Gifted Children: A Practical Guide\", Susan K. Johnsen (2004) explains that gifted children all exhibit the potential for high performance in the areas included in the United States federal definition of gifted and talented students:\n\nThe National Association for Gifted Children in the United States defines giftedness as:\n\nThis definition has been adopted in part or completely by the majority of the states in the United States. Most have some definition similar to that used in the State of Texas, whose definition states:\n\nThe major characteristics of these definitions are (a) the diversity of areas in which performance may be exhibited (e.g., intellectual, creative, artistic, leadership, academic), (b) the comparison with other groups (e.g., those in general education classrooms or of the same age, experience, or environment), and (c) the use of terms that imply a need for development of the gift (e.g., capability and potential).\n\nIn her book, \"Identifying Gifted Children: A Practical Guide\", Susan K. Johnsen (2004) writes that schools should use a variety of measures of students' capability and potential when identifying gifted children. These measures may include portfolios of student work, classroom observations, achievement measures, and intelligence scores. Most educational professionals accept that no single measure can be used in isolation to accurately identify every gifted child.\n\nEven if the notion of IQ is generally useful for identifying academically talented students who would benefit from further services, the question of the cutoff point for giftedness is still important. As noted above, different authorities often define giftedness differently.\n\nPublic gifted education in Australia varies significantly from state to state. New South Wales has 95 primary schools with opportunity classes catering to students in year 5 and 6. New South Wales also has 17 fully selective secondary schools and 25 partially selective secondary schools. Western Australia has selective programs in 17 high schools, including Perth Modern School, a fully selective school. Queensland has 3 Queensland Academies catering to students in years 10,11 and 12. South Australia has programs in 3 public high schools catering to students in years 8,9 and 10, including Glenunga International High School. The Victorian Government commissioned a parliamentary inquiry into the education of gifted and talented children in 2012. One recommendation from the inquiry was for the Victorian Government to list the schools with programs, but the government has not implemented this recommendation. Some private schools have developed programs for gifted children.\n\nThe Calgary Board of Education (CBE), in Calgary, Alberta, has various elementary, middle and high schools offering the GATE Program, standing for Gifted and Talented Education, for Grades 4-12, or Divisions 2-4. The program for students, who, through an IQ test, ranked in the Very Superior Range; falling into Gifted or Genius. For each of the three divisions, there are 2 schools offering GATE, one for the North Side of the city (CBE Areas I, II and III) and one for the South Side (CBE Areas IV and V). For Division 2, or Grades 4-6, it is available at Hillhurst Elementary School for the North and Nellie McClung Elementary School for the South. For Division 3, or Grades 7-9, it is available at Queen Elizabeth High School for the North and John Ware Junior High School for the South. For Division 3, or Grades 10-12, Queen Elizabeth High School, which is a joint Junior High-Senior High offers it for the North and Henry Wise Wood Senior High School offers it for the south. GATE classes go more in depth and learns some curriculum for the following grade level, with tougher assignments and a faster learning pace. They benefit from being around students like them. These students attend the school alongside regular students and those in other programs (e.g. IB, AP.) In the 2014-15 school year, students from Grades 4-7 in the south will be attending Louis Riel Junior High School, already home to a science program, and students in the regular program there will be moved to Nellie McClung and John Ware. Students at John Ware will be phased out: eighth grade GATE will end in June 2015, and ninth grade GATE will end in 2016, while GATE will be expanding to Grade 9 at Louis Riel by September 2016. Prior to John Ware, the GATE program was housed at Elboya. A large number of teachers from Nellie McClung and John Ware will be moving to the new location, which was picked to deal with student population issues and to concentrate resources.\n\nNotable alumni of the CBE GATE Program include the 36th mayor of Calgary, Naheed Nenshi, from Queen Elizabeth High School.\nVancouver Board of Education's gifted program is called Multi-Age Cluster Class or MACC.[1] This is a full-time program for highly gifted elementary students from grades 4 to 7. Through project-based learning, students are challenged to use higher order thinking skills. Another focus of the program is autonomous learning; students are encouraged to self-monitor, self-reflect and seek out enrichment opportunities. Entrance to the program is initiated through referral followed by a review by a screening committee. IQ tests are used but not exclusively. Students are also assessed by performance, cognitive ability tests, and motivation. There are 4 MACC's in Vancouver: grade 4/5 and grade 6/7 at Sir William Osler Elementary, grade 5/6/7 at Tecumseh Elementary, and a French Immersion grade 5/6/7 at Kerrisdale Elementary.\n\nAt a lower scale, the Peel District School Board operates its Regional Enhanced Program at The Woodlands School, Lorne Park Secondary School, Glenforest Secondary School, Heart Lake Secondary School and Humberview Secondary School to provide students an opportunity to develop and explore skills in a particular area of interest. Students identified as gifted (which the PDSB classifies as \"enhanced\") may choose to attend the nearest of these high schools instead of their assigned home high school. In the Regional Enhanced Program, enhanced students take core courses (primarily, but not limited to English, mathematics, and the sciences) in an environment surrounded by fellow enhanced peers. The classes often contain modified assignments that encourage students to be creative.\n\nIn Ecuador, Centro Ecuatoriano para el Desarrollo del Alto Potencial started in 2018 as the first all around gifted children educational program in the country. The center offers evaluations, extracurricular activities and one to one psychological tutoring that helps with the academic and social skills of gifted children. The center's mission is to develop and deliver high quality academic and psychosocial programs for the integral development of gifted and talented children in Ecuador.\n\nThe Education Commission Report No.4 issued in 1990 recommended a policy on gifted education for schools in Hong Kong and suggested that a broad definition of giftedness using multiple criteria should be adopted.\n\nGifted children generally have exceptional achievement or potential in one or more of the following domains:\n\nThe multi-dimensional aspect of intelligence has been promoted by Professor Howard Gardner from the Harvard Graduate School of Education in his Theory of Multiple Intelligences. In his introduction to the tenth anniversary edition of his classic work Frames of Mind. The theory of multiple intelligences, he says:\n\nIn the heyday of the psychometric and behaviorist eras, it was generally believed that intelligence was a single entity that was inherited; and that human beings - initially a blank slate - could be trained to learn anything, provided that it was presented in an appropriate way. Nowadays an increasing number of researchers believe precisely the opposite; that there exists a multitude of intelligences, quite independent of each other; that each intelligence has its own strengths and constraints; that the mind is far from unencumbered at birth; and that it is unexpectedly difficult to teach things that go against early 'naive' theories of that challenge the natural lines of force within an intelligence and its matching domains. (Gardner 1993: xxiii)\n\nHoward Gardner initially formulated a list of seven intelligences, but later added an eighth, that are intrinsic to the human mind: linguistic, logical/mathematical, visual/spatial, musical, bodily kinesthetic, intrapersonal, interpersonal, and naturalist intelligences.\nIt has become widely accepted at both local and international scales to adopt a broad definition of giftedness using multiple criteria to formulate gifted education policy.\n\n\nThe mission of gifted education is to systematically and strategically explore and develop the potential of gifted students. Gifted learners are to be provided with opportunities to receive education at appropriate levels in a flexible teaching and learning environment. \nThe guiding principles for gifted education in Hong Kong are:\n\n\n\nBased on these guiding principles, a three-tier gifted education framework was adopted in 2000. Levels 1 & 2 are recognised as being school-based whilst Level 3 is the responsibility of the HKAGE. The intention is that Level 1 serves the entire school population, irrespective of ability, that Level 2 deals with between 2-10% of the ability group, and that Level 3 caters for the top 2% of students.\n\nTo immerse the core elements advocated in gifted education i.e. High-order thinking skills, creativity and personal-social competence in the curriculum for ALL students;\nTo differentiate teaching through appropriate grouping of students to meet the different needs of the groups with enrichment and extension of curriculum across ALL subjects in regular classrooms.\nTo conduct pull-out programmes of generic nature outside the regular classroom to allow systematic training for a homogeneous group of students (e.g. Creativity training, leadership training, etc.);\nTo conduct pull-out programme in specific areas (e.g. Maths, Arts, etc.) outside the regular classroom to allow systematic training for students with outstanding performance in specific domains.\nTertiary institutions and other educational organizations / bodies, such as the Hong Kong Academy for Gifted Education and other universities in Hong Kong to provide a wide and increasing range of programmes for gifted students\n\nIn India, Jnana Prabodhini Prashala started in 1968, is probably the first school for gifted education. The motto is motivating intelligence for social change. The school, located in central Pune, admits 80 students each year, after thorough testing, which includes two written papers and an interview. The psychology department of Jnana Prabodhini has worked on J. P. Guilford's model of Intelligence.\n\nNational Organization for Development of Exceptional Talents (NODET, also known as SAMPAD,\nPersian: سمپاد, which stands for سازمان ملی پرورش استعدادهای درخشان in Persian) are national Middle and High Schools in Iran developed\nspecifically for the development of exceptionally talented students in Iran. NODET was first\nestablished in 1976 and re-established in 1987.\n\nAdmission to NODET schools is selective and based on a comprehensive nationwide entrance\nexamination procedure.\n\nEvery year thousands of students apply to enter the schools, from which less\nthan 5% are chosen for the 99 middle schools and 98 high-schools within the country. All applicants must have a minimum GPA of 19 (out of 20) for attending the entrance exam. In 2006, 87,081 boys and 83,596 girls from 56 cities applied, and finally 6,888 students were accepted for the 2007 middle schools. The admission process is much more selective in big cities like Tehran, Isfahan, Mashhad and Karaj in\nwhich less than 150 students are accepted after two exams and interviews, out of over 50,000\napplicants.\n\nTop schools of NODET (and also Iran's top) are Allameh Helli High School and Shahid Madani High School (in Tabriz), Farzanegan High School located in Tehran, Shahid Ejei High School located in Isfahan, Shahid Hashemi Nejad High School located in Mashhad and Shahid Soltani School located in Karaj.\nCourses taught in NODET schools are college-level in fields such as Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, Physics and English Language. The best teachers of the ministry of education are chosen mainly by the school's principal and faculty to teach at NODET schools. Schools mainly have only two majors (normal schools have three majors), math-physics and experimental sciences (like math-physics but having biology as the main course). Even though social sciences are taught, there is much less emphasis on these subjects due to the lack of interest in both students and the organization.\n\nNorway has no centre for gifted or talented children or youth. However, there is the privately run Barratt Due Institute of Music who offers musical kindergarten, evening school and college for highly talented young musicians. There is also the public secondary school for talents in ballet at Ruseløkka school in Oslo, who admits the 15 top dancers. On athletics, Privately run Norwegian Elite Sports Gymnasium (NTG) offers secondary school for talents in five locations in Norway. This account might not be complete.\n\nThe Centre for the Talented Youth of Ireland has run in Dublin City University since 1992.\n\nFollowing the Gifted Education Promotion Law (영재교육진흥법) in the year 2000, the Ministry of Education, Science, and Technology (MEST) founded the National Research Center for Gifted and Talented Education (NRCGTE) in 2002 to ensure effective implementation of gifted education research, development, and policy. The center is managed by the Korean Educational Development Institute (KEDI). Presently twenty-five universities conduct gifted and talented education research in some form; for example, Seoul National University is conducting Science-gifted Education Center, and KAIST is conducting Global Institute For Talented Education (GIFTED), the Korean Society for the Gifted and Talented (한국영재교육학회) and the Korean Society for the Gifted (사단법인 한국영재학회).\n\nEducation for the scientifically gifted in Korea can be traced back to the 1983 government founding of Gyeonggi Science High School. Following three later additions (Korea Science Academy of KAIST; Seoul Science High School and Daegu Science High School), approximately 1,500, or 1 in 1,300 (0.08 percent) of high school students are currently enrolled among its four gifted academies. By 2008, about 50,000, or 1 in 140 (0.7 percent) of elementary and middle school students participated in education for the gifted. In 2005, a program was undertaken to identify and educate gifted children of socioeconomically underprivileged people. Since then, more than 1,800 students have enrolled in the program.\n\nGradually the focus has expanded over time to cover informatics, arts, physical education, creative writing, humanities, and social sciences, leading to the 2008 creation of the government funded Korean National Institute for the Gifted Arts. To pluralize the need for trained professional educators, teachers undergo basic training (60 hours), advanced training (120 hours), and overseas training (60 hours) to acquire skills necessary to teach gifted youth.\n\nIn Singapore, the Gifted Education Programme (GEP) was introduced in 1984 and is offered in the upper primary years (Primary 4-6, ages 10–12). Pupils undergo rigorous testing in Primary 3 (age 9) for admission into the GEP for Primary 4 to 6. About 1% of the year's cohort are admitted into the programme. The GEP is offered at selected schools, meaning that these pupils attend school alongside their peers in the mainstream curriculum but attend separate classes for certain subjects. As of the 2016 academic year, there are 9 primary schools which offer the GEP.\n\nThe School for Gifted Children in Bratislava was established in 1998. It offers education known as APROGEN - Alternative Program for Gifted Education.\n\nIn England, schools are expected to identify 5-10% of students who are gifted and/or talented in relation to the rest of the cohort in that school—an approach that is pragmatic (concerned with ensuring schools put in place some provision for their most able learners) rather than principled (in terms of how to best understand giftedness). The term gifted applies to traditional academic subjects, and talented is used in relation to high levels of attainment in the creative arts and sports. The National Academy for Gifted and Talented Youth ran from 2002 to 2007 at the University of Warwick. Warwick University decided not to reapply for the contract to run NAGTY in 2007, instead introducing its own programme, the International Gateway for Gifted Youth in 2008. In January 2010, the government announced that NAGTY was to be scrapped the following month.\n\nIn the United States, each state department of education determines if the needs of gifted students will be addressed as a mandatory function of public education. If so, the state determines the definition of which students will be identified and receive services, but may or may not determine how they shall receive services. If a state does not consider gifted education mandatory, individual districts may, thus the definition of what gifted is varies from state or district.\n\nIn contrast with special education, gifted education is not regulated on a federal level, although recommendations by the US Department of Education are offered. As such, funding for services is not consistent from state to state, and although students may be identified, the extent to which they receive services can vary widely depending upon a state or district's budget.\n\nGifted education programs are also offered at various private schools. For example, The Mirman School caters to children with an IQ of 138 and above.\n\nSource: Frequently Used Terms in Gifted Education\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAttempts to provide gifted education can be classified in several ways. Most gifted students benefit from a combination of approaches at different times.\n\nActivities such as reading, creative writing, sport, computer games, chess, music, dance, foreign languages, and art give an extra intellectual challenge outside of school hours. For some GATE students, (if they are a top level) the district might send a letter containing a suggestion of skipping a grade.\n\nOn the primary school level, students spend all class time with their peers, but receive extra material to challenge them. Enrichment may be as simple as a modified assignment provided by the regular classroom teacher, or it might include formal programs such as Odyssey of the Mind, Destination Imagination or academic competitions such as Brain Bowl, Future Problem Solving, Science Olympiad, National History Day, science fairs, or spelling bees. Programmes of enrichment activities may also be organised outside the school day (e.g. the ASCEND project in secondary science education ). This work is done in addition to, and not instead of, any regular school work assigned. Critics of this approach argue that it requires gifted students to do more work instead of the same amount at an advanced level. On the secondary school level sometimes an option is to take more courses like English, Spanish, Latin, Philosophy, Science, etc., or to engage in extra curricular activities. Some perceive there to be a necessary choice between enrichment and acceleration, as if the two were mutually exclusive alternatives. However, other researchers see the two as complements to each other.\n\nThe regular school material is compacted by pretesting the student to establish which skills and content have already been mastered. Pretests can be presented on a daily basis (pupils doing the most difficult items on a worksheet first and skipping the rest if they are performed correctly), or before a week or longer unit of instructional time. When a student demonstrates an appropriate level of proficiency, further repetitive practice can be safely skipped, thus reducing boredom and freeing up time for the student to work on more challenging material.\n\nSelf-pacing methods, such as the Montessori Method, use flexible grouping practices to allow children to advance at their own pace. Self-pacing can be beneficial for all children and is not targeted specifically at those identified as gifted or talented, but it can allow children to learn at a highly accelerated rate. Directed Studies are usually based on self-pacing.\n\nPupils are advanced to a higher-level class covering material more suited to their abilities and preparedness. This may take the form of skipping grades or completing normal curriculum in a shorter-than-normal period of time (\"telescoping\"). Subject acceleration (also called partial acceleration) is a flexible approach which can advance a student in one field, such as mathematics or language, without changing other studies, such as history or science. This type of acceleration is usually based upon achievement testing, rather than IQ.\n\nSome colleges offer early entrance programs that give gifted younger students the opportunity to attend college early. In the U.S., many community colleges allow advanced students to enroll with the consent of school officials and the pupils' parents.\n\nAcceleration presents gifted children academic material from established curricula that is commensurate with their ability and preparedness, and for this reason is a low-cost option from the perspective of the school. This may result in a small number of children taking classes targeted at older children. However, for the majority of gifted students, acceleration is beneficial both academically \"and socially\". \"Radical acceleration (acceleration by two or more years) is effective academically and socially for highly gifted students.\" Some advocates have argued that the disadvantages of being retained in a standard mixed-ability classroom are substantially worse than any shortcomings of acceleration. For example, psychologist Miraca Gross reports: \"the majority of these children [retained in a typical classroom] are socially rejected [by their peers with typical academic talents], isolated, and deeply unhappy. Children of IQ 180+ who are retained in the regular classroom are even more seriously at risk and experience severe emotional distress.\" These accelerated children should be placed together in one class if possible. Research suggests that acceleration might have an impact long after students graduate from high school. For example, one study shows that high-IQ individuals who experienced full-grade acceleration earned higher incomes as adults.\n\nLike acceleration, colloquium provides advanced material for high school students. In colloquium, students take Advanced Placement courses. However, colloquium is different from AP classes because students are usually given more projects than students in AP classes. Students in colloquium also generally study topics more in depth and sometimes in a different way than students enrolled in AP classes do. Colloquium is a form that takes place in a traditional public school. In colloquium, subjects are grouped together. Subjects are taught at different times of the day; however, usually what is being taught in one subject will connect with another subject. For example, if the students are learning about colonial America in History, then they might also be analyzing text from The Scarlet Letter in English. Some schools may only have colloquium in certain subjects. In schools where colloquium is only offered in English and History, colloquium students usually take Advanced Placement courses in math and science and vice versa.\n\nGifted students are pulled out of a heterogeneous classroom to spend a portion of their time in a gifted class. These programs vary widely, from carefully designed half-day academic programs to a single hour each week of educational challenges. Generally, these programs are ineffective at promoting academic advancement unless the material covered contains extensions and enrichment to the core curriculum. The majority of pull-out programs include an assortment of critical thinking drills, creative exercises, and subjects typically not introduced in standard curricula. Much of the material introduced in Gifted pull-out programs deals with the study of Logic, and its application to fields ranging from Philosophy to Mathematics. Students are encouraged to apply these empirical reasoning skills to every aspect of their education both in and outside of class. In some elementary classes such as math, students divide classes based on level: highest (gifted), median and lowest.\n\nCluster grouping is the gathering of four to six gifted and talented and/or high achieving students in a single classroom for the entire school day. Cluster teachers are specially trained in differentiating for gifted learners. Clusters are typically used in upper elementary grades. Within a cluster group, instruction may include enrichment and extensions, higher-order thinking skills, pretesting and differentiation, compacting, an accelerated pace, and more complexity in content.\n\nThese offer a variety of courses that mainly take place in the summer. Summer schools are popular in the United States. Entrance fees are required for such programs, and programs typically focus on one subject, or class, for the duration of the camp.\n\nSeveral examples of this type of program are:\n\nThere are also several websites that list summer enrichment programs:\n\nWithin the United States, in addition to programs designed by the state, some counties also choose to form their own Talented and Gifted Programs. Sometimes this means that an individual county will form its own TAG program; sometimes several counties will come together if not enough gifted students are present in a single county. Generally, a TAG program focuses on a specific age group, particularly the local TAG programs. This could mean elementary age, high school age, or by years such as ages 9 through 14.\n\nThese classes are generally organized so that students have the opportunity to choose several courses they wish to participate in. Courses offered often vary between subjects, but are not typically strictly academically related to that subject. For example, a TAG course that could be offered in history could be the students learning about a certain event and then acting it out in a performance to be presented to parents on the last night of the program. These courses are designed to challenge the students to think in new ways and not merely to be lectured as they are in school.\n\nSome gifted students are educated in either a separate class or a separate school. These classes and schools are sometimes called \"congregated gifted programs\" or \"dedicated gifted programs.\"\n\nSome independent schools have a primary mission to serve the needs of the academically gifted. Such schools are relatively scarce and often difficult for families to locate. Some of these schools can be located on the Wikipedia article entitled: \"List of gifted and talented programmes\". Another resource for locating gifted schools in the United States can be found on the National Association for Gifted Children's \"Resource Directory\" accessible through their home page. Such schools often need to work to guard their mission from occasional charges of elitism, support the professional growth and training of their staff, write curriculum units that are specifically designed to meet the social, emotional, and academic talents of their students, and educate their parent population at all ages.\n\nSome gifted and talented classes offer self-directed or individualized studies, where the students lead a class themselves and decide on their own task, tests, and all other assignments. These separate classes or schools tend to be more expensive than regular classes, due to smaller class sizes and lower student-to-teacher rations. Not-for-profit (non-profit) schools often can offer lower costs than for-profit schools. Either way, they are in high demand and parents have to pay part of the costs.\n\nAn umbrella term encompassing myriad educational options for gifted children: part-time schooling; school at home; classes, groups, mentors and tutors; and unschooling. In many US states, the population of gifted students who are being homeschooled is rising quite rapidly, as school districts responding to budgetary issues and standards-based policies are cutting what limited gifted education programs remain extant, and families seek educational opportunities that are tailored to each child's unique needs.\n\nThe term \"Gifted Assessment\" is typically applied to a process of using norm-referenced psychometric tests administered by a qualified psychologist or psychometrist with the goal of identifying children whose intellectual functioning is significantly advanced as compared to the appropriate reference group (i.e., individuals of their age, gender, and country). The cut-off score for differentiating this group is usually determined by district school boards and can differ slightly from area to area, however, the majority defines this group as students scoring in the top 2 percentiles on one of the accepted tests of intellectual (cognitive) functioning or IQ. Some school boards also require a child to demonstrate advanced academic standing on individualized achievement tests and/ or through their classroom performance. Identifying gifted children is often difficult but is very important because typical school teachers are not qualified to educate a gifted student. This can lead to a situation where a gifted child is bored, underachieves and misbehaves in class.\n\nIndividual IQ testing is usually the optimal method to identify giftedness among children. However it does not distinguish well among those found to be gifted. Therefore, examiners prefer using a variety of tests to first identify giftedness and then further differentiate. This is often done by using individual IQ tests and then group or individual achievement tests. There is no standard consensus on which tests to use, as each test is better suited for a certain role.\n\nThe two most popular tests for identifying giftedness in the school-age population are the WISC IV and the SB5. The WIAT III is considered the most popular academic achievement test to determine a child's aggregate learned knowledge.\n\nAlthough a newer WISC version, the WISC V, was developed in late 2014, the WISC IV is still the most commonplace test. It has been translated into several languages including Spanish, Portuguese, Norwegian, Swedish, French, German, Dutch, Japanese, Chinese, Korean, and Italian. The WISC-IV assesses a child's cognitive abilities, with respect to age group. Coupled with results from other tests, the WISC accurately depicts a child's developmental and psychological needs for the future.\n\nThe SB5 is an intelligence test that determines cognitive abilities and can be administered to persons in virtually any age group. It assesses a series of intelligence indicators including fluid reasoning, general knowledge, quantitative reasoning, spatial processing, and working memory. The SB5 makes use of both verbal and nonverbal testing.\n\nThe WIAT-III cannot assess all components of learned knowledge, but does give an understanding of a child's ability to acquire skills and knowledge through formal education. This test measures aspects of the learning process that take place in a traditional school setting in reading, writing, math, and oral language. Although the WIAT-III tests a wide range of material, it is designed primarily to assess children's learning before adolescence.\n\nVersions of these tests exist for each age group. However it is recommended to begin assessment as early as possible, with approximately eight years of age being the optimal time to test. Testing allows identification of specific needs of students and help to plan an education early.\n\nOut-of-group achievement testing (such as taking the SAT or ACT early) can also help to identify these students early on (see SMPY) and is implemented by various talent search programs in use by education programs. Out-of-group testing can also help to differentiate children who have scored in the highest percentiles in a single IQ test.\n\nTesting alone cannot accurately identify every gifted child. Teacher and parent nominations are essential additions to the objective information provided by grades and scores. Parents are encouraged to keep portfolios of their children's work, and documentation of their early signs of gifted behavior.\n\nControversies concerning gifted education are varied and often highly politicized. They are as basic as agreeing upon the appropriateness of the term 'gifted' or the definition of 'giftedness'. For example, does 'giftedness' refer to performance or potential (such as inherent intelligence)? Many students do not exhibit both at the same time.\n\nMeasures of general intelligence also remain controversial. Early IQ tests were notorious for producing higher IQ scores for privileged races and classes and lower scores for disadvantaged subgroups. Although IQ tests have changed substantially over the past half century, and many objections to the early tests have been addressed by 'culture neutral' tests (such as the Raven test), IQ testing remains controversial. Regardless of the tests used to identify children for gifted programs, many school districts in the United States still have disproportionately more White and Asian American students enrolled in their gifted programs, while Hispanic and African American students are usually underrepresented. However, research shows that this may be not be a fault of tests, but rather a result of the achievement gap in the United States.\n\nSome schools and districts only accept IQ tests as evidence of giftedness. This brings scrutiny to the fact that many affluent families can afford to consult with an educational psychologist to test their children, whereas families with a limited income cannot afford the test and must depend on district resources.\n\nAnother area of controversy has been the marginalization of gifted females with studies attributing it to self-efficacy, acculturation and biological differences in aptitude between boys and girls for advanced maths.\n\nGifted programs are often seen as being elitist in places where the majority of students receiving gifted services are from a privileged background. Identifying and serving gifted children from poverty presents unique challenges, ranging from emotional issues arising from a family's economic insecurity, to gaps in pre-school cognitive development due to the family's lack of education and time.\n\nIn New York City experience has shown that basing admission to gifted and talented programs on tests of any sort can result in selection of substantially more middle-class and white or Asian students and development of more programs in schools that such students attend.\n\nThis is the most hotly debated aspect of gifted education. Some people believe that gifted education resources lack availability and flexibility. They feel that in the alternative methods of gifted education, the gifted students \"miss out\" on having a \"normal\" childhood, at least insofar as \"normal childhood\" is defined as attending school in a mixed-ability classroom. Others believe that gifted education allows gifted students to interact with peers that are on their level, be adequately challenged, and leaves them better equipped to take on the challenges of life.\n\nAnother facet of this controversy is the effectiveness of the programs dependent upon resources that are pushed more toward students who are struggling. Gifted Education is not mandated in many states, making it elective for districts to earmark money for. Many lower-achieving districts and schools must make crisis decisions on programs that are not high priorities. As a result, gifted students at these schools are not served, or not served effectively.\n\nWhile giftedness is seen as an academic advantage, psychologically it can pose other challenges for the gifted individual. A person who is intellectually advanced may or may not be advanced in other areas. Each individual student needs to be evaluated for physical, social, and emotional skills without the traditional prejudices which prescribe either \"compensatory\" weaknesses or \"matching\" advancement in these areas.\n\nIt is a common misconception that gifted students are universally gifted in all areas of academics, and these misconceptions can have a variety of negative emotional effects on a gifted child. Unrealistically high expectations of academic success are often placed on gifted students by both parents and teachers. This pressure can cause gifted students to experience high levels of anxiety, to become perfectionists, and to develop a fear of failure. Gifted students come to define themselves and their identity through their giftedness, which can be problematic as their entire self-concept can be shaken when they do not live up to the unrealistically high expectations of others.\nA person with significant academic talents often finds it difficult to fit in with schoolmates. These pressures often wane during adulthood, but they can leave a significant negative impact on emotional development.\n\nSocial pressures can cause children to \"play down\" their intelligence in an effort to blend in with other students. \"Playing down\" is a strategy often used by students with clinical depression and is seen somewhat more frequently in socially acute adolescents. This behavior is usually discouraged by educators when they recognize it. Unfortunately, the very educators who want these children to challenge themselves and to embrace their gifts and talents are often the same people who are forced to discourage them in a mixed-ability classroom, through mechanisms like refusing to call on the talented student in class so that typical students have an opportunity to participate.\n\nStudents who are young, enthusiastic or aggressive are more likely to attract attention and to disrupt the class by working ahead, giving the correct answers all the time, asking for new assignments, or finding creative ways to entertain themselves while the rest of the class finishes an assignment. This behavior can be mistaken for ADHD. \n\nMany parents of gifted find that it is the social-emotional aspect of their children's lives that needs support. Schools and Talent Development programs often focus on academic enrichment rather than providing time for gifted kids to have the social interaction with true peers that is required for healthy development. National organizations such as Supporting Emotional Needs of the Gifted SENG as well as local organizations, have emerged in an effort to meet these needs.\n\nIt can also happen that some unidentified gifted students will get bored in regular class, daydream and lose track of where the class is in a lecture, and the teacher becomes convinced that the student is slow and struggling with the material.\n\nFinally, G&T students are statistically somewhat more likely to be diagnosed with a mental disorder such as bipolar disorder and to become addicted to drugs or alcohol. G&T students also have a higher chance of co-occurring learning disability. Gifted students with learning disability are often called twice exceptional. These students can require special attention in school.\n\nIn the United States, particularly in New York City where qualifying children as young as 4 are enrolled in enriched kindergarten classes offered by the public schools, a test preparation industry has grown up which closely monitors the nature of tests given to prospective students of gifted and talented programs. This can result in admission of significant numbers of students into programs who lack superior natural intellectual talent and exclusion of naturally talented students who did not participate in test preparation or lacked the resources to do so.\n\nIt is virtually impossible to train a child for a WISC test or other gifted test. Some websites are known for publishing test questions and answers, although using these is considered illegal since it is highly confidential information. It would also be disastrous if a non-gifted student was placed in a gifted program. Reviewing actual test questions can confuse children and stifles their natural thinking process, however reviewing similar style questions is a possibility.\n\nPrivate gifted assessment is usually expensive and educators recommend that parents take advantage of online screening tests to give a preliminary indication of potential giftedness. Another way to screen for giftedness before requesting a psychological assessment is to do a curriculum-based assessment. Curriculum-based assessment is a form of achievement testing that focuses specifically on what the child has been exposed to in their academic career. It can be done through school or a private educational center. Although this can determine if a child's performance in school potentially signifies giftedness, there are complications. For example, if a child changes school districts or country of residence, the different terminology of curriculum could hold that child back. Secondly, discrepancies between school districts, along with public and private education, create a very wide range of potential knowledge bases.\n\nResearchers and practitioners in gifted education contend that, if education were to follow the medical maxim of \"first, do no harm,\" then no further justification would be required for providing resources for gifted education as they believe gifted children to be at-risk. The notion that gifted children are \"at-risk\" was publicly declared in the Marland Report in 1972:\n\nGifted and Talented children are, in fact, deprived and can suffer psychological damage and permanent impairment of their abilities to function well which is equal to or greater than the similar deprivation suffered by any other population with special needs served by the Office of Education.\nThree decades later, a similar statement was made by researchers in the field: \nNational efforts to increase the availability of a variety of appropriate instructional and out-of-school provisions must be a high priority since \"research indicates that many of the emotional or social difficulties gifted students experience disappear when their educational climates are adapted to their level and pace of learning\".\" [emphasis added]\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32563949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32563949", "title": "International Adult and Continuing Education Hall of Fame", "text": "International Adult and Continuing Education Hall of Fame\n\nThe International Adult and Continuing Education (IACE) Hall of Fame was founded in 1996 \"to honor leaders in the fields of continuing education and adult learning and to serve as a record and inspiration for the next generation of continuing education leaders\". Annually, adult and continuing education leaders from around the world are selected for induction into the IACE Hall of Fame.\n\nThe story of the International Adult and Continuing Education Hall of Fame officially began in the early 1990s with the desire to provide a mechanism to honor and document contributions of the past to better build the future. Dr. Thurman J. White, a pioneer in the field of continuing education for adult and nontraditional students, contributor to the theoretical base of adult education and initiator of the Oklahoma College of Continuing Education at University of Oklahoma, initiated this idea in cooperation with current leaders and officers of several associations and organizations in the USA (University Continuing Education Association, American Society for Training and Development, AAACE/American Association of Adult and Continuing Education, ECOP/National Association of State Universities and Land Grant Colleges).\n\nThe Hall was incorporated in the state of Oklahoma on September 20, 1995, as a nonprofit corporation. The Hall of Fame, in the beginning focused mostly to the USA, more and more inducted members from other countries. In 2006 the first induction ceremony took place out of the USA (Bamberg, Germany).\nLogo of the society:\nThe Hall of Fame operates with a small central staff in the Office of the Vice President for Outreach at the University of Oklahoma. Inducted members elect a Board of Directors, which manages the induction process and organizes symposia and other Hall activities.\n\nScholars, practitioners, and policy makers reflect the diversity of adult and continuing education practice and scholarship and the increasingly global leadership community that constitutes the IACE Hall of Fame. Anyone may nominate a candidate for induction into the International Adult and Continuing Education Hall of Fame. A Selection Committee reviews nominations and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors, which selects the final group to be inducted every year. The Nomination Instructions claim: \"To be eligible for induction into the Hall of Fame, a person must be eminently distinguished in the profession, shall have brought honor or distinction, and shall have contributed to the heritage of adult and continuing education.\"\n\nSince the first induction in 1996, the Hall of Fame has inducted more than 250 members from 27 nations.\n\nThe official home for the International Adult and Continuing Education Hall of Fame is the University of Oklahoma's Oklahoma Center for Continuing Education (OCCE), Norman, Oklahoma.\n\nThe IACE Hall of Fame typically holds its annual induction ceremony and symposium in conjunction with the annual conference of a major national/international professional association in the field: for example in 2008 in Budapest in conjunction with the Unesco/Confintea-conference, in 2010 in Guadalajara with CREAD/Inter-American Distance Education Consortium, and 2011 in Toronto with UPCEA/University Professional & Continuing Education Association.\n"}
{"id": "45541620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45541620", "title": "Internationalization of higher education", "text": "Internationalization of higher education\n\nInternationalization of higher education in theory is \"the process of integrating an international, intercultural, or global dimension into the purpose, functions or delivery of postsecondary education.\" Internationalization of higher education in practice is \"the process of commercializing research and postsecondary education, and international competition for the recruitment of foreign students from wealthy and privileged countries in order to generate revenue, secure national profile, and build international reputation.\" The main components of internationalization of higher education are recruitment of international students, development of international branch campuses, students, staff and scholars exchange programs, internationalization of the curriculum, and research and education partnerships between institutions regionally and internationally.\n\nThere are specific rationales which are driving the internationalisation and strategies which are being used in the internationalisation of the high education institutions (HEIs).\n\nThere are three rationales of internationalization: \"idealism, instrumentalism and educationalism\".\n\nAn idealist rationale of internationalization in higher education can generate a more democratic, fair and equal world with regard to international cooperation.\n\nThe second rationale is consistent with its practical and economic goals. This rationale influences policy-makers on developing the level of transparency and mobilization between national educational systems, enabling and simplifying the mobility of people and integrating university degrees, grading systems etc. According to instrumentalists, higher education is a way of increasing profit, ensuring economic boost and sustainable development and transferring ideologies of governments, transnational corporations, stakeholders or supranational regimes.\n\nFurthermore, higher education is required to meet the demands of the capitalist and global world. In this respect, universities espousing internationalization are more likely to promote their country’s competitiveness in the global academic arena. Instrumentalism can be contrasted with idealism in terms of hidden ideocultural goals.\n\nEducationalists accept internationalization in higher education (HE) as a way of broadening the academic experiences of students and academic staff.\n\nGlobalisation leads to the challenges in HE systems of the world. These challenges can be figured out through the internationalisation strategies.‘Strategies’ indicate the most concrete level and comprise the academic and organizational initiatives at the institutional level. Strategies at the institutional level imply both program and organizational initiatives. Strategies are divided into two groups at institutional level such as \"academic and organizational strategies\".\n\nAcademic strategies focus on academic programmes, research and scholarly collaboration, external relations: domestic and cross-border and extra-curricular activities.\n\nOrganisational strategies include governance, operations, services and human resources. Governance mainly focuses on the active participation of faculty and staff, recognition of the international dimension in institutional mission/mandate statements and in planning, management. Additionally, it indicates the importance of operations which highlights appropriate organizational structures, systems for coordination, communication and cooperation, adequate financial support and resource allocation systems.\n\nFrom a critical point of view, the story of internationalization in the real world of higher education institutions may differ from what is literally expressed in official policy documents like strategic plans of internationalization. Considered to be a product of and response to globalization, internationalization is being critiqued for having an economic orientation. The central criticism is that within the Anglo-American tradition of higher education internationalization is increasingly associated with commodification and commercialization of postsecondary education. Internationalization of higher education has been criticized to be the process of international competition for recruitment of more foreign students from privileged countries in order to generate revenue, secure national profile, and build international reputation.\n"}
{"id": "14597503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14597503", "title": "Labour India", "text": "Labour India\n\nLabour India Publications Limited is an educational publisher based in Marangattupally, Kerala, India. It publishes educational monthly journals in three languages, for students of pre-primary level to Plus Two level and entrance exams.\nIt plans to formulate an educational curriculum of international standard and publishes textbooks and educational journals. It is an certified company.\n\nLabour India was founded by V.J. George Kulangara in 1983 and was listed as a public limited company in 1996. The educational research centre was renovated in 2004 and was inaugurated by K R Narayanan, former president of India. Santhosh George Kulangara is the present managing director of the group.\n\nLabour India's publications are sold to CBSE and Kerala syllabus students; they are currently available to Malayalam, English Medium, and Tamil medium students. The company also publishes educational VCDs, syllabus based multimedia CDs and DVDs, and general knowledge books and CDs including Quiz India series and English and Hindi grammar guides.\n\nLabour India has other establishments involved in the fields of educational research, boarding schools, [[e-learning, [[tourism]], [[Charitable organization|charity]] and [[hospitality]]. [[Labour India Gurukulam Public School]], International Gurukulam Schools, [[Bluefield International Academy]] in the [[United States|US]] and College of [[Teacher Education]] are its establishments. The visual travelogue \"[[Sancharam (TV series)|Sancharam]]\" is edited at Labour India's multimedia studio. The Labour India knowledge village, having facilities for training and learning educational support activities, was inaugurated by [[Rakesh Sharma]], the first [[cosmonaut]] from India, on 9 September 2008.\n\nThe Labour India group of companies is registered under Labour India Educational Society, [[Marangattupilly]] in [[Kottayam District]], [[Kerala]].\n\n[[Category:1983 establishments in India]]\n[[Category:Educational research]]\n[[Category:ISO standards]]\n[[Category:Magazine publishing companies of India]]\n[[Category:Malay-language magazines]]\n[[Category:Companies established in 1983]]\n[[Category:Companies based in Kerala]]\n[[Category:Education in Kerala]]"}
{"id": "1745942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1745942", "title": "Learning by teaching", "text": "Learning by teaching\n\nIn the field of pedagogy, learning by teaching (German: \"Lernen durch Lehren\", short LdL) is a method of teaching in which students are made to learn material and prepare lessons to teach it to the other students. There is a strong emphasis on acquisition of life skills along with the subject matter. This method was originally defined by Jean-Pol Martin in the 1980s.\n\nThe method of having students teach other students has been present since antiquity. Most often this was due to lack of resources. For example, the Monitorial System was an education method that became popular on a global scale during the early 19th century. It was developed in parallel by Scotsman Andrew Bell who had worked in Madras and Joseph Lancaster who worked in London; each attempted to educate masses of poor children with scant resources by having older children teach younger children what they had already learned.\n\nSystematic research into intentionally improving education, by having students learn by teaching began in the middle of the 20th century.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Jean-Pol Martin systematically developed the concept of having students teach other in the context of learning French as a foreign language, and he gave it a theoretical background in numerous publications. The method was originally resisted, as the German educational system generally emphasized discipline and rote learning. However the method became widely used in Germany in secondary education, and in the 1990s it was further formalized and began to be used in universities as well. By 2008 Martin had retired, and although he remained active Joachim Grzega took the lead in developing and promulgating LdL.\n\nAfter preparation by the teacher, students become responsible for their own learning and teaching. The new material is divided into small units and student groups of not more than three people are formed.\n\nStudents are then encouraged to experiment to find ways to teach the material to the others. Along with ensuring that students learn the material, another goal of the method, is to teach students life skills like respect for other people, planning, problem solving, taking chances in public, and communication skills. The teacher remains actively involved, stepping in to further explain or provide support if the teaching-students falter or the learning-students do not seem to understand the material.\n\nThe method is distinct from tutoring in that LdL is done in class, supported by the teacher, and distinct from student teaching, which is a part of teacher education.\n\nOne way of learning by teaching, is the plastic platypus learning or platypus learning technique. This technique is based on evidence that show that teaching an inanimate object improves understanding and knowledge retention of a subject. \n\nThe advantage of this technique is that that the learner does not need the presence of another person in order to teach the subject.\n\nThe name 'plastic platypus learning' is a paraphrase on the known software engineering technique rubber duck debugging, in which a programmer can find bugs in their code without the help of others, simply by explaining what the code does, line by line, to an inanimate object - namely, a rubber duck.\nTo increase the effectiveness of plastic platypus learning, learners are advised to do the following:\n\n1. Prepare notes while learning the subject.\n\n2. Prepare the lesson on the subject (as opposed to just teaching it unprepared; this section demands the most time and energy, and may be omitted in some situations).\n\n3. Teach the subject without using the notes at all (the student knows this beforehand).\nObviously, this technique may work with any inanimate object, and not just plastic platypuses.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21064268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21064268", "title": "National Education Goals Panel", "text": "National Education Goals Panel\n\nThe National Education Goals Panel (NEGP) was an organization formed in 1990 after a meeting of President George H.W. Bush and states' governors in Charlottesville in 1989. The organization was established to report on the nation's progress toward the six education goals adopted at the Charlottesville meeting. The 1994 Goals 2000 legislation formally established the National Education Goals Panel in federal law, and the legislation assigned it annual reporting responsibilities. The panel issued many reports between 1991 and 1999, and it was discontinued by the No Child Left Behind Act which became law in January, 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "5720497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5720497", "title": "Open learning", "text": "Open learning\n\nOpen learning is an innovative movement in education that emerged in the 1970s and evolved into fields of practice and study. The term refers generally to activities that either enhance learning opportunities within formal education systems or broaden learning opportunities beyond formal education systems. Open learning involves but is not limited to: classroom teaching methods, approaches to interactive learning, formats in work-related education and training, the cultures and ecologies of learning communities, and the development and use of open educational resources. While there is no agreed-upon, comprehensive definition of open learning, central focus is commonly placed on the \"needs of the learner as perceived by the learner.\" Case studies illustrate open learning as an innovation both within and across academic disciplines, professions, social sectors and national boundaries, and in business and industry, higher education institutions, collaborative initiatives between institutions, and schooling for young learners.\n\nOpen learning as a teaching method is founded on the work of Célestin Freinet in France and Maria Montessori in Italy, among others.\nOpen learning is supposed to allow pupils self-determined, independent and interest-guided learning. A prominent example is the language experience approach to teaching initial literacy (cf. Brügelmann/ Brinkmann 2011).\nMore recent work on open learning has been conducted by the German pedagogues Hans Brügelmann (1975; 1999), Falko Peschel (2002), Jörg Ramseger (1977) and Wulf Wallrabenstein (1991). The approach is supposed to face up to three challenges (cf. in more detail Brügelmann/ Brinkmann 2008, chap. 1):\n\n"}
{"id": "55812846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55812846", "title": "Paedagogi", "text": "Paedagogi\n\nIn the Roman Republic, the paedagogus, plural paedagogi or paedagogiani, was a slave or a freedman who taught the sons of Roman citizens the Greek language. In the period of the Roman Empire, the \"paedagogus\" became the director of the \"paedagogium\".\n\nIn the early Republic, there were no public schools, so boys were taught to read and write by their parents, or by educated slaves (\"paedagogi\") usually of Greek origin.\n\nA representation of a \"paedagogus\" was painted as a graffiti on the walls of the Palatine Paedagogium, and it represents his social and cultural formation, which is identified such an slave.\n\nIn an inscription of the second century dedicated to the Roman emperor Caracalla, it lists twenty-four \"paedagogi\". In some cases, the title of \"paedagogus\" is connected with private elite families.\n\nBeing a \"paedagogus\" meant to obey conduct and duty laws. In the imperial institution, the title of \"paedagogus\" refers to the duty of child-attendant or tutor rather than a teacher. The other title of \"paedagogus\" refers to a variety of interrelated capacities related to the offspring of the imperial family and aristocracy: \"disciplina\" (academic and moral instruction), \"custodia\" (companion and protector) and \"decorum\" (directives of precepts for public behaviour). There is a third title which appears in three inscriptions and means the director of the \"paedagogium\" (\"praeceptor\").\n\nIn other texts and graphics, slaves are divided depending on their membership of a larger servile environment (\"paedagogium\"), freedpersons (\"paedagogi\", \"paedagogiani\", \"custodes\" and \"procuratores\") and a community of persons (\"pueri\", \"iuvenes\", \"vernae domini nostri\").\n"}
{"id": "13535002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13535002", "title": "Peer support specialist", "text": "Peer support specialist\n\nA certified peer support specialist, also known as a certified peer specialist, is a person with significant life-altering experience. This is also referred to as \"lived experience\". These specialists support individuals with struggles pertaining to mental health, psychological trauma or substance use. Because of their lived experience, such persons have expertise that professional training cannot replicate. This is not to be confused with peer educators, who may not consider recovery a suitable goal for everyone and may focus instead on the principles of harm reduction.\n\nTasks performed by peer support specialists may include assisting their peers in articulating their goals for recovery, learning and practicing new skills, helping them monitor their progress, supporting them in their treatment, modeling effective coping techniques and self-help strategies based on the specialist's own recovery experience, and supporting them in advocating for themselves to obtain effective services.\n\nA peer recovery support specialist (P-RSS) is an occupational title of trained individuals who engage with peers in a community-based recovery center, or outside it around any number of activities, or over the telephone. The peer support specialist can work with individuals as they develop and implement a personal recovery plan, which can also serve as a contract for engagement.\n\nThe Veterans Administration has increased its number of peer specialists to 800 The VA uses peer support specialists much like local, state, and private agencies.\n\nRecovery plans can take many forms. A key component of the recovery management model is a personal recovery plan which is drawn up by the individual looking for support, and reviewed with an RSS. This plan is instrumental for individuals in the process of their recovery.\n\nCentral to such plans are the overall health and well-being of each individual, not just their mental health. Components often include support groups and individual therapy, basic health care maintenance, stable housing, improvements in family life and personal relationships, and community connections. The plan may also include education goals, vocational development and employment. Some plans outline a timetable for monitoring, and/or a plan for re-engagement when needed to balance the health and overall quality of life of each individual. \n\nPeer recovery support specialists can be found in an increasing variety of settings, including community-based recovery centers. Funding for peer recovery programs comes from a combination of federal and state agencies as well as local and national charities and grant programs, such as Catholic Charities and the United Way.\n\nWhen peer support specialists work in publicly funded services, they are required to meet government and state certification requirements. Since the adaptation of the Recovery Management Model by state and federal agencies, peer support specialist courses have been offered by numerous state, nonprofit and for-profit entities such as Connecticut Community for Addiction Recovery, PRO-ACT (Pennsylvania Recovery Organization-Achieving Community Together), The McShin Foundation, Tennessee Certified Peer Recovery Specialist Training and Program, Appalachian Consulting Group, and the State of New York's Office of Addiction Services. PARfessionals has developed the first internationally approved online training program for peer support specialists in the fields of mental health and addiction recovery. In addition, numerous for-profit firms offer peer support specialist training. Training includes courses on the ethics of a recovery coach, recovery coaching core competencies, clinical theories as stages of change, motivational interviewing, and co-occurring disorders.\n\nAdapted for the recovery support specialist by William L. White:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31180829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31180829", "title": "Philosophy of Education Society of Great Britain", "text": "Philosophy of Education Society of Great Britain\n\nThe Philosophy of Education Society of Great Britain was established in 1964 'to promote the development and teaching of the rigorous philosophical study of educational questions'. Professor Louis Arnaud Reid was the first President. The current chair of the society is Professor Paul Standish, head of the Centre for Philosophy at the UCL Institute of Education.\n\nThe Society has a regional network and its members are from both the UK and overseas. Membership is open to individuals who have been or are engaged in some form of study of the philosophy of education. It also holds regular events, including an annual conference and publishes the \"Journal of Philosophy of Education\" and the booklet series IMPACT.\n\nArchive material held at the Institute of Education. Available on the online catalogue\n"}
{"id": "3505907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3505907", "title": "Photovoice", "text": "Photovoice\n\nPhotovoice also known as picturevoice is a qualitative method used for community-based participatory research to document and reflect reality. It is an empowering and flexible process that combines photography with grassroots social action and is commonly used in the fields of community development, international development, public health, and education. Participants include community members of all ages and status including those who are discriminated against due to language, gender, race, class, disability, etc. Through their art, they bring new insights and perspectives which raise awareness of hidden or overlooked issues and aspects of the community.\n\nParticipants are asked to express their points of view or represent their communities by photographing scenes that highlight research themes. Common research themes include community concerns, community assets, social issues, and public health barriers. These photographs are collaboratively interpreted through discussions in both small and large groups, and narratives can be developed that explain how the photos highlight a particular research theme. These narratives are then used to promote dialogue to mobilize and help change-makers (i.e. policymakers) better understand and change the community. Thereby developing effective solutions and programs that address the issues and needs.\n\nPhotovoice was developed in 1992 by Caroline C. Wang of the University of Michigan, and Mary Ann Burris, Program Officer for Women's Health at the Ford Foundation headquartered in Beijing, China. The idea was built on the foundation that images and words together can effectively express communities and individual's needs, problems, and desires. In addition, the concept was strongly influenced by documentary photography, the concept empowerment, feminist theory, Paulo Freire's Pedagogy of the Oppressed to promote health education and his idea of critical consciousness.\n\nPhotovoice was first used to empower the silenced rural women in Yunnan Province, China to influence the policies and programs affecting them. Since then, the method has been used in different settings and populations, such as by refugees in San Diego seeking in–person medical interpretation options, by homeless adults in Ann Arbor, Michigan, by Dr. Claudia Mitchell to support community health workers and teachers in rural South Africa, and by Dr. Laura S. Lorenz of the Heller School for Social Policy and Management at Brandeis University in her work with brain injury survivors.\n\nIn the 21st century, some university professors have used the photovoice model to teach social work students. Photovoice has also been used in conjunction with collaging, drawing, and mapping in participatory studies which focus on the voice of participants and aim to make the familiar strange. In addition, it has been used as a tool to engage children and youth, giving them a safe environment and opportunity to communicate their concerns and coping strategies to policymakers and service providers. In other words, photovoice is used at all levels as a tool for self-development, sharing awareness, advocacy, research, needs assessment, monitoring, etc. So the use of photovoice allows one to capture and widen their perspective on all levels of various issues.\n\nAlso known as \"participatory photography\" or \"photo novella\", photovoice is considered a sub–type of \"participatory visual methods\" or picturevoice which includes techniques such as photo-elicitation and digital storytelling. These techniques allow research participants to create visuals that capture their individual perspectives as part of the research process. An example of this is found in Project Lives, a participatory photography project used to create a new image of project housing dwellers, published in April 2015. Two other forms of picturevoice include paintvoice, stemming from the work of Michael Yonas, and comicvoice, which has been pioneered by John Baird's \"Create a Comic Project\" since 2008, and to a lesser extent by Michael Bitz's \"Comic Book Project\".\n\nIn international research, photovoice has been seen to allow participants from the developing world to define how they want to be represented to the international community. The individuals are facilitated and given control to tell their stories and perspectives which empower them to be engaged and maintain a firm sense of authorship over their representations. This helps to convey a stereotype-free picture of what it means to live in a developing country to those supporting (i.e. funders and voters of the developed country) and doing international development (i.e. NGO and government agencies). In addition, photovoice allows the community to monitor the impact of the change created by development programs. This can help inform the outside agency about the process, true impacts (what is/isn't working and why), and complex reality, thus accompany wider and deeper research and analysis to improve the development progress.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18960210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18960210", "title": "Plagiarism", "text": "Plagiarism\n\nPlagiarism is the \"wrongful appropriation\" and \"stealing and publication\" of another author's \"language, thoughts, ideas, or expressions\" and the representation of them as one's own original work.\n\nPlagiarism is considered academic dishonesty and a breach of journalistic ethics. It is subject to sanctions such as penalties, suspension, and even expulsion from school or work. Recently, cases of \"extreme plagiarism\" have been identified in academia. The modern concept of plagiarism as immoral and originality as an ideal emerged in Europe in the 18th century, particularly with the Romantic movement.\n\nPlagiarism is not in itself a crime, but can constitute copyright infringement. In academia and industry, it is a serious ethical offense. Plagiarism and copyright infringement overlap to a considerable extent, but they are not equivalent concepts, and many types of plagiarism do not constitute copyright infringement, which is defined by copyright law and may be adjudicated by courts. Plagiarism is not defined or punished by law, but rather by institutions (including professional associations, educational institutions, and commercial entities, such as publishing companies).\n\nIn the 1st century, the use of the Latin word \"plagiarius\" (literally \"kidnapper\") to denote stealing someone else's work was pioneered by the Roman poet Martial, who complained that another poet had \"kidnapped his verses\". \"Plagiary\", a derivative of \"plagiarus\", was introduced into English in 1601 by dramatist Ben Jonson during the Jacobean Era to describe someone guilty of literary theft.\n\nThe derived form \"plagiarism\" was introduced into English around 1620. The Latin \"plagiārius\", \"kidnapper\", and \"plagium\", \"kidnapping\", have the root \"plaga\" (\"snare\", \"net\"), based on the Indo-European root \"*-plak\", \"to weave\" (seen for instance in Greek \"plekein\", Bulgarian \"плета\" \"pleta\", and Latin \"plectere\", all meaning \"to weave\").\n\nAlthough plagiarism in some contexts is considered theft or stealing, the concept does not exist in a legal sense, although the use of someone else's work in order to gain academic credit may meet some legal definitions of fraud. \"Plagiarism\" specifically is not mentioned in any current statute, either criminal or civil. Some cases may be treated as unfair competition or a violation of the doctrine of moral rights. The increased availability of copyrighted material due to the development of information technology has furthered the debate as to whether copyright offences are criminal. In short, people are asked to use the guideline, \"if you did not write it yourself, you must give credit\".\n\nPlagiarism is not the same as copyright infringement. While both terms may apply to a particular act, they are different concepts, and false claims of authorship generally constitute plagiarism regardless of whether the material is protected by copyright. Copyright infringement is a violation of the rights of a copyright holder, when material whose use is restricted by copyright is used without consent. Plagiarism, in contrast, is concerned with the unearned increment to the plagiarizing author's reputation, or the obtaining of academic credit, that is achieved through false claims of authorship. Thus, plagiarism is considered a moral offense against the plagiarist's audience (for example, a reader, listener, or teacher).\n\nPlagiarism is also considered a moral offense against anyone who has provided the plagiarist with a benefit in exchange for what is specifically supposed to be original content (for example, the plagiarist's publisher, employer, or teacher). In such cases, acts of plagiarism may sometimes also form part of a claim for breach of the plagiarist's contract, or, if done knowingly, for a civil wrong.\n\nWithin academia, plagiarism by students, professors, or researchers is considered academic dishonesty or academic fraud, and offenders are subject to academic censure, up to and including expulsion. Some institutions use plagiarism detection software to uncover potential plagiarism and to deter students from plagiarizing. Some universities address the issue of academic integrity by providing students with thorough orientations, required writing courses, and clearly articulated honor codes. Indeed, there is a virtually uniform understanding among college students that plagiarism is wrong. Nevertheless, each year students are brought before their institutions’ disciplinary boards on charges that they have misused sources in their schoolwork.\" However, the practice of plagiarizing by use of sufficient word substitutions to elude detection software, known as rogeting, has rapidly evolved as students and unethical academics seek to stay ahead of detection software. \n\nAn extreme form of plagiarism, known as contract cheating involves students paying someone else, such as an essay mill, to do their work for them.\n\nIn journalism, plagiarism is considered a breach of journalistic ethics, and reporters caught plagiarizing typically face disciplinary measures ranging from suspension to termination of employment. Some individuals caught plagiarizing in academic or journalistic contexts claim that they plagiarized unintentionally, by failing to include quotations or give the appropriate citation. While plagiarism in scholarship and journalism has a centuries-old history, the development of the Internet, where articles appear as electronic text, has made the physical act of copying the work of others much easier.\n\nPredicated upon an expected level of learning/comprehension having been achieved, all associated academic accreditation becomes seriously undermined if plagiarism is allowed to become the norm within academic submissions.\n\nFor professors and researchers, plagiarism is punished by sanctions ranging from suspension to termination, along with the loss of credibility and perceived integrity. Charges of plagiarism against students and professors are typically heard by internal disciplinary committees, by which students and professors have agreed to be bound. Plagiarism is a common reason for academic research papers to be retracted.\n\n No universally adopted definition of academic plagiarism exists; however, this section provides several definitions to exemplify the most common characteristics of academic plagiarism.\n\nAccording to Bela Gipp academic plagiarism encompasses:\n\n\"The use of ideas, concepts, words, or structures without appropriately acknowledging the source to benefit in a setting where originality is expected.\"\n\nThe definition by B. Gipp is an abridged version of Teddi Fishman's definition of plagiarism, which proposed five elements characteristic of plagiarism. According to T. Fishman, plagiarism occurs when someone:\n\nFurthermore, plagiarism is defined differently among institutions of higher learning and universities:\n\n\nAccording to a 2015 survey of teachers and professors by Turnitin there are 10 main forms of plagiarism that students commit:\n\n\nIn the academic world, plagiarism by students is usually considered a very serious offense that can result in punishments such as a failing grade on the particular assignment, the entire course, or even being expelled from the institution. Generally, the punishment increases as a person enters higher institutions of learning. The seriousness with which academic institutions address student plagiarism may be tempered by a recognition that students may not fully understand what plagiarism is. A 2015 study showed that students who were new to university study did not have a good understanding of even the basic requirements of how to attribute sources in written academic work, yet students were very confident that they understood what referencing and plagiarism are. The same students also had a lenient view of how plagiarism should be penalised.\n\nFor cases of repeated plagiarism, or for cases in which a student commits severe plagiarism (e.g., purchasing an assignment), suspension or expulsion may occur. There has been historic concern about inconsistencies in penalties administered for university student plagiarism, and a plagiarism tariff was devised in 2008 for UK higher education institutions in an attempt to encourage some standardization of approaches.\n\nHowever, to impose sanctions, plagiarism needs to be detected. Strategies faculty members use to detect plagiarism include carefully reading students work and making note of inconsistencies in student writing, citation errors and providing plagiarism prevention education to students. It has been found that a significant share of (university) teachers do not use detection methods such as using text-matching software. A few more try to detect plagiarism by reading term-papers specifically for plagiarism, while the latter method might be not very effective in detecting plagiarism – especially when plagiarism from unfamiliar sources needs to be detected. There are checklists of tactics to prevent student plagiarism.\n\nThere are allegations that some diploma mills take students' money for essays, then produce a low standard essay or close their websites without providing the purchased essay. Students then have little time to provide an essay before a deadline. Also diploma mills have allegedly blackmailed students demanding more money than was originally agreed and threatening to reveal plagiarism to the university unless more money is paid. Sorana Vieru of the NUS said, “We would urge those who are struggling to seek support through their unions and universities rather than looking to a quick fix, and be aware that using these websites could cost not only money but jeopardise their qualifications.”\n\nThere are calls for diploma mills to be made illegal in the United Kingdom, in New Zealand and some juristictions in the United States they are already illegal.\n\nGiven the serious consequences that plagiarism has for students, there has been a call for a greater emphasis on learning in order to help students avoid committing plagiarism. This is especially important when students move to a new institution that may have a different view of the concept when compared with the view previously developed by the student. Indeed, given the seriousness of plagiarism accusations for a student's future, the pedagogy of plagiarism education may need to be considered ahead of the pedagogy of the discipline being studied. The need for plagiarism education extends to academic staff, who may not completely understand what is expected of their students or the consequences of misconduct.\n\nSeveral studies investigated factors that influence the decision to plagiarize. For example, a panel study with students from German universities found that academic procrastination predicts the frequency plagiarism conducted within six months followed the measurement of academic procrastination. It has been argued that by plagiarizing students cope with the negative consequences that result from academic procrastination such as poor grades. Another study found that plagiarism is more frequent if students perceive plagiarism as beneficial and if they have the opportunity to plagiarize. When students had expected higher sanctions and when they had internalized social norms that define plagiarism as very objectionable, plagiarism was less likely to occur.\n\nSince journalism relies on the public trust, a reporter's failure to honestly acknowledge their sources undercuts a newspaper or television news show's integrity and undermines its credibility. Journalists accused of plagiarism are often suspended from their reporting tasks while the charges are being investigated by the news organization.\n\nThe reuse of significant, identical, or nearly identical portions of one's own work without acknowledging that one is doing so or citing the original work is sometimes described as \"self-plagiarism\"; the term \"recycling fraud\" has also been used to describe this practice. Articles of this nature are often referred to as duplicate or multiple publication. In addition there can be a copyright issue if copyright of the prior work has been transferred to another entity. Self-plagiarism is considered a serious ethical issue in settings where someone asserts that a publication consists of new material, such as in publishing or factual documentation. It does not apply to public-interest texts, such as social, professional, and cultural opinions usually published in newspapers and magazines.\n\nIn academic fields, self-plagiarism occurs when an author reuses portions of their own published and copyrighted work in subsequent publications, but without attributing the previous publication. Identifying self-plagiarism is often difficult because limited reuse of material is accepted both legally (as fair use) and ethically.\n\nMiguel Roig has written at length about the topic of self-plagiarism and his definition of self-plagiarism as using previously disseminated work is widely accepted among scholars of the topic. However, the \"self-plagiarism\" has been challenged as being self-contradictory, an oxymoron, and on other grounds.\n\nFor example, Stephanie J. Bird argues that self-plagiarism is a misnomer, since by definition plagiarism concerns the use of others' material. Bird identifies the ethical issues of \"self-plagiarism\" as those of \"dual or redundant publication.\" She also notes that in an educational context, \"self-plagiarism\" refers to the case of a student who resubmits \"the same essay for credit in two different courses.\" As David B. Resnik clarifies, \"Self-plagiarism involves dishonesty but not intellectual theft.\" \n\nAccording to Patrick M. Scanlon\n\n\"Self-plagiarism\" is a term with some specialized currency. Most prominently, it is used in discussions of research and publishing integrity in biomedicine, where heavy publish-or-perish demands have led to a rash of duplicate and \"salami-slicing\" publication, the reporting of a single study's results in \"least publishable units\" within multiple articles (Blancett, Flanagin, & Young, 1995; Jefferson, 1998; Kassirer & Angell, 1995; Lowe, 2003; McCarthy, 1993; Schein & Paladugu, 2001; Wheeler, 1989). Roig (2002) offers a useful classification system including four types of self-plagiarism: duplicate publication of an article in more than one journal; partitioning of one study into multiple publications, often called salami-slicing; text recycling; and copyright infringement.\n\nSome academic journals have codes of ethics that specifically refer to self-plagiarism. For example, the \"Journal of International Business Studies\". Some professional organizations like the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) have created policies that deal specifically with self-plagiarism. Other organizations do not make specific reference to self-plagiarism such as the American Political Science Association (APSA). The organization published a code of ethics that describes plagiarism as \"...deliberate appropriation of the works of others represented as one's own.\" It does not make any reference to self-plagiarism. It does say that when a thesis or dissertation is published \"in whole or in part\", the author is \"not ordinarily under an ethical obligation to acknowledge its origins.\" The American Society for Public Administration (ASPA) also published a code of ethics that says its members are committed to: \"Ensure that others receive credit for their work and contributions,\" but it makes no reference to self-plagiarism.\n\nPamela Samuelson, in 1994, identified several factors she says excuse reuse of one's previously published work, that make it not self-plagiarism. She relates each of these factors specifically to the ethical issue of self-plagiarism, as distinct from the legal issue of fair use of copyright, which she deals with separately. Among other factors that may excuse reuse of previously published material Samuelson lists the following:\n\n\nSamuelson states she has relied on the \"different audience\" rationale when attempting to bridge interdisciplinary communities. She refers to writing for different legal and technical communities, saying: \"there are often paragraphs or sequences of paragraphs that can be bodily lifted from one article to the other. And, in truth, I lift them.\" She refers to her own practice of converting \"a technical article into a law review article with relatively few changes—adding footnotes and one substantive section\" for a different audience.\n\nSamuelson describes misrepresentation as the basis of self-plagiarism. She also states \"Although it seems not to have been raised in any of the self-plagiarism cases, copyrights law's fair use defense would likely provide a shield against many potential publisher claims of copyright infringement against authors who reused portions of their previous works.\"\n\nPlagiarism is presumably not an issue when organizations issue collective unsigned works since they do not assign credit for originality to particular people. For example, the American Historical Association's \"Statement on Standards of Professional Conduct\" (2005) regarding textbooks and reference books states that, since textbooks and encyclopedias are summaries of other scholars' work, they are not bound by the same exacting standards of attribution as original research and may be allowed a greater \"extent of dependence\" on other works. However, even such a book does not make use of words, phrases, or paragraphs from another text or follow too closely the other text's arrangement and organization, and the authors of such texts are also expected to \"acknowledge the sources of recent or distinctive findings and interpretations, those not yet a part of the common understanding of the profession.\"\n\nThrough all of the history of literature and of the arts in general, works of art are for a large part repetitions of the tradition; to the entire history of artistic creativity belong plagiarism, literary theft, appropriation, incorporation, retelling, rewriting, recapitulation, revision, reprise, thematic variation, ironic retake, parody, imitation, stylistic theft, pastiches, collages, and deliberate assemblages. There is no rigorous and precise distinction between practices like imitation, stylistic plagiarism, copy, replica and forgery. These appropriation procedures are the main axis of a literate culture, in which the tradition of the canonic past is being constantly rewritten.\n\nRuth Graham quotes T.S. Eliot—\"Immature poets imitate; mature poets steal. Bad poets deface what they take.\"—she notes that despite the \"taboo\" of plagiarism, the ill-will and embarrassment it causes in the modern context, readers seem to often forgive the past excesses of historic literary offenders.\n\nA passage of Laurence Sterne's 1767 \"Tristram Shandy\" condemns plagiarism by resorting to plagiarism. Oliver Goldsmith commented:\n\nSterne's Writings, in which it is clearly shewn, that he, whose manner and style were so long thought original, was, in fact, the most unhesitating plagiarist who ever cribbed from his predecessors in order to garnish his own pages. It must be owned, at the same time, that Sterne selects the materials of his mosaic work with so much art, places them so well, and polishes them so highly, that in most cases we are disposed to pardon the want of originality, in consideration of the exquisite talent with which the borrowed materials are wrought up into the new form.\n\nFree online tools are becoming available to help identify plagiarism, and there are a range of approaches that attempt to limit online copying, such as disabling right clicking and placing warning banners regarding copyrights on web pages. Instances of plagiarism that involve copyright violation may be addressed by the rightful content owners sending a DMCA removal notice to the offending site-owner, or to the ISP that is hosting the offending site. The term \"content scraping\" has arisen to describe the copying and pasting of information from websites and blogs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5778022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5778022", "title": "Regional accreditation", "text": "Regional accreditation\n\nRegional accreditation is the educational accreditation of schools, colleges, and universities in the United States by one of seven regional accrediting agencies. Accreditation is a voluntary process by which colleges demonstrate to each other, and sometimes to employers and licensing agencies, that their credits and degrees meet minimum standards. It is the self-regulation of the higher education industry.\n\nEach regional accreditor oversees the vast majority of public and private educational institutions, both not-for-profit and for-profit, in its region. Their primary function is accreditation of post-secondary institutions, though there is a limited amount of accreditation of primary and secondary schools.\n\nWhile it might seem that national accreditation would be more important than regional accreditation, this is generally not the case. Regional accreditation is older, and with a few exceptions, more prestigious than national accreditation. Most non-profit institutions are regionally accredited, while most for-profit colleges and universities are served primarily by national accrediting agencies.\n\nThe following are the seven active regional accrediting agencies for educational institutions in the United States:\n\n\nThe seven organizations form the Council of Regional Accrediting Commissions (C-RAC). Each regional accrediting commission's executive directors and commission chairs sit on C-RAC and periodically promulgate principles and guidelines which are followed by the regional commissions. Although the principles do not replace individual commission regulations, they provide a basis for assessing accreditation practice between regions.\n\nAll regional agencies have accrediting authority for colleges and universities, 2-year, 4-year, or both. Some agencies also have accrediting authority over K-12 schools (primary and secondaryschools). Both the northwestern and mid-Atlantic regions divide responsibility between two separate accreditation agencies with one focusing on primary and secondary schools and the other focusing on postsecondary institutions. In the western region, there is a separate commission that accredits 2-year colleges.\n\nThe regional accrediting agencies were established in the late 19th and early 20th centuries in response to a perceived need for better articulation between secondary schools and higher education institutions (the school offered the courses the college needed applicants to have taken; this helped colleges and universities evaluate prospective students). The New England Association was formed in 1885 by a group of schoolmasters of secondary schools. The Middle States Association formed in 1887. The faculty of Vanderbilt University led the establishment of the Southern Association in 1895, and the North Central Association was organized the same year at a meeting of 36 administrators of midwestern schools, colleges, and universities. The Northwest Association of Secondary and Higher Schools (predecessor of the two organizations that now serve that region) was formed in 1917 and the Western Association was founded in 1923.\n\nInitially the main focus of the organizations was on accreditation of secondary schools and establishment of uniform college entrance requirements. Regional accreditation replaced other methods, such as the Association of American Universities's \"AAU Accepted List\" (1914-1948).\n\nAccreditation first emerged as a regional rather than national activity because it typically involved site visits, and the fastest transportation available at the time was the railroad.\n\nRegionally accredited institutions are usually academically oriented, state-owned or non-profit private institutions. Nationally accredited schools are usually career-oriented and for profit. Both regional and national accreditations are recognized by the United States Department of Education (U.S.DoED) , the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA).\n\nEvery college in the United States has the right to set standards and to accept or refuse to accept transfer credits. If a student has attended a school that is not regionally accredited, it may be difficult or impossible to have the credits, or even the degree earned, recognized by a regionally accredited college (or employer). A 2005 study by the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that, in making decisions on credit transfer, about 84 percent of U.S. higher education institutions considered whether the sending institution is accredited, and many had policies stating that they would accept credits only from regionally accredited institutions. About 63 percent of institutions told the GAO that they would accept credit from any regionally accredited institution, but only 14 percent similarly accepted credits from nationally accredited schools. Regionally accredited institutions are reluctant to accept credits from nationally accredited institutions due, in part, to national accreditors' less stringent standards for criteria such as faculty qualifications and library resources. Students who anticipate transferring credits from a nationally accredited school to a regionally accredited one are advised to verify in advance that the credits will be accepted.\n\nIn general, the names of U.S. post-secondary institutions and their degree titles do not indicate whether the institution is accredited or the type of accreditation it holds. Rules on this topic vary from state to state. For example, Tennessee Higher Education Commission regulations require that post-secondary institutions in the state of Tennessee must be regionally accredited to use the word \"university\" in their names, and that a school lacking regional accreditation may not use the word \"college\" in its name without adding a qualifier such as \"career\", \"vocational\", \"business\", \"technical\", \"art\", \"Bible\", or \"Christian\". Tennessee rules also specify that only regionally accredited schools can issue liberal arts degrees or degree titles such as Associate of Arts or Science and Bachelor of Arts or Science.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3437663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3437663", "title": "Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics", "text": "Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics\n\nScience, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM), previously Science, Math, Engineering and Technology (SMET), is a term used to group together these academic disciplines. This term is typically used when addressing education policy and curriculum choices in schools to improve competitiveness in science and technology development. It has implications for workforce development, national security concerns and immigration policy.\n\nThe acronym came into common use shortly after an interagency meeting on science education held at the US National Science Foundation chaired by the then NSF director Rita Colwell.\nA director from the Office of Science division of Workforce Development for Teachers and Scientists, Peter Faletra, suggested the change from the older acronym SMET to STEM. Colwell, expressing some dislike for the older acronym, responded by suggesting NSF institute the change. However, the acronym STEM predates NSF and likely traces its origin to Charles Vela, the founder and director of the Center for the Advancement of Hispanics in Science and Engineering Education (CAHSEE). In the early 1990's CAHSEE started a summer program for talented under-represented students in the Washington, DC area called the STEM Institute. Based on the program's recognized success and his expertise in STEM education, Charles Vela was asked to serve on numerous NSF and Congressional panels in science, mathematics and engineering education; it is through this manner that NSF was first introduced to the acronym STEM. One of the first NSF projects to use the acronym was STEMTEC, the Science, Technology, Engineering and Math Teacher Education Collaborative at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, which was founded in 1998.\n\n\nIn the United States, the acronym began to be used in education and immigration debates in initiatives to begin to address the perceived lack of qualified candidates for high-tech jobs. It also addresses concern that the subjects are often taught in isolation, instead of as an integrated curriculum. Maintaining a citizenry that is well versed in the STEM fields is a key portion of the public education agenda of the United States. The acronym has been widely used in the immigration debate regarding access to United States work visas for immigrants who are skilled in these fields. It has also become commonplace in education discussions as a reference to the shortage of skilled workers and inadequate education in these areas. The term tends not to refer to the non-professional and less visible sectors of the fields, such as electronics assembly line work.\n\nMany organizations in the United States follow the guidelines of the National Science Foundation on what constitutes a STEM field. The NSF uses a broader definition of STEM subjects that includes subjects in the fields of chemistry, computer and information technology science, engineering, geosciences, life sciences, mathematical sciences, physics and astronomy, social sciences (anthropology, economics, psychology and sociology), and STEM education and learning research. Eligibility for scholarship programs such as the CSM STEM Scholars Program use the NSF definition.\n\nThe NSF is the only American federal agency whose mission includes support for all fields of fundamental science and engineering, except for medical sciences. Its disciplinary program areas include scholarships, grants, fellowships in fields such as biological sciences, computer and information science and engineering, education and human resources, engineering, environmental research and education, geosciences, international science and engineering, mathematical and physical sciences, social, behavioral and economic sciences, cyberinfrastructure, and polar programs.\n\nAlthough many organizations in the United States follow the guidelines of the National Science Foundation on what constitutes a STEM field, the United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has its own functional definition used for immigration policy. In 2012, DHS or ICE announced an expanded list of STEM designated-degree programs that qualify eligible graduates on student visas for an optional practical training (OPT) extension. Under the OPT program, international students who graduate from colleges and universities in the United States are able to remain in the country and receive training through work experience for up to 12 months. Students who graduate from a designated STEM degree program can remain for an additional 17 months on an OPT STEM extension.\n\nAn exhaustive list of STEM disciplines does not exist because the definition varies by organization. The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement lists disciplines including physics, actuarial science, chemistry, biology, mathematics, applied mathematics, statistics, computer science, computational science, psychology, biochemistry, robotics, computer engineering, electrical engineering, electronics, mechanical engineering, industrial engineering, information science, information technology, civil engineering, aerospace engineering, chemical engineering, astrophysics, astronomy, optics, nanotechnology, nuclear physics, mathematical biology, operations research, neurobiology, biomechanics, bioinformatics, acoustical engineering, geographic information systems, atmospheric sciences, educational/instructional technology, software engineering, and educational research.\n\nBy cultivating an interest in the natural and social sciences in preschool or immediately following school entry, the chances of STEM success in high school can be greatly improved. School integration can help black, Hispanic and aboriginal students catch up with Asian and white students.\n\nSTEM supports broadening the study of engineering within each of the other subjects, and beginning engineering at younger grades, even elementary school. It also brings STEM education to all students rather than only the gifted programs. In his 2012 budget, President Barack Obama renamed and broadened the \"Mathematics and Science Partnership (MSP)\" to award block grants to states for improving teacher education in those subjects.\n\nIn the 2015 run of the international assessment test the Program for International Student Assessment (PISA), American students came out 35th in mathematics, 24th in reading and 25th in science, out of 109 countries. The United States also ranked 29th in the percentage of 24-year-olds with science or mathematics degrees. \n\nSTEM education often uses new technologies such as RepRap 3D printers to encourage interest in STEM fields.\n\nIn 2006 the United States National Academies expressed their concern about the declining state of STEM education in the United States. Its Committee on Science, Engineering, and Public Policy developed a list of 10 actions. Their top three recommendations were to:\n\nThe National Aeronautics and Space Administration also has implemented programs and curricula to advance STEM education in order to replenish the pool of scientists, engineers and mathematicians who will lead space exploration in the 21st century.\n\nIndividual states, such as California, have run pilot after-school STEM programs to learn what the most promising practices are and how to implement them to increase the chance of student success. Another state to invest in STEM education is Florida, where Florida Polytechnic University, Florida’s first public university for engineering and technology dedicated to science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), was established. During school, STEM programs have been established for many districts throughout the U.S. Some states include New Jersey, Arizona, Virginia, North Carolina, Texas, and Ohio.\n\nContinuing STEM education has expanded to the post-secondary level through masters programs such as the University of Maryland's STEM Program as well as the University of Cincinnati.\n\nIn the United States, the National Science Foundation found that the average science score on the 2011 National Assessment of Educational Progress was lower for black and Hispanic students than white, Asian, and Pacific Islanders. In 2011, eleven percent of the U.S. workforce was black, while only six percent of STEM workers were black. Though STEM in the U.S. has typically been dominated by white males, there have been considerable efforts to create initiatives to make STEM a more racially and gender diverse field. Some evidence suggests that all students, including black and Hispanic students, have a better chance of earning a STEM degree if they attend a college or university at which their entering academic credentials are at least as high as the average student's.\n\nIn the State of the Union Address on January 31, 2006, President George W. Bush announced the American Competitiveness Initiative. Bush proposed the initiative to address shortfalls in federal government support of educational development and progress at all academic levels in the STEM fields. In detail, the initiative called for significant increases in federal funding for advanced R&D programs (including a doubling of federal funding support for advanced research in the physical sciences through DOE) and an increase in U.S. higher education graduates within STEM disciplines.\n\nThe \"NASA Means Business\" competition, sponsored by the Texas Space Grant Consortium, furthers that goal. College students compete to develop promotional plans to encourage students in middle and high school to study STEM subjects and to inspire professors in STEM fields to involve their students in outreach activities that support STEM education.\n\nThe National Science Foundation has numerous programs in STEM education, including some for K–12 students such as the ITEST Program that supports The Global Challenge Award ITEST Program. STEM programs have been implemented in some Arizona schools. They implement higher cognitive skills for students and enable them to inquire and use techniques used by professionals in the STEM fields.\n\nThe STEM Academy is a national nonprofit-status organization dedicated to improving STEM literacy for all students. It represents a recognized national next-generation high-impact academic model. The practices, strategies, and programming are built upon a foundation of identified national best practices which are designed to improve under-represented minority and low-income student growth, close achievement gaps, decrease dropout rates, increase high school graduation rates and improve teacher and principal effectiveness. The STEM Academy represents a flexible use academic model that targets all schools and is for all students.\n\nProject Lead The Way (PLTW) is a leading provider of STEM education curricular programs to middle and high schools in the United States. The national nonprofit organization has over 5,200 programs in over 4,700 schools in all 50 states. Programs include a high school engineering curriculum called \"Pathway To Engineering\", a high school biomedical sciences program, and a middle school engineering and technology program called \"Gateway To Technology\". PLTW provides the curriculum and the teacher professional development and ongoing support to create transformational programs in schools, districts, and communities. PLTW programs have been endorsed by President Barack Obama and United States Secretary of Education Arne Duncan as well as various state, national, and business leaders.\n\n\"The Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Education Coalition\" works to support STEM programs for teachers and students at the U. S. Department of Education, the National Science Foundation, and other agencies that offer STEM-related programs. Activity of the STEM Coalition seems to have slowed since September 2008.\n\nIn 20102, the Boy Scouts of America began handing out awards, titled NOVA and SUPERNOVA, for completing specific requirements appropriate to scouts' program level in each of the four main STEM areas. The Girl Scouts of the USA has similarly incorporated STEM into their program through the introduction of merit badges such as \"Naturalist\" and \"Digital Art\".\n\nSAE is an international organization, solutions'provider specialized on supporting education, award and scholarship programs for STEM matters, from pre-K to the College degree. It also promotes scientific and technologic innovation.\n\nThe eCybermission is a free, web-based science, mathematics and technology competition for students in grades six through nine sponsored by the U.S. Army. Each webinar is focused on a different step of the scientific method and is presented by an experienced eCybermission CyberGuide. CyberGuides are military and civilian volunteers with a strong background in STEM and STEM education, who are able to provide valuable insight into science, technology, engineering, and mathematics to students and team advisers.\n\nSTARBASE is a premier educational program, sponsored by the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs. Students interact with military personnel to explore careers and make connections with the \"real world.\" The program provides students with 20–25 hours of stimulating experiences at National Guard, Navy, Marines, Air Force Reserve and Air Force bases across the nation.\n\nSeaPerch is an innovative underwater robotics program that trains teachers to teach their students how to build an underwater remotely operated vehicle (ROV) in an in-school or out-of-school setting. Students build the ROV from a kit composed of low-cost, easily accessible parts, following a curriculum that teaches basic engineering and science concepts with a marine engineering theme.\n\nNASAStem is a program of the U.S. space agency NASA to increase diversity within its ranks, including age, disability, and gender as well as race/ethnicity.\n\nThe America COMPETES Act (P.L. 110-69) became law on August 9, 2007. It is intended to increase the nation's investment in science and engineering research and in STEM education from kindergarten to graduate school and postdoctoral education. The act authorizes funding increases for the National Science Foundation, National Institute of Standards and Technology laboratories, and the Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Science over FY2008–FY2010. Robert Gabrys, Director of Education at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center, articulated success as increased student achievement, early expression of student interest in STEM subjects, and student preparedness to enter the workforce.\n\nIn November 2012 the White House announcement before congressional vote on the STEM Jobs Act put President Obama in opposition to many of the Silicon Valley firms and executives who bankrolled his re-election campaign. The Department of Labor identified 14 sectors that are \"projected to add substantial numbers of new jobs to the economy or affect the growth of other industries or are being transformed by technology and innovation requiring new sets of skills for workers.\" The identified sectors were as follows: advanced manufacturing, Automotive, construction, financial services, geospatial technology, homeland security, information technology, Transportation, Aerospace, Biotechnology, energy, healthcare, hospitality, and retail.\n\nThe Department of Commerce notes STEM fields careers are some of the best-paying and have the greatest potential for job growth in the early 21st century. The report also notes that STEM workers play a key role in the sustained growth and stability of the U.S. economy, and training in STEM fields generally results in higher wages, whether or not they work in a STEM field.\n\nIn 2015, there were around 9.0 million STEM jobs in the United States, representing 6.1% of American employment. STEM jobs were increasing around 9% percent per year.. Brookings Institution found that the demand for competent technology graduates will surpass the number of capable applicants by at least one million individuals.  The BLS noted that almost 100 percent of STEM jobs require postsecondary education, while only 36 percent of other jobs call for that same degree.\n\nPEW findings revealed that Americans identified several issues that hound STEM education which included unconcerned parents, disinterested students, obsolete curriculum materials, and too much focus on state parameters. 57 percent of survey respondents pointed out that one main problem of STEM is lack of students’ concentration in learning. \n\nThe recent National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) report card made public technology as well as engineering literacy scores which determines whether students have the capability to apply technology and engineering proficiency to real-life scenarios. The report showed a gap of 28 points between low-income students and their high-income counterparts. The same report also indicated a 38-point difference between white and black students.\n\nThe 2019 fiscal budget proposal of the White House supported the funding plan in President Donald Trump’s Memorandum on STEM Education which allocated around $200 million (grant funding) on STEM education every year. This budget also supports STEM through a grant program worth $20 million for career as well as technical education programs. In September 2017, a number of large American technology firms collectively pledged to donate $300 million for computer science education in the U.S.\n\nCanada ranks 12th out of 16 peer countries in the percentage of its graduates who studied in STEM programs, with 21.2%, a number higher than the United States, but lower than France, Germany, and Austria. The peer country with the greatest proportion of STEM graduates, Finland, has over 30% of their university graduates coming from science, mathematics, computer science, and engineering programs.\n\nSHAD is an annual Canadian summer enrichment program for high-achieving high school students in July. The program focuses on academic learning particularly in STEAM fields.\n\nScouts Canada has taken similar measures to their American counterpart to promote STEM fields to youth. Their STEM program began in 2015.\n\nIn 2011 Canadian entrepreneur and philanthropist Seymour Schulich established the Schulich Leader Scholarships, $100 million in $60,000 scholarships for students beginning their university education in a STEM program at 20 institutions across Canada. Each year 40 Canadian students would be selected to receive the award, two at each institution, with the goal of attracting gifted youth into the STEM fields. The program also supplies STEM scholarships to five participating universities in Israel.\n\nSeveral European projects have promoted STEM education and careers in Europe. For instance, Scientix is a European cooperation of STEM teachers, education scientists, and policymakers. The SciChallenge project used a social media contest and the student-generated content to increase motivation of pre- university students for STEM education and careers.\n\nSTEM education has not been promoted among the local schools in Hong Kong until recent years. In November 2015, the Education Bureau of Hong Kong released a document entitled \"Promotion of STEM Education\", which proposes the strategies and recommendations on promoting STEM education.\n\nTurkish STEM Education Task Force (or FeTeMM—Fen Bilimleri, Teknoloji, Mühendislik ve Matematik) is a coalition of academicians and teachers who show an effort to increase the quality of education in STEM fields rather than focussing on increasing the number of STEM graduates.\n\nIn Qatar, AL-Bairaq is an outreach program to high-school students with a curriculum that focuses on STEM, run by the Center for Advanced Materials (CAM) at Qatar University. Each year around 946 students, from about 40 high schools, participate in AL-Bairaq competitions. AL-Bairaq make use of project-based learning, encourages students to solve authentic problems, and inquires them to work with each other as a team to build real solutions. Research has so far shown positive results for the program.\n\nIn Vietnam, beginning in 2012 many private education organizations has STEM education initiatives.\n\nIn 2015, the Ministry of Science and Technology and Liên minh STEM organized the first National STEM day, followed by many similar events across the country.\n\nin 2015, Ministry of Education and Training included STEM as an area needed to be encouraged in national school year program.\n\nIn May 2017, Prime Minister signed a Directive no. 16 stating: \"Dramatically change the policies, contents, education and vocational training methods to create a human resource capable of receiving new production technology trends, with a focus on promoting training in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), foreign languages, information technology in general education; \" and asking \"Ministry of Education and Training (to): Promote the deployment of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education in general education program; Pilot organize in some high schools from 2017 to 2018.\n\nWomen constitute 47% of the U.S. workforce, and perform 24% of STEM-related jobs. In the UK women perform 13% of STEM-related jobs (2014). In the U.S. women with STEM degrees are more likely to work in education or healthcare rather than STEM fields compared with their male counterparts.\n\nThe gender ratio depends on field of study. For example, in the European Union in 2012 women made up 47.3% of the total, 51% of the social sciences, business and law, 42% of the science, mathematics and computing, 28% of engineering, manufacturing and construction, and 59% of PhD graduates in Health and Welfare.\n\nThe focus on increasing participation in STEM fields has attracted criticism. In the 2014 article \"The Myth of the Science and Engineering Shortage\" in \"The Atlantic\", demographer Michael S. Teitelbaum criticized the efforts of the U.S. government to increase the number of STEM graduates, saying that, among studies on the subject, \"No one has been able to find any evidence indicating current widespread labor market shortages or hiring difficulties in science and engineering occupations that require bachelor's degrees or higher\", and that \"Most studies report that real wages in many—but not all—science and engineering occupations have been flat or slow-growing, and unemployment as high or higher than in many comparably-skilled occupations.\" Teitelbaum also wrote that the then-current national fixation on increasing STEM participation paralleled previous U.S. government efforts since World War II to increase the number of scientists and engineers, all of which he stated ultimately ended up in \"mass layoffs, hiring freezes, and funding cuts\"; including one driven by the Space Race of the late 1950s and 1960s, which he wrote led to \"a bust of serious magnitude in the 1970s.\"\n\n\"IEEE Spectrum\" contributing editor Robert N. Charette echoed these sentiments in the 2013 article \"The STEM Crisis Is a Myth\", also noting that there was a \"mismatch between earning a STEM degree and having a STEM job\" in the United States, with only around ¼ of STEM graduates working in STEM fields, while less than half of workers in STEM fields have a STEM degree.\n\nEconomics writer Ben Casselman, in a 2014 study of post-graduation earnings for \"FiveThirtyEight\", wrote that, based on the data, science should not be grouped with the other three STEM categories, because, while the other three generally result in high-paying jobs, \"many sciences, particularly the life sciences, pay below the overall median for recent college graduates.\"\n\nEfforts to remedy the perceived domination of STEM subjects by men of Asian and non-Hispanic European backgrounds has led to intense efforts to diversify the STEM workforce. However, some critics feel that this practice in higher education, as opposed to a strict meritocracy, causes lower academic standards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41841758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41841758", "title": "Slow education", "text": "Slow education\n\nSlow education is based upon Socratic, adaptive and non-standards based approaches to teaching. Slow education is in part a reaction to the overly compacted course content requirements teachers are experiencing from nationalized curricula worldwide, which many educators find students cannot cover in a single year with sufficient depth. Slow education is also a reaction to the proliferation of standardized testing, favoring instead qualitative measures of student and teacher success. Slow education is frequently a feature in free, democratic and home schools. However, it can be a significant element in any classroom, including those in college preparatory and rigorous environments. The term \"slow education\" was derived from the distinction between slow food and fast food or junk food, and is an effort to associate quality, culture and personalization with quality schooling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "436831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=436831", "title": "Special education", "text": "Special education\n\nSpecial education (also known as special needs education, aided education, exceptional education or Special Ed) is the practice of educating students in a way that addresses their individual differences and needs. Ideally, this process involves the individually planned and systematically monitored arrangement of teaching procedures, adapted equipment and materials, and accessible settings. These interventions are designed to help individuals with special needs achieve a higher level of personal self-sufficiency and success in school and in their community which may not be available if the student were only given access to a typical classroom education.\n\nCommon special needs include learning disabilities (such as dyslexia), communication disorders, emotional and behavioral disorders (such as ADHD), physical disabilities (such as osteogenesis imperfecta, cerebral palsy, muscular dystrophy, spina bifida, and Friedreich's ataxia), and developmental disabilities (such as autism spectrum disorders and intellectual disability). Students with these kinds of special needs are likely to benefit from additional educational services such as different approaches to teaching, the use of technology, a specifically adapted teaching area, or a resource room.\n\nIntellectual giftedness is a difference in learning and can also benefit from specialised teaching techniques or different educational programs, but the term \"special education\" is generally used to specifically indicate instruction of students with disabilities. Gifted education is handled separately.\n\nWhereas special education is designed specifically for students with special needs, remedial education can be designed for any students, with or without special needs; the defining trait is simply that they have reached a point of unpreparedness, regardless of why. For example, even people of high intelligence can be under-prepared if their education was disrupted, for example, by internal displacement during civil disorder or a war.\n\nIn most developed countries, educators modify teaching methods and environments so that the maximum number of students are served in general education environments. Therefore, special education in developed countries is often regarded as a service rather than a place. Integration can reduce social stigmas and improve academic achievement for many students.\n\nThe opposite of special education is \"general education\". General education is the standard curriculum presented without special teaching methods or supports. Students receiving special education services can enroll in a General education setting to learn along with students without disabilities.\n\nSome children are easily identified as candidates for special needs due to their medical history. They may have been diagnosed with a genetic condition that is associated with intellectual disability, may have various forms of brain damage, may have a developmental disorder, may have visual or hearing disabilities, or other disabilities.\n\nFor students with less obvious disabilities, such as those who have learning difficulties, two primary methods have been used for identifying them: the \"discrepancy model\" and the \"response to intervention model\". The discrepancy model depends on the teacher noticing that the students' achievements are noticeably below what is expected. At which the teacher may make the decision for the student to receive support from a special education specialist. Before doing so, the teacher must show documentation of low academic achievement. The response to intervention model advocates earlier intervention.\n\nIn the discrepancy model, a student receives special education services for a specific learning difficulty (SLD) if the student has at least normal intelligence and the student's academic achievement is below what is expected of a student with his or her IQ. Although the discrepancy model has dominated the school system for many years, there has been substantial criticism of this approach (e.g., Aaron, 1995, Flanagan and Mascolo, 2005) among researchers. One reason for criticism is that diagnosing SLDs on the basis of the discrepancy between achievement and IQ does not predict the effectiveness of treatment. Low academic achievers who also have low IQ appear to benefit from treatment just as much as low academic achievers who have normal or high intelligence.\n\nThe alternative approach, response to intervention, identifies children who are having difficulties in school in their first or second year after starting school. They then receive additional assistance such as participating in a reading remediation program. The response of the children to this intervention then determines whether they are designated as having a learning disability. Those few who still have trouble may then receive designation and further assistance. Sternberg (1999) has argued that early remediation can greatly reduce the number of children meeting diagnostic criteria for learning disabilities. He has also suggested that the focus on learning disabilities and the provision of accommodations in school fails to acknowledge that people have a range of strengths and weaknesses and places undue emphasis on academics by insisting that students should be supported in this arena and not in music or sports.\n\nA special education program should be customised to address each individual student's unique needs. Special educators provide a continuum of services, in which students with special needs receives varying degrees of support based on their individual needs. Special education programs need to be individualised so that they address the unique combination of needs in a given student.\n\nIn the United States, Canada, and the UK, educational professionals use a student's Individualized Education Program (IEP). Another name for a student's Individualized Education Plan is a student's Individual Learning Plan (ILP).\n\n\"The IEP is meant to address each child’s unique learning issues and include specific educational goals. It is a legally binding document. The school must provide everything it promises in the IEP.\"\n\nFor children who are not yet 3, an Individual Family Service Plan (IFSP) contains information on the child's present level of development in all areas; outcomes for the child and family; and services the child and family will receive to help them achieve the outcomes.\n\nIn the United States, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) is a federal law that requires that every school system in the nation must provide a free and appropriate public education for every child, ages 3 to 22, regardless of how or how seriously that child may be disabled. To ensure that this federal law is obeyed, the government requires every school system provide this type of education to each student in order to receive federal funding.\n\nStudents with special needs are assessed to determine their specific strengths and weaknesses. The earlier these students with special needs are assessed, the better it is for them to get the accommodations that they need in order for them to get the most out of their education. Placement, resources, and goals are determined on the basis of the student's needs. Accommodations and Modifications to the regular program may include changes in the curriculum, supplementary aides or equipment, and the provision of specialized physical adaptations that allow students to participate in the educational environment as much as possible. Students may need this help to access subject matter, physically gain access to the school, or meet their emotional needs. For example, if the assessment determines that the student cannot write by hand because of a physical disability, then the school might provide a computer for typing assignments, or allow the student to answer questions verbally instead. If the school determines that the student is severely distracted by the normal activities in a large, busy classroom, then the student might be placed in a smaller classroom such as a resource room.\n\nParent of students with a learning disability must know what type of disability their child has, so they can get accommodations such as speech therapy, occupational therapy and adaptive physical education.For example, if a student takes an academic test and it indicates that the student struggles with reading comprehension, parents can request speech and language support or classroom accommodations, such as extra time to complete reading and writing tasks.\nSchools use different approaches to providing special education services to students. These approaches can be broadly grouped into four categories, according to how much contact the student with special needs has with non-disabled students (using North American terminology):\n\n\n\nA \"special school\" is a school catering for students who have special educational needs due to learning difficulties, physical disabilities or behavioural problems. Special schools may be specifically designed, staffed and resourced to provide appropriate special education for children with additional needs. Students attending special schools generally do not attend any classes in mainstream schools.\n\nSpecial schools provide individualised education, addressing specific needs. Student to teacher ratios are kept low, often 6:1 or lower depending upon the needs of the children. Special schools will also have other facilities for children with special needs, such as soft play areas, sensory rooms, or swimming pools, which are necessary for treating students with certain conditions.\n\nIn recent times, places available in special schools are declining as more children with special needs are educated in mainstream schools. However, there will always be some children, whose learning needs cannot be appropriately met in a regular classroom setting and will require specialised education and resources to provide the level of support they require. An example of a disability that may require a student to attend a special school is intellectual disability. However, this practice is often frowned upon by school districts in the US in the light of Least Restrictive Environment as mandated in the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.\n\nAn alternative is a special unit or special classroom, also called a self-contained classroom, which is a separate room or rooms dedicated solely to the education of students with special needs within a larger school that also provides general education. These classrooms are typically staffed by specially trained teachers, who provide specific, individualised instruction to individuals and small groups of students with special needs. Self-contained classrooms, because they are located in a general education school, may have students who remain in the self-contained classroom full-time, or students who are included in certain general education classes. In the United States a part-time alternative that is appropriate for some students is sometimes called a resource room.\n\nOne of the first special schools in the world was the Institut National des Jeunes Aveugles in Paris, which was founded in 1784. It was the first school in the world to teach blind students.\nThe first school in U.K, for the Deaf was established 1760 in Edinburgh by Thomas Braidwood, with education for visually impaired people beginning in the Edinburgh and Bristol in 1765.\n\nIn the 19th century, people with disabilities and the inhumane conditions where they were supposedly housed and educated were addressed in the literature of Charles Dickens. Dickens characterized people with severe disabilities as having the same, if not more, compassion and insight in Bleak House and Little Dorrit.\n\nSuch attention to the downtrodden conditions of people with disabilities brought resulted in reforms in Europe including the re-evaluation of special schools. In the United States reform came more slowly. Throughout the mid half of the 20th century, special schools, termed institutions, were not only accepted, but encouraged. Students with disabilities were housed with people with mental illnesses, and they were not educated much, if at all.\n\nDeinstitutionalization proceeded in the US beginning in the 1970s following the exposes of the institutions, and it has taken sometime before the Education for All Handicapped Children's Act of 1974, to the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) and then Individuals with Disabilities Educational Improvement Act (IDEIA) have come into fruition. School integration was supported as early as the 1970s, and teacher preparation programs in higher education have carefully taught and instructed graduates on inclusion at the classroom, individual, school, and district levels for decades resulting in dual certification of \"regular teachers\".\n\nWith the Amendments to the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act of 1997, school districts in the United States began to slowly integrate students with moderate and severe special needs into regular school systems. This changed the form and function of special education services in many school districts and special schools subsequently saw a steady decrease in enrollment as districts weighed the cost per student. It also posed general funding dilemmas to certain local schools and districts, changed how schools view assessments, and formally introduced the concept of inclusion to many educators, students and parents.\n\nThe student can be taught in either a classroom or outside environment. Both environments can be interactive for the student to engage better with the subject.\n\nDifferent instructional techniques are used for some students with special educational needs. Instructional strategies are classified as being either \"accommodations\" or \"modifications\".\n\nAn \"accommodation\" is a reasonable adjustment to teaching practices so that the student learns the same material, but in a format that is more accessible to the student. Accommodations may be classified by whether they change the presentation, response, setting, or scheduling of lessons. For example, the school may accommodate a student with visual impairments by providing a large-print textbook. This is a presentation accommodation. A \"modification\" changes or adapts the material to make it simpler. Modifications may change what is learned, how difficult the material is, what level of mastery the student is expected to achieve, whether or how the student is assessed, or any other aspect of the curriculum. For example, the school may modify a reading assignment for a student with reading difficulties by substituting a shorter, easier book. A student may receive both accommodations and modifications.\n\n\n\nAll developed countries permit or require some degree of accommodation for students with special needs, and special provisions are usually made in examinations which take place at the end of formal schooling.\n\nIn addition to how the student is taught the academic curriculum, schools may provide non-academic services to the student. These are intended ultimately to increase the student's personal and academic abilities. Related services include developmental, corrective, and other supportive services as are required to assist a student with special needs and includes speech and language pathology, audiology, psychological services, physical therapy, occupational therapy, counseling services, including rehabilitation counseling, orientation and mobility services, medical services as defined by regulations, parent counseling and training, school health services, school social work, assistive technology services, other appropriate developmental or corrective support services, appropriate access to recreation and other appropriate support services. In some countries, most related services are provided by the schools; in others, they are provided by the normal healthcare and social services systems.\n\nAs an example, students who have autistic spectrum disorders, poor impulse control, or other behavioral challenges may learn self-management techniques, be kept closely on a comfortingly predictable schedule, or given extra cues to signal activities.\n\nA university field, termed \"severe disabilities\", also is taught throughout the US university sector in schools of education. Advanced instruction is based upon community-referenced instruction, and alignment with transition to adulthood and progressive community practices.\n\nRehabilitation counseling personnel are often association with supported employment services, and typically with \"transition to adulthood\" in which multi-decade recommendations for better coordination between the school and the community service sectors have been made at the federal and university levels.\n\nAt-risk students (those with educational needs that are not associated with a disability) are often placed in classes with students who have disabilities. Critics assert that placing at-risk students in the same classes as students with disabilities may impede the educational progress of people with disabilities.\nSome special education classes have been criticized for a watered-down curriculum.\n\nThe practice of inclusion (in mainstream classrooms) has been criticized by advocates and some parents of children with special needs because some of these students require instructional methods that differ dramatically from typical classroom methods. Critics assert that it is not possible to deliver effectively two or more very different instructional methods in the same classroom. As a result, the educational progress of students who depend on different instructional methods to learn often fall even further behind their peers.\n\nParents of typically developing children sometimes fear that the special needs of a single \"fully included\" student will take critical levels of attention and energy away from the rest of the class and thereby impair the academic achievements of all students.\n\nLinked to this, there is debate about the extent to which students with special needs, whether in mainstream or special settings, should have a specific pedagogy, based on the scientific study of particular diagnostic categories, or whether general instructional techniques are relevant to all students including those with special needs.\n\nSome parents, advocates, and students have concerns about the eligibility criteria and their application. In some cases, parents and students protest the students' placement into special education programs. For example, a student may be placed into the special education programs due to a mental health condition such as obsessive compulsive disorder, depression, anxiety, panic attacks or ADHD, while the student and his parents believe that the condition is adequately managed through medication and outside therapy. In other cases, students whose parents believe they require the additional support of special education services are denied participation in the program based on the eligibility criteria.\n\nWhether it is useful and appropriate to attempt to educate the most severely disabled children, such as children who are in a persistent vegetative state, is debated. While many severely disabled children can learn simple tasks, such as pushing a buzzer when they want attention, some children may be incapable of learning. Some parents and advocates say that these children would be better served by substituting improved physical care for any academic program. In other cases, they question whether teaching such non-academic subjects, such as pushing a buzzer, is properly the job of the school system, rather than the health care system.\n\nAnother large issue is the lack of resources enabling individuals with special needs to receive an education in the developing world. As a consequence, 98 percent of children with special needs in developing countries do not have access to education.\n\nAnother issue would be budget cuts. Cuts can affect special education students who don't have access to proper equipment or education. The National Coalition for Personal Shortages did a survey and almost 100% of the teachers said that they are not able to give the proper rights to children with disabilities. Teachers are getting cut off from work due to the budget cuts.\n\nThere is a financial debate that covers the use and allotment of special education government funding. The three views on this topic are that we spend too much money on it, there is not enough money put into it or that the money that is given isn't being spent properly. The argument for the first is that the amount of money spent on one special needs child is enough to cover a large group of general education students, and sometimes even causes several students to suffer budget cuts on general programs to support one child. The evidence for special education not having enough money is the lack of teachers, burnt out teachers and a limited variety of teaching tools for each student. The argument to spend the money differently states that there is a lot of money set aside, but that it is being wasted by spending too much time on paperwork, inefficient IEP meetings or spending money on things that don't actually benefit the child.\n\nChildren with disabilities are often denied their right to education. However, little is known about their school attendance patterns. The collection of data on children with disabilities is not straightforward, but data are vital to ensure that policies are in place to address the constraints these children face.\n\nBy one estimate, 93 million children under age 14, or 5.1% of the world's children, were living with a ‘moderate or severe disability’ in 2004. According to the World Health Survey, in 14 of 15 low and middle income countries, people of working age with disabilities were about one-third less likely to have completed primary school. For example, in Bangladesh, 30% of people with disabilities had completed primary school, compared with 48% of those with no disabilities. The corresponding shares were 43% and 57% in Zambia; 56% and 72% in Paraguay.\n\nIt has been shown that children with a higher risk of disability are far more likely to be denied a chance to go to school. In Bangladesh, Bhutan and Iraq, children with mental impairments were most likely to be denied this right. In Iraq, for instance, 10% of 6- to 9-year-olds with no risk of disability had never been to school in 2006, but 19% of those at risk of having a hearing impairment and 51% of those who were at higher risk of mental disability had never been to school. In Thailand, almost all 6- to 9-year-olds who had no disability had been to school in 2005/06, and yet 34% of those with walking or moving impairments had never been to school.\n\nChildren with disabilities require access to services that can support them throughout their time in school, such as more individual attention from instructors. According to the United Nations Centre for Human Rights, about 2% of children with disabilities have access to these services. Those without access to these services are excluded from education and unable to attend school. Due to the need of certain services and facilities, the estimated cost of providing education for a child with disabilities is 2.3 times higher than a child without disabilities. Given the poverty levels in a variety of developing countries, the education of children with disabilities does not become a priority. Children with physical disabilities are less likely to attend school in comparison with students who do not have a disability and children with an intellectual ability are even less likely than children with physical disabilities. In the Global South, 90% of children with some form of disability do not receive any form of structured education. While current initiatives toward inclusive education internationally have been implemented, such as the Education for All program, some countries in the Global South still challenge the lack of ability to provide children with disabilities access to education due to issues such as lack of resources and schools being overcrowded.\n\nWhite Papers in 1995 and 2001 discuss special education in the country. Local schools are given some independent authority.\n\nBoth modifications and accommodations are recommended, depending on the student's individual needs.\n\n\nChina holds the largest system of education in the world and features a state run public school system under the order of the Ministry of Education.\nJapanese students with special needs are placed in one of four different school arrangements: special schools, special classrooms with another school, in resource rooms (which are called \"tsukyu\"), or in regular classrooms.\n\nSpecial schools are reserved for students whose severe disabilities cannot be accommodated in the local school. They do not use the same grading or marking systems as mainstream schools, but instead assess students according to their individualized plans.\n\nSpecial classes are similar, and may vary the national curriculum as the teachers see fit. \"Tsukyu\" are resource rooms that students with milder problems use part-time for specialized instruction individually in small groups. These students spend the rest of the day in the mainstream classroom. Some students with special needs are fully included in the mainstream classroom, with accommodations or modifications as needed.\n\nTraining of disabled students, particularly at the upper-secondary level, emphasizes vocational education to enable students to be as independent as possible within society. Vocational training varies considerably depending on the student's disability, but the options are limited for some. It is clear that the government is aware of the necessity of broadening the range of possibilities for these students. Advancement to higher education is also a goal of the government, and it struggles to have institutions of higher learning accept more disabled students.\n\n\nAfter independence (1947), Pakistan had to face some serious challenges, due to which no proper emphasis was given to special education and even education. Among other reasons, lack of resources, financial as well as human, was the major one in this context. The need and importance of special education was felt in different educational policies of Pakistan in different times. At the first time, in its report, the Commission on National Education (1959) highlighted the importance of special education. After that the Education Policy (1972) and the National Policy and Implementation Programme (1979) gave some importance to this sector. The same was also reflected in different medium-term (five-year) plans. This was felt more seriously when the Directorate General of Special Education, Islamabad formulated a draft National Policy for Special Education in 1986 and revised it in 1988 to bring it in line with the emerging needs of special/disabled population. After that a special education policy was launched in 1999. Recently, Government of Pakistan has launched a new National Policy for Persons with Disabilities 2002, which is dynamically being implemented.\n\nSpecial education is regulated centrally by the Singapore Ministry of Education. Both special schools and integration into mainstream schools are options for students with special educational needs, but most students with disabilities are placed in special schools.\n\nStudents with special education who wish accommodations on national exams must provide appropriate documentation to prove that they are disabled. Accommodations, but not modifications (e.g., simpler questions) are normally approved if they are similar to the accommodations already being used in everyday schoolwork, with the goal of maintaining the exam's integrity while not having students unfairly disadvantaged by factors that are unrelated to what is being tested. The accommodations are listed on the Primary School Leaving Exam.\n\nAustralian Association of Special Education Inc (AASE)‘s position is informed by the Disability Standards for Education 2005 which require that students with disabilities are treated on the same basis as other students in regards to enrollment and participation in education.\n\nWith respect to standardized tests, special consideration procedures are in place in all states for students who are disabled. Students must provide documentation Not all desired forms of accommodations are available. For example, students who cannot read, even if the inability to read is due to a disability, cannot have the exam read to them, because the exam results should accurately show that the student is unable to read. Reports on matriculation exams do not mention whether the student received any accommodations in taking the test.\n\nEach country in Europe has its own special education support structures. 28 European countries are covered by the European Agency for Special Needs and Inclusive Education.\n\n\nSchools must take students' special education needs into account when assessing their achievements. Students with disabilities are normally included in their neighborhood school, although may be placed in special schools.\n\n\nIn Denmark, 99% of students with specific learning difficulties like dyslexia are educated alongside students without any learning challenges.\n\n\nSchools adapt the national guidelines to the needs of individual students. Students with special educational needs are given an individualized plan.\n\nThey may be exempted from some parts of school examinations, such as students with hearing impairments not taking listening comprehension tests. If the student receives modifications to the school-leaving exams, this is noted on the certificate of achievement. If they are not following the national core curriculum, then they are tested according to the goals of their individual educational program.\n\n\nFrench students with disabilities are normally included in their neighborhood school, although children may be placed in special schools if their personalized plan calls for it. Each student's personalized school plan describes teaching methods, psychological, medical and paramedical services that the school will provide to the student.\n\n\nMost students with special needs in Germany attend a special school that serves only children with special needs. These include:\n\nOne in 21 German students attends a special school. Teachers at those schools are specially trained professionals who have specialized in special needs education while in university. Special schools often have a very favorable student-teacher ratio and facilities other schools do not have.\n\nSome special needs children in Germany do not attend a special school, but are educated in a mainstream school such as a Hauptschule or Gesamtschule (comprehensive school).\n\nStudents with special educational needs may be exempted from standardized tests or given modified tests.\n\n\nGreek students with special needs may attend either mainstream schools or special schools.\n\nStudents whose disabilities have been certified may be exempted from some standardized tests or given alternative tests. Accommodations are responsive to students' needs; for example, students with visual impairments may take oral tests, and students with hearing impairments take written tests. Accommodations and modifications are noted on the certificate of achievement.\n\nSpecial education is regulated centrally.\n\nAccording to the 1993 Act on Public Education, students with special educational needs may be exempted from standardized tests or given modified tests. They have a right to extra time, a choice of formats for the tests (e.g., oral rather than written), and any equipment that they normally use during the school day.\n\nAs of 2006, students with disabilities received a significant bonus (eight points) on the university entrance examination, which has been criticized as unfair.\n\nThe National Council for Special Education (NCSE) supports students with physical and intellectual disabilities.\n\n\nAs a general rule, students with special educational needs are integrated into their regular, mainstream schools with appropriate support, under the \"Going to School Together\" policy (\"Weer Samen Naar School\"). Four types of disability-specific special schools exist. The national policy is moving towards \"suitable education\" (\"passend onderwijs\"), based on the individual's strengths and weaknesses.\n\nA strong emphasis is placed on the specific needs and positive capabilities of the individual, rather than on limitations. Disabilities are normally documented by experts.\n\nNorway\n\nThe National Support System for Special Needs Education (Statped) is managed by the Norwegian Directorate for Education and Training. The general objective for Statped is to give guidance and support to those in charge of the education in municipalities and county administrations to ensure that children, young people and adults with major and special educational needs are secured well-advised educational and developmental provisions. The institutions affiliated with Statped offer a broad spectrum of services. Statped consists of 13 resource centres owned by the State, and 4 units for special education, where Statped buys services. These centres offer special educational guidance and support for local authorities and county administrations.\n\n\nStudents with disabilities have a \"guaranteed right\" to appropriate accommodations on assessments. Schools are generally considered autonomous.\n\n\nOn national tests, the National Examination Center normally grants most requests for accommodations that are supported by the local school's examination committee. Legislation opposes the use of modifications that would be unfair to non-disabled students.\n\n\nSchools are required to provide services and resources to students with special educational needs so that they make progress and participate in school. If the local school is unable to provide appropriately for an individual student, then the student may be transferred to a special school.\n\nSpanish non-governmental organizations like ONCE have traditionally provided significant services to students with disabilities.\n\n\nLocal schools have significant autonomy, based on national guidelines. Schools are expected to help students meet the goals that are set for them.\n\nThere are special schools (Swedish:Särskola) for students with low abilities to attend normal education. There has in 2012-2013 been media criticism on the fact that students with light problems such as dyslexia have been placed in special schools, seriously hampering their chances on the labour market.\n\n\nEducation is controlled by the 26 cantons, and so special education programs vary from place to place. However, integration is typical. Students are assessed according to their individual learning goals.\n\nUnited Kingdom\n\nIn England and Wales the acronym \"SEN\" for Special Educational Needs denotes the condition of having special educational needs, the services which provide the support and the programmes and staff which implement the education. In England \"SEN PPS\" refers to the Special Educational Needs Parent Partnership Service. \"SENAS\" is the special educational needs assessment service, which is part of the Local Authority. \"SENCO\" refers to a special educational needs coordinator, who usually works with schools and the children within schools who have special educational needs. The Special Educational Needs Parent Partnership Services help parents with the planning and delivery of their child's educational provision. The Department for Education oversees special education in England.\n\nMost students have an individual educational plan, but students may have a group plan in addition to, or instead of, an individual plan. Group plans are used when a group of students all have similar goals.\n\nIn Scotland the Additional Support Needs Act places an obligation on education authorities to meet the needs of all students in consultation with other agencies and parents. In Scotland the term Special Educational Needs (SEN), and its variants are not official terminology although the very recent implementation of the Additional Support for Learning Act means that both \"SEN\" and \"ASN\" (Additional Support Needs) are used interchangeably in current common practice.\n\n\nAt a young age students who have special needs in Turkey are provided special education from The Ministry of Education, who are responsible in giving them the education that they need.\n\nIn order to get special education you are required certain things:\nAll special-needs students receive an Individualized Education Program (BEP) that outlines how the school will meet the student's individual needs. The Özel Eğitim Kurumları Yönetmeliği (ÖEKY) requires that students with special needs be provided with a Free Appropriate Public Education in the Least Restrictive Environment that is appropriate to the student's needs. Government-run schools provide special education in varying degrees from the least restrictive settings, such as full inclusion, to the most restrictive settings, such as segregation in a special school.\n\nThe education offered by the school must be appropriate to the student's individual needs. Schools are not required to maximize the student's potential or to provide the best possible services. Unlike most of the developed world, American schools are also required to provide many medical services, such as speech therapy, if the student needs these services.\n\nAccording to the Department of Education, approximately 10 percent of all school-aged children) currently receive some type of special education services.\n\nAs with most countries in the world, students who are poor, ethnic minorities, or do not speak the dominant language fluently are disproportionately identified as needing special education services.\n\nPoor, refugies are more likely to have limited resources and to employ inexperienced teachers that do not cope well with student behavior problems, \"thereby increasing the number of students they referred to special education.\" Teacher efficacy, tolerance, gender, and years of experience and special education referrals.\n\nBefore 1978, little action was taken to educate children with disabilities in Columbia. Children would be left home without much interaction with the outside world. In 1985, special education was researched across the country and education programs were created. After 1990, people with disabilities were given access to public school classes. The increase in advocation for accessibility for children with disabilities was initiated by the awareness and recognition of the rights of this group of children to education. While there has been improvement over recent years, there is still slow development for special education programs and special education policy.\n\nStatistics from DANE (Departamento Administrativo Na-cional de Estadística) state that there are 2,624,898 disabled people who reside in Colombia, representing 6.3% of the countries population.According to 2010 research 90% of disabled students in Colombia no not attend a mainstream school, and only 26% of them are able to attend school at all. \n\nThe history of special education in Colombia can be categorized into three time periods: the period of neglect, the period of diagnosis and planning, and the emergence of special education. The period of planning ran from the years 1978 to the year 1990. The Ministry of Colombia in 1995 implemented a national plan for the development of special education called \"Plan Nacional para el Desarrollo de la Education Especial\". The purposes of the plan was to create a national diagnosis of special education and to initiate programs for individuals with disabilities. In 1994, the Ministry of education put the first law into action to introduce special classes in public schools that include students with disabilities, called Law 115. In 2011, Colombia entered into the Convention of Rights of Persons with Disabilities, an agreement among the United Nations Education Scientific and Culture Organization(UNESCO)to protect people who live with disabilities.\n\nThe most recent development of special education in Colombia was Article 11 of Law 1618, which was passed in 2013. The law states that \"the Ministry of Education will define the policy and regulate the scheme of education for persons with special educational needs, promoting educational access and quality under a system based on inclusion in the educational services\". The Colombian government has also made financial strides into special education, investing over $12.3 million in 2015. \nIn North America, special education is commonly abbreviated as \"special ed\", \"SpecEd\", \"SPED\", or \"SpEd\" in a professional context.\n\nEducation in Canada is the responsibility of the individual provinces and territories. As such, rules vary somewhat from place to place. However, inclusion is the dominant model.\n\nFor major exams, Canadian schools commonly use accommodations, such as specially printed examinations for students with visual impairments, when assessing the achievements of students with special needs. In other instances, alternative assessments or modifications that simplify tests are permitted, or students with disabilities may be exempted from the tests entirely.\n\n\nAll special-needs students receive an Individualized Education Program (IEP) that outlines how the school will meet the student's individual needs. The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) requires that students with special needs be provided with a Free Appropriate Public Education in the Least Restrictive Environment that is appropriate to the student's needs. Government-run schools provide special education in varying degrees from the least restrictive settings, such as full inclusion, to the most restrictive settings, such as segregation in a special school.\n\nThe education offered by the school must be appropriate to the student's individual needs. Schools are not required to maximize the student's potential or to provide the best possible services. Unlike most of the developed world, American schools are also required to provide many medical services, such as speech therapy, if the student needs these services.\n\nAccording to the Department of Education, approximately 6 million children (roughly 10 percent of all school-aged children) currently receive some type of special education services. As with most countries in the world, students who are poor, ethnic minorities, or do not speak the dominant language fluently are disproportionately identified as needing special education services. Poor, black and Latino urban schools are more likely to have limited resources and to employ inexperienced teachers that do not cope well with student behavior problems, \"thereby increasing the number of students they referred to special education.\"\n\nDuring the 1960s, in some part due to the civil rights movement, some researchers began to study the disparity of education amongst people with disabilities. The landmark Brown v. Board of Education decision, which declared unconstitutional the \"separate but equal\" arrangements in public schools for students of different races, paved the way for PARC v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and Mills vs. Board of Education of District of Columbia, which challenged the segregation of students with special needs. Courts ruled that unnecessary and inappropriate segregation of students with disabilities was unconstitutional. Congress responded to these court rulings with the federal Education for All Handicapped Children Act in 1975 (since renamed the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA)). This law required schools to provide services to students previously denied access to an appropriate education.\n\nIn US government-run schools, the dominant model is inclusion. In the United States, three out of five students with academic learning challenges spend the overwhelming majority of their time in the regular classroom.\n\nAutism, or Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), refers to a range of conditions. These conditions involve challenges with social skills, repetitive behaviors, speech and nonverbal communication. They also involve unique strengths and differences. \n\nAutism is known as a disability that impairs the social interactions and communication skills of a person. People who are autistic tend to think and act differently than others. Many children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) find themselves comfortable with a device in their hands. For students with autism, there are apps called \"visual scene displays\" that are most helpful for children who are having difficulty with verbal skills, according to Jules Csillag, a speech-language pathologist who focuses on special ed tech. Apps such as SceneSpeak and Speech with Milo help autistic children develop storytelling skills with text-to-speech voice and interactive storybooks. Using apps like these in a classroom can improve autistic student's verbal skills.\n\nThere are several controversies surrounding the diagnoses and causes of autism. It's now believed that there's no single cause of autism. Research seems to suggest that autism is normally the result of both genetic and environmental influences.\n\nIf a student has down syndrome, assistive technology can help with their learning experience. Author of \"Down Syndrome: A Promising Future, Together,\" Terry Hassold, who got his PhD in human genetics, explains that students with Down syndrome have delays with cognitive ability. Their brains have a late reaction when their neurological system sends a message for any task. Because of this late reaction, they tend to take longer to complete a task than an average students. Assistive technology is crucial in helping Down's students with their writing ability. Down syndrome children tend to have shorter, stubbier fingers and a lowered thumb making their ability to write more difficult. Also, some of the usual wrist bones are not formed, making it difficult to hold objects. Slanted desks are one type of assisted technology that can aid in the successful ability to write. A three-ring binder can be used to create a slanted desk by turning the binder sideways. Also, students with Down's often try to hold their pencils by anchoring them against the thumb rather than using the tip of their thumb. Shortened pencils or triangular-shaped pencils encourage students to hold them correctly. Using any of these assistive technologies can help down syndrome students during their educational process.\n\nToday many people with disabilities are breaking barriers through the use of technology. For some individuals with disabilities, assistive technology is a necessary tool that enables them to engage in or perform many tasks. Integrating technology will allow students to increase their self-confidence, self-motivation, independence and they will also be able to engage in different activities within the school.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13387305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13387305", "title": "Stage (cooking)", "text": "Stage (cooking)\n\nStaging is an unpaid internship when a cook or chef works briefly, for free, in another chef's kitchen to learn and be exposed to new techniques and cuisines. The term originates from the French word \"stagiaire\" meaning trainee, apprentice or intern. The French term \"commis\" is often used interchangeably with the aforementioned terms. The individual completing this activity is referred to as a \"stage\", \"stagiaire\" (pronounced \"stazhjer\"; IPA: /sta.ʒjɛ:ʁ/), \"commis\" (assistant chef) or \"volontaire\" (\"volunteer\").\n\nBefore the advent of modern culinary schools, young cooks learned their craft as unpaid apprentices in professional restaurant kitchens and bakeries (and other food preparation establishments: pastry shops/\"patisserie\", butcher shops/\"boucherie\", candy shops/\"confisserie\", hotels, etc.) under the guidance of a mentoring chef. This practice has become less common in recent decades. \n\nStaging is similar to trialling in professional kitchens. Trialling is an activity often used to assess the skills and training of a cooking job candidate. The hiring chef might assess the trial cook's adaptive skills in the new kitchen and how they interact with other staff in the restaurant. When a culinary student or cook-in-training is seeking an internship, often the trial is the next step after the interview. \n\nA server or waiter can also \"stage\" in a restaurant for much the same purpose.\n\n"}
{"id": "48728816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48728816", "title": "Stan Salett", "text": "Stan Salett\n\nStan Salett (born April 6, 1936) is a civil rights organizer, national education policy advisor and creator of the Upward Bound Program and helped to initiate Head Start. In the early 1960s Salett was an organizer for the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) and helped organize the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom. He was the first director of education of the Office of Economic Opportunity, where the Head Start program was created. He co-founded the National Committee for Citizens in Education, dedicated to promoting parent and citizen involvement in schools. During President Lyndon Johnson administration he initiated the National Upward Bound program. While working in Washington, D.C. he served on the staff of all three Kennedy brothers: President Kennedy's Committee on Youth Employment, Attorney General Robert Kennedy's President's Committee on Juvenile Delinquency and Senator Edward Kennedy's Presidential campaign in 1980. He was an active school board member in Maryland in the 80s. During President Bill Clinton's transition he vetted candidates for Attorney General and Secretary of the Interior.\n\nIn 2011 he published his memoir, \"The Edge of Politics: Stories from the Civil Rights Movement, the War on Poverty & the Challenges of School Reform.\" He received the New England Education Opportunity Association's Claiborne Pell Award in 2013. Presently he is President of the Foundation for the Future of Youth, a division of the Eigen Arnett Educational and Cultural Foundation. He has developed special search engines to meet a variety of human needs such as the elimination of human trafficking, the improvement of school performance and the scarcity of the global water supply. In 2016 Salett has been involved in The Independent Media Institute study which evaluated the movement to privatize public education. It was revealed that, \"… in the past two decades, a small group of billionaires – including News Corporation's Rupert Murdoch, who once called public schools an \"untapped 500-billion-dollar sector\" – have worked to assert private control over public education ...\" Salett was presented with the 2017 Distinguished Graduate Award from Boston Latin School for his career to public service and public policy work. The Award is given each year to alumni exemplifying the Boston Latin School motto, \"sumus primi\".\n\nAs of 2016, he resides in Washington, DC, and Chestertown, MD with his wife Elizabeth. He has 2 sons, singer-songwriters Peter Salett and Steve Salett, owner of Saltlands Studio in Brooklyn, NY and Reservoir in Manhattan.\n\n"}
{"id": "5777246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5777246", "title": "Student development theories", "text": "Student development theories\n\nStudent Development Theory refers to the body of educational psychology that theorizes how students gain knowledge in post-secondary educational environments.\n\nThe earliest manifestation of student development theory — or tradition — in Europe was \"in loco parentis\". Loosely translated, this concept refers to the manner in which children's schools acted on behalf of and in partnership with parents for the moral and ethical development and improvement of students' character development. Ostensibly this instruction emphasized traditional Christian values through strict rules, enforced by rigid discipline. As such, the primary objective of \"in loco parentis\" was on the conditioning of social and individual behavior, rather than intellectual cultivation.\n\nThe second distinct shift toward a unified student development theory emerged in the late nineteenth century, through the first quarter of the twentieth century, marked by the growth of colleges and universities throughout Europe and the United States, simultaneous with the development of social science disciplines like psychology. By mid-twentieth century, behavioral psychologists such as B.F. Skinner and Carl Rogers influenced educational theory and policy, and a new paradigm emerged known as the \"Student Services\" paradigm. As the name indicates, the \"Student Services\" perspective articulated that students ought to be provided with the services that benefit knowledge acquisition.\n\nBy the mid-twentieth century, the service paradigm started to be replaced with the \"student development\" paradigm. This paradigm was influenced by the growing body of psychological and sociological theories, reflecting the idea that students learn both in-class and out-of-class, and are influenced both by their genetics and social environment (see nature and nurture).\n\nBasic assumptions guiding the student development movement:\n\nStudent development theories generally can be divided into five categories:\n\nThere are dozens of theories falling into these five families. Among the most known are:\n\nSchlossberg’s Transition Theory has been worked on over time and has changed some of it original context. This theory is mostly based on the individual and what they consider to be a transition in their life. This theory is used as a guideline from what steps should be taken during the transition to help the young adult to continue to work on and transition into what they need. We use different questionnaires to determine and assess the ability of a certain person to cope with the transition. Here is a quick review of the steps and ideas behind Schlossberg’s Theory:\n\n\nUsing ideas of Piaget and cognitive development Kohlberg looks into the judgments of people and what they consider justifiable to determine about their ideas of Morality come into play. Using only these ideas, not culture, we see how people develop their own moral code and how it changes or stays the same over time.\n\n\nLooking at how you learn as an individual is a huge part in your development of self according to Kolb and his model. By knowing what you need to do to learn it makes it easier for you as an individual to grow as a person. Using the different personality types and ways to learn, we become more self-aware and willing to learn from new ways.\n\n\nSanford's Theory of Challenge and Support states that for optimal student developmental growth in a college environment, challenges they experience must be met with supports that can sufficiently tolerate the stress of the challenge itself. Nevitt Sanford, a psychologist, was a scholar who theorized about the process college students would encounter throughout their college development. He addressed the relationship between the student and their college environment. Sanford proposed three developmental conditions: readiness, challenge, and support.\n\n(1) Readiness refers to internal processes associated with maturation or beneficial environmental factors. This condition of readiness can aid a student's developmental growth if he or she is physically or psychologically ready. If not, it could limit their developmental growth. (2) Challenge refers to situations in which an individual does not have the skills, knowledge, or attitude to cope. (3) Support refers to buffers in the environment that help the individual to successfully meet challenges. Sanford speculated that if students are met with too much challenge, they could regress in their developmental growth and give up on the challenge at hand. For example, in a review by the University of California, Los Angeles, Chaves discussed the juggling of multiple challenges that adult student learners encounter such as integration into an institution, commuting to campus, social integration, and absence from school for a number of years that cause adult student learners to regress in their time to graduation or not graduate at all. If students are met with excessive support, they may not understand what they need and their development would be limited. For example, in a qualitative study grounded in constructivist theory methodology, Marx concluded that college campuses provided too much support, limiting students' forward movement in their ability to internally define their own beliefs, identity, and relationships during college. In both studies, the research indicated that students were unable to reach optimal developmental growth without the appropriate amount of challenge or support.\n\nIt is likely that most students will face an academic, social, or personal challenge during their postsecondary college or university journey. Research shows that challenges are different for traditional age students and adult student learners, various marginalized and majority identity groups, international students, students in specific learning communities, and numerous other characteristics. Research indicates that support for students can be in the form of mentoring and involvement from faculty, staff, family, and peers, ability to be involved in meaningful college activity, believing they matter, and designing their own curriculum or programs, among other support options. When challenges are met with appropriate support, students' developmental growth in a college environment is optimal. For example, a longitudinal study conducted by Ong, Phinney, and Dennis examined 123 Latinx college students attending an ethnically diverse urban university in southern California. These Latinx students faced challenges of being low socioeconomic status (SES), psychological stress, feelings of alienation, and low rates of college retention. However, these students were met with consistent parental support, family interdependence, and an affirmation of their membership in their ethnic group. The support correlated positively to an increased grade point average and greater academic achievement, resilience, and positive adaptation.\n\nStudent development theories, such as Sanford's Theory of Challenge and Support, are not meant to be used alone in practice. It is important to acknowledge that multiple theories, such as Astin's Involvement Theory, Chickering's Theory of Identity Development, Kohlberg's Theory of Moral Development, Rendon's Theory of Validation, Schlossberg's Theory of Mattering and Marginality, Schlossberg's Transition Theory, among others, can be cross pollinated in an individual student's situation. Often the intersection of many student development theories is what is most effective in working with postsecondary college or university student environments.\n\n"}
{"id": "5012810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5012810", "title": "Synchronous learning", "text": "Synchronous learning\n\nSynchronous learning refers to a learning event in which a group of students are engaging in learning at the same time. Before learning technology allowed for synchronous learning environments, most online education took place through asynchronous learning methods. Since synchronous tools that can be used for education have become available, many people are turning to them as a way to help decrease the challenges associated with transactional distance that occurs in online education. Several case studies\nthat found that students are able to develop a sense of community over online synchronous communication platforms.\n\nWhile many online educational programs started out as and with the advent of web conferencing tools, people can learn at the same time in different places as well. For example, use of instant messaging or live chat, webinars and video conferencing allow for students and teachers to collaborate and learn in real time.\n\nA lecture is an example of synchronous learning in a face-to-face environment, because learners and teachers are all in the same place at the same time. Another example of a synchronous learning event would involve students watching a live web stream of a class, while simultaneously taking part in a discussion. Synchronous learning can be facilitated by having students and instructors participate in a class via a web conferencing tool. These synchronous experiences can be designed to develop and strengthen instructor-student and student-student relationships, which can be a challenge in distance learning programs.\n\nSynchronous communication in distance education began long before the advent of the use of computers in synchronous learning. After the very early days of distance education, when students and instructors communicated asynchronously via the post office, synchronous forms of communication in distance education emerged with broadcast radio and television. However, it was not until the 1980s, with video-conferencing and interactive television, that students could ask questions and discuss concepts while seeing participants in a synchronous setting. Manifestations of interactive multimedia, the Internet, access to Web-based resources, to synchronous and asynchronous forms of computer mediated communication followed in the 1990s (Bernard, et al., 2005; Simonson, et al., 2012, p. 37).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8861950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8861950", "title": "The First Year Experience Program", "text": "The First Year Experience Program\n\nThe First-Year Experience (FYE) (also known as the Freshman-Year Experience or the Freshman Seminar Program) is a program at many American colleges and universities designed to help students prepare for the transition from high school to college. FYE programs often foster the participation of students in co-curricular events such as common reads, concerts, art exhibits, and guest lectures.\n\nDepending on the school, the course can last anywhere from two weeks to a full school year. Some larger universities, such as the University at Albany, SUNY, through their Project Renaissance Program,create a \"small college\" feel by allowing freshmen to do their first-year courses in one section of the university. \n\nWhile the origins of the program remain unclear, many people attribute the start of the First-Year Seminar to the University of South Carolina, which houses the National Resource Center for the First-Year Experience and Students in Transition and holds a series of workshops for colleges and universities to better their own first-year programs.\n\nOriginally, Boston College was where the first Freshman Orientation class was offered in the year 1888. Reed College, based in Portland, Oregon, was the first institution to offer a course for credit when, in 1911, they offered a course that was divided into men-only and women-only sections that met for 2 hours per week for the year. \n\nIn May 1970, University of South Carolina President Thomas Jones faced campus unrest and violence. In the aftermath he vowed to create a new course designed to \"bond students to the institution and transform the way that undergraduate students were taught.\" In 1972, Carolina introduced \"University 101,\" designed to \"improve the educational experiences of first-year college students.\"\n\nCarolina's program became a model for colleges and universities across the country, and in 1982, representatives from 175 schools came to Carolina to meet about the first-year experience. In 1983, Carolina's University 101 faculty director, John N. Gardner, organized the first Annual Conference on the Freshman Year Experience. \n\nIn 1986, Carolina partnered with the Newcastle-upon-Tyne Polytechnic to produce the first International Conference on the First-Year Experience. Also in 1986, Carolina established the National Resource Center; as it broadened its focus it underwent a number of name changes, settling on the National Resource Center for the First-Year Experience and Students in Transition in 1998. As the Center states on its website:\nMany of the colleges and universities that use the program require that all incoming freshmen take the freshman seminar; other schools have the program as optional, but recommended. Most first-year seminars are a semester long and start at student orientation. From orientation, students enroll in the course, which gives them a variety of college experiences, from tours of the campus to a breakdown of how to study for tests. Many schools even offer students help with purchasing books from the school's bookstore.\n\nFor instance, as part of Mitchell College's First-Year Experience (FYE) program for transitioning into college, first-year students are assigned to Freshman Interest Groups (FIGs) in their first semester according to a common academic interest or major. These groups explore the topics and issues related to their chosen path. Those who arrive at Mitchell undecided about their academic route are also grouped together to allow for a broader survey of options. Students are encouraged to communicate their unique perspective and make connections through co-curricular activities.\n\nColby College's outdoor orientation COOT (Colby Outdoor Orientation Trips) program is designed to ease new students' transition into college and introduce them to Maine's cultural and natural resources. COOT features an on-campus orientation and a variety of trips, including hiking trips at Acadia National Park and Mount Katahdin canoe trips on the Kennebec and Moose Rivers, and other trips around the state. There are over 60 different trips, designed to appeal to incoming students with a variety of interests and fitness levels, and more \"front country\" trips have been added in recent years, including service- and arts-oriented options such as an organic farm stay and a challenge course. COOT leaders are chosen from upperclass students who apply for these positions, and are expected to help the students both during and after the trip with the adjustment to campus life.\n\nIn 1991, Norman Adler initiated the Penn Reading Project at the University of Pennsylvania, an integrative introduction to liberal learning for college freshmen newly arriving on campus. Subsequently, Freshman Reading Projects have been adopted widely as part of the first-year experience at many college campuses.\n\nAs a standard for most first-year seminars, many colleges give students one to two credits for completing the program, such as UC Irvine. Many schools, such as the State University of New York at Old Westbury in Old Westbury, New York, merge the program into a second course which helps to satisfy New York's general education requirement. In addition, the school recently introduced its Civic Engagement program, which is designed to allow students to participate in community service as a part of its First-Year Experience program.\n\nThe University of South Carolina hosts a seminar every year in which the many colleges and universities which have the First-Year Program get together to improve their own programs, and to offer suggestions to their colleagues on how they might also improve. The workshop is usually a week long and attendance is voluntary.\n\nThe University of North Carolina at Greensboro's First-Year Experience program is called University Studies 101 (UNS 101). The program aims to assist students in discovering their purpose, identifying their strengths, and aligning these newly discovered assets with a plan for their future. The activities, class discussions, and assignments used in the course guide students through the six appreciative advising stages. A comprehensive program evaluation which includes the tracking of academic outcomes and assessment of student attitudes and behaviors has evidenced the positive impact of the UNS 101 program. For example, the freshman to sophomore retention rate of freshmen who completed UNS 101 in fall 2006 and returned for fall 2007 was 81.9%. This compares to a retention rate of 74.4% for freshmen who did not take the course. Meanwhile, the average first-semester GPA for students who did not take the course was 2.49, while UNS 101 participants had an average first-semester GPA of 2.72.\n\nJ.N. Gardner, member of The Journal of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers and author of The freshman-year experience, emphasized the importance of having courses that focus on the first few weeks of college. During this time is most likely when students will make the decision to drop-out, due to the increase of feeling personal independence and habit forming, as well as forming relationships that they will continue throughout their college careers. Gardner also suggested that things such as curriculum modifications, academic advisement, faculty led freshmen level courses instead of graduate student led, living/learning environments, peer counseling, and special freshmen administrative units improve the student’s freshman year.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36740322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36740322", "title": "The Forbidden Education", "text": "The Forbidden Education\n\nThe Forbidden Education () is an independent documentary released in 2012. The film documents diverse alternative education practices and unconventional schools in Latin America and Spain and includes educational approaches such as popular education, Montessori, progressive education, Waldorf, homeschooling.\n\nIt became the first released movie in Spanish to be funded under a crowdfunding methodology. It was also highlighted by its distributed screening proposal that enabled a synchronized release in 130 cities in 13 countries with a total number of 18,000 viewers in a single day. One week after its release, the movie was viewed almost 2 millions times.\n\nThe film was released under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike license.\n\nThe documentary is divided into 10 thematic episodes, each presenting a different aspect of education in the school context and outside of it. Topics include the history of the school system, authority and power in schools, evaluation and segregation of students, social function of educational institutions, and the role of teachers and families.\n\nThe film has almost 30 minutes of animation and a fictional dramatic story connecting the episodes.\n\nThe movie participated in the following festivals and exhibitions:\n\n"}
{"id": "1191780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1191780", "title": "The Hidden Curriculum", "text": "The Hidden Curriculum\n\nThe Hidden Curriculum (1970) is a book by the psychiatrist Benson R. Snyder, the then-Dean of Institute Relations at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Snyder advances a thesis that much of campus conflict and students' personal anxiety is caused by unstated academic and social norms. These hidden norms affect the ability to develop independently or think creatively, and form what Snyder calls the hidden curriculum. He illustrates his thesis with psychological studies and other research conducted at MIT and Wellesley College.\n\nThe phrase \"hidden curriculum\" was coined by Philip Jackson in his 1968 book entitled \"Life in Classrooms\", in a section about the need for students to master the institutional expectations of school. Snyder develops this with observations of particular institutions. Snyder then addresses the question of why students — even or especially the most gifted — turn away from education. Even honest efforts to enrich curricula frequently fail, says Snyder, thanks to the importance of the tacit and unwritten understanding. He says that while some students do not realize there is a disjunction between the two curricula, in a demanding environment, students develop strategies to cope with the requirements they face.\n\nMany students find they can not possibly complete all the work assigned them; they learn to neglect some of it. Some student groups maintain files of past examinations which only worsen this situation.\n\nThe difference between the formal and real requirements produced considerable dissonance among the students and resulted in cynicism, scorn, and hypocrisy among students, and particular difficulty for minority students. No part of the university community, writes Snyder, neither the professors, the administration nor the students, desires the end result created by this process.\n\nThe Saturday Review said the book \"will gain recognition as one of the more cogent 'college unrest' books\" and that it presents a \"most provocative thesis.\"\n\nThe book has been cited many times in studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50340216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50340216", "title": "Transactionalism", "text": "Transactionalism\n\nTransactionalism is a philosophical approach that addresses the fundamental nature of social exchange or human transaction; that all human exchange is best understood as a set of transactions within a reciprocal and co-constitutive whole. A transactionalist demands that all human exchange, including learning, is best understood as a transactional whole shaped and defined by a set of experiences in an ecology that are all-at-once biological, socio-linguistic, and intellectual; \"man is an information-processing, organizing, open-energy system.\" Attention must be paid to organizing acts within, and as-if always, a reciprocal and co-constitutive, exchange whether it be in buying and selling, teaching and learning, in a marital contract, or a social situation in-person or online.\n\nStemming from the Latin \"transigere\" (\"˜to drive through\", \"to accomplish\"), the root word \"transaction\" is not restricted to the economic sense of \"buying and selling\" or merely a financial transaction. A much larger field of exchange is employed such as, \"any sort of social interaction, such as verbal communication, eye contact, or touch. A 'stroke' [of one's hand] is an act of recognition of a transaction\" as employed in psychology with transactional analysis It not only examines exchanges, or \"transactions,\" between borrower and lender, but encompasses any transaction involving people and objects whether it involves \"borrowing-lending, buying-selling, writing-reading, parent-child, and husband-wife.\" A transaction, then is \"a creative act, engaged in by one who, by virtue of his participation in the act – of which he is always an \"aspect\", never an \"entity\" – together with the other participants, be they human or otherwise environmental, becomes [,] in the process [,] modified.\"\n\nWhile John Dewey is viewed by many transactionalists as a principal architect, social anthropologist Fredrik Barth was among the first to articulate the concept as it is understood in contemporary study. Political scientists Karl W. Deutsch and Ben Rosamond have also written on the subject. Transactionalist analysis is a core paradigm advanced by social psychologist Eric Berne in his book \"Games People Play\". A transactionalist view of psychology, for instance, views an individual as \"embedded and integrated\" in an ever-evolving world of situations, actors, and exchange.\n\nThe discourse of transactionalist problem-solving is applied to a vast array of academic and professional discourses including educational philosophy in the humanities; social psychology, political science, and political anthropology in the social sciences; and occupational science in the health sciences; cognitive science, zoology, and quantum mechanics in the natural sciences; and transactional competence and leadership-as-practice in business.\n\nJohn Dewey offered a sophisticated, yet pragmatic approach to understanding man as an organism-environment purposefully designed to correct the \"fragmentation of experience\" often found in other philosophical approaches found in Subjectivism, Objectivism, Constructivism and Skepticism.\n\nHe asserted that human life is not organized into separate entities, as if the mind (emotions, feelings, creativity, imagination) and the world outside it (raw and manufactured goods as well as social roles and institutions such as family, school, and media) are irreconcilable, leading to the question \"How does the mind know the world?\"\nGalileo refused to seek the causes of the behavior of physical phenomena in the phenomena alone and sought the causes in the conditions under which the phenomena occur.The writing of John Dewey and Arthur Bentley in \"Knowing and the Known\" offers a deep dive into transactionalism but its historical antecedents date back to Polybius and Galileo. Trevor J. Phillips (1927–2016), American professor emeritus in educational foundations and inquiry at Bowling Green State University from 1963 to 1996, wrote a comprehensive review of the historical, philosophical, psychological, and educational development of transactionalism in his 1966 dissertation \"Transactionalism: An Historical and Interpretive Study\" republished in 2013 by Influence Ecology. Phillips traced transactionalism's philosophical roots to Greek historians Polybius and Plato, 17th century polymath and architect of the scientific revolution Galileo, as well as the architect of modern western philosophy, René Descartes.\n\nGalileo's contributions to the scientific revolution rested on an understanding of transactionalism from which he argued Aristotelian physics was wrong, as he wrote in \"Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems\" (1632):\"In that case, if it is denied that circular motion is peculiar to celestial bodies, and affirmed to belong to all naturally movable bodies, then one must choose one of two necessary consequences. Either the attributes of generable-ingenerable, alterable-inalterable, divisibleindivisible, etc., suit equally and commonly all world bodies – as much the celestial as the elemental – or Aristotle has wrongly and erroneously deduced, from circular motion, those attributes which he has assigned to celestial bodiesThe philosophy abandons self-actional and interaction-al beliefs or suppositions as problem-solving in an objective world where co-operative exchange creates value in learning, and the foundation of transactional competence, how objects including people behave. Galileo deviated from the then current Aristotelian thinking, which was defined by mere interactions rather than co-constituetive transacting among people with different interests who may be solving competing intentions or conditions of life.\n\nTrevor Phillips also outlined the philosophy's more recent developments found in the American philosophical works of Charles Sanders Peirce, sociologist George Herbert Mead (symbolic interactionism), pragmatist William James, educational philosopher John Dewey, and political scientist Arthur Bentley.\n\nSeveral sources credit anthropologist Fredrik Barth as the scholar first to apply the term 'transactionalism\" in 1959. In a critique of structural functionalism, Barth offered a new interpretation of culture that did not portray an overly cohesive picture of society without attending to the \"roles, relationships, decisions, and innovations of the individual.\" Humans are transacting with one another at multiple levels of individual, group, and environment. Barth's study appears to not fully articulate how this is happening all-at-once as opposed to as if separate entities interacting (interactional):[T]he \"environment\" of any ethnic group is not only defined by natural conditions, but also by the presence and activities of other ethnic groups on which it depends. Each group exploits only a section of the total environment [perhaps in keeping with the idea of a \"transactional whole\"], and leaves large parts of it open for other groups to exploit (p. 1079).Using examples from the people of the Swat district of North Pakistan and, later, in 1966, organization among Norwegian fishermen, Barth set out to demonstrate that social forms like kinship groups, economic institutions, and political alliances are generated by the actions and strategies of the individuals who deploy organized acts against a context of social constraints. \"By observing how people interact with each other [through experience], an insight could be gained into the [interactional] nature of the competition, values and principles that govern individuals' choices.\"\n\nThis insight would be interactional at best and not transactional—reciprocal and co-constituetive transactions at the levels of individual, group, and environment (including man-as-organism and its ecological situations).\n\nSome scholars argue transactionalism is a theory rather than philosophical approach. Barth's contribution was initially criticized for paying insufficient attention to cultural constraints on individualism though it influenced the qualitative method known as symbolic interactionism used in the social sciences. As a pragmatic and philosophical approach, transactionalism is recognizable in the theory of the \"sociological imagination\" by American sociologist C. Wright Mills (1959), in which personal troubles are linked to public issues. In other words, the \"transactional whole\" is not readily apparent at the level of individuals who at that level operate in a self-actional manner when larger forces of sociality, history, biology, and culture are all-at-once at work as part of a global dynamic. Humans are never outside this dynamic current; operating the system in some self-actional or even interactional way.\n\nModern architects of the philosophy are John Patterson and Kirkland Tibbels, co-founders of Influence Ecology, acquired, edited, and published, Phillips' dissertation (as is) in 2013. With a foreword written by Tibbels, a hardback and Kindle version was published under the title \"Transactionalism: An Historical and Interpretive Study\" (2013). The monograph is an account of how human phenomena came to be viewed less as the behavior of static and/or mutually isolated entities, and more as dynamic aspects of events in the process of problem-solving, and thereby becoming or satisfying, the unavoidable and inescapable conditions of human life.\n\nIn a new model of organizational management known as the \"leadership-as-practice\" Dewey and Bentley's Knowing and the Known categories of action—self-action, inter-action, and trans-action brings transactionalism into the C-suite. A transactional leadership practice is defined by its \"trans-actors\" who \"enact new and unfolding meanings in on-going trans-actions\" situated in contrast to an older model leadership defined by self-actional (self-actors) and inter-actional (inter-actors) practices. In the latter, actors and situations often remain unchanged. In Leadership-as-Practice, Joseph A. Raelin distinguishes between a \"practice\" that extends and amplifies the meaning of work and its value vs. \"practices\" that are habitual and sequential activities evoked to simplify everyday routines. A transactional approach—leadership-as-practice—focuses attention on \"existing entanglements, complexities, processes, [while also] distinguishing problems in order to coordinate roles, acts, and practices within a group or organization.\" Said another way, \"trans-action attends to emergent becoming\"—a kind of seeing together--\"rather than substantive being (Tsoukas and Chia 2002)\" among the actors involved.\n\nThe transactional view of metaphysics—studying the nature of reality or what is real—deals with the inseparability of what is known and how humans inquire into what is known—both \"knowing and the known\". Since the age of Aristotle, humans have shifted from one paradigm or system of \"logic\" to another before a transactional metaphysics evolved with a focus that examines and inquires into solving problems first and foremost based on the relationship of man as a biological organism (with a brain and a body) shaped by its environment. In the book \"Transactionalism\" (2015), the nature of reality is traced historically from \"self-action\" to \"interaction\" to \"transactional\" competence each as its own \"age of knowing\" or episteme\".\"\n\nThe pre-Galilean age of knowing is defined by \"self-action\" \"where things [and thereby people] are viewed as acting on their own powers.\" In \"Knowing and the Known\", Dewey and Bentley wrote, \"The epistemologies, logics, psychologies and sociologies [of our day] are still largely [understood] on a self-actional basis.\"\n\nThe result of Newtonian physics\", interaction\" marks the second age of knowing; a system marked especially by the \"third 'law of motion'—that action and reaction are equal and opposite\".\n\nThe third episteme is \"transactional\" competence\".\" With origins in the contributions of Darwin, \"man's understandings are finite as opposed to infinite. In the same way, his views, goals, commitments, and beliefs have relative status as opposed to absolute.\" John Dewey and Arthur Bentley asserted this competence as \"the right to see together, extensionally and durationally, much that is talked about conventionally as if it were composed of irreconcilable separates.\" We tend to avoid considering our actions as part of a dynamic and transactional whole, whether in mundane or complex activities; whether in making an invitation, request, or offer or in the complex management of a program or company. We tend to avoid studying, thinking, and planning our moves and moods for a comprehensive, reciprocal, and co-constitutive—in other words, \"transactional\"—whole.\n\nA transactional whole includes the organized acts including ideas, narratives, people as resources implementing ideas, services, and products, the things involved, settings, and personalities, all considered in and over time. With this competence, that which \"acts\" and is \"acted upon\" become united for a moment in a mutual or ethical exchange, where both are reciprocally transformed contradicting \"any absolute separation or isolation\" often found in the dualistic thinking and categorization of Western thought.\n\nDualistic thinking and categorization often lead to over-simplification of the transactional whole found in the convenient but ineffective resorting to \"exclusive classifications.\" Such classifications tend to exclude and reify man as if he has dominion over his nature or the environment.\n\nIn his seminal 20th century work \"Physics and Philosophy\", Warner Heisenberg reflects this kind of transactionalist thinking: \"What we observe is not nature itself, but nature exposed to our method of questioning.” The together-at-once reality of man as organism-environment is often overlooked in the dualistic thinking of even major philosophers like Descartes who is often referenced for his \"I think, therefore I am\" philosophy. Of a transactionalist approach, Heisenberg writes, \"This was a possibility of which Descartes could not have thought, but it makes the sharp separation of the world and I impossible.\"\n\nDualistic thinking prevents man from thinking. \"In the spirit of [Charles Sanders] Peirce, transactionalism substitutes continuity for discontinuity, change and interdependence for separateness.\"\n\nFor example, in problem solving, whenever we \"insert a name instead of a problem,\" when words like \"soul,\" \"mind,\" \"need,\" \"I.Q.\" or \"trait\" are expressed as if real, they have the power to block and distort free inquiry into what is known in fact or as fact in the transactional whole.\n\nIn the nature of change and being, \"that which \"acts\" and that which is \"acted upon\"\" always undergo a reciprocal relationship that is affected by the presence and influence of the other. We as human beings, as part of nature as an organism \"integral to (as opposed to separate from, above or outside of) any investigation and inquiry may use a transactionalist approach to expand our personal knowledge so as to solve life's complex problems.\n\nThe purpose of \"transactionalism\" is not to discover what is already there, but for a person to seek and interpret senses, objects, places, positions, or any aspect of transactions between one's Self and one's environment (including objects, other people, and their symbolic interactions) in terms of the aims and desires each one needs and wants to satisfy and fulfill. It is essential that one simultaneously take into account the needs and desires of others in one's environment or ecology to avoid the self-actional or self-empowerment ideology of a rugged and competitive individualism. While other philosophies may discuss similar ethical concerns, this co-constitutive and reciprocal element of problem-solving is central to transactionalism.\n\nTo put it simply, \"to experience is to transact; in point of fact, experience is a transaction of organism-environment.\" In other words, what is \"known\" by the knower (or organism) is always filtered and shaped by both internal and external moods and narratives, mirrored in and through our relationships to the physical affordances and constraints in our environment or in specific ecologies.\n\nThe metaphysics of transactional inquiry is characterized in the pragmatic writing of William James who insists that \"single barreled terms,\" terms like \"thought\" and \"thing,\" actually stop or block inquiries into what is known and how we know it. Instead, a transactional orientation of ‘double-barreledness’ or the \"interdependence of aspects of experience\" must always be considered. James offers his readers insight into the \"double-barreledness\" of experience with an apt proposition:Is the preciousness of a diamond a quality of the gem [the thing] or is it a feeling in our mind [the thought]? Practically we treat it as both or as either, according to the temporary direction of our thought. The ‘experienced’ and the ‘experiencing,’ the ‘seen’ and the ‘seeing,’ are, in actuality, only names for a single fact.\n\nWhat is real then, from a transactionist perspective, must be constantly reevaluated relative to man as organism-environment in a co-constituitive and reciprocal dynamic with people, personalities, situations, aims, and given the needs each party seeks to satisfy.\n\nTransactionalists are firmly intolerant of \"anything resembling an 'ultimate' truth -- or 'absolute' knowledge.\" Due to the evolution of psychology about the nature of man, transactionalists reject the notion of a mind-body split or anything resembling the bifurcation of what they perceive as the circuitry in which our biological stimulus-response exists. Examples transactionalists reject include the self-acting notions of Aristotle who posited that \"the soul -- the psyche -- realized itself in and through the body, and that matter and form were two aspects involved in all existence.\" Later, the claims of French philosopher René Descartes, recognized as the father of modern Western philosophy, were examined and defined as \"interactional\". Descartes suggested stimulus-response as the realm where the mind controls the body and the body may influence the rational mind out of the passion of our emotions.\n\nTransactionalists recognize Cartesian dualism as a form of disintegrating the transactional whole of man \"into two complete substances, joined to another no one knows how.\" The body as a physical entity, on the one hand, and the soul or thought, on the other, was regarded in a Cartesian mindset as \"an angel inhabiting a machine and directing it by means of the pineal gland\" This tranactionalists reject.\n\nMan has the propensity to treat the mind and thought or the mind and body as abstractions and this tendency to deny the interrelatedness or coordinated continuity results in misconceptions in learning and inaccurate thinking as humans move and thrive with an ecology. Accurate thinking and learning begins and is constantly developed through action resulting from thought as a repetitive circuit of experience known in psychology as deliberate practice. Educational philosopher Trevor Phillips, now deceased, frames this tendency to falsely organize our perception: \"[W]e fail to realize that we can know nothing about things [or ourselves] beyond their significance to us,\" otherwise we distort our \"reality\" and treat things we perceive within it, including our bodies or mind, as if concrete thereby \"denying the interconnectedness of realities\" (plural). Transactionalists suggest that accurate (or inaccurate) thinking is rarely considered an unintended consequence of our propensity for abstractions.\n\nWhen an individual transacts through intelligent or consequential actions circumscribed within the constraints and conditions of her/his environment in a reflexive, repetitive arc of learned experience, there is a \"transaction between means and ends\" (see reference below). This transactional approach features twin aspects of a larger event rather than merely manipulating the means to an end in our circumstances and situations. For instance, a goal can never be produced by abstraction, by simply thinking about or declaring a promise to produce a result. Nor can it be anticipated or foreseen (an abstraction at best) without a significant \"pattern of inquiry,\" as John Dewey later defined and articulated, into the constraints and conditions that happen and are happening given the interdependence of all the people and objects involved in a simple or complex transaction. The nature of our environment affects all these entities within a transaction. Thus, revealing the limiting and reductive notion of manipulating a psychology around stimulus and response found in Aristotilian or Cartesian thought.\n\nA transaction is recognized here as one that occurs between the \"means and ends;\" in other words, transactional competence is derived from the \"distinctions between the how, the what (or subject-matter), and the why (or what for).\" This transactional whole constitutes a reciprocal connection and a reflexive arc of learned and lived experience. From a transactional approach one can derive a certain kind of value from one's social exchange. Value in knowing how, what, and why the work done with your mind and body fulfill on the kinds of transactions needed to live a good and satisfying life that functions well with others. Truth from actual inquiry is foundational for organism-environment to define and live by a set of workable ethical values that functions with others.\n\nWhile \"self-interest\" governs the ethical principles of Objectivism, here the principle is that man as an organism is in a \"reciprocal, constitutive\" relationship with her/his environment. Disabusing the psychological supposition of our \"skin-boundedness\" (discussed further below), transactionalism rejects the notion that we are apart from our environment or that man has dominion over it. Man, woman, and child must view life and be viewed in the undifferentiated whole of \"organism-environment\". This reciprocal and co-constitutive relationship is what sets Transactionalism apart from other philosophies.\n\nWhat John Dewey meant by \"reciprocal\" was that:... consequences have to be determined on the grounds of what is selected and handled as means in exactly the same sense in which the converse holds and demands constant attention if activities are to be intelligently conducted.In order for a human being to \"know\", in order for a human being to \"acquire\" intelligence, it must learn to relate to its Self as part of, not separate from the internal and/or external environments in which it lives as an \"organism-environment\". Whether the environment is natural or man-made, whether discussing biology, sociology, culture, linguistics, history and memory, or economics and physics, every \"organism-environment\" is \"reciprocal, constitutive, socially-conditioned and\" constantly in flux demanding our ethical attention to conditions and consequences as we live life. John Dewey and Arthur Bentley, like Charles Sanders Peirce before them, were out to distinguish an ethical \"living\" logic rather than a static one. Both rejected the supposition that man had dominion over or governed behavior in his/her environment embracing a presupposition of transactionalism; we are \"reciprocal, co-constitutive, socially-conditioned, and motivated\" \"together-at-once\" as we seek solutions to living a good life.\n\nTransactionalists reject the \"localization\" of our psychology as if \"skin-bound.\" Bentley wrote, \"No creature lives merely under its skin.\" In other words, we should not define and distinguish experience in and from the subjective mind and feelings. Conversely, we cannot rely solely on external circumstances or some static or inherited logic. Galileo said of followers of Aristotle in seeking ethical knowledge that one should \"come with arguments and demonstrations of your own...but bring us no more texts and naked authorities, for our disputes are about the sensible world and not a paper one.\" Humans are always transacting, \"together-at-once,\" part of, shaped by, and shap-ing the experience we call \"knowledge\" as an \"organism-environment\".\n\nDewey and Bentley were intrigued by, and ultimately questioned, \"the significance of the concept ‘skin’ and its role in philosophical and psychological thought.\" They offered a biological or natural justification that came to define a transactionalist approach. The known and what is known are both a function of man having \"evolved among other organisms\" within natural selection or evolution.\n\nMan's most intellectual and advanced \"knowings\" are not merely outgrowths of his own doing or being. The natural evolution of things outside our knowingness creates the very context in which our known and knowings arise. We are not inventing what is known outside or, in a vacuum beyond, who we are and who we are is an organism-environment together-at-once. We are not creatures separated by skin with an internal world of the mind and body \"in here\" separate from an environment of objects and people \"out there\". Human beings intelligently live, adapt to, and organize life in a reciprocal, co-constitutive experience that is what Dewey and Bentley term \"trans-dermal\".\n\nA \"trans-dermal\" experience demands knowledgeable and accurate inquiry into the conditions and consequences of each transaction where the organizing of ideas and acts (knowledge), is itself a transaction which grows out of the problem-solving and creative exploring within the universe of social situations in which we exist. Dewey and Bentley wrote, \"truth, or for that matter falsity, is a function of the deliberately striven for consequences arising out of inquiry.\"\n\nOur behavior and acts in knowing, or transacting, must be considered \"together\" and \"at-once\" with its conditions and consequences for any ambitious movement or fulfillment to occur alone and among other people in any setting with objects and constructd inherited from others known and unknown over time. Transacting demands study, a slowing down of our movement, and the development of a transactional competence in order to fulfill certain needs or solve problems while functioning among others.\n\nIn Dewey's final days, wrote Phillips, he emphasized the twin aspects of attending to both the means and the ends of any transaction: \"It is…impossible to have an end-in-view or to anticipate the consequences of any proposed line of action.\" A \"trans-dermal\" consciousness is, therefore, key to moving ethically. To move, experience life, or transact in a principled manner, considering the reciprocal and co-constituitive nature of organism-environment becomes an object lesson governing both social behavior as well as in transacting from a trans-dermal view with objects or other bodies.\n\nThe work of Australian educational philosopher Vicki L. Lee further elucidates and breaks down what is \"trans-dermal\" experience—how it works and why it matters—based on her work in the philosophy of cognitive science, educational philosophy, and radical behaviorism about which she has published extensively. This complex paradigm is clearly evidenced by Lee in this thickly described example: Acts are more than movements. ...Our discriminations depend on movements and their contexts seen together-at-once or as an undifferentiated whole. In discriminating watering the garden from hosing the driveway, we see the bodily movements and their occasion and results. We see the garden, the watering implement, and so forth, as much as we see the body's activities. The notion of together-at-once emphasizes that we do not see movements and contexts separately and then infer the action. Rather the context is internal to the action, because without the context, the action would not be the action it is.A basic presupposition of the philosophy of transactionalism is to always consider that that which is known about the world (extra-dermal) is \"directly concerned with the activity of the knower\" which is merely from some sense of \"skin-boundedness\" (intra-dermal). The known and the knower, as Dewey and Bentley examined in detail in their collaborative publication, must always be considered \"'twin aspects of common fact.\"\n\nBehavior, movement, and acts are not merely a function of the mind, of wishful or positive thinking or belief in external forces, nor can it be determined ethically from the philosophers of the past or knowledge written in a book. It is our ability to transact trans-dermally—to be and become ecologically-fit as an organism-environment—that begets truthful inquiry into living a good and satisying life, functioning well among others.\n\nPhilosophy and Women's Studies Professor Shannon Sullivan explores and applies \"transactional knowing through embodied and relational lived experience\" as a feminist epistemology developed out of the pragmatist tradition. See “pragmatist-feminist standpoint theory”.\n\nThe branch of philosophy recognized as \"politics\" concerns the governance of community and group interaction, not merely that of the state as conceived when thinking of a local or national government.\n\nIn \"Laws of Motion\" (1920), physicist James Clerk Maxwell articulated the modern conception of \"transaction\" used here—one that is not exclusive to an economic context limited to only the opposition of a buyer-seller in a trade or other analougous uses. Unlike its use in commercial affairs, there is a radical departure from any tendency to perceive buyer-seller (as well as organism-environment) as opposing or separate forces. In a transactionalist approach, Maxwell (as well as others) view the former and latter as \"two parts of the same phenomenon.\"\n\nDewey and Bentley apply this notion of 'transactional' to learning more than any other context. In the educative process, acting without knowing is a separation of the same phenomenon enjoined in inquiry. Without inquiry acting does not work. Acting and knowing cooperate to provide knowledge to an organism-environment which must essentially involve inquiry into things that have happened and are happening: Knowledge – if the term is to be employed at all – is a name for the product of competent inquiries, and is constituted only as the outcome of a particular inquiry.It is not \"a process taking place, or as a status located in or at an animal organism.\" Knowledge arises from inquiry and the testing of that inquiry to insure the fitness of not only the solution but the organism-environment. While a human being is central or \"nuclear\" to its organism-environment, it must abdicate any sense of dominion over the socio-biological cosmos of which human being is part and never outside of. Each situation—and this transactionalists assert is radical—must be examined and determined by a construction of moves and action based on the capacity of that organism to fulfill its intentions and thrive (or not). Dewey and Bentley later insisted that knowing \"as inquiry, [is therefore] a way, or distinct form, of behavior.\"\n\nTransactionalists define politics in this philosophy as a cooperative, genuine interaction between all participating parties whether buyer-seller, student-teacher, or worker-boss given that we are biological and social subjects involved not merely in \"transacting\" for our own advantage or gain. \"[S]ocial phenomena cannot be understood except as there is prior understanding of physical conditions and the laws of their [socio-biological] interactions,\" wrote John Dewey in \"\". He added further, \"Inquiry into [social phenomena], with respect both to data that are significant and to their relations or proper ordering, is conditioned upon extensive prior knowledge of physical phenomena and their laws. This fact accounts in part for the retarded and immature state of social subjects.\" Thus, cooperation and knowing as inquiry is foundational to governing communal affairs of any kind including economic trade and the educative process.\n\nIn our existing models of formal education, we bifurcate what Dewey viewed as indispensable. We, as a rule, segregate \"utility and culture, absorption and expression, theory and practice...in any educational scheme\" In 1952, progressive educator Elsie Ripley Clapp distinguished a similar commitment to \"cooperative transaction of inquiry\" in her vision that enjoined community and school.\n\nIntelligence, meaning that which is acquired through inquiry and testing, allows man to foresee consequences and take control of his actions without dogma or beliefs (that might be wrong) derived from past experience or expectations. If the study of politics in philosophy is a \"study of force,\" of knowing \"what actions are permissible\" given that man is an organism-environment, then transactionalists assert that cooperation and knowing-as-inquiry are vital to functioning among others.\n\n\"The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" noted that Dewey was critical of the classical neoliberal stance that the asbtract individual precedes a conception of society or social institutions. Dewey maintained that social institutions were not a \"means for obtaining something for individuals. They are means for 'creating' individuals\" (\"Reconstruction in Philosophy\", \"MW\"12, 190-192). In this way, classical liberalism seems to exemplify ‘the most pervasive fallacy of philosophical thinking’ (‘Context and Thought’, \"LW\"5, 5). Transactionalism is a radical form of governing that resists the tendency to \"divide up experienced phenomena, and to take the distinct analysed elements to be separate existences, independent both of the analysis and of each other.\"\n\nIntelligent thinking is anti-dualistic, accurate, forethought taking into account other people, communities, and cultures that stems from a \"deliberate control of what is done with reference to making what happens to us and what we do to things as fertile as possible of suggestions (of suggested meanings).\" Furthermore, intelligent thinking is a means for trying out the validity of those suggestions. The political governing of thinking towards dualisms and bifurcation as well as the \"false conception of the individual\" is what Dewey argued limited man's free, meaning \"liberal\", thought and action. All of this served as the core reasoning behind Dewey's development of an experimental philosophy that offset elite distortions regarding a public and transactional interest in education and learning.\n\nTransationalist psychologists and educational philosophers reject the ideologies precipitated from Western ideologies of \"do-it-yourself\" or the \"if it's up to me, it will be\" mentality that leads to entitlement and the naiveté of slogans like \"follow your passion\" that deny any consideration of our trans-dermal condition. Transactionalists assert that the \"advancing conformity and coercive competition so characteristic of our times\" demands reassessment. A new \"philosophical-psychological complex\" is offered that confronts the \"ever increasing growth of bureaucratic rule and the attendant rise of a complacent citizenry.\" Given the intensification of globalization and migration, a trans-dermal consciousness allows for a transactional emphasis on \"human dignity and uniqueness\" despite \"a matrix of anxiety and despair [and] feelings of alienation.\"\n\nTransactionalist psychologists and philosophers replace once sought-after Existentialism as a remedy to feelings of alienation with a trans-dermal orientation to living. Rather than applying a theory or approach that emphasizes the individual as a \"free and responsible agent determining their own development through acts of the will,\" subjects are invited to co-create as an organism-environment functioning among all other organism-environments, including the conditions and consequences of objects and personalities, in order to intelligently structure existence in and amongst it all. The very act of participating in co-creation, according to transactionalists, gives and allows each person her/his unique status and dignity in their environment.\n\nDistinct from an aesthetic theory of taste or a rationale for the beauty in an object of art, a transactionalist theory of aesthetics concerns the perceptual judgments we use to define value, purposeful activity or satisfaction in any experience. Based on studies by transactionalist psychologists Adelbert Ames, Jr. (known for The Ames Demonstrations), William Howard Ittelson, Hadley Cantril, along with John Dewey, the biological role of perception is key to understanding transactionalism. Perceiving is viewed as \"part of the process of living by which each one of us, from his own particular point of view, creates for himself the world within which he has his life’s experiences and through which he strives to gain his satisfactions.\" The sum total of these assumptions was recognized as the \"assumptive world.\"\n\nThe assumptive world stems from all that we experience, all the things and events we assess and assign meaning to, which function as a \"contextual whole\" also known as a \"transactional whole\". Dewey also referred to the assumptive world as a \"situation\" (where organism and environment are inseparable) or as a \"field\" in which behavior, stimulus, and response are framed as if a \"reflexive circuit\". \"To the modern transactionalist, experiences alter perceptual processes, and in the act of altering them, the purposing aspect of perception is either furthered or its fulfillment interfered with.\" It is through action, through movement, that man is capable of bringing forth a value-satisfaction to his or her experience. Man's capacity to \"sense value in the quality of his experience\" was registered through his serial expectations and standards stemming from previous transactions throughout life.\n\nA theory of value is therefore derived from one's behavioral inquiry within an assumptive world. \"Knowledge is a transaction that develops out of man's explorations within [that] cosmos.\" Transactionalists reject the notion that any truth is inherently settled or beyond question. The consequences of any inquiry will be dependent on the \"situation\" or transactional whole in which man as an organism-environment finds him- or her-self.\n\nTo clarify the theory of valuation for man, John Dewey wrote:\nTo declare something \"satisfactory\" [vs. satisfying] is to assert that it meets specifiable conditions. It is, in effect, a judgment that the thing 'will do'. It involves a prediction; it contemplates a future in which the thing will continue to serve; it \"will\" do. It asserts a consequence the thing will actively institute, it \"will\" do.\"\nUltimately, transactionalism is a move away from the conclusion that knowledge depends on an independent knower and something to be known. The reality of a particular situation depends, transactionally speaking, on the interpretation place[d] upon the situation by a particular person. Interpretation is possible only through the accumulation of experience which, in effect, is what is meant by “assumptions”. Without the hitches and mistakes one encounters in the welter of daily living, the nature of the assumptive world would never arise into consciousness. The assumptive world, initially highlighted in the 25 experiments in perception known as The Ames demonstrations, becomes the seeming reality of our world. Man’s transactions of living involve, in sum, capacities, and aspects of his nature operating together. To transact is to participate in the process of translating the ongoing energies of the environment into one’s own perceptual awareness, and to transform the environment through the perceptual act. Value-satisfaction arises when the inadequacies of man's assumptive world are revealed or invalidated. Thereby, the consequences of any transactional experience determines what is valuable or what will do vs. that which is satisfying but will not do. The good life, for the transactionalist, consists of a unity of values, achieved by means of reflective thought, and accepted in the full light of their conditions and consequences.\n\nTo transact is to act intelligently with an aim in mind while avoiding the tendency to surrender one's awareness to complacency or indifference that stems from mere information or untested knowledge. Without action, a person can fool herself, distort her sense of satisfaction or value on behalf of consequences she or others prefer. Through action, the individual perceptions and the shared perceptual common sense of an assumptive world are validated and modified. We predict and refine our conditions of life yet \"any standard set for these value qualities is influenced by the individual’s personal biological and life history.\" Transactionalism is a creativee process that takes into account the unique biology and biography of persons involved.\n\nThe importance of the study of transactionalism arose in the late 1960s in response to an \"alienation syndrome\" among youth of that generation. As the counter-culture challenged and reassessed society's \"philosophical-psychological complex, its \"Weltanschauung\",\" their political and social alienation sparked protests against the war and the draft as well as historic racial rebellions in various U.S. cities. The Long hot summer of 1967 and the counterculture movement named the Summer of Love also in 1967 reflected the antipathy of young people who questioned everything. American society's norms and values were perceived as denying dignity to all. Riots of the period were studied in a report by the U.S. Kerner Commission and scholars began to study the patterns of alienation expressed by youth in the sixties. Youth sought a kind of existentialism expressed by a need to be \"true to oneself.\" This current of alienation unfortunately veered away from a relevant understanding of the transactional whole taking into account the reciprocal and co-constitutive nature of man as an organism-environment fulfilling important conditions of life with others all the time. It resembles the famous line from \"Devotions upon Emergent Occasions\", written by English poet John Donne -- \"No man is an island\". Transactionalism presented an alternative to the limitation and unintended outcomes of the alienation syndrome.\n\nDesigned to account for all aspects of experience—subjective and objective—transactionalism requires a slowing down in assessing all the facts involved with the how, what, when, where, and why as we move to transact with others. It demands and requires always considering how a transaction with another and one's self (e.g., a parent or spouse spending additional hours socializing at the gym) is or is not beneficial to all involved in a transaction (e.g., other members of the family). The costs may be in time, attention, or money or in a condition of life (e.g., family, career, sleep). Transactionalism requires an interdependence of thought, study, and action.\n\nA transactionalist must account for one's biology and cognition (metaphysics); the ways knowing reality (epistemology); the reciprocal, co-constitutive, relationship (or ethics) between our social self and the interactions constrained by both our natural and man-made environment. We as human beings live in distinct sociological patterns with people, material and immaterial culture shaped by specific and ever-changing times and places further articulated by increasing migration and globalization. Transactionalism insists that one attend to the political distribution of goods and services along with the ways its value has and is exchanged and changing among people and groups (politics) as well as how persons are socialized to understand what it means to live a good life as well as fulfill those conditions over time (aesthetics).\n\nTransactionalism offers more than existentialism offered with its aim of being \"true to oneself.\" The alienation that results from its orientation to the self at the expense of societal norms and values, even in small groups, often leads to naiveté, despair, frustration, agitation, and even indifference, at the expense of consciously organizing one's acts, while functioning among others, to fulfill one's unique and necessary interests in living a good and satisfying life. Transactionalism counters the naive \"do as I see fit\" mentality of authenticity regardless of other's needs and concerns, which inevitably leads to negative consequences and outcomes over time. Transactionalism depends upon the \"integration of man and his surroundings.\"\n\nPhillips' dissertation documented the evolution of a \"transactional approach;\" one that rests on the fact that we are biological, linguistic, and that we must transact considering a trans-dermal experience of our thoughts, behavior, and exchange on every level imagined while ethically functioning with others well.\n\nA series of podcasts exemplify the application of a transactional approach to a diverse array of professionals from various countries .\n\n"}
{"id": "5211371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5211371", "title": "Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study", "text": "Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study\n\nThe IEA's Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS) is a series of international assessments of the mathematics and science knowledge of students around the world. The participating students come from a diverse set of educational systems (countries or regional jurisdictions of countries) in terms of economic development, geographical location, and population size. In each of the participating educational systems, a minimum of 4,500 to 5,000 students is evaluated. Contextual data about the conditions in which participating students learn mathematics and science are collected from the students and their teachers, their principals, and their parents via questionnaires.\n\nTIMSS is one of the studies established by IEA aimed at allowing educational systems worldwide to compare students' educational achievement and learn from the experiences of others in designing effective education policy. This assessment was first conducted in 1995, and has been administered every four years thereafter. Therefore, some of the participating educational systems have trend data across assessments from 1995 to 2015. TIMSS assesses 4th and 8th grade students, while TIMSS Advanced assesses students in the final year of secondary school in advanced mathematics and physics. \n\nA precursor to TIMSS was the First International Mathematics Study (FIMS) performed in 1964 in 11 countries for students aged 13 and in the final year of secondary education (FS) under the auspices of the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement (IEA). This was followed in 1970-71 by the First International Science Study (FISS) for students aged 10, 14, and FS. Fourteen countries tested 10-year olds; 16 countries tested the older two groups. These were replicated between 1980 and 1984.\n\nThese early studies were revised and combined by the IEA to create TIMSS, which was first administered in 1995. It was the largest international student assessment study of its time and evaluated students in five grades. In the second cycle (1999) only eighth-grade students were tested. In the next cycles (2003, 2007, 2011 and 2015) both 4th and 8th grade students were assessed. The 2011 cycle was performed in the same year as the IEA's Progress in International Reading Literacy Study (PIRLS), offering a comprehensive assessment of mathematics, science and reading for the countries participating in both studies. The sixth cycle was conducted in 2015, and the results were released in 2016; the data set was published in February 2017. TIMSS 2015 included data collected from parents for the first time. TIMSS Advanced, previously conducted in 1995 and 2008, was also conducted in 2015, and assessed final-year secondary students' achievement in advanced mathematics and physics. Policy-relevant data about curriculum emphasis, technology use, and teacher preparation and training accompanies the TIMSS Advanced results.\n\nAlong with the overall students’ achievement data, TIMSS comprehensive assessments include data on student performance in various mathematics and science domains (algebra, geometry, biology, chemistry, etc.) and on performance in the problem solving challenges in each of these contexts. In addition, TIMSS provides contextual data on crucial curricular, instructional, and resource-related factors that can impact the teaching and learning process. These data are gathered using student, teacher, school, and curriculum (national) questionnaires filled out by students, teachers, school principals and National Research Coordinators, respectively.\n\nAccording to the TIMSS 2011 international results in mathematics, “The TIMSS mathematics achievement scales were established in TIMSS 1995 based on the achievement distribution across all participating countries, treating each country equally. At each grade level, the scale center point of 500 was set to correspond to the mean of the overall achievement distribution, and 100 points on the scale was set to correspond to the standard deviation. Achievement data from subsequent TIMSS assessment cycles were linked to these scales so that increases or decreases in average achievement may be monitored across assessments. TIMSS uses the scale center point as a point of reference that remains constant from assessment to assessment”.\n\nBecause TIMSS is administered in four-year cycles, it enables participating counties to use the results between the fourth and eighth grades to track the changes in achievement and certain background factors from an earlier study. For example, results of the fourth grade in TIMSS 1995 can be compared with the results of the eighth grade in TIMSS 1999, as fourth graders had become eighth graders in the next cycle of study.\n\nThe collected information is presented in different formats. For example, for TIMSS 2015 the results are presented as TIMSS International Results in Science TIMSS International Results in Science and TIMSS International Results in Mathematics. The TIMSS 2015 Encyclopedia provides an overview of how mathematics and science are taught in each participating country. Methods and Procedures in TIMSS 2015 documents the development of the TIMSS assessments and questionnaires, and describes the methods used. The TIMSS 2015 User Guide for the International Database describes the content and format of the data in the TIMSS 2015 International Database. The fully documented TIMSS 2015 international database can be downloaded.\n\nThe IEA has developed an application for working with data from TIMSS and other IEA large-scale assessments called the . This application allows researchers to combine data files and facilitates some types of statistical analysis (such as computing means, percentages, percentiles, correlations, and estimating single level multiple linear regression). The application takes into account the complex sample structure of the databases when calculating the statistics and their standard errors. It also allows researchers to estimate achievement scores and their standard errors.\n\nFor an overview of the IEA study results and interpretation of information, the IEA's can come in handy.\n\nIn TIMSS 1995, there were 41 educational systems in five grades (third, fourth, seventh, eighth, and the final year of secondary school). In 1999, TIMSS only focused on the eighth grade in 38 educational systems; there was no study done for the fourth grade in that year. In TIMSS 2003, there were 26 educational systems for the fourth grade and 48 for the eighth grade. In TIMSS 2007, 44 educational systems participated in the fourth grade and 57 educational systems in the eighth grade. TIMSS 2011 had 52 participating educational systems for the fourth grade and 45 for the eighth grade.\n\nIn TIMSS 2015, nationally representative samples of students in 57 countries and 7 benchmarking entities participated in the fourth grade assessment, the eighth grade assessment, or both. \n\nTIMSS 2019 will be the seventh cycle of TIMSS, reporting overall achievement as well as results according to international benchmarks, by major content domains (number, algebra, and geometry in mathematics, and earth science, biology, and chemistry in science), and by cognitive domains (knowing, applying, and reasoning). Like the previous TIMSS assessments (conducted in 1995, 1999, 2003, 2007, 2011, and 2015), the study will collect detailed information about curriculum and curriculum implementation, instructional practices, and school resources. TIMSS 2019 is focusing on converting to a digital format (eTIMSS 2019). Fourth-grade students can interact with geometric shapes and patterns to demonstrate their mastery of fractions and symmetry, or arrange square flower boxes to explore the relationship between perimeter and area. Eighth-grade students can help to design a storage building by calculating its dimensions, or plan a plant growth experiment and see the results. Other tasks will assess students’ knowledge in areas covered by the TIMSS frameworks, including algebra, data and chance, physics, and chemistry.\neTIMSS will continue all the benefits of TIMSS, enabling countries to measure how effective they are in teaching mathematics and science. \n\nThe TIMSS 1999 Video Study was a study of eighth-grade mathematics and science teaching in seven countries. The study involved videotaping and analyzing teaching practices in more than one thousand classrooms. In conjunction with the IEA, the study was conducted by the US National Center for Education Statistics, and the US Department of Education under a contract with LessonLab, Inc. of Los Angeles, California.\n\nTIMSS depends on the collaboration of a large number of individuals and organizations around the world including the TIMSS & PIRLS International Study Center at Boston College, IEA's offices in Amsterdam and Hamburg, Statistics Canada, and Educational Testing Service (ETS). In the United States, TIMSS is conducted by the National Center for Education Statistics of the US Department of Education. Data for US students is further tracked for ethnic and racial groups. TIMSS is mainly funded by the participating countries. Also, the US National Center for Education Statistics of the US Department of Education and the World Bank provide major support funding for the assessments.\n\n\nHanushek and Woessmann developed a methodology to rescale 14 different international comparisons of math and / or science achievement to make them comparable. This includes the FIMS, FISS, and PISA, mentioned above, with TIMSS.\n\n"}
{"id": "5689246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5689246", "title": "University charter", "text": "University charter\n\nUniversity charter is a charter given by provincial, state, regional, and sometimes national governments to legitimize the university's existence.\n\nIn most Canadian provinces university charters are in the form of Acts (e.g. York University Act). \"The Royal Military College of Canada Degrees Act\" of 1959 enables the Royal Military College of Canada in Kingston, Ontario to offer degrees in Arts, Science, and Engineering at the undergraduate and graduate levels.\n\nIn the United States, American University, Gallaudet University, Georgetown University, Howard University, and George Washington University are the only Congressionally chartered universities, due to their location within the US's federal district.\n\nThe United States service (military) academies are not chartered as they are agencies of the federal government itself.\n\nOther universities are chartered by the colonial governments or by state legislatures.\n"}
{"id": "35610473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35610473", "title": "Video-based reflection", "text": "Video-based reflection\n\nVideo-based reflection is a reflective practice technique in which video recordings, rather than one's own memory, is used as a basis for reflection and professional growth. Video-based reflection is used with moderations in various professional fields, e.g. in the field of education and pedagogy. Several workshop formats can be described as based on video-based reflection, e.g. \"Videobased Reflection on Team Interaction\" (The ViRTI Method; Due & Lange 2015) within the conversation analytic school of research, or the concept of Marte Meo, a method of educational counseling.\n\nIndividual teachers can practice video-based reflection, but it is more commonly done when teachers are a part of video clubs. Research about the effect that video club participation can have on teacher practice has been done by Katherine A. Linsenmeier, Miriam Gamoran Sherin, and Elizabeth van Es.\n\nResearch indicates that teachers can benefit from video-based reflection, even when done apart from a group. Individuals using this mode of reflection tend to write longer and have more specific reflections than when writing a reflection using memory alone. This practice has also been shown to help pre-service and novice teachers focus their attention on their students' learning rather than on their own experiences.\n\nVideo clubs are formed by groups of teachers who want to investigate a specific aspect of their teaching practice. These clubs often meet on a monthly basis to view and discuss a video clip of a member's teaching. Teachers participating in video clubs focused on student learning report feeling better able to notice and respond to student learning during instruction.\n"}
{"id": "1733839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1733839", "title": "Virtual school", "text": "Virtual school\n\nAn online school (virtual school or e-school or cyber-school) teaches students entirely or primarily online or through the internet. It has been defined as \"education that uses one or more technologies to deliver instruction to students who are separated from the instructor and to support regular and substantive interaction between the students and the instructor synchronously or asynchronously\". Online education exists all around the world and is used for all levels of education (K-12, college, or graduate school). This type of learning enables the individuals to earn transferable credits, take recognized examinations, or advance to the next level of education over the internet.\n\nVirtual education is most commonly used at the high school or college level. Students who are of the age 30 or older, tend to study on online programs at higher rates. This group represents 41% of the online education population, while 35.5% of students ages 24-29 and 24.5% of students ages 15-23 participate in virtual education.\n\nVirtual education is becoming increasing used worldwide. There are currently more than 4,700 colleges and universities that provide online courses to their students. In 2015, more than 6 million students were taking at least one course online, this number grew by 3.9% from the previous year. 29.7% of all higher education students are taking at least one distance course. The total number of students studying on a campus exclusively dropped by 931,317 people between the years 2012 and 2015. Experts say that because the number of students studying at the college level is growing, there will also be an increase in the number of students enrolled in distance learning. \n\nInstructional models vary, ranging from distance learning types which provide study materials for independent self-paced study, to live, interactive classes where students communicate with a teacher in a class group lesson. Class sizes range widely from a small group of 6 pupils or students to hundreds in a virtual school.\n\nThe courses that are independent and self paced are called asynchronous courses. Typically for this type of learning, the students are given the assignments and information, and are expected to complete the assignments by the due date. This is done on their own time. There is no scheduled time when the class meets. Usually the only interactions that takes place are through discussion boards, blogs, and wikis.\n\nOn the other hand, synchronous online courses happen in real time. The instructor and students all interact online at the same time. This is done either through text, video, or audio chat. Therefore these lessons are socially constructed. In addition to the scheduled class time, there is usually additional assignments to complete. \n\nHybrid, sometimes also called blended, courses are when students learn and interact both in person and online. Theses classes meet in person during the semester in addition to computer based communication. \n\nThe mid-1990s saw the advent of completely virtual schools. Many of today's virtual schools are descendants of correspondence schools. The earlier online schools began in Australia, New Zealand, North America and the UK, generally in areas where low density population made schooling by conventional means difficult and expensive to provide. In 2008 an assessment found high dropout rates. As in other computerized environments, once the glamour of the new methods wore off it became clear that human skills were paramount to success, in this case teaching and welfare expertise. Where this is recognized retention is good, i.e. in the synchronous, socially structured models; in the huge MOOC style courses the same isolation problems as correspondence learning are found.\n\nSometimes referred to as \"distance learning\", correspondence schools offered students an alternative to the traditional brick and mortar meetings within a schoolhouse. These schools utilized the postal service for student-teacher interaction, or used two-way radio transmissions, sometimes with pre-recorded television broadcasts. Students were expected to study their learning material independently and, in some cases, meet with a proctor to be tested.\n\nVirtual schools now exist all around the world. Over the past decade, K-12 online instruction has dramatically increased in both Canada and the United States. Some of these virtual schools have been integrated into public schools (particularly in the United States), where students sit in computer labs and do their work online. Students can also be completely home-schooled, or they can take any combination of public/private/home-schooling and online classes.\n\nThe International Association for K-12 Online Learning (iNACOL) developed a set of standards released in September 2007 and updated on October 12, 2011. These standards will help monitor online programs and ensure that every provider of education is accredited. \n\nWhere online methods are integrated with State provision, costs follow state school standards. Otherwise fees must be met by the student, or parents. Many US school districts are now creating their own online services to avoid paying external providers. Such students can graduate from their home district without ever leaving home. In most of these cases, students are given computers, books, and even internet service to complete coursework from home.\n\nWith the resources of the internet as a library, and the ease of making online study materials, there is usually a comparatively small requirement for textbooks. Most courses will provide electronic materials free of cost, or included in the course fee. Textbooks are most often required for an exam syllabus course.\n\nAdvocates of online schools and online learning point to a number of advantages:\n\n\nSome disadvantages of virtual school includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11841580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11841580", "title": "Youth Innovation Fund", "text": "Youth Innovation Fund\n\nThe Youth Innovation Fund is a national program that seeds youth activism, service learning, youth-led media through civic engagement programs in eight cities across the United States. Based in Washington, D.C., the Fund operates in Ypsilanti, Michigan, San Francisco, California, Portland, Oregon, Portland, Maine, Nashville, Tennessee, Hampton, Virginia, Cleveland, Mississippi and Chicago, Illinois. It is funded by the W. K. Kellogg Foundation and supported by the National Service-Learning Partnership.\n\nIn 2003 the Youth Innovation Fund was funded by the W. K. Kellogg Foundation to help the National Service-Learning Partnership, at the Academy for Educational Development, establish a new development source for \"youth-directed civic action\". The Youth Innovation Fund's primary purpose is to support youth, working in partnership with community institutions, and to create innovations that address public issues and problems using a service learning framework.\n\nEight sites were chosen nationwide to receive grants in Chicago, Cleveland, Mississippi, Hampton, Virginia, Nashville, Portland, Maine, Portland, Oregon, San Francisco and Ypsilanti, Michigan. These boards were to consist of diverse youth ages 12-19 that represented the wide variety of races and socio-economic backgrounds of the youth population at the site. Each youth board makes strategic mini-grants to youth-directed civic action projects that utilize a service-learning framework. The youth boards also develop impact plans to create the structures and policies to sustain systemic youth engagement in a city and/or school district.\n\n"}
