{"id": "16701731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16701731", "title": "Accrediting Bureau of Health Education Schools", "text": "Accrediting Bureau of Health Education Schools\n\nThe Accrediting Bureau of Health Education Schools (ABHES) is a recognized higher education accreditation organization in the United States specializing in the institutional accreditation of private, postsecondary institutions that offer allied health education programs, and the programmatic accreditation of programs leading to associate degrees or certificates in the medical assistant, medical laboratory technician and surgical technology fields. The ABHES is the only healthcare education accrediting agency that is recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. In addition to recognition by the U.S. Department of Education, the ABHES is also recognized by the American Association of Medical Assistants (AAMA), the American Medical Technologists (AMT) and the Liaison Council for Certification of Surgical Technologists (LLC-ST).\n\nThe organization is based in Falls Church, Virginia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "238706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=238706", "title": "Alpha-fetoprotein", "text": "Alpha-fetoprotein\n\nAlpha-fetoprotein (AFP, α-fetoprotein; also sometimes called alpha-1-fetoprotein, alpha-fetoglobulin, or alpha fetal protein) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the \"AFP\" gene. The \"AFP\" gene is located on the \"q\" arm of chromosome 4 (4q25).\n\nAFP is a major plasma protein produced by the yolk sac and the fetal liver during fetal development. It is thought to be the fetal analog of serum albumin. AFP binds to copper, nickel, fatty acids and bilirubin and is found in monomeric, dimeric and trimeric forms.\n\nAFP is a glycoprotein of 591 amino acids and a carbohydrate moiety.\n\nAFP is the most abundant plasma protein found in the human fetus. Maternal plasma levels peak near the end of the first trimester, and begin decreasing prenatally at that time, then decrease rapidly after birth. Normal adult levels are usually achieved by the age of 8 to 12 months. The function of AFP in adult humans is unknown; however, in rodents it binds estradiol to prevent the transport of this hormone across the placenta to the fetus. The main function of this is to prevent the virilization of female fetuses. As human AFP does not bind estrogen, its function in humans is less clear.\n\nThe rodent AFP system can be overridden with massive injections of estrogen, which overwhelm the AFP system and will masculinize the fetus. The masculinizing effect of estrogens may seem counter-intuitive since estrogens are critical for the proper development of female secondary characteristics during puberty. However, this is not the case prenatally. Gonadal hormones from the testes, such as testosterone and antimullerian hormone are required to cause development of a phenotypic male. Without these hormones the fetus will develop into a phenotypic female even if genetically XY. The conversion of testosterone into estradiol by aromatase in many tissues may be an important step in masculinization of that tissue. Masculinization of the brain is thought to occur both by conversion of testosterone into estradiol by aromatase, but also by de novo synthesis of estrogens within the brain. Thus, AFP may protect the fetus from maternal estradiol that would otherwise have a masculinizing effect on the fetus, but its exact role is still controversial.\n\nIn pregnant women, fetal AFP levels can be monitored in urine. Since AFP is quickly cleared from the mother's serum via her kidneys, maternal urine AFP correlates with fetal serum levels, although the maternal urine level is much lower than the fetal serum level. AFP levels rise until about week 32.\n\nThe normal range of AFP for adults and children is variously reported as under 50, under 10, and under 5 ng/mL. At birth, normal infants have AFP levels 4 or more orders of magnitude above this normal range, that decreases to a normal range over the first year of life.\n\nDuring this time, the normal range of AFP levels spans approximately 2 orders of magnitude. Correct evaluation of \"abnormal\" AFP levels in infants must take into account these normal patterns.\n\nVery high AFP levels may be subject to hooking (see Tumor marker), which results in the level being reported significantly lower than the actual concentration. This is important for analysis of a series of AFP tumor marker tests, e.g. in the context of post-treatment early surveillance of cancer survivors, where the rate of decrease of AFP has diagnostic value.\n\nMeasurement of AFP is generally used in two clinical contexts. First, it is measured in pregnant women through the analysis of maternal blood or amniotic fluid as a screening test for certain developmental abnormalities such as aneuploidy. Second, serum AFP level is elevated in people with certain tumors, and so it is used as a biomarker to follow these diseases. Some of these diseases are listed below:\n\nA peptide derived from AFP that is referred to as AFPep is claimed to possess anti-cancer properties.\n\n"}
{"id": "16722213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16722213", "title": "America's Health Care Crisis Solved", "text": "America's Health Care Crisis Solved\n\nAmerica's Health Care Crisis Solved: Money-Saving Solutions, Coverage for Everyone is a 2008 book by J. Patrick Rooney and the HSA Coalition President Daniel B. Perrin that has been described as \"an excellent hands-on guide for consumers and voters\" regarding HSAs, or Health Savings Accounts.\n\n"}
{"id": "18761393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18761393", "title": "Animal nutrition", "text": "Animal nutrition\n\nAnimal nutrition focuses on the dietary needs of animals, primarily those in agriculture and food production, but also in zoos, aquariums, and wildlife management.\n\nThere are seven major classes of nutrients: carbohydrates, fats, fibre, minerals, proteins, vitamins, and water.\n\nMacronutrients (excluding fiber and water) provide structural material (amino acids from which proteins are built, and lipids from which cell membranes and some signaling molecules are built) and energy. Some of the structural material can be used to generate energy internally, though the net energy depends on such factors as absorption and digestive effort, which vary substantially from instance to instance. Vitamins, minerals, fiber, and water do not provide energy, but are required for other reasons. A third class dietary material, fiber (i.e., non-digestible material such as cellulose), seems also to be required, for both mechanical and biochemical reasons, though the exact reasons remain unclear.\n\nMolecules of carbohydrates and fats consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms. Carbohydrates range from simple monosaccharides (glucose, fructose, galactose) to complex polysaccharides (starch). Fats are triglycerides, made of assorted fatty acid monomers bound to glycerol backbone. Some fatty acids, but not all, are essential in the diet: they cannot be synthesized in the body. Protein molecules contain nitrogen atoms in addition to carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen. The fundamental components of protein are nitrogen-containing amino acids. Essential amino acids cannot be made by the animal. Some of the amino acids are convertible (with the expenditure of energy) to glucose and can be used for energy production just as ordinary glucose. By breaking down existing protein, some glucose can be produced internally; the remaining amino acids are discarded, primarily as urea in urine. This occurs normally only during prolonged starvation.\n\nOther dietary substances found in plant foods (phytochemicals, polyphenols) are not identified as essential nutrients but appear to impact health in both positive and negative ways. Most foods contain a mix of some or all of the nutrient classes, together with other substances. Some nutrients can be stored internally (e.g., the fat soluble vitamins), while others are required more or less continuously. Poor health can be caused by a lack of required nutrients or, in extreme cases, too much of a required nutrient. For example, both salt provides sodium and chloride, both essential nutrients, but will cause illness or even death in too large amounts.\n\nDietary fibre is a carbohydrate (polysaccharide or oligosaccharide) that is incompletely absorbed in some animals. \n\nProteins are the basis of many animal body structures (e.g. muscles, skin, and hair). They also form the enzymes which control chemical reactions throughout the body. Each molecule is composed of amino acids which are characterized by the inclusion of nitrogen and sometimes sulfur. The body requires amino acids to produce new proteins (protein retention) and to replace damaged proteins (maintenance). As there is no protein or amino acid storage provision, amino acids must be present in the diet. Excess amino acids are discarded, typically in the urine. For all animals, some amino acids are \"essential\" (an animal cannot produce them internally) and some are \"non-essential\" (the animal can produce them from other nitrogen-containing compounds). A diet that contains adequate amounts of amino acids (especially those that are essential) is particularly important in some situations: during early development and maturation, pregnancy, lactation, or injury (a burn, for instance). \n\nA few amino acids from protein can be converted into glucose and used for fuel through a process called gluconeogenesis; this is done in quantity only during starvation.\n\nDietary minerals are the chemical elements required by living organisms, other than the four elements carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen that are present in nearly all organic molecules. The term \"mineral\" is archaic, since the intent is to describe simply the less common elements in the diet.\n\nMany elements are essential in relative quantity; they are usually called \"bulk minerals\". Some are structural, but many play a role as electrolytes. These include:\n\nMany elements are required in trace amounts, usually because they play a catalytic role in enzymes.\n\nVitamin deficiencies may result in disease conditions. Excess of some vitamins is also dangerous to health (notably vitamin A), and animal nutrition researchers have managed to establish safe levels for some common companion animals. Deficiency or excess of minerals can also have serious health consequences.\n\nThough not really a nutrient as such, an entry for \"ash\" is sometimes found on nutrition labels, especially for pet food. This entry measures the weight of inorganic material left over after the food is burned for two hours at 600 °C. Thus, it does not include water, fibre, and nutrients that provide calories, but it does include some nutrients, such as minerals \n\nToo much ash may contribute to feline urological syndrome in domestic cats.\n\nAnimal intestines contain a large population of gut flora which are essential to digestion, and are also affected by the food eaten. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "17275317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17275317", "title": "Anthoxanthin", "text": "Anthoxanthin\n\nAnthoxanthins (flavones and flavonols) are a type of flavonoid pigments in plants. Anthoxanthins are water-soluble pigments which range in color from white or colorless to a creamy to yellow, often on petals of flowers. These pigments are generally whiter in an acid medium and yellowed in an alkaline medium. They are very susceptible to color changes with minerals and metal ions, similar to anthocyanins. As with all flavonoids, they exhibit antioxidant properties, and are important in nutrition, and are sometimes used as food additives. Darkening with iron is particularly prominent in food products. They are considered to have more variety than anthocyanins. Some examples are quercitin.\n"}
{"id": "58713754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58713754", "title": "Anurag Chauhan", "text": "Anurag Chauhan\n\nAnurag Chauhan (born 1994) is an Indian social worker and founder of Humans For Humanity, a non-governmental organization (NGO) headquartered in Dehradun, India. He is founder-director of Dehradun Literature Festival. He is known for his work towards menstrual hygiene.\n\nHe was awarded the \"Karmavir Chakra Award\" by the United Nations for social work in the year 2016. In July 2016, he was conferred the \"Bharat Nirman Award\" 2016 by Union Minister Dr. Najma Heptulla for entrepreneurship and excellence in social work at the India International Centre, New Delhi.\nIn 2015, Anurag started a project called WASH - Women, Sanitation, Hygiene, that works towards educating women about menstrual hygiene, providing them sanitary napkins and giving training to them for making bio-degradable sanitary napkins. Chauhan founded his NGO \"Humans For Humanity\" in 2014, after reading an article written about deaths caused due to lack of menstruation hygiene. His cause received support from actress Twinkle Khanna. Anurag runs awareness programs in many villages of Uttarakhand, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka, reportedly by Dainik Jagaran. \nChauhan acted in a film, based on Clean India Campaign, an initiative by PM Narendra Modi. In 2016, he launched the Dehradun Literature Festival, an annual literary fest in Dehradun.\n\nIn September, 2017, Chauhan started an online compaign #TheDoorChallenge to promote ethnic Indian attire among youngsters.\n\n"}
{"id": "422572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=422572", "title": "Chemical castration", "text": "Chemical castration\n\nChemical castration is castration via anaphrodisiac drugs, whether to reduce libido and sexual activity, to treat cancer, or otherwise. Unlike surgical castration, where the gonads are removed through an incision in the body, chemical castration does not remove organs, nor is it a form of sterilization. Chemical castration is generally considered reversible when treatment is discontinued, although permanent effects in body chemistry can sometimes be seen, as in the case of bone density loss increasing with length of use of DMPA.\n\nIn May 2016, \"The New York Times\" reported that a number of countries use chemical castration on rapists and pedophiles, often in return for reduced sentences.\n\nWhen used on men, these drugs can reduce sex drive, compulsive sexual fantasies, and capacity for sexual arousal. Life-threatening side effects are rare, but some users show increases in body fat and reduced bone density, which increase long-term risk of cardiovascular disease and osteoporosis. They may also experience gynecomastia (development of larger-than-normal mammary glands in males) as seen in Alan Turing's case.\n\nWhen used on women, the effects are similar, though there is little research about chemically lowering women's sex drive or female-specific anaphrodisiacs, since most research focuses on the opposite, but anti-androgenic hormone regimens would lower testosterone in women which can impact sex drive or sexual response. These drugs also deflate the breast glands and expand the size of the nipple. Also seen is a sudden shrink in bone mass and discoloration of the lips, reduced body hair, and muscle mass.\n\nThe first use of chemical castration occurred in 1944, when diethylstilbestrol was used with the purpose of lowering men's testosterone.\nThe antipsychotic agent benperidol is sometimes used to diminish sexual urges in people who display inappropriate sexual behavior, and can likewise be given by depot injection. But benperidol does not affect testosterone and is therefore not a castration agent.\nChemical castration is often seen as an easier alternative to life imprisonment or the death penalty because it allows the release of sex offenders while reducing or eliminating the chance that they reoffend.\n\nIn 1981, in an experiment by P. Gagne, 48 males with long-standing histories of sexually deviant behaviour were given medroxyprogesterone acetate for as long as 12 months. Forty of those subjects were recorded as to have diminished desires for deviant sexual behaviour, less frequent sexual fantasies, and greater control over sexual urges. The research recorded a continuation of this more positive behaviour after the administration of the drug had ended with no evidence of adverse side effects and recommended medroxyprogesterone acetate along with counselling as a successful method of treatment for serial sex offenders.\n\nCiting the observation that spaying causes female animals to stop mating in the same species as castration cause male animals to stop mating, and that in the animal species where females continue their mating behaviour after being spayed the males also continue to mate after being castrated, there are scientists who argue that it makes no biological sense to assume that any treatment that emulates castration would remove sex drive in men but not in women. These scientists argue that these observations, along with the fact that humans are animals and subject to evolution, show that it is flawed to think that male sexuality would be treatable by medication if female sexuality is not. \n\nSome criminologists argue that the appearance of a lower recidivism rate in male sex offenders who take chemical castration treatment than in those who do not can be explained by factors other than biological effects of the medication. One hypothesis is that men who accept the negative effects of hormonal treatment in exchange for shorter prison sentence are distinct in that they value freedom from incarceration higher than men who rather stay in prison for a longer time than face the side effects of chemical castration. These criminologists explain apparently lower recidivism as an artifact of men who accept chemical castration being more engaged in hiding the evidence for reoffending, and that paroling such offenders constitute a risk of releasing criminals who commit as many new crimes as others but are better at hiding it. These criminologists also argue that police investigators treating castrated men as less likely to reoffend than non-castrated men may cause an investigation bias and self-fulfilling prophecy, and that men who sell some of their prescribed medicines on the black market for drugs get a hidden income that improve their ability to afford measures to hide recidivism that is not available to men without such prescriptions.\n\nSome neurologists acknowledge that testosterone plays a role in sexual arousal but that reducing sex drive will likely not reduce inappropriate sex behaviour. These researchers argue that since a weaker internal signal in the brain means a higher requirement for external stimulation to create a feedback loop that tires the brain circuits out as in orgasm and lead to satisfaction, a reduction of the internal stimulation from hormones would make the required external stimulation stronger and also more specific, as weaker signals involve narrower ranges of other brain functions in their loops. These scientists therefore argue that the biological (as opposed to sociological) effect of reduced testosterone is to make it more difficult and not easier to use masturbation without pornography or other socially acceptable substitutes to manage remaining sex drive in a former offender, and that many community persons (both male and female) find that a lower initial arousal makes it more difficult to orgasm by masturbation without pornography or with non-preferred stimulation.\n\nIn March 2010, Guillermo Fontana of CNN reported that officials in Mendoza, a province in Argentina, approved the use of voluntary chemical castration for rapists, in return for reduced sentences.\n\nIn 2010, a repeat child sex offender who had been subject to chemical castration was accused of inappropriately touching and kissing a young girl. He was found not guilty by a jury, which was not informed of the context of his previous offenses.\n\nThe drug cyproterone acetate has been commonly used for chemical castration throughout Europe. It resembles the drug MPA used in America.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, computer scientist Alan Turing, famous for his contributions to mathematics and computer science, was a homosexual who was forced to undergo chemical castration in order to avoid imprisonment in 1952. At the time, homosexual acts between males were still illegal and homosexual orientation was widely considered to be a mental illness that could be treated with chemical castration. Turing experienced side effects such as breast enlargement and bloating of the physique. He died two years later, with the inquest returning a verdict of suicide, although recent research has cast doubt on this result. In 2009, the then British Prime Minister Gordon Brown issued a public apology for the \"appalling\" treatment of Turing after an online petition gained 30,000 signatures and international recognition. He was given a posthumous Royal Pardon in December 2013.\n\nIn the 1960s, German physicians used antiandrogens as a treatment for sexual paraphilia.\n\nIn 2008, an experimental intervention program was launched in three Portuguese prisons: Carregueira (Belas, Sintra), Paços de Ferreira and Funchal. The program developers note the voluntary nature of the program a crucial factor in its success. They initially planned to cover ten inmates per prison, contemplating a possible enlargement to other prisons in the future. The program also included a rehabilitation component.\n\nOn September 25, 2009, Poland legislated forcible chemical castration of child molesters. This law came into effect on June 9, 2010; therefore in Poland \"anyone guilty of raping a child under the age of 15 can now be forced to submit to chemical and psychological therapy to reduce sex drive at the end of a prison term\".\n\nOn April 30, 2010, a man in the United Kingdom found guilty of attempting to murder a 60-year-old woman in order to abduct and rape her two granddaughters agreed to undergo chemical castration as part of the terms of his sentence.\n\nOn March 6, 2012, Moldova legislated forcible chemical castration of child molesters; the law came into effect on July 1, 2012.\n\nOn June 5, 2012, Estonia passed a law to allow forced chemical castration of sex offenders.\n\nIn October and November 2013, the Macedonian authorities were working on developing a legal framework and standard procedure for implementation of chemical castration that would be used for convicted child molesters. The castration is intended to be voluntarily, where as for the child molesters that repeat the criminal act it should be mandatory.\n\nAfter the outrage following the gang rape of a woman in Delhi, the Government has submitted a draft proposing chemical castration along with an imprisonment of up to 30 years for rape convicts as part of the anti-rape law in India. The ministry is preparing a detailed bill and the recommended changes are under review.\nGovernment is also planning to re-define the Juvenile Act and lower their age. One of the accused in the rape case is a juvenile and aged a few months less than 18 years. A view has been expressed by a section that only those below 15 years should be described as juvenile.\n\nIn 2016, the Indonesian President Joko Widodo introduced a presidential regulation to allow chemical castration to be handed down as a punishment to child sex offenders and pedophiles. The regulation alters the contents of the 2002 Law on Child Protection.\n\nIn May 2009, two brothers from Haifa—convicted child molesters—agreed to undergo chemical castration to avoid committing further crimes.\n\nIn New Zealand, the antilibidinal drug cyproterone acetate is sold under the name Androcur. In November 2000 convicted paedophile Robert Jason Dittmer attacked a victim while on the drug. In 2009 a study into the effectiveness of the drug by Dr David Wales for the Corrections Department found that no research had been conducted in New Zealand into the effectiveness and such trials were \"ethically and practically very difficult to carry out.\"\n\nIn October 2011, the Russian parliament approved a law that allows a court-requested forensic psychiatrist to prescribe the chemical castration of convicted sex offenders who have harmed children under the age of 14.\n\nIn July 2011, South Korea enacted a law allowing judges the power to sentence sex offenders who have attacked children under the age of 16 to chemical castration. The law also allows for chemical castration to be ordered by a Ministry of Justice committee. On May 23, 2012, a serial sex offender legally called Park in the court case was ordered by the committee to undergo this treatment after his most recent attempted offense. On January 3, 2013, a South Korean court sentenced a 31-year-old man to 15 years in jail and chemical castration, the country's first-ever chemical castration sentence. In 2017, feminist-backed Moon Jaein administration expanded the sentencing to include all forms of rapes and sexual assault cases against women, including attempted rape.\n\nIn South Korea, taking pictures of women without their consent, even in public, is considered to be criminal sexual assault, punishable by a fine of under 10 million won and up to 5 years' imprisonment. In July 2017 an amendment to the law was voted on in favour of allowing for chemical castration of people taking such photographs. The amendment did not pass.\n\nIn 1966, John Money became the first American to employ chemical castration by prescribing medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA, the base ingredient now used in DMPA) as a treatment for a patient dealing with pedophilic urges. The drug has thereafter become a mainstay of chemical castration in America. Despite its long history and established use, the drug has never been approved by the FDA for use as a treatment for sexual offenders.\n\nCalifornia was the first U.S. state to specify the use of chemical castration as a punishment for child molestation, following the passage of a modification to Section 645 of the California penal code in 1996. This law stipulates that anyone convicted of child molestation with a minor under 13 years of age may be treated with DMPA if they are on parole after their second offense and that offenders may not reject the treatment.\n\nThe passage of this law led to similar laws in other states such as Florida's Statute Section 794.0235 which was passed into law in 1997. As in California, treatment is mandatory after a second offense.\n\nAt least seven other states, including Georgia, Iowa, Louisiana, Montana, Oregon, Texas and Wisconsin, have experimented with chemical castration. In Iowa, as in California and Florida, offenders may be sentenced to chemical castration in all cases involving serious sex offenses. On June 25, 2008, following the Supreme Court ruling in \"Kennedy v. Louisiana\" that the execution of child rapists where the victim was not killed was ruled unconstitutional, Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal signed Senate Bill 144, allowing Louisiana judges to sentence convicted rapists to chemical castration.\n\nThe American Civil Liberties Union of Florida opposes the administration of any drug that is dangerous or has significant irreversible effect as an alternative to incarceration; however, they do not oppose the use of antiandrogen drugs for sex offenders under carefully controlled circumstances as an alternative to incarceration. Law professor John Stinneford has argued that chemical castration is a cruel and unusual punishment because it exerts control over the mind of sex offenders to render them incapable of sexual desire and subjects them to the physical changes caused by the female hormones used.\n\nSome people have argued that, based on the 14th Amendment, the procedure fails to guarantee equal protection: although the laws mandating the treatment do so without respect to gender, the actual effect of the procedure disproportionately falls upon men. In the case of voluntary statutes, the ability to give informed consent is also an issue; in 1984, the U.S. state of Michigan's court of appeals held that mandating chemical castration as a condition of probation was unlawful on the grounds that the drug medroxyprogesterone acetate had not yet gained acceptance as being safe and reliable and also due to the difficulty of obtaining informed consent under these circumstances.\n\nA major medical use of chemical castration is in the treatment of hormone-dependent cancers, such as some prostate cancer, where it has largely replaced the practice of surgical castration.\n\nChemical castration involves the administration of antiandrogen drugs, such as cyproterone acetate, flutamide, or gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50164726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50164726", "title": "Children's right to adequate nutrition in New Zealand", "text": "Children's right to adequate nutrition in New Zealand\n\nEvery child has the right to adequate nutrition under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In New Zealand, an estimated 100,000 New Zealand children go to school every day without breakfast. Article 11 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights recognises 'the fundamental right for everyone to be free from hunger’.\n\nIn the Auckland region, there are approximately 43,000 children in decile 1 and 2 state schools. Of these 57% are Pasifica, 30% are Māori, and 4% are European. The remaining 9% are Asian/Middle Eastern and other ethnic groups. The Ministry of Health advised the Minister in 2006 that \"decile one and two schools draw their students from our most vulnerable communities and cope with multiple issues related to poverty\".\n\nA 2002 Ministry of Health survey found that there is a high percentage of children between the age of 5 to 14 who \"sometimes or always ate nothing before school\", compared to a New Zealand Health Survey that found around 15% of children leave for school without eating breakfast.\n\nThe Children's Commissioner released a Framework for Food in Schools Programme stating \"Children need to be fed adequately for a range of nutritional, educational and social reasons and should be fed regardless of their parent's income or status. To end this, breakfast should be made available to decile 1 and 2 primary, intermediate and primary intermediate combined schools.\"\n\nThe evolution of children’s right itself to adequate nutrition has fast been on the rise in the last 10 years. In 2004, 26% of children were reported as living in serious or significant hardship. In 2005, the Child Poverty Action Group published \"Hard to Swallow\" which sounded alarms about the increasing number of families who resorted to using food banks. Key recommendations of the 2005 report that free but good quality breakfasts should be provided for children in decile 1 and 2 primary and intermediate schools as a means of ensuring that the most vulnerable children were sufficiently nourished to enable them to learn efficiently at school.\n\nPast Governments have ignored the problem or helped construct the public debate of the issue portrayed as one of parental failure. Poor quality diet has also been portrayed as a matter of personal preference. The Labour Government in 2000-2008 responded to the poor diet with social marketing campaigns such as Push-Play, aiming to encourage families to eat healthier foods to improve people's health and fitness. In the early 2000s, the Treasury found poor child nutrition is a risk factor for the child's ability to learn.\n\nThe current National Government has avoided the debate about food insecurity, instead claiming ‘poor food choices’ and removed Labour’s public health initiates around healthy eating and exercise in 2008.\n\nNationally, there are 115,000 children in decile 1 and 2 primary and intermediate, and secondary schools with private charities, schools and teachers scrambling to fill the nutrition gaps of many of these students.\n\nNew Zealand policymakers aim to create equality of opportunity for children as part of a broader social investment strategy. Providing breakfast, free, to all children attending decile 1 and 2 primary and intermediate schools would be one positive way to achieve this stated policy aim. It would also help redress the balance in favour of the low-income households that have found themselves left further behind as New Zealand’s income inequality has grown over the last thirty years.\n\nThe United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child furthers a stand to which the child has a sufficient right to adequate nutrition. Relevant provisions are set out in Article 27.\n\nStates Parties recognise the right of every child to a standard of living adequate for the child's physical, mental, spiritual, moral and social development.\n\n\nSchool food programmes would also be consistent with the conclusion of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child in New Zealand. The Committee’s recommendation in paragraph 43:\n\n\"The Committee recommends that the State Party take all necessary measures to provide appropriate support to allow disadvantaged families and their children to move out of poverty in a sustained way, while at the same time, continuing to provide assistance to those living below the poverty line\"\n\nThe Scottish Government have achieved a successful model for 'breakfast clubs' with the particular focus on children with the greatest need. \nThe decision here was drawn to provide food for children in school both to improve students' education and improve their diets. The philosophy behind food in Scottish schools is a ‘whole school’ approach that recognises food sits within children’s social context.\n\nThe contrast with the New Zealand government’s reliance on corporate beneficence and private charity could not be more abrupt. \nBreakfast clubs have been present in Scotland for many years. An evaluation of Glasgow’s project provides some insight into the variations between schools that make a school-by-school approach more sensible than a one- size- fits-all model.\n\nThe evaluation found the factors affecting the likely success and delivery of breakfasts include: \n\nNew Zealand has no national scheme for food in schools, however, there are adequate non-Government programmes operating in hundreds of schools. Boards of Trustees have absolute jurisdiction in the management of the school, within the general law of New Zealand. The only rules currently mandated by central Government with regard to food in schools is National Administrative Guideline 5;\n\n\n\nOther health promotions in areas including nutrition \n\nGenerally, schools initiate programmes because they are concerned with the quality of the students’ food. The \"Fruit in Schools\" programme appears to have provided an incentive to shift schools to having a greater focus on the health aspects of foods.\n\nSchools operate their breakfast programmes at little or no cost and are usually run by the Red Cross, Kickstart Project and local churches. The National Government in 2013 started to fund 50% of the expansion Food in Schools programme over a five-year period. Schools have different experiences with recruiting and retaining volunteers from within the community: some school programmes are run by teachers, others are run by volunteers drawn from within the school, and parents. Most donations from businesses or individuals tend to be in a way of food rather than money.\n\nThe \"Education (Breakfast and Lunch programmes in schools) Amendment Bill\" was developed to provide a legislative basis for making food in schools available to all decile 1 to 3 primary and intermediate schools.\nThis Bill will amend the Education Act 1989 providing the introduction of a fully funded State breakfast and lunch programmes, however was not passed. Catering to all decile 1 and 2 schools and other designated schools in New Zealand. The meals will be available to all enrolled students in these schools free of charge, and will be required to meet Ministry of Health nutritional guidelines.\nThe introduction of State led and funded food in schools programmes in low decile schools has been recommended by the Child Poverty Action Group in their 2011 report \"Hunger for learning\", where nutritional barriers to children’s education, and by the Children’s Commissioner’s \"Solutions to child poverty in New Zealand\" as a key measure to address child poverty.\nIn conjunction with the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education will develop a plan to monitor schools at least once every 12 months to ensure they are providing meals each day they are open for instruction and that the meals follow nutritional guidelines. An evaluation of the breakfast and lunch programmes will be conducted within the first 3 years to further develop and improve their effectiveness.\n\nBreakfast, in particular, has been found to have a beneficial effect on children’s study, behaviour, and attendance and there is mounting evidence that eating a good quality breakfast reduces the risk of obesity. \nEvidence for the benefit of breakfast for children is mixed. In large part, this is due to benefits diminishing as children get older and exercise more control over their food intake, with older children being more likely to skip breakfast altogether.\n\nFor younger children the evidence is clear that breakfast provides a number of benefits. Breakfast is the meal most likely to be skipped, with only 40% of New Zealand children reporting eating breakfast. The Ministry of Health reported that found around 15% of children leave for school without having eaten breakfast, and that Maori and Pacific children were less likely to eat breakfast at home every day compared with other groups.\n\nBreakfast can make a positive contribution to children’s learning. The positive social benefit seen in New Zealand have also been observed overseas (Wahlstrom & Begalle, 1999). In Scotland, teachers report better attendance and better behaviour from children as a consequence of breakfast clubs there (Sheridan, 2001, para 17), and in its 2007 report to the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child (UNCROC), the Scottish government noted that new universal and subsidised school meal programmes in Scotland were improving children’s health and academic outcomes.\n\n"}
{"id": "4857593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4857593", "title": "Clinical research", "text": "Clinical research\n\nClinical research is a branch of healthcare science that determines the safety and effectiveness (efficacy) of medications, devices, diagnostic products and treatment regimens intended for human use. These may be used for prevention, treatment, diagnosis or for relieving symptoms of a disease. Clinical research is different from clinical practice. In clinical practice established treatments are used, while in clinical research evidence is collected to establish a treatment.\n\nThe term \"clinical research\" refers to the entire bibliography of a drug/device/biologic, in fact any test article from its inception in the lab to its introduction to the consumer market and beyond. Once the promising candidate or the molecule is identified in the lab, it is subjected to pre-clinical studies or animal studies where different aspects of the test article (including its safety toxicity if applicable and efficacy, if possible at this early stage) are studied.\n\nIn the United States, when a test article is unapproved or not yet cleared by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), or when an approved or cleared test article is used in a way that may significantly increase the risks (or decreases the acceptability of the risks), the data obtained from the pre-clinical studies or other supporting evidence, case studies of off label use, etc. are submitted in support of an Investigational New Drug (IND) application to the FDA for review prior to conducting studies that involve even one human and a test article if the results are intended to be submitted to or held for inspection by the FDA at any time in the future (in the case of an already approved test article, if intended to submit or hold for inspection by the FDA in support of a change in labeling or advertising). Where devices are concerned the submission to the FDA would be for an Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) application if the device is a significant risk device or is not in some way exempt from prior submission to the FDA. In addition, clinical research may require Institutional Review Board (IRB) or Research Ethics Board (REB) and possibly other institutional committee reviews, Privacy Board, Conflict of Interest Committee, Radiation Safety Committee, Radioactive Drug Research Committee, etc. approval whether or not the research requires prior submission to the FDA. Clinical research review criteria will depend on which federal regulations the research is subject to (e.g., (Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) if federally funded, FDA as already discussed) and will depend on which regulations the institutions subscribe to, in addition to any more stringent criteria added by the institution possibly in response to state or local laws/policies or accreditation entity recommendations. This additional layer of review (IRB/REB in particular) is critical to the protection of human subjects especially when you consider that often research subject to the FDA regulation for prior submission is allowed to proceed, by those same FDA regulations, 30 days after submission to the FDA unless specifically notified by the FDA not to initiate the study.\n\nClinical research is often conducted at academic medical centers and affiliated research study sites. These centers and sites provide the prestige of the academic institution as well as access to larger metropolitan areas, providing a larger pool of medical participants. These academic medical centers often have their internal Institutional Review Boards that oversee the ethical conduct of medical research.\n\nThe clinical research ecosystem involves a complex network of sites, pharmaceutical companies and academic research institutions. This has led to a growing field of technologies used for managing the data and operational factors of clinical research. Clinical research management is often aided by eClinical systems to help automate the management and conducting of clinical trials.\n\nIn the European Union, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) acts in a similar fashion for studies conducted in their region. These human studies are conducted in four phases in research subjects that give consent to participate in the clinical trials.\n\nClinical trials involving new drugs are commonly classified into four phases. Each phase of the drug approval process is treated as a separate clinical trial. The drug-development process will normally proceed through all four phases over many years. If the drug successfully passes through Phases I, II, and III, it will usually be approved by the national regulatory authority for use in the general population. Phase IV are 'post-approval' studies.\n\nPhase I includes 20 to 100 healthy volunteers or individuals with the disease/condition. This study typically lasts several months and its purpose is safety and dosage. Phase II includes larger number of individual participants ranging 100-300, and phase III includes Approximately 1000-3000 participants to collect more data about the drug. 70% of drugs advance to the next phase.\n\nBefore pharmaceutical companies start clinical trials on a drug, they conduct extensive pre-clinical studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43490088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43490088", "title": "Cultural competence in healthcare", "text": "Cultural competence in healthcare\n\nCultural competence in healthcare refers to the ability for healthcare professionals to demonstrate cultural competence toward patients with diverse values, beliefs, and feelings. This process includes consideration of the individual social, cultural, and feelings needs of patients for effective cross-cultural communication with their health care providers. The goal of cultural competence in health care is to reduce health disparities and to provide optimal care to patients regardless of their race, gender, ethnic background, native languages spoken, and religious or cultural beliefs. Cultural competency training is important in health care fields where human interaction is common, including medicine, nursing, allied health, mental health, social work, pharmacy, oral health, and public health fields.\n\nThe term cultural competence was first used by Terry L. Cross and colleagues in 1989, but it was not until almost a decade later that health care professionals began to be formally educated and trained in cultural competence. In 2002, cultural competence in health care emerged as a field and has been increasingly embedded into medical education curriculum since then.\n\nAlthough cultural competence in healthcare is a global concept, it is primarily practiced in the United States.\n\nCultural competence is defined as a set of congruent behaviors, attitudes, and policies that come together in a system, agency, or among professionals and that enables them to work effectively in cross-cultural situations. Essential elements that enable organizations to become culturally competent include valuing diversity, having the capacity for cultural self-assessment, being conscious of the dynamics inherent when cultures interact, having institutionalized cultural knowledge, and having developed adaptations to service delivery reflecting an understanding of cultural diversity. By definition, diversity includes differences in race, ethnicity, age, gender, size, religion, sexual orientation, and physical and mental ability. Accordingly, organizations should include these considerations in all aspects of policy making, administration, practice, and service delivery.\n\nCultural competence involves more than having sensitivity or awareness of cultures. It necessitates an active process of learning and developing skills to engage effectively in cross-cultural situations and re-evaluating these skills over time. Cultural competence is often used interchangeably with the term cultural competency.\n\nA healthcare system, sometimes referred to as health system, is the organization of people, institutions, and resources that deliver healthcare services to meet the health needs of target populations. A culturally competent health system not only recognizes and accepts the importance of cultural diversity at every level but also assesses the cross-cultural relations, stays vigilant towards any changes and developments resulting from cultural diversity, broadens cultural knowledge, and adapts services to meet the needs that are culturally-unique.\n\nAs more and more immigrants are coming to America, healthcare professionals with good cultural competence can use the knowledge and sensitivity that they obtain in order to provide holistic care for clients from other countries, who speak foreign languages. The challenges for American healthcare systems to meet the health needs of the increasing number of diverse patients are becoming very obvious. The challenges include but are not limited to the following:\n\nIn response to a rapid growth of minorities population in the United States, healthcare organizations have responded by providing new services and undergoing health reforms in terms of diversity in leadership and workforce. Despite improvements and progress seen in some areas, minorities are still underrepresented within both healthcare leadership and workforce. To improve the weak minorities representation in leadership and workforce, an organization must acknowledge the importance of cultures, be sensitive to cultural differences, and establish strategic plans to incorporate cultural diversity.\n\nAccording to the national survey of the U.S. healthcare leaders conducted by the search firm Witt/Kieffer, respondents viewed diverse leadership as a valuable business builder. They associated it with improved patient satisfaction, successful decision-making, improved clinical outcomes, and stronger bottom line.\n\nTo successfully recruit, mentor, and coach minority leaders in healthcare, it is important to keep these social science principles and cultural values in mind: \n\nTo provide culturally sensitive patient-centered care, physicians should treat each patient as an individual, recognizing and respecting his or her beliefs, values and care seeking behaviors. However, many physicians lack the awareness of or training in cultural competence. With the constantly changing demographics, their patients are increasingly getting diverse as well. It is utterly important to educate physicians to be culturally competent so that they can effectively treat patients of different cultural and ethnic backgrounds. \n\nImplicit bias aimed towards certain races or ethnicities is frequent in the healthcare field, specifically in the United States, commonly with Black Americans, Hispanic Americans, and American Indians. Subconscious discrimination occurs regardless of the advancement of disease prevention in the United States, as shown by the significantly high mortality rates of the groups mentioned earlier in the paragraph. This discrimination is shaped by attitudes of healthcare professionals, who often differ in effort and type of treatment based on the race and physical appearance of a patient. Carrying over to the diagnosis and treatment of minority patients, the disparities in quality of healthcare increase the likelihood of developing diseases such as asthma, HIV/AIDs and other life-threatening diseases. For example, a study that focused on the treatment and diagnosis differences between black women and white women in regards to breast cancer indicated this discrimination against minorities and its effects. Furthermore, the study indicated that \"white women are more likely to be diagnosed with breast cancer, [and] Black women are more likely to die from it.\" \n\nThe differences in responses from healthcare professionals to black patients versus white patients is drastic, indicated by subconscious negative perceptions of various races. In a study that evaluated physicians' immediate assumptions made about different races \"two-thirds of the clinicians subconsciously formed a bias against Blacks (43% moderate to strong) and Latinos (51% moderate to strong)\". Without intentionally concocting stereotypes about patients, these clinicians are indirectly negatively affecting the patients they mistreat. To remedy this, the study expresses support for clinicians to form a stronger connection with each patient and to focus on the patient at hand, rather than considering their race or background. This will help to prevent negative attitudes and tones when speaking with patients, creating a positive atmosphere that allows for equal environments and treatments for all patients, regardless of race or physical appearance. \n\nIn response to the increasingly diverse population, several states (WA, CA, CT, NJ, NM) have passed legislation requiring or strongly recommending cultural competency training for physicians. In 2005, New Jersey legislature enacted a law requiring all physicians to complete at least 6 hours of training in cultural competency as a condition for renewal of their New Jersey medical license, whether or not they actively practice in New Jersey. Physicians' responses to this CME requirement varied, both positively and negatively. But the overall feedback was positive towards the outcomes of participation in and satisfaction with the programs.\n\nIn order to provide culturally competent care for their diverse patients, physicians should at the first step understand that patients' cultures can influence profoundly how they define health and illness, how they seek health care, and what constitutes appropriate treatment. They should also realize that their clinical care process could also be influenced by their own personal and professional experiences as well as biomedical culture. Dr. Like pointed out in one of his articles that \"in transforming systems, transcultural nurses, physicians, and other health care professionals need to remember that cultural humility and cultural competence must go hand in hand.\"\n\nCultural competence in research is the ability of researchers and research staff to provide high quality research that takes into account the culture and diversity of a population when developing research ideas, design, and methodology. Cultural competence can be crucial for ensuring that the sampling is representative of the population and therefore application to a diverse number of people. It is important that a study's subject enrollment reflect as closely as possible the target population of those affected by the health problem being studied.\n\nIn 1994, the National Institutes of Health established policy (Public Law 103-43) for the inclusion of women, children, and members of minority groups and their subpopulations in biomedical and behavioral clinical studies. Overcoming challenges to cultural competence in research also means that institutional review board membership should include representatives of large communities and cultural groups as representatives.\n\nThe critical importance of training medical students to be future culturally competent physicians has been recognized by accrediting bodies such as the Accreditation Council on Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) and the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) and other medical organizations such as American Medical Association (AMA) and the Institute of Medicine (IOM).\n\nCulture is definitely beyond ethnicity and race. Healthcare professionals need to learn about the tolerance of other's beliefs. Professional care is about meeting patients' needs even if they do not align with the caretaker's personal beliefs. Discovering one's own beliefs and their origin (from upbringing or modeling of parents, for example) helps understand what is believed and moderates actions at times when others are cared for with different beliefs. As a result, it is essential for healthcare professionals to practice cultural competence and recognize the differences as well as cultural sensitivities to provide holistic care for the patients.\n\nAccording to the LCME standard for cultural competence, \"the faculty and students must demonstrate an understanding of the manner in which people of diverse culture and belief systems perceive health and illness and respond to various symptoms, diseases, and treatments.\" In response to the mandates, medical schools in the U.S. have incorporated teaching cultural competency in their curricula. A search on cultural competency in the curriculum of a medical school revealed that it was covered in 33 events in 13 courses in spring 2014. A similar search was performed on health disparities yielding 16 events in 10 courses covering the topic.\n\nThe cultural competence curriculum is intended to improve the interaction between patients and physicians and to assure that students will possess the knowledge, skills, and attitudes that enable them to provide high quality and culturally competent care to patients and their families as well as the general medical community.\n\nA \"visual intervention\" was completed to educate healthcare professionals on the dangers of subconscious discrimination toward minority groups in order to lessen the common discrimination certain races or ethnicities face in a healthcare setting. This study allowed for physicians to focus more on the problems of their patients, and truly listening to their issues. By creating a supportive space that fosters a strong channel of communication, the study targeted the lack of connection between healthcare professionals and patients due to either language barriers or the patient's mistrust in the professional.\n\nPatient-Physician communication involves two sides. While physicians and other healthcare providers are being encouraged or required to be culturally competent in delivery of quality healthcare, it would be reasonable to encourage patients as well to be culturally sensitive and be aware that not all health care providers are equally competent in cultures. When it comes to illness, cultural beliefs and values affect greatly a patient's behavior in seeking healthcare. They should try their best to communicate their concerns relating to their beliefs, values and other cultural factors that might affect care and treatment to their physicians and other healthcare providers. If effective communication is unlikely achieved, then they should be provided with language assistance and interpretation services. Recognizing that patients receive the best care when they work in partnership with doctors, the General Medical Council issued guidance for patients \"What to expect from your doctor: a guide for patients\" in April 2013.\n\nLinguistic competence involves communicating effectively with diverse populations, including individuals with limited English proficiency (LEP), low literacy skills or are not literate, disabilities, and individuals with any degree of hearing loss. According to the U.S. Census in 2011, 25.3 million people are considered limited English proficient, accounting for 9% of the U.S. population. Hospitals frequently admit LEP patients for treatment. With cultural and linguistic barriers, it is not surprising that it is hard to achieve effective communication between the health care providers and the LEP patients.\n\nIn order to improve communication and mutual understanding, health care systems have used the professionally trained interpreters to help health care providers to communicate with patients whose English proficiency is limited. Studies have shown that trained professional interpreters or bilingual health care professionals have a positive effect on LEP patients' satisfaction, their quality of care, and outcomes.\n\nThe National Culturally and Linguistically Appropriate Services (CLAS) Standards in Health and Health Care developed by the Office of Minority Health (OMH) are intended to advance health equity, improve quality and help eliminate health care disparities. The three themes of the fifteen CLAS standards areGovernance, Leadership, and workforce; Communication and Language Assistance; and Engagement, Continuous Improvement, and Accountability. The standards clearly emphasized that the top levels of an organizational leadership hold the responsibility for CLAS implementation, and that language assistance should be provided when needed, and quality improvement, community engagement, and evaluation are importance. that is a very good resource for healthcare systems and organizations to follow to become culturally and linguistically competent in the delivery of health care.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6428331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6428331", "title": "Disease informatics", "text": "Disease informatics\n\nDisease Informatics is the application of Information science in defining the diseases with least error, identifying most of the targets to combat a cluster of diseases (Disease Causal Chain), and designing a holistic solution (Health strategy) to the problem.\n"}
{"id": "23599849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23599849", "title": "Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant and Loan Program", "text": "Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant and Loan Program\n\nThe Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant and Loan Program (DLT) is a program authorized by the 1990 farm bill (P.L. 101-624) to provide grants to rural schools and health care providers to help them invest in telecommunications facilities and equipment to bring educational and medical resources to rural areas where the services otherwise might be unavailable. The 1996 farm bill (P.L. 104-127) reauthorized and streamlined the program. \n\nThe program was also reauthorized in the 2002 farm bill (P.L. 107-171, Sec. 6203). \n\nDLT is administered by the Rural Utilities Service.\n\n"}
{"id": "362410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=362410", "title": "Fathers' rights movement", "text": "Fathers' rights movement\n\nThe fathers' rights movement is a movement whose members are primarily interested in issues related to family law, including child custody and child support that affect fathers and their children. Many of its members are fathers who desire to share the parenting of their children equally with their children's mothers—either after divorce or as unwed fathers—and the children of the terminated marriage. The movement includes men as well as women, often the second wives of divorced fathers or other family members of men who have had some engagement with family law.\n\nMost of its members had little prior interest in the law or politics. However, as they felt that their goal of equal-shared parenting was being frustrated by the family courts, many took an interest in family law, including child custody and child support.\n\nThough it has been described as a social movement, members of the movement believe their actions are better described as part of a civil rights movement. Objections to the characterizations of the movement as a social movement are related to the belief that discrimination against fathers moves beyond the social sciences and originates in government intervention into family life.\n\nThe movement has received international press coverage as a result of high-profile activism of their members. It has become increasingly vocal, visible and organised, and has played a powerful role in family law debates.\n\nThe fathers' rights movement exists almost exclusively in industrialized countries, where divorce has become more common. It emerged in the West from the 1960s onwards as part of the men's movement with organizations such as Families Need Fathers, which originated in the 1970s. In the late twentieth century, the growth of the internet permitted wider discussion, publicity and activism about issues of interest to fathers' rights activists. Factors thought to contribute to the development of the fathers' rights movement include shifting household demographics brought about by rising divorce and falling marriage rates, changes in the understanding and expectations of fatherhood, motherhood and childhood as well as shifts in how legal systems impact families.\n\nFathers' rights groups in the West are primarily composed of white, middle or working class, heterosexual men. Members tend to be politically conservative but do not share a single set of political or social views and are highly diverse in their goals and methods. Members of the fathers' rights movement advocate for strong relationships with their children and focus on a narrowly defined set of issues based on the concerns of divorced or divorcing men. Women, often new partners including second wives or other family members of men who have had some engagement with family law and mothers without custody, are also members of the fathers' rights movement, and fathers' rights activists emphasize this. Two studies of fathers' rights groups in North America found that fifteen percent of their members were women.\n\nThe fathers' rights movement organizations Families Need Fathers and the Lone Fathers Association have campaigned for fathers' rights over many decades. Longer lasting organizations appear to result from the longterm dedication and commitment of key individuals. Other fathers' rights groups have tended to form and dissolve quickly. Internal disagreements over ideology and tactics are common, and members tend not to remain with the groups after they have been helped.\n\nThe fathers' rights movement has both liberal and conservative branches, with different viewpoints about how men and women compare. Although both groups agree on the victimization and discrimination against men, they disagree on why men and women differ (nature versus nurture) and traditional gender roles. The liberal version believes the differences between the sexes are due to culture and supports equality between men and women; in contrast, the conservative branch believes in traditional patriarchal/complementary families and that the differences between genders are due to biology. Ross Parke and Armin Brott view the fathers' rights movement as one of three strands within the men's movement that deal almost exclusively with fatherhood, the other two being the good fathers' movement and groups forming the Christian Men's movement – the Promise Keepers being the largest.\n\nWarren Farrell, a veteran of the women's, men's and fathers' movement since the 1970s, describes the fathers' rights movement as part of a larger \"gender transition movement\" and thinks that, similar to women in the 1960s, fathers are transitioning from gender-based to more flexible family roles. Farrell also believes the movement helps children by increasing the number who are raised equally by both parents, which in turn increases the children's social, academic, psychological, and physical benefits—in his opinion it becomes a children's rights issue with fathers acting as advocates.\n\nMembers of the fathers' rights movement assert that fathers are discriminated against as a result of gender bias in family law; that custody decisions have been a denial of equal rights; and that the influence of money has corrupted family law. The movement's primary focus has been to campaign (including lobbying and research) for formal legal rights for fathers, and sometimes for children, and to campaign for changes to family law related to child custody, support and maintenance, domestic violence and the family court system itself. Fathers' rights groups also provide emotional and practical support for members during separation and divorce.\n\nSome fathers' rights groups have become frustrated with the slow pace of traditional campaigning for law reform; groups such as the originally UK-based \"Fathers 4 Justice\" have become increasingly vocal and visible, undertaking public demonstrations that have attracted public attention and influenced the politics of family justice. Following protests, some fathers' rights activists have been convicted of offenses such as harassment and assault. Fathers' rights groups have condemned threats and violent acts, with Matt O'Connor of Fathers 4 Justice asserting that his organisation was committed to \"peaceful, non-violent direct action\" and that members caught engaging in intimidation would be expelled. An example of this was in January 2006, when Matt temporarily disbanded the group after it was revealed that a fringe subsection of members were plotting to kidnap Leo Blair, the young son of Tony Blair, the former UK Prime Minister. According to the police, the plot never progressed beyond the \"chattering stage\". Four months later the group was refounded.\n\nSome desperate members of the fathers' rights movement, most notably Thomas Ball have advocated violent action to get the message across, just before he self-immolated himself on the steps of a courthouse in Keene, New Hampshire, he wrote in his 15-page \"Last Statement\" that fathers should burn down courthouses and police stations.\n\nStephen Baskerville is an associate professor of political science, president of the American Coalition of Fathers and Children and fathers' rights advocate and defines court-determined custody as not a right to parent one's children but as the power to prevent the other partner from parenting. Members of the fathers' rights movement state that family courts are biased against fathers and shared custody. Baskerville states that the outcome of divorce is overly one-sided and is initiated by mothers in more than two-thirds of cases – especially when children are involved. He also states that divorce provides advantages for women such as automatic custody of the children and financial benefits in the form of child support payments. Members of the FR movement also state that family courts are slow to help fathers enforce their parental rights, and are expensive and time-consuming.\n\nBaskerville has also stated that family courts are secretive, censoring and punitive towards fathers who criticize them. He also claims that employees and activists within the courts support and benefit from the separation of children from their parents and that family law today represents civil rights abuses and intrusive perversion of government power.\n\nOthers contest these conclusions, stating that family courts are biased in favor of fathers and that the lower percentage of separated fathers as custodial parents is a result of choices made by fathers rather than bias of family courts. According to sociologist Michael Flood, father's rights activists have exaggerated the disparity in custody awards between mothers and fathers, and ignored the fact that in the vast majority of cases, fathers voluntarily relinquish custody of their children through private arrangements; either because they are willing to do so, or because they do not expect a favorable court ruling.\n\nStating that \"children need two parents\" and that \"children have a fundamental human right to an opportunity and relationship with both their mother and father\", members of the fathers' rights movement call for greater equality in parental responsibility following separation and divorce. They call for laws creating a rebuttable presumption of 50/50 shared custody after divorce or separation, so that children would spend equal time with each parent unless there were reasons against it. They point to studies showing that children in shared custody settings are better adjusted and have fewer social problems such as low academic achievement, crime, pregnancy, substance abuse, depression and suicide, and state that shared parenting is in fact in the best interests of the child. Warren Farrell states that for children, equally shared parenting with three conditions (the child has about equal time with mom and dad, the parents live close enough to each other that the child does not need to forfeit friends or activities when visiting the other parent, and there is no bad-mouthing) is the second best family arrangement to the intact two-parent family, followed by primary father custody and then primary mother custody, and he adds that if shared parenting cannot be agreed upon, children on average are better off psychologically, socially, academically, and physically, have higher levels of empathy and assertiveness, and lower levels of ADHD, if their father is their primary custodial parent rather than their mother.\n\nMembers of the fathers' rights movement and their critics disagree about the correlation of negative developmental outcomes for children to sole custody situations. Social scientist V. C. McLoyd states that father absence covaries with other relevant family characteristics such as the lack of an income from a male adult, the absence of a second adult, and the lack of support from a second extended family system and conclude that it is the negative effects of poverty, and not the absence of a father, that result in negative developmental outcomes. On the other hand, Professor Craig Hart states that although the consequences of poverty and having a single parent are interrelated, each is a risk factor with independent effects on children, and Silverstein and Auerbach state that the negative outcomes for children in sole custody situations correlate more strongly to \"fatherlessness\" than to any other variable including poverty.\n\nMembers of the fathers' rights movement criticize the best interests of the child standard currently used in many countries for making custody decisions, which they describe as highly subjective and based on the personal prejudices of family court judges and court-appointed child custody evaluators, and that courts are abusive when more than half custody is taken away from a willing, competent parent. Members of the fathers' rights movement including Ned Holstein state that a rebuttable presumption of shared parenting is supported by a majority of citizens. Baskerville writes that proposals to enact shared parenting laws are opposed by divorce lawyers, and he says that \"radical feminist\" groups oppose shared parenting because of the possibility of domestic violence and child abuse.\n\nMo Yee Lee states that joint custody arrangements are good for children only if there is no conflict between the parents. Some feminist groups have stated that if shared parenting were ordered, fathers would not provide their share of the daily care for the children. The National Organization For Women also questions the motives of those promoting shared parenting, noting that it would result in substantial decreases in or termination of child support payments.\n\nStephen Baskerville states that shared parenting has been demonstrated to reduce parental conflict by requiring parents to cooperate and compromise, and that it is the lack of constraint by one parent resulting from the ability of that parent to exclude the other, that results in increased parental conflict. He further states that only when child support guidelines exceed true costs do parents ask for or seek to prevent changes in parenting time for financial reasons, adding that any argument that a parent is asking for increased parenting time to reduce child support is at the same time an argument that the other parent is making a profit from child support.\n\nStephen Baskerville describes no-fault or unilateral divorce based on no fault as a power grab by the parent that initiates the divorce and he also states that fathers have a constitutional right to shared control of their children and through political action they intend to establish parental authority for both parents and for the well-being of their children. Members of the fathers' rights movement state that a rebuttable presumption for shared parenting preserves a child's protection against unfit or violent parents.\n\nPro-feminist sociologist Michael Flood states that supporters of shared parenting use it only as a symbolic issue related to \"rights\", \"equality\", and \"fairness\" and that the father's rights movement is not actually interested in the shared care of their children or the children's wishes, adding that fathers' rights groups have advocated policies and strategies that are harmful to mothers and children and also harmful to the fathers themselves. In contrast, social scientist Sanford Braver states that the bad divorced dad image is a myth that has led to harmful and dangerous social policies.\n\nMembers of the fathers' rights movement campaign for the reform of child support guidelines, which in most Western countries are based on maintaining the children's standard of living after separation, and on the assumption that the children live with one parent and never with the other. Activists state that the current guidelines are arbitrary, provide mothers with financial incentives to divorce, and leave fathers with little discretionary income to enjoy with the children during their parenting time. In the US, fathers' rights activists propose guidelines based on a Cost Shares model, in which child support would be based on the average income of the parents and the estimated child costs incurred by both parents. Laura W. Morgan has stated that it focuses on the relative living standards of divorcing parents rather than the best interests of the children and financially supporting them at the same level after divorce.\n\nSolangel Maldonado states that the law should value a broader definition of fathering for poor fathers by reducing the focus on collecting child support and encouraging the informal contributions (such as groceries, clothes, toys, time with the children) of these fathers by counting these contributions as child support.\n\nMembers of the fathers' rights movement state that child support should be terminated under certain conditions, such as if the custodial parent limits access to the children by moving away against the wishes of the other parent, gives fraudulent testimony, or if paternity fraud is discovered, adding that two men should not have to pay child support for the same child.\n\nStephen Baskerville states that it is often difficult for fathers in financial hardship or who take on a larger caregiving role with their children to have their child support payments lowered. He also states that unemployment is the primary cause of child support arrears, and further states that these arrearages make the father subject to arrest and imprisonment without due process.\n\nStephen Baskerville states that the purpose of child support should be publicly determined, and enforcement programs must be designed to serve that purpose, observing the due process of law.\n\nSupporters of the fathers' rights movement assert that some women make false claims of domestic violence, sexual or child abuse in order to gain an upper hand in divorce, custody disputes and/or prevent fathers from seeing their children, and they state that lawyers advise women to make such claims. They state that false claims of domestic violence and child abuse are encouraged by the inflammatory \"win or lose\" nature of child custody hearings, that men are presumed to be guilty rather than innocent by police and by the courts, Lawyers and advocates for abused women assert that family court proceedings are commonly accompanied with allegations of domestic violence because of the prevalence of domestic violence in society rather than as a result of false allegations of domestic violence. They also assert that domestic violence often begins or increases around the time of divorce or separation. Academic critic, Michael Flood, argues that fathers' rights groups have had a damaging impact on the field of domestic violence programming and policy by attempting to discredit female victims of violence, to wind back the legal protections available to victims and the sanctions imposed on perpetrators, and to undermine services for the victims of men's violence. Stephen Baskerville asserts that when child abuse occurs the perpetrator is not likely to be the father, and that child abuse most often occurs after the father has been separated from his children. Baskerville proposes that domestic violence and child abuse must be adjudicated as criminal assault, observing due process protections, and that government funding for programs addressing these issues must be made contingent on such protections.\n\nGlenn Sacks states that some mothers interfere with the father's parenting time and that such interference should be stopped. Sacks and Jeffery M. Leving state that parenting time interference can result from the custodial parent's relocation beyond a practical distance from the noncustodial parent and they campaign for a rebuttable presumption prohibiting such relocations.\n\nFathers' rights activists have also advocated for the inclusion of parental alienation syndrome, a proposed syndrome developed by Richard A. Gardner that alleges unjustified disruption of the relationship between a parent and a child is caused by the other parent. Neither PAS nor PAD are accepted by any legal or mental health organization. Despite lobbying, parental alienation syndrome was not included in the draft of the DSM manual that was released in 2010, though parental alienation disorder does appear as a \"Condition Proposed by Outside Sources\" to be reviewed by a working group.\n\nStephen Baskerville states that laws establishing no-fault divorce did not stop at removing the requirement that grounds be cited for a divorce, so as to allow for divorce by \"mutual consent\"; it also allows either spouse to end the marriage without any agreement or fault by the other. Phyllis Schlafly states that no-fault divorce should be referred to as unilateral divorce.\n\nStephen Baskerville states that laws establishing no-fault divorce can be seen as one of the boldest social experiments in modern history that have effectively ended marriage as a legal contract. He states that it is not possible to form a binding agreement to create a family, adding that government officials can, at the request of one spouse, end a marriage over the objection of the other. He states that no-fault divorce has left fathers with no protection against what he describes as the confiscation of their children.\n\nBaskerville states that fault has entered through the back door in the form of child custody hearings, and that the forcibly divorced spouse (\"defendant\") is presumed guilty. Similarly, other members of the fathers' rights movement believe that men fail to get appropriate recognition of their innocence as a result of no-fault divorce. Baskerville describes a proposed amendment of no-fault divorce laws that would create a rebuttable presumption that custody of any minor children be awarded to the respondent [who is innocent or does not wish to divorce] regardless of gender. He also notes the predictions of Tim O'Brien, the author of the proposed amendment, who states that the proposed amendment would result in a plummeting divorce rate and reduced negative consequences for children.\n\nStephen Baskerville proposes \"reasonable limits\" on no-fault divorce when children are involved. Some members of the FRM support the end of the no-fault principle in child custody and divorce decisions. Some members of the fathers' rights movement state that the availability of divorce should also be limited.\n\nStephen Baskerville states that governments throughout the United States and other democracies are engaged, by accident or design, in a campaign against fathers and fatherhood, which in his view, lies at the root of a larger problem that threatens marriage, destroys families, devastates the lives of many children, and undermines parents, democracy and accountability. Baskerville also states that it is the removal of the father from the family through divorce that initiates problems for which the government is perceived as the solution rather than the problem, and that these problems are then used to justify the continued existence and expansion of the government. Members of the fathers' rights movement state that modern divorce involves government officials invading parents' private lives, evicting people from their homes, seizing their property, and taking away their children.\n\nFathers' rights advocates have worked for the right of unwed, otherwise fit, fathers to get custody if the mother tries to have their child adopted by a third party or if child welfare authorities place the child in foster care. Fathers' rights activists seek a gender-neutral approach in which unwed men and women would have equal rights in adoption issues, an approach that critics state does not sufficiently acknowledge the different biological roles in procreation and pregnancy, and the disparity in society's social and economic structures. In the US, some states have passed laws to protect the rights of unwed fathers to custody. Courts have increasingly supported these rights, though judges often require evidence that the father has shown interest in, and given financial and emotional support to, the mother during pregnancy.\n\nSome fathers' rights advocates have sought the right to prevent women from having an abortion without the father's consent, on the basis that it is discriminatory for men not to have the ability to participate in a decision to terminate a pregnancy. This option is not supported by any laws in the United States. Fathers' rights advocates Jeffrey M. Leving and Glenn Sacks have stated that \"choice for men is a flawed solution.\" Advocates have also expressed the desire to have a \"financial abortion\" in which the option exists to sever all responsibility for child support for an unwanted child. Commenting on this, legal scholar Kim Buchanan states, \"The only way men's lack of a pregnancy opt-out can be framed as a gender injustice is to accept that men have a right to visit the consequences of unprotected sex (or contraceptive failure) exclusively on their female partners.\" However, some feminists, such as former president of the feminist organization National Organization for Women, attorney Karen DeCrow, have supported the \"financial abortion\" concept.\n\nPressure from father's rights groups, among others, have in several countries resulted in gender-neutral program(s) eligible for parental leave. While historically, maternity benefits were given to mothers based on the physical biology of childbirth, including the need to protect the health and financial well-being of the woman and child, parental leave benefits emphasize gender-neutral child-rearing, the benefits of the participation of fathers in children's care, and redress discrimination against men who wish to be involved with their infants.\n\nSome fathers' rights activists object to the term \"visitation\", which they see as denigrating to their level of authority as parents, and instead prefer the use of \"parenting time\".\n\nSome legal scholars and feminist writers have accused the fathers' rights movement of putting the interests of fathers above the interests of children, for example, by suggesting that it is acceptable for fathers to withdraw child support if they are not given access to their children, or by lobbying for changes in family law that would allegedly heighten children's exposure to abusive fathers, and would allegedly further endanger mothers who are victims of domestic violence.\n\nAnother criticism is that father's rights activists allegedly incorrectly maintain that the courts are biased against fathers, while in reality the vast majority of cases are settled by private agreement and fathers voluntarily relinquish primary custody of their children, which explains the lower percentage of custodial fathers; and that the \"bias\" of courts is in favour of the primary caregiver, not mothers per se.\n\nResearchers Martha Fineman, Michael Flood, and others have criticized the movement for allegedly perpetuating negative stereotypes of women as deceptive, vindictive, and irresponsible, as well as the stereotype that women are out to take advantage of men financially.\n\nPublic supporters of the fathers' rights movement and their issues include Live Aid founder Bob Geldof, Irish writer and journalist John Waters and Karen DeCrow, former president of the National Organization for Women. Other notable commentators include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23100954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23100954", "title": "Global Forum for Health Research", "text": "Global Forum for Health Research\n\nThe Global Forum for Health Research is an international foundation headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland established in 1997 to increase the amount of research into global health issues. It coined the phrase 10/90 gap to identify the observation that only 10% of the world's health research spending is targeted at 90% of present health problems.\n\nThe Global Forum is a partner to the World Health Organization. In her keynote address to the Forum in 1999 Gro Harlem Brundtland, then Director–General of WHO, declared that the Global Forum was key in the involvement of all the various levels, sectors and disciplines of \"development agencies, the research community, health workers and end–users\".\n\nThe Global Forum represents all the parties interested in health research: governments, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), United Nations agencies, research centers, universities, and the pharmaceutical industry. It is run by a governing council and provides support to programmes of research that benefit the developing world. It draws attention to global health research aims with an annual forum that draws together international health researchers and policy makers.\n\nThe Global Forums take place in a different international location each year: Geneva, Bangkok, Arusha, Mexico City, Mumbai, Cairo. The 11th was in Beijing in 2007, the 12th in Bamako, Mali in 2008 and Cuba hosted the 2009 Forum.\n\nAs a non-profit foundation the Global Forum is currently funded by the World Bank, the World Health Organization; the governments of Brazil, Canada, Ireland, Mexico, Norway, Switzerland; and private philanthropy groups including the Rockefeller Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28165893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28165893", "title": "Global Health Share Initiative", "text": "Global Health Share Initiative\n\nGlobal HealthShare® initiative (GHS) is a program launched in June 2010 by the University of California, Davis Center of Excellence for Nutritional Genomics. The program plans to share resources to improve the health in developing countries. Alliances with other research institutions, humanitarian organizations and private companies around the world have been made to meet this goal.\n\nThe organization will use a multidisciplinary approach against chronic and infectious disease, breaking down their efforts into two main research \"cores\": the Nutrition Core and Mucosal Immunity Core. The former focuses on fighting malnutrition and the latter on developing new ways to deliver vaccines more effectively to developing countries. The program differentiates itself from others like it by focusing on the delivery of the beneficial product to the end-user rather than the academic research process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28919960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28919960", "title": "Global Strategy for Women's and Children's Health", "text": "Global Strategy for Women's and Children's Health\n\nThe Global Strategy for Women's and Children's Health was a program of the United Nations (UN) directed at improving women's and children's health in the developing world.\n\nThe program was announced by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in September 2010. At the time of the announcement, the program was valued at $US40 billion over a five-year period, funded by state and private donors, with the UN hoping for more pledges to follow. The objective of the program was to save the lives of 16 million people during the period of the program. As the Millennium Development Goals 4, 5 and 6 were showing the slowest rate of progression, this program was also instituted to gain momentum in achieving them. The implementation of the program was led by the World Health Organization, reporting to the UN.\n\nThe aid-based program was accompanied by pledges from some developing nations (including Tanzania and Rwanda) to increase their own domestic spending on health care. According to the UN, around $8.6 million of the program's funding came from what it described as \"low-income countries\".\n\nInternational aid group Oxfam expressed doubts about the program, including the extent to which its funding was genuinely new.\n\nThe Global Strategy managed to improve the coordination of global efforts towards the improvement of women’s and children’s health as well as enhancing strategies to tackle this. It gave rise to the “Every Woman Every Child” movement, which assisted in the mobilisation of stakeholders. Despite not reaching targets, reductions in both child and maternal mortality were noted; of 49% and 45% respectively from 1990 to 2013. 2.4 million maternal and child deaths were prevented.  Prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV, oral rehydration therapy and exclusive breastfeeding coverage showed the most significant improvement, however, progress in vaccination and pneumonia was still lagging.\n\nThe United Nations also reported increased collaboration with the private sector, with an increase in donor funding of US$19.8 billion noted from September 2010 to May 2014.\n\nThe Global Health Strategy for Women, Children and Adolescents 2016-2030 was launched in September 2015, building on experience gained from 2010-2015, with the inclusion of adolescents as an additional target group. It is aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and has 3 main objectives; namely for women, adolescents and children to \"survive\", \"thrive\" and \"transform\". It is an evidence-based, multi-sectoral approach and emphasises the need to address equity, with interventions applied across the life-course. \n\nAlthough high returns on investment are projected, a monitoring report done in May 2018 shows that expected targets may not be achieved in time.\n\n"}
{"id": "4085676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4085676", "title": "Health care prices in the United States", "text": "Health care prices in the United States\n\nHealth care prices in the United States describes market and non-market factors that determine pricing, along with possible causes as to why prices are higher than other countries. Compared to other OECD countries, U.S. healthcare costs are one-third higher or more relative to the size of the economy (GDP). According to the CDC, during 2015 health expenditures per-person were nearly $10,000 on average, with total expenditures of $3.2 trillion or 17.8% GDP. Proximate reasons for the differences with other countries include: higher prices for the same services (i.e., higher price per unit) and greater use of healthcare (i.e., more units consumed). Higher administrative costs, higher per-capita income, and less government intervention to drive down prices are deeper causes. While the annual inflation rate in healthcare costs has declined in recent decades; it still remains above the rate of economic growth, resulting in a steady increase in healthcare expenditures relative to GDP from 6% in 1970 to nearly 18% in 2015.\n\nHealth insurance coverage is provided by several public and private sources in the United States. During 2016, the U.S. population overall was approximately 325 million, with 53 million persons 65 years of age and over covered by the federal Medicare program. The 272 million non-institutional persons under age 65 either obtained their coverage from employer-based (155 million) or non-employer based (90 million) sources, or were uninsured (27 million). Approximately 15 million military personnel received coverage through the Veteran's Administration. During the year 2016, 91.2% of Americans had health insurance coverage. An estimated 27 million under age 65 were uninsured.\n\nUnlike most markets for consumer services in the United States, the health care market generally lacks transparent market-based pricing. Patients are typically not able to comparison shop for medical services based on price, as medical service providers do not typically disclose prices prior to service. Government mandated critical care and government insurance programs like Medicare also impact market pricing of U.S. health care. According to the New York Times in 2011, \"the United States is far and away the world leader in medical spending, even though numerous studies have concluded that Americans do not get better care\" and prices are the highest in the world.\n\nIn the U.S. medical industry, patients generally do not have access to pricing information until after medical services have been rendered. A study conducted by the California Healthcare Foundation found that only 25% of visitors asking for pricing information were able to obtain it in a single visit to a hospital.\n\nSince the majority (85%) of Americans have health insurance, they do not directly pay for medical services. Insurance companies, as payors, negotiate health care pricing with providers on behalf of the insured. Hospitals, doctors, and other medical providers have traditionally disclosed their fee schedules only to insurance companies and other institutional payors, and not to individual patients. Uninsured individuals are expected to pay directly for services, but since they lack access to pricing information, price-based competition may be reduced. The introduction of high-deductible insurance has increased demand for pricing information among consumers. As high-deductible health plans rise across the country, with many individuals having deductibles of $2500 or more, their ability to pay for costly procedures diminishes, and hospitals end up covering the cost of patients care. Many health systems are putting in place price transparency initiatives and payments plans for their patients so that the patients better understand what the estimated cost of their care is, and how they can afford to pay for their care over time.\n\nOrganizations such as the American Medical Association (AMA) and AARP support a \"fair and accurate valuation for all physician services\". Very few resources exist, however, that allow consumers to compare physician prices (one exception is CostOfDoctors.com) The AMA sponsors the Specialty Society Relative Value Scale Update Committee, a private group of physicians which largely determine how to value physician labor in Medicare prices. Among politicians, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich has called for transparency in the prices of medical devices, noting it is one of the few aspects or U.S. health care where consumers and federal health officials are \"barred from comparing the quality, medical outcomes or price\".\n\nRecently, some insurance companies have announced their intention to begin disclosing provider pricing as a way to encourage cost reduction. Other services exist to assist physicians and their patients, such as Healthcare Out Of Pocket, Accuro Healthcare Solutions, with its CarePricer software. Similarly, medical tourists take advantage of price transparency on websites such as MEDIGO and Purchasing Health, which offer hospital price comparison and appointment booking services.\n\nIn the United States and most other industrialized nations, emergency medical providers are required to treat any patient that has a life-threatening condition, irrespective of the patient's financial resources. In the U.S., the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act requires that hospitals treat all patients in need of emergency medical care without considering patients' ability to pay for service.\n\nThis government mandated care places a cost burden on medical providers, as critically ill patients lacking financial resources must be treated. Medical providers compensate for this cost by passing costs on to other parts of the medical system by increasing prices for other patients and through collection of government subsidies.\n\nHarvard economist N. Gregory Mankiw explained in July 2017 that \"the magic of the free market sometimes fails us when it comes to healthcare.\" This is due to:\n\nMedicare was established in 1965 under President Lyndon Johnson, as a form of medical insurance for the elderly (age 65 and above) and the disabled. Medicaid was established at the same time to provide medical insurance primarily to children, pregnant women, and certain other medically needy groups.\n\nThe Congressional Budget Office (CBO) reported in October 2017 that adjusted for timing differences, Medicare spending rose by $22 billion (4%) in fiscal year 2017, reflecting growth in both the number of beneficiaries and in the average benefit payment. Medicaid spending rose by $7 billion (2%) in part because of more persons enrolled due to the Affordable Care Act. Unadjusted for timing shifts, in 2017 Medicare spending was $595 billion and Medicaid spending was $375 billion. Medicare covered 57 million people as of September 2016. While on the other hand, Medicaid covered 68.4 million people as of July 2017, 74.3 million including the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP).\n\nMedicare and Medicaid are managed at the Federal level by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). CMS sets fee schedules for medical services through Prospective Payment Systems (PPS) for inpatient care, outpatient care, and other services. As the largest single purchaser of medical services in the U.S., Medicare's fixed pricing schedules have a significant impact on the market. These prices are set based on CMS' analysis of labor and resource input costs for different medical services based on recommendations by the American Medical Association.\n\nAs part of Medicare's pricing system, relative value units (RVUs) are assigned to every medical procedure. One RVU translates into a dollar value that varies by region and by year; in 2005 the base (not location adjusted) RVU equaled roughly $37.90. Major insurers use Medicare's RVU calculations when negotiating payment schedules with providers, and many insurers simply adopt Medicare's payment schedule. The AMA-sponsored committee in charge of determining RVUs of medical procedures that inform Medicare's payment to physicians has been shown to grossly inflate their figures.\n\nAn estimated 155 million persons under the age 65 were covered under health insurance plans provided by their employers in 2016. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimated that the health insurance premium for single coverage would be $6,400 and family coverage would be $15,500 in 2016. The annual rate of increase in premiums has generally slowed after 2000, as part of the trend of lower annual healthcare cost increases.\nThe Federal Government subsidizes the employer-based market by an estimated $250 billion per year (about $1,612 per person covered in the employer market), by excluding health insurance premiums from employee income. This subsidy encourages people to buy more extensive coverage (which places upward pressure on average premiums), while also encouraging more young, healthy people to enroll (which places downward pressure on premium prices). CBO estimates the net effect is to increase premiums 10-15% over an un-subsidized level.\n\nThe Kaiser Family Foundation estimated that family insurance premiums averaged $18,142 in 2016, up 3% from 2015, with workers paying $5,277 towards that cost and employers covering the remainder. Single coverage premiums were essentially unchanged from 2015 to 2016 at $6,435, with workers contributing $1,129 and employers covering the remainder.\n\nThe President's Council of Economic Advisors (CEA) described how annual cost increases have fallen in the employer market since 2000. Premiums for family coverage grew 5.6% from 2000-2010, but 3.1% from 2010-2016. The total premium plus estimated out-of-pocket costs (i.e., deductibles and co-payments) increased 5.1% from 2000-2010 but 2.4% from 2010-2016.\n\nSeparate from the employer market are the ACA marketplaces, which covered an estimated 12 million persons in 2017 who individually obtain insurance (e.g., not as part of a business). The law is designed to pay subsidies in the form of premium tax credits to the individuals or families purchasing the insurance, based on income levels. Higher income consumers receive lower subsidies. While pre-subsidy prices rose considerably from 2016 to 2017, so did the subsidies, to reduce the after-subsidy cost to the consumer. \n\nFor example, a study published in 2016 found that the average requested 2017 premium increase among 40-year-old non-smokers was about 9 percent, according to an analysis of 17 cities, although Blue Cross Blue Shield proposed increases of 40 percent in Alabama and 60 percent in Texas. However, some or all of these costs are offset by subsidies, paid as tax credits. For example, the Kaiser Foundation reported that for the second-lowest cost \"Silver plan\" (a plan often selected and used as the benchmark for determining financial assistance), a 40-year old non-smoker making $30,000 per year would pay effectively the same amount in 2017 as they did in 2016 (about $208/month) after the subsidy/tax credit, despite large increases in the pre-subsidy price. This was consistent nationally. In other words, the subsidies increased along with the pre-subsidy price, fully offsetting the price increases. \n\nThis premium tax credit subsidy is separate from the cost sharing reductions subsidy discontinued in 2017 by President Donald Trump, an action which raised premiums in the ACA marketplaces by an estimated 20 percentage points above what otherwise would have occurred, for the 2018 plan year.\n\nWhile health insurance premium cost increases have moderated in the employer market, some of this is because of insurance policies that have a higher deductible, co-payments and out-of-pocket maximums that shift costs from insurers to patients. In addition, many employees are choosing to combine a health savings account with higher deductible plans, making the impact of the ACA difficult to determine precisely.\n\nFor those who obtain their insurance through their employer (\"group market\"), a 2016 survey found that:\n\nFor the \"non-group\" market, of which two-thirds are covered by the ACA exchanges, a survey of 2015 data found that:\n\nAccording to the OECD, U.S. prescription drug spending in 2015 was $1,162 per person on average, versus $807 for Canada, $766 for Germany, $668 for France, and $497 for the UK.\n\nThe reasons for higher U.S. healthcare costs relative to other countries and over time are debated by experts. \n\nU.S. healthcare costs in 2015 were 16.9% GDP according to the OECD, over 5% GDP higher than the next most expensive OECD country. With U.S. GDP of $19 trillion, healthcare costs were about $3.2 trillion, or about $10,000 per person in a country of 320 million people. A gap of 5% GDP represents $1 trillion, about $3,000 per person relative to the next most expensive country. In other words, the U.S. would have to cut healthcare costs by roughly one-third ($1 trillion or $3,000 per person on average) to be competitive with the next most expensive country. Healthcare spending in the U.S. was distributed as follows in 2014: Hospital care 32%; physician and clinical services 20%; prescription drugs 10%; and all other, including many categories individually making up less than 5% of spending. These first three categories accounted for 62% of spending.\n\nImportant differences include:\n\nThe Congressional Budget Office analyzed the reasons for healthcare cost inflation over time, reporting in 2008 that: \"Although many factors contributed to the growth, most analysts have concluded that the bulk of the long-term rise resulted from the health care system's use of new medical services that were made possible by technological advances...\" In summarizing several studies, CBO reported the following drove the indicated share (shown as a range across three studies) of the increase from 1940 to 1990:\n\nAccording to Federal Reserve data, healthcare annual inflation rates have declined in recent decades:\n\nWhile this inflation rate has declined, it has generally remained above the rate of economic growth, resulting in a steady increase of health expenditures relative to GDP from 6% in 1970 to nearly 18% in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6199182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6199182", "title": "Health literacy", "text": "Health literacy\n\nHealth literacy is the ability to obtain, read, understand, and use healthcare information in order to make appropriate health decisions and follow instructions for treatment. There are multiple definitions of health literacy, in part, because health literacy involves both the context (or setting) in which health literacy demands are made (e.g., health care, media, internet or fitness facility) and the skills that people bring to that situation.\n\nSince health literacy is a primary contributing factor to health disparities, it is a continued and increasing concern for health professionals. The 2003 National Assessment of Adult Literacy (NAAL) conducted by the US Department of Education found that 36% of participants scored as either \"basic\" or \"below basic\" in terms of their health literacy and concluded that approximately 80 million Americans have limited health literacy. These individuals have difficulty with common health tasks including reading the label of a prescribed drug. Several factors may influence health literacy. However, the following factors have been shown to strongly increase this risk: age (especially patients 65 years and older), limited English language proficiency or English as a second language, less education, and lower socioeconomic status. Patients with low health literacy understand less about their medical conditions and treatments and overall report worse health status.\n\nVarious interventions, such as simplifying information and illustrations, avoiding jargon, using \"teach-back\" methods, and encouraging patients' questions, have improved health behaviors in persons with low health literacy. The proportion of adults aged 18 and over in the U.S., in the year 2010, who reported that their health care providers always explained things so they could understand them was about 60.6%. This number increased 1% from 2007 to 2010. The Healthy People 2020 initiative of the United States Department of Health and Human Services has included health literacy as a pressing new topic, with objectives for improving it in the decade to come.\n\nSociety as a whole is responsible for improving health literacy. Most importantly, improving health literacy is the responsibility of healthcare and public health professionals and systems.\n\nIn order to have a patient that understands health terms and can make proper health decisions, the language used by health professionals has to be at a level that others who are not in the medical field can understand. Health professionals must know their audience in order to better serve their patients. The language used by these professionals should be plain language. Plain language is a strategy for making written and oral information easier to understand; it is communication that users can understand the first time they read or hear it.\n\nSome key elements of plain language include: \n\nThe National Institute of Health (NIH) recommends that patient education materials should be not written higher than a 6th-7th grade reading level; further recommendations provided by the NIH Office of Communications and Public Liaison are published in their \"Clear Communication\" Initiative.\n\nMany factors determine the health literacy level of health education materials or interventions: readability of the text, the patient's current state of health, language barriers of the patient, cultural appropriateness of the materials, format and style, sentence structure, use of illustrations, and numerous other factors.\n\nA study of 2,600 patients conducted in 1995 by two US hospitals found that between 26% and 60% of patients could not understand medication directions, a standard informed consent form, or materials about scheduling an appointment. The 2003 National Assessment of Adult Literacy (NAAL) conducted by the US Department of Education found that 36% of participants scored as either \"basic\" or \"below basic\" in terms of their health literacy and concluded that approximately 80 million Americans have limited health literacy.\n\nThe young and multidisciplinary field of health literacy emerged from two groups of experts: physicians, health providers such as nurses, and health educators; and Adult Basic Education (ABE) and English as a second language (ESL) practitioners in the field of education. Physicians and nurses are a source of patient comprehension and compliance studies. Adult Basic Education / English for Speakers of Languages Other Than English (ABE/ESOL) specialists study and design interventions to help people develop reading, writing, and conversation skills and increasingly infuse curricula with health information to promote better health literacy. A range of approaches to adult education brings health literacy skills to people in traditional classroom settings, as well as where they work and live.\n\nThe biomedical approach to health literacy that became dominant (in the U.S.) during the 1980s and 1990s often depicted individuals as lacking health literacy or \"suffering\" from low health literacy. This approach assumed that recipients are passive in their possession and reception of health literacy and believed that models of literacy and health literacy are politically neutral and universally applicable. This approach is found lacking when placed in the context of broader ecological, critical, and cultural approaches to health. This approach has produced, and continues to reproduce, numerous correlational studies.\n\nLevel of health literacy is considered adequate when the population has sufficient knowledge, skills, and confidence to guide their own health, and people are able to stay healthy, recover from illness, and/or live with disability or disease.\n\nMcMurray states that health literacy is important in a community because it addresses health inequities. It is no coincidence that individuals with lower levels of health literacy live, disproportionally, in communities with lower socio-economic standing. A barrier to achieving adequate health literacy for these individuals is a lack of awareness, or understanding of, information and resources relevant to improving their health. This knowledge gap arises from both patients being unable to understand information presented to them and hospitals' inadequate efforts and materials to address these literacy gaps.\n\nA more robust view of health literacy includes the ability to understand scientific concepts, content, and health research; skills in spoken, written, and online communication; critical interpretation of mass media messages; navigating complex systems of health care and governance; knowledge and use of community capital and resources; and using cultural and indigenous knowledge in health decision making. This integrative view sees health literacy as a social determinant of health that offers a powerful opportunity to reduce inequities in health.\n\nThis perspective defines health literacy as the wide range of skills, and competencies that people develop over their lifetimes to seek out, comprehend, evaluate, and use health information and concepts to make informed choices, reduce health risks, and increase quality of life. While various definitions vary in wording, they all fall within this conceptual framework.\n\nDefining health literacy in that manner builds the foundation for a multi-dimensional model of health literacy built around four central domains:\n\n\nThere are several tests, which have verified reliability in the academic literature that can be administered in order to test one's health literacy. Some of these tests include the Medical Term Recognition Test (METER), which was developed in the United States (2 minute administration time) for the clinical setting. The METER includes many words from the Rapid Estimate of Adult Literacy in Medicine (REALM) test. The Short Assessment of Health Literacy in Spanish and English populations (SAHL-S&E) uses word recognition and multiple choice questions to test a person's comprehension. The CHC-Test measures Critical Health Competencies and consists of 72 items designed to test a person's understanding of medical concepts, literature searching, basic statistics, and design of experiments and samples.\n\nAccording to an Institute of Medicine (2004) report, low health literacy negatively affects the treatment outcome and safety of care delivery. The lack of health literacy affects all segments of the population. However, it is disproportionate in certain demographic groups, such as the elderly, ethnic minorities, recent immigrants, and persons with low general literacy. These populations have a higher risk of hospitalization, longer hospital stays, are less likely to comply with treatment, are more likely to make errors with medication, and are more ill when they initially seek medical care.\nThe mismatch between a clinician's communication of content and a patient's ability to understand that content can lead to medication errors and adverse medical outcomes. Health literacy skills are not only a problem in the general population. Health care professionals (doctors, nurses, public health workers) can also have poor health literacy skills, such as a reduced ability to clearly explain health issues to patients and the public.\nIn addition to tailoring the content of what health professionals communicate to their patients, a well arranged layout, pertinent illustrations, and intuitive format of written materials can improve the usability of health care literature. This in turn can help in effective communication between healthcare providers and their patients.\n\nIdentifying a patient as having low health literacy is essential for a healthcare professional to conform their health intervention in a way that the patient will understand. When patients with low health literacy receive care that is tailored to their more limited medical knowledge base, results have shown that health behaviors drastically improve. This has been seen with: correct medication use and dosage, utilizing health screenings, as well as increased exercise and smoking cessation. Effective visual aids have shown to help supplement the information communicated by the doctor in the office. In particular, easily readable brochures and videos have shown to be very effective. Healthcare professionals can use many methods to attain patients' health literacy. A multitude of tests used during research studies and three minute assessments commonly used in doctors offices are examples of the variety of tests healthcare professionals can use to better understand their patients' health literacy.\n\nThe American Medical Association showed that asking simple single item questions, such as \"How confident are you in filling out medical forms by yourself?\", is a very effective and direct way to understand from a patient's point of view how they feel about interacting with their healthcare provider and understanding their health condition.\n\nIn order to be understood by patients with insufficient health literacy, health professionals must intervene to provide clear and concise information that can be more easily understood. Avoidance of medical jargon, illustrations of important concepts, and confirming information by a \"teach back\" method have shown to be effective tools to communicating essential health topics with health illiterate patients. A program called \"Ask Me 3\" is designed to bring public and physician attention to this issue, by letting patients know that they should ask three questions each time they talk to a doctor, nurse, or pharmacist:\n\nThere have also been large-scale efforts to improve health literacy. For example, a public information program by the US Department of Health and Human Services encourages patients to improve healthcare quality and avoid errors by asking questions about health conditions and treatment. Additionally, the IROHLA (Intervention Research on Health Literacy of the Ageing population) project, funded by the European Union (EU), seeks to develop evidence-based guidelines for policy and practice to improve health literacy of the ageing population in EU member states. The project has developed a framework and identified and validated interventions which together constitute a comprehensive approach of addressing health literacy needs of the elderly.\n\nDiabetes is a rapidly growing health problem among immigrants—affecting approximately 10 percent of Asian-Americans. It is the fifth-leading cause of death in Asian-Americans between the ages of 45 and 64. In addition, type 2 diabetes is the most common form of the disease. Those who are diagnosed with type 2 diabetes have high levels of blood glucose because the body does not effectively respond to insulin. It is a lifelong disease with no known cure. Diabetes is a chronic, debilitating, and costly social burden—costing healthcare systems about $100 billion annually.\n\nDiabetes disproportionately affects underserved and ethnically diverse populations, such as Vietnamese-American communities. The relationship between the disease and health literacy level is in part because of an individual's ability to read English, evaluate blood glucose levels, and communicate with medical professionals. Other studies also suggest lack in knowledge of diabetes symptoms and complications. According to an observational cross-sectional study conducted, many Vietnamese-American diabetic patients show signs of poor blood glucose control and adherence due to inadequate self-management knowledge and experience. Diabetes health literacy research is needed to fully understand the burden of the chronic disease in Vietnamese-American communities, with respect to language and culture, health literacy, and immigrant status. Ethnic minority groups and immigrant communities have less knowledge of health promoting behavior, face considerable obstacles to health services, and experience poor communication with medical professionals. According to a recent review, studies have supported an independent relationship between literacy and knowledge of diabetes management and glucose control, but its impact on patients has not been sufficiently described. With the demand of chronic disease self-management (e.g., diabetic diet, glucose monitoring, etc.), a call for cultural-specific patient education is needed to achieve the control of diabetes and its adverse health outcomes in low- to middle-income Vietnamese-American immigrant communities.\n\nThe problem of low oral health literacy (OHL) is often neglected which may lead to poor oral health outcomes and under utilization of oral care services. A cross-sectional survey of school teachers working in schools at Mangalore, India was undertaken. Details regarding demographics, medical, and dental history, oral hygiene practices and habits, diet history, and decay promoting the potential of school teachers were obtained using face-to-face interview method. The Rapid Estimate of Adult Literacy in Dentistry-99 (REALD-99) was used to assess their OHL.The OHL was high in the school teachers with the REALD-99 scores ranging from 45 to 95 with a mean score of 75.83 ± 9.94. Th This study found that there was a statistically significant difference between OHL and education, frequency of brushing and the filled teeth. Although this study indicated high OHL levels among school teachers in Mangalore, India the magnitude of dental caries in this population was also relatively high and very few had a healthy periodontium.\n\neHealth literacy describes the relatively modern concept of an individual's ability to search for, successfully access, comprehend, and appraise desired health information from electronic sources and to then use such information to attempt to address a particular health problem. Due to the increasing influence of the internet for information-seeking and health information distribution purposes, eHealth literacy has become an important topic of research in recent years. Stellefson (2011) states, \"8 out of 10 Internet users report that they have at least once looked online for health information, making it the third most popular Web activity next to checking email and using search engines in terms of activities that almost everybody has done.\" Though in recent years, individuals may have gained access to a multitude of health information via the Internet, access alone does not ensure that proper search skills and techniques are being used to find the most relevant online and electronic resources. As the line between a reputable medical source and an amateur opinion can often be blurred, the ability to differentiate between the two is important.\n\nHealth literacy requires a combination of several different literacy skills in order to facilitate eHealth promotion and care. Six core skills are delineated by an eHealth literacy model referred to as the Lily model. The Lily Model's six literacies are organized into two central types: analytic and context-specific. Analytic type literacies are those skills that can be applied to a broad range of sources, regardless of topic or content (i.e., skills that can also be applied to shopping or researching a term paper in addition to health) whereas context-specific skills are those that are contextualized within a specific problem domain (can solely be applied to health). The six literacies are listed below, the first three of the analytic type and the latter three of the context-specific:\n\nAccording to Norman (2006), both analytical and context-specific literacy skills are \"required to fully engage with electronic health resources.\" As the World Wide Web and technological innovations are more and more becoming a part of the healthcare environment, it is important for information technology to be properly utilized to promote health and deliver health care effectively. Furthermore, it was argued by Hayat Brainin & Neter (2017), that digital media fosters the creation of interpersonal ties, that can supplement eHealth literacy. According to Hayat Brainin & Neter (2017), individuals with low eHealth literacy who were able to recruit help when performing online activities demonstrated higher health outcomes compared to similar individuals who did not find help. Also relating to the proliferation of digital media is the fact that many individuals now can create their own ‘media content’ (user-generated content). This means that the boundary between “information” and “media” content, as proposed by Norman in 2006, now is increasingly blurred, creating additional challenges for health practitioners (Holmberg, 2016).\n\nIt has also been suggested that the move towards patient-centered care and the greater use of technology for self-care and self-management requires higher health literacy on the part of the patient. This has been noted in several research studies, for example among adolescent patients with obesity.\n\nThe United States Department of Health and Human Services created a National Action Plan to Improve Health Literacy. One of the goals of the National Action Plan is to incorporate health and science information in childcare and education through the university level. The target is to educate people at an early stage; that way individuals are raised with health literacy and will have a better quality of life. The earlier an individual is exposed to health literacy skills the better for the person and the community.\n\nPrograms such as Head Start and Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) have impacted our society, especially the low income population. Head Start provides low-income children and their families early childhood education, nutrition, and health screenings. Health literacy is integrated in the program for both children and parents through the education given to the individuals. WIC serves low-income pregnant women and new mothers by supplying them with food, health care referrals, and nutrition education. Programs like these help improve the health literacy of both the parent and the child, creating a more knowledgeable community with health education.\n\nAlthough programs like Head Start and WIC have been working with the health literacy of a specific population, much more can be done with the education of children and young adults. Now, more and more adolescents are getting involved with their health care. It is crucial to educate these individuals in order for them to make informed decisions.\n\nMany schools in the country incorporate a health class in their curriculum. These classes provided an excellent opportunity to facilitate and develop health literacy in today's children and adolescents. The skills of how to read food labels, the meaning of common medical terms, the structure of the human body, and education on the most prevalent diseases in the United States should be taught in both private and public schools. This way new generations will grow with health literacy and would hopefully make knowledgeable health decisions.\n\nThe National Library of Medicine defines health literacy as:\n\nBased on this clinical definition, health literacy gives\nindividuals the skills that they need to both understand and effectively\ncommunicate information and concerns. Bridging that gap between literacy skills\nand the ability of the individual in health contexts, the \"Health Literacy Framework\" highlights the health outcomes and costs\nassociated with health contexts including cognitive abilities, social skills,\nemotional state, and physical conditions such as visual and auditory contributions.\n\n\"Potential Intervention Points\" are illustrated in reflection of the \"Health Literacy Framework.\"\nWhile these potential intervention points include interactions such as those of individuals and the education systems\nthat they are engaged with, their health systems, and societal factors as they\nrelate to health literacy, these points are not \ncomponents of a causal model. The three\npotential intervention points are culture and society, the health system, and\nthe education system. Health outcomes and costs are the products of the health\nliteracy developed during diversity of exposure to these three potential intervention\npoints.\n\nReferring to shared ideas, meanings, and values that\ninfluence an individual's beliefs and attitudes, cultural and societal\ninfluences are a significant intervention point for health literacy\ndevelopment. As interactions with healthcare systems often first occur at the\nfamily level, deeply rooted beliefs and values can shape the significance of\nthe experience. Included components that reflect the development of health\nliteracy both culturally and societally are native language, socioeconomic status,\ngender, race, and ethnicity, as well as mass media exposure. These\nare pathways to understanding American life paralleling conquests for a health\nliterate America.\n\nThe health system is an intervention point in the \"Health Literacy Framework\". For the\npurposes of this framework, health literacy refers to an individual's\ninteraction with people performing health-related activities in settings such\nas hospitals, clinics, physician's offices, home health care, public health agencies,\nand insurers.\n\nIn the United States, the education system consists of K-12 curricula. In addition to this standard educational\nsetting, adult education programs are also environments in which individuals\ncan develop traditional literacy skills founded in comprehension and real-world\napplication of knowledge via reading and writing. Tools for educational development provided by\nthese systems impact an individual's capacity to obtain specific knowledge\nregarding health. Reflecting components of traditional literacy such as\ncultural and conceptual knowledge, oral literacy (listening and speaking,)\nprint literacy (reading and writing,) and numeracy, education systems are also\npotential intervention points for health literacy development.\n\nA successful health literacy program will have many goals that all work together to improve health literacy. Many people assume these goals should communicate health information to the general public, however in order to be successful the goals should not only communicate with people but also take into account social and environmental factors that influence lifestyle choices. A good example of this is the movement to end smoking. When a health literacy program is put into place where only the negative side effects of smoking are told to the general public it is doomed to fail. However, when there is a larger program put in – one that includes strategies outlining how to quit smoking, raises tobacco prices, reduces access to tobacco by minors, and reflect social a social unacceptability of smoking – it will be much more effective.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Health and Human Services suggests a National Action Plan to implement a comprehensive Health Literacy Program. They include 7 goals:\nThese goals should be taken into account when implementing a health literacy program.\n\nThere are also goals for the outcomes of a Health Literacy Program.\n\n\"Health Related Goals\"\n\nLibraries have increasingly recognised that they can play a role in health literacy since the 2000s, influenced by the Medical Library Association. Library initiatives have included running education programs, fostering partnerships with health organisations, and using outreach efforts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21249078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21249078", "title": "Healthcare in Ukraine", "text": "Healthcare in Ukraine\n\nThe Healthcare in Ukraine is part of universal health care system being a successor of the Soviet healthcare system. The Ministry of Healthcare implements the state policy in the country in the field of medicine and healthcare.\n\nAs of March 2009 the Ukrainian government planned on reforming the health care system, by the creation of a national network of family doctors and improvements in the medical emergency services. Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko wanted (in November 2009) to start introducing a public healthcare system based on health insurance in the spring of 2010.\n\nFurther reform was promised by Health Minister Alexander Kvitashvili in 2014 but proposals failed to make political progress and he offered his resignation - which was not accepted. State funding for hospitals cover only the electricity and meager staff salaries, leading to widespread bribery. Even hot water is a problem. Charitable donations are needed to buy even basic medicines or fuel needed to visit patients.\n\nAlthough some companies (in their collective agreement) supply their employees insurance medicine Ukraine doesn't. But it is making a switch to insurance medicine, a transformation that will start in 2017 and will last until 2020.\n\nUkrainian healthcare should be free to citizens according to law, but in practice patients contribute to the cost of most aspects of healthcare.\n\n"}
{"id": "9057034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9057034", "title": "Interesterified fat", "text": "Interesterified fat\n\nInteresterified fat is a type of oil where the fatty acids have been moved from one triglyceride molecule to another. This is generally done to modify the melting point, slow rancidification and create an oil more suitable for deep frying or making margarine with good taste and low saturated fat content. It is not the same as partial hydrogenation which produces trans fatty acids, but interesterified fats used in the food industry can come from hydrogenated fat, for simplicity and frugality.\n\nFats such as soybean oil consist mainly of various triglycerides which are made up of a glycerol backbone esterified to three fatty acid molecules. The triglycerides contain a mixture of saturated, monounsaturated, and polyunsaturated fatty acids. Interesterification is carried out by blending the desired oils and then rearranging the fatty acids over the glycerol backbone with, for instance, the help of catalysts or lipase enzymes. Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) decrease the melting point of fats significantly. A triglyceride containing three saturated fatty acids is generally solid at room temperature and not very desirable for many applications. Rearranging these triglycerides with oils containing unsaturated fatty acids lowers the melting point and creates fats with properties better suited for target food products. In addition, blending interesterified oils with liquid oils allows the reduction in saturated fatty acids in many trans fatty acid free food products. The interesterified fats can be separated through controlled crystallization, also called fractionation.\n\nIn vegetable polyunsaturated oils, the PUFA is commonly found at the middle position (sn2) on the glycerol. Stearic acid is not usually found at sn2 in vegetable oils used in the human diet.\n\nIn most vegetable dietary fats, the palmitic (C16:0) and stearic acid (C18:0) saturated fats mainly occupy the 1- and 3-positions of the triacylglycerol molecule, whereas an unsaturated fatty acid such as oleic acid (18:1ω9) or linoleic acid (18:2ω6) usually occupies the 2-position. In animal fats, this is not the case. Interesterification of vegetable oils will enhance the amount of saturated fatty acids at the 2-position. Fatty acids at the 2-position are biologically different from fatty acids at the 1 and 3 position because they are handled differently during digestion and metabolism, and a relevant scientific question is whether there are health effects following from this. Although this question has received relatively little attention in dietary fats and health research, there are a number of good controlled human intervention studies that have addressed it.\n\nIn studies addressing the health effects of interesterification as such, a diet high in interesterified fat should be compared with a diet high in a noninteresterified fat with the same fatty acid composition. If the two diets show similar changes in the resulting blood lipid profiles (i.e. not different from each other), this indicates interesterification has no effect on metabolism or biological effects.\nConversely, effects of interesterification cannot be properly addressed if the interesterified fat and the noninteresterified fat being compared have different fatty acid compositions.\n\nZock et al. compared the effects of an IE (interesterfied) test fat with 40% C16:0 on the 2-position with a noninteresterified test fat with only 6.5% C16:0 on the 2-position in a 3-week diet study. Despite the very high intakes and the marked difference in positional distribution, no statistically significant effects on fasting blood lipids were observed in the group as a whole. Nestel et al. examined the effects of an IE fat blend with 25% C16:0 on the 2-position with a native fat blend with only 9% C16:0 on the 2-position. Again, despite a high intake level and the clear difference in positional distribution of the fats fed, no effects were observed on fasting blood lipids. Meijer and Weststrate examined the effects of interesterification, using a 'real' hardstock as applied in foods. The control was the same fat blend with a similar fatty acid composition, but not interesterified. The IE fat blend contained more C16:0 on the 2-position (18%) than the control blend (7%). None of the fasting levels of blood lipids measured after 3 weeks showed any change related to treatment of the fat blend. Fasting glucose level was also not affected.\n\nIn 1970, Grande et al. used interesterification to prepare a blend of fats and oils mimicking the fatty acid composition of cocoa butter. No difference between the interesterified fat blend and cocoa butter was observed in levels of total cholesterol in fasting blood.\n\nRecently, in a study funded by the Malaysian Palm Oil Board, Sundram et al. compared the effects of three types of fat: native palm olein, a blend with partially hydrogenated soybean oil and an interesterified mixture of oils. They concluded both the IE blend and the partially hydrogenated fat blend increased the fasting ratio of LDL to HDL cholesterol, indicating an adverse effect on CVD risk. Sundram et al. also found that fasting plasma glucose levels were higher after 4 weeks on the interesterified fat than after the other diets. For the postprandial study the glucose incremental area under the curve (IAUC) following the IE meal was 40% greater than after either other meal (p<0.001), and was linked to relatively depressed insulin and C-peptide (p<0.05). As was pointed out in a letter to the Editor by Destaillats et al., a major limitation of the Sundram study is that the diets differed in overall fatty acid composition. The interesterified fat had 30% more saturated and 57% less monounsaturated fatty acids than the untreated palm olein. The direction of the effects on blood lipids are in line with what can be predicted based on these differences in fatty acid content between the study diets (Mensink 2003).\n\nAnother recent study by Berry et al. compared shea butter (3% C18:0 on the 2-position) and interesterified shea butter (23% C18:0 on the 2-position), while keeping overall fatty acid composition of the diets constant. This study found no effects of interesterification on fasting levels of blood lipids, glucose and insulin. This is line with a number of other human intervention studies.\n\nChristophe et al. have studied the effect of interesterification of butter oil. In a small pilot study, they observed an 11% lower blood total cholesterol level after interesterification. However, in a larger, better designed study the same authors could not reproduce the cholesterol-lowering effects.\n\n"}
{"id": "43822871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43822871", "title": "Israeli paradox", "text": "Israeli paradox\n\nThe Israeli paradox is a catchphrase, first used in 1996, to summarize the apparently paradoxical epidemiological observation that Israeli Jews have a relatively high incidence of coronary heart disease (CHD), despite having a diet relatively low in saturated fats, in apparent contradiction to the widely held belief that the high consumption of such fats is a risk factor for CHD. The paradox is that if the thesis linking saturated fats to CHD is valid, the Israelis ought to have a lower rate of CHD than comparable countries where the per capita consumption of such fats is higher.\n\nThe observation of Israel's paradoxically high rate of CHD is one of a number of paradoxical outcomes for which a literature now exists, regarding the thesis that a high consumption of saturated fats ought to lead to an increase in CHD incidence, and that a lower consumption ought to lead to the reverse outcome. The most famous of these paradoxes is known as the \"French paradox\": France enjoys a relatively low incidence of CHD despite a high per-capita consumption of saturated fat.\n\nThe Israeli paradox implies two important possibilities. The first is that the hypothesis linking saturated fats to CHD is not completely valid (or, at the extreme, is entirely invalid). The second possibility is that the link between saturated fats and CHD is valid, but that some additional factor in the typical Israeli diet, lifestyle or genes creates another CHD risk—presumably with the implication that if this factor can be identified, it can be isolated in the diet and / or lifestyle of other countries, thereby allowing both the Israelis, and others, to avoid that particular risk.\n\nIsraeli Jews eat a diet which is richer in linoleic acid (the most readily available plant-based form of omega-6 fatty acid, found in many vegetable oils) than any other population on the planet. Average per capita consumption is approximately 30 grams a day (11 kilograms annually), compared to 25 grams daily for the average American in 1985.\n\nSusan Allport summarizes the Israeli paradox in the following words: \nAllport notes that “Little butter is consumed in Israel, but large quantities of soybean, corn and safflower oil are….This translates, researchers estimate, to a linoleic acid intake of about 11 percent of calories and a ratio of linoleic to alpha linolenic acid [the most readily-available plant-based omega-3 fatty acid] in the Israeli diet of about 26:1.” She observes that mean serum cholesterol in Israel is quite low by the standards of developed countries: 210 milligrams/dl. Therefore, one distinction that can, without controversy, be attributed to the high levels of linoleic acid in the Israeli diet is the high percentage of linoleic acid in the adipose tissue of Israelis: 24% as compared to 16% in Americans and less than 10% in many northern Europeans.\n\nIn 1993, a 23-year follow-up study to the Israeli Ischemic Heart Disease Study of ten thousand public service employees (widely referred to as the “Israeli Civil Service Study”) found that there were only “weak associations of long-term coronary mortality with the dietary intake patterns of fatty acids.”\n\nThe term \"Israeli Paradox\" was first used by researchers Daniel Yam, Abraham Eliraz and Elliot Berry in a 1996 article in the \"Israel Journal of Medical Sciences\". The authors observed that Israelis consumed polyunsaturated fatty acids (primarily omega-6s rather than omega-3s) at a rate about 8% higher than in the United States and about 10-12% higher than most of Europe. They wrote, “Israeli Jews may be regarded as a population-based dietary experiment of the effect of a high omega-6 PUFA [polyunsaturated fatty acid] diet.”\n\nThe most readily-observable result of the relatively high ratio of omega-6 fats to saturated fats in the Israeli diet was the deposition of omega-6 fats in preference to saturated fats in the adipose tissue of Israelis. This had been observed as early as 1976, when an article in the \"Israel Journal of Medical Sciences\" noted that, counting polyunsaturated fats (which includes both omega-6 and omega-3 fatty acids) as a whole, the ratio of polyunsaturated fats to saturated fats in the adipose tissue of Ashkenazi Jews in Israel was 0.88:1, while for non-Ashkenazi Jews it was 1.13:1. This was, according to the authors, “the highest reported for any population on a free-choice diet.”\n\n"}
{"id": "410851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=410851", "title": "Kegel exercise", "text": "Kegel exercise\n\nKegel exercise, also known as pelvic floor exercise, consists of repeatedly contracting and relaxing the muscles that form part of the pelvic floor, now sometimes colloquially referred to as the \"Kegel muscles\". The exercise can be performed multiple times each day, for several minutes at a time, for one to three months, to begin to have an effect.\n\nKegel exercises can make the pelvic floor muscles stronger. These are the muscles that hold up the bladder and help keep it from leaking. Exercises are usually done to reduce urinary stress incontinence (especially after childbirth) and reduce premature ejaculation in men.\n\nSeveral tools exist to help with these exercises, although various studies debate the relative effectiveness of different tools versus traditional exercises. They were first described in 1948 by American gynecologist Arnold Kegel.\n\nFactors such as pregnancy, childbirth, aging, being overweight, and abdominal surgery such as cesarean section, often result in the weakening of the pelvic muscles. This can be assessed by either digital examination of vaginal pressure or using a Kegel perineometer. Kegel exercises are useful in regaining pelvic floor muscle strength in such cases.\n\nPelvic floor exercises (muscle training) can be included in conservative treatment approaches for women with urinary incontinence. There is tentative evidence that biofeedback may give added benefit when used with pelvic floor muscle training. After a prostatectomy there is no clear evidence that teaching pelvic floor exercises alters the risk of urinary incontinence in men.\n\nThe symptoms of prolapse and its severity can be decreased with pelvic floor exercises. Effectiveness can be improved with feedback on how to do the exercises.\n\nThe aim of Kegel exercises is to improve muscle tone by strengthening the pubococcygeus muscles of the pelvic floor. Kegel is a popular prescribed exercise for pregnant women to prepare the pelvic floor for physiological stresses of the later stages of pregnancy and childbirth. Kegel exercises are said to be good for treating vaginal prolapse and preventing uterine prolapse in women and for treating prostate pain and swelling resulting from benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and prostatitis in men. Kegel exercises may be beneficial in treating urinary incontinence in both men and women. Kegel exercises may also increase sexual gratification, allowing women to complete pompoir and aid in reducing premature ejaculation in men. The many actions performed by Kegel muscles include holding in urine and avoiding defecation. Reproducing this type of muscle action can strengthen the Kegel muscles. The action of slowing or stopping the flow of urine may be used as a test of correct pelvic floor exercise technique.\n\nIt is now known that the components of levator ani (the pelvic diaphragm), namely pubococcygeus, puborectalis and ileococcygeus, contract and relax as one muscle. Hence, pelvic floor exercises involve the entire levator ani rather than pubococcygeus alone. Pelvic floor exercises may be of benefit in cases of fecal incontinence and pelvic organ prolapse conditions e.g. rectal prolapse.\n\nSome devices have been marketed to women exercise their pelvic floor muscle and improve the muscle tone of the pubococcygeal or vaginal muscle.\n\nAs of 2013 there was no evidence that doing pelvic floor exercise with weights worked better than doing Kegel exercises without weights; there is greater risk with weights, because a foreign object is introduced into the vagina.\n\nInserting foreign objects into the vagina increases the risk of infections and can lead to vaginosis or toxic shock syndrome. Overuse of such Kegel exercises, with or without a device, can lead to pelvic pain and pain during sex.\n\nDuring the latter part of the 20th century, a number of medical and pseudo-medical devices were marketed to consumers as improving sex or orgasms, increasing \"energy\", \"balancing hormones\", and as having other health or lifestyle benefits. There is no evidence for any of these claims, and many of them are pseudoscience.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45266571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45266571", "title": "Laboratory safety", "text": "Laboratory safety\n\nMany laboratories contain significant risks, and the prevention of laboratory accidents requires great care and constant vigilance. Examples of risk factors include high voltages, high and low pressures and temperatures, corrosive and toxic chemicals, and biohazards including infective organisms and their toxins.\n\nMeasures to protect against laboratory accidents include safety training and enforcement of laboratory safety policies, safety review of experimental designs, the use of personal protective equipment, and the use of the buddy system for particularly risky operations.\n\nIn many countries, laboratory work is subject by health and safety legislation. In some cases, laboratory activities can also present environmental health risks, for example, the accidental or deliberate discharge of toxic or infective material from the laboratory into the environment.\n\nHazardous chemicals present physical and/or health threats to workers in clinical, industrial, and academic laboratories. Laboratory chemicals include cancer-causing agents (carcinogens), toxins (e.g., those affecting the liver, kidney, and nervous system), irritants, corrosives, sensitizers, as well as agents that act on the blood system or damage the lungs, skin, eyes, or mucous membranes.\n\nMany laboratory workers encounter daily exposure to biological hazards. These hazards are present in various sources throughout the laboratory such as blood and body fluids, culture specimens, body tissue and cadavers, and laboratory animals, as well as other workers.\n\nThese are federally regulated biological agents (e.g., viruses, bacteria, fungi, and prions) and toxins that have the potential to pose a severe threat to public health and safety, to animal or plant health, or to animal or plant products.\n\n\nBesides exposure to chemicals and biological agents, laboratory workers can also be exposed to a number of physical hazards. Some of the common physical hazards that they may encounter include the following: ergonomic, ionizing radiation, non-ionizing\nradiation and noise hazards.\n\nLaboratory workers are at risk for repetitive motion injuries during routine laboratory procedures such as pipetting, working at microscopes, operating microtomes, using cell counters and keyboarding at computer workstations. Repetitive motion injuries develop over time and occur when muscles and joints are stressed, tendons are inflamed, nerves are pinched and the flow of blood is restricted. Standing and working in awkward positions in front of laboratory hoods/biological safety cabinets can also present ergonomic problems.\n\nIonizing radiation sources are found in a wide range of occupational settings, including laboratories. These radiation sources can pose a considerable health risk to affected workers if not properly controlled. Any laboratory possessing or using radioactive isotopes must be licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) and/or by a state agency that has been approved by the NRC, 10 CFR 31.11 and 10 CFR 35.12.\n\nThe fundamental objectives of radiation protection measures are:\n\n\n\nWorkers should be trained to recognize the potential for exposure to burns or cuts that can occur from handling or sorting hot sterilized items or sharp instruments when removing them from autoclaves/sterilizers or from steam lines that service the autoclaves.\n\nCentrifuges, due to the high speed at which they operate, have great potential for injuring users if not operated properly. Unbalanced centrifuge rotors can result in injury, even death. Sample container breakage can generate aerosols that may be harmful if inhaled.\nThe majority of all centrifuge accidents are the result of user error.\n\nLaboratory standard for compressed gas\n\nWithin laboratories, compressed gases are usually supplied either through fixed piped gas systems or individual cylinders of gases. Compressed gases can be toxic, flammable, oxidizing, corrosive, or inert. Leakage of any of these gases can be hazardous.\n\n\nCryogens, substances used to produce very low temperatures [below -153 °C (-243 °F)], such as liquid nitrogen (LN) which has a boiling point of -196 °C (-321 °F), are commonly used in laboratories.\n\nAlthough not a cryogen, solid carbon dioxide or dry ice which converts directly to carbon dioxide gas at -78 °C (-109 °F) is also often used in laboratories. Shipments packed with dry ice, samples preserved with liquid nitrogen, and in some cases, techniques that use cryogenic liquids, such as cryogenic grinding of samples, present potential hazards in the laboratory.\n\nHand protection is required to guard against the hazard of touching cold surfaces. It is recommended that Cryogen Safety Gloves be used by the worker.\n\nEye protection is required at all times when working with cryogenic fluids. When pouring a cryogen, working with a wide-mouth Dewar flask or around the exhaust of cold boil-off gas, use of a full face shield is recommended.\n\nPersonal protective equipment or PPE are equipments worn to prevent against exposure of hazardous substances. Although, PPE does not eliminate the risks of hazards but it helps protect the user from the exposure. To make a workplace safer, it should provide instructions and training of how to use and choose proper PPE in different situations.\n\nPPE includes: \n\nIn the laboratory, there is the potential for workers to be exposed to electrical hazards including electric shock, electrocutions, fires and explosions. Damaged electrical cords can lead to possible shocks or electrocutions. A flexible electrical cord may be damaged by door or window edges, by staples and fastenings, by equipment rolling over it, or simply by aging.\n\nThe potential for possible electrocution or electric shock or contact with electrical hazards can result from a number of factors, including the following:\n\nFire is the most common serious hazard that one faces in a typical laboratory. While proper procedures and training can minimize the chances of an accidental fire, laboratory workers should still be prepared to deal with a fire emergency should it occur. In dealing with a laboratory fire, all containers of infectious materials should be placed into autoclaves, incubators, refrigerators, or freezers for containment.\n\nSmall bench-top fires in laboratory spaces are not uncommon. Large laboratory fires are rare. However, the risk of severe injury or death is significant because fuel load and hazard levels in labs are typically very high. Laboratories, especially those using solvents in any quantity, have the potential for flash fires, explosion, rapid spread of fire, and high toxicity of products of combustion (heat, smoke, and flame)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20009077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20009077", "title": "List of countries by ecological footprint", "text": "List of countries by ecological footprint\n\nThis is a list of countries by ecological footprint. The table is based on data spanning from 1961 to 2013 from the\nGlobal Footprint Network's National Footprint Accounts published in 2016. Numbers are given in global hectares per capita. The\nworld-average ecological footprint in 2012 was 2.84 global hectares per person (22.1 billion in total). With a world-average biocapacity of 1.73 global hectares (gha) per person (9.2 billion in total), this leads to a global ecological deficit of 1.1 global hectares per person (7.8 billion in total).\n\nFor humanity, having a footprint smaller than the planet's biocapacity is a necessary condition for sustainability. After all, ecological overuse is only possible temporarily. A country that consumes more, on average, than 1.73 gha per person has a resource demand that is not replicable world-wide. Vice versa, with a footprint below 1.73 gha per person, is not necessarily sustainable, because the quality of the footprint may still lead to ecological destruction. If a country does not have enough ecological resources within its own territory to cover its population's footprint, then it runs an ecological deficit and the country is termed an \"ecological debtor\". Otherwise, it has an ecological reserve and it is called a \"creditor\".\n\n\" This table below is based on 2012 results (National Footprint Accounts edition 2016). The latest edition (2018) is available on Global Footprint Network's website at http://data.footprintnetwork.org. Note that this list contains only 188 countries, covering most of the countries with more than one million inhabitants.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "58948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58948", "title": "List of notifiable diseases", "text": "List of notifiable diseases\n\nThe following is a list of notifiable diseases arranged by country.\n"}
{"id": "32161137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32161137", "title": "MRC Human Nutrition Research", "text": "MRC Human Nutrition Research\n\nMRC Human Nutrition Research is the largest research institute in the UK for human nutrition, and is based in Cambridge.\n\nIn 1998 MRC Human Nutrition Research (HNR) was formed as a result of the restructuring of the Dunn Human Nutrition Unit following the resignation of Professor Roger Whitehead. The Medical Research Council (MRC), founded in 1913, had previously had a Human Nutrition Research Unit at the end of the Second World War; this was founded and directed by BS Platt, and was interested in serious nutritional deficiencies in children, that would cause significantly premature death. HNR was formed in order to continue to advance the MRC's portfolio of strategic and applied nutrition research.\n\nThe mission of HNR is to conduct nutrition research and surveillance to improve the health of the population with a focus on obesity and metabolic risk, musculoskeletal health, intestinal health and nutritional inequalities.\n\nHNR currently states that its 4 objectives are to: \n\nHNR is based at Peterhouse Technology Park, in south-east Cambridge, on the South Cambridgeshire-Cambridge boundary, round the corner from the Fulbourn - Cherry Hinton Tesco and Fulbourn Hospital. ARM Holdings have their headquarters on the same site.\n\nIt is divided into 3 main research departments and a support department:\n\nThese departments house research groups concerned with:\n\nHNR also has a library which houses an important collection of historically significant research documents.\n\nHNR conducts nutrition research and surveillance to improve the health of the population with a focus on obesity and metabolic risk, musculoskeletal health, intestinal health and nutritional inequalities.\n\nIn November 1999 HNR scientists discovered that children in the early 1950s, despite food rationing, had healthier diets than children today. They had a greater intake of calcium, from drinking more milk, and of iron, as they ate more red meat than poultry and iron containing dark green vegetables such as broccoli and kale. In the early 1950s, no children would have eaten pasta, but 50% of children in the 1990s did. However children in the 1950s were faced with more incurable illnesses, prevented today by vaccination.\n\nIn September 2002, HNR scientists proved a link between diabetes and being overweight. They found that people who had lost 9 lb in weight had reduced the chances of having diabetes by 58%.\n\nIn 2007, a study was conducted to research the effect of negative weight stigmas on patients. The conclusion was that in several cases, the belief in the negative weight stigmas led to overeating and bad health habits in patients who were studies. More details can be found in the official report listed under references.\n\nHNR participated in the National Diet and Nutrition Survey and the MRC's National Survey of Health and Development, which showed insights such as approximately five per cent of the UK's population are vegetarian.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50282084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50282084", "title": "Maryland Department of Health", "text": "Maryland Department of Health\n\nThe Maryland Department of Health is an agency of the government of Maryland responsible for public health issues. The Department is headed by a Secretary who is a member of the Executive Council/Cabinet of the Governor of Maryland, currently the secretary is Robert R. Neall. Previous secretaries have included Joshua Sharfstein, and Georges C. Benjamin.\n\nThe Department was formed in 1969 as the Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene and was known by this name until June 30, 2017. Though the department itself was formed in 1969, some of its origins go back to the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.\n\n"}
{"id": "21959823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21959823", "title": "Medical escort", "text": "Medical escort\n\nA medical escort is a non-emergency medical service provided by commercial aircraft, by medical escort companies, and sometimes by self-employed medical escort freelancers, who typically work for a medical repatriation company. Medical escort is one of three options offered by these medical repatriation companies, they are Air ambulance, Road Ambulance, and Medical escort\n\nCost effectiveness comes from using Commercial aircraft, first and business class seats. On some occasions an airline stretcher will be used if the patient is unable to sit up in their seat for landing and take off. Several rows of seating in the back of the plane are removed to allow for a medical stretcher to allow non-emergency medical transport. Medical escort crews carry with them equipment that enables them to provide appropriate medical treatment to a non emergency patient. Common equipment for Medical escort services includes O², basic medication, monitoring equipment, and CPR equipment\n\nSome companies provide the full spectrum of medical professionals, including certified paramedics, critical care nurses, Respiratory Therapists and physicians. The medical escort physicians consult with the referring physicians to jointly determine the most appropriate level of care and most suitable method of transportation.\n\nThe make up of the medical escort team of a medical escort varies depending on patient condition, country, area, service provider and by type of air medical Services. Commercial airliners are most likely to be used to transport patients, and the crew may consist of Emergency Medical Technicians, Paramedics, flight nurses, a Respiratory Therapist, and / or a physician. Those services with a primary focus on non-Emergency care transport are more likely to be staffed by paramedic and or a nurses. In these cases, the crew generally consists of a specially-trained advance care paramedic or nurse.\n\nThe nature of the air operation will frequently determine the type of medical control required, and in most cases, the available skill set of a typical paramedic. As a result, those operating in this environment will often be permitted to exercise more latitude in medical decision-making. Most systems operate almost entirely off-line, using recognised protocols for almost all procedures and only resorting to on-line medical control when protocols have been exhausted. Some Medical escort operations have full-time, on-site medical coordinators with relevant backgrounds\n\nMany types of commercial aircraft can be used for medical escort purposes, aircraft are equipped with basic life support equipment and advanced life support Drugs in addition to all equipment and medications take by the team. Many escort teams can carry portable oxygen concentrators for patients that require it. Certain airlines can also accommodate commercial stretcher service where several seat rows in economy are removed and a commercial stretcher is fitted in place.\n\nThe challenge in most air medical escort operations, are the effects of reduced atmospheric pressure on some patients, the requirement to divert the aircraft to land quickly in the event of an unexpected emergency, fellow passengers, the amount of working space, both of which may create issues for the provision of ongoing care. While in flight the entire patient will be physically accessible. Although some companies have adapted many techniques and procedures to minimize the effect on other passengers and the overall safety and well-being of the patients flying on commercial flights.\n\n"}
{"id": "1473823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1473823", "title": "Medical practice management software", "text": "Medical practice management software\n\nMedical practice management software (PMS) is a category of healthcare software that deals with the day-to-day operations of a medical practice including veterinarians. Such software frequently allows users to capture patient demographics, schedule appointments, maintain lists of insurance payors, perform billing tasks, and generate reports.\n\nIn the United States, most PMS systems are designed for small to medium-sized medical offices. Some of the software is designed for or used by third-party medical billing companies. PMS is often divided among desktop-only software, client-server software, or Internet-based software. \n\nThe desktop-only variety is intended to be used only on one computer by one or a handful of users sharing access. Client-server software typically necessitates that the practice acquire or lease server equipment and operate the server software on that hardware, while individual users' workstations contain client software that accesses the server. Client-server software's advantage is in allowing multiple users to share the data and the workload; a major disadvantage is the cost of running the server. Internet-based software is a relatively newer breed of PMS. Such software decreases the need for the practice to run their own server and worry about security and reliability. However, such software removes patient data from the practice's premises, which can be seen as a security risk of its own.\n\nPMS is often connected to electronic medical records (EMR) systems. While some information in a PMS and an EMR overlaps — for example, patient and provider data — in general the EMR system is used for the assisting the practice with clinical matters, while PMS is used for administrative and financial matters. Medical practices often hire different vendors to provide the EMR and PMS systems. The integration of the EMR and PMS software is considered one of the most challenging aspects of the medical practice management software implementation.\n\nMost practice management software contains systems that allow users to enter and track patients, schedule and track patient appointments, send out insurance claims and patient statements as part of the collection process, process insurance, patient and third party payments, and generate reports for the administrative and clinical staff of the practice. Typically, using a PMS also involves keeping up to date large sets of data including lists of diagnosis and procedures, lists of insurance companies, referring physicians, providers, facilities, and much more.\n\nPractice Management systems often include a calendaring or scheduling component that allows staff to create and track upcoming patient visits. Software is often differentiated by whether it allows double-booking, or whether it uses a scheduling or a booking model. Schedules are often color-coded to allow healthcare providers (i.e. doctors, nurses, assistants) to easily identify blocks of time or sets of patients.\n\nIf the patient carried a valid private or public insurance policy at the time these services were provided, the charges are then sent out as an insurance claim. The process of sending charges may happen on paper, usually with the use of the CMS-1500 form. This form lists the provider who performed the service, the patient, the services performed and the related diagnoses. For institutional (typically hospital) charges, claims may also be sent out on the UB-04 forms (formerly the UB-92 which use of was discontinued in 2007). Claims may also be sent out electronically using industry-standard electronic data interchange standards. \n\nIn most cases, electronic claims are submitted using an automated software process. Some practice management system vendors will update CPT/ICD-10 codes in the practice software on an annual basis. Some, especially smaller firms, leave it entirely up to medical practices. While a lot of insurance payers have created methods for direct submission of electronic claims, many software vendors or practice users use the services of an electronic claim clearinghouse to submit their claims. Such clearinghouses commonly maintain connections to a large number of payers, and make it easy for practices to submit claims to any of these payers. Instead of creating a connection to every payer, the practice user or software vendor must only connect to the clearinghouse.\n\nOnce a claim is adjudicated by the payer, some sort of a response is sent to the submitter. This usually comes as a paper Explanation of Benefits (EOB) or an Electronic Remittance Advice (ERA). These describe the actions that the payer took on each claim: amounts paid, denied, adjusted, etc.\n\nIn cases where a patient did not have proper insurance, or where insurance coverage did not fully pay the charges, the practice will usually send out patient statements. Practice management software often contains a way for a practice to print and mail their own statements (or other correspondence), and may even contain a way to interface to third-party patient statement printing companies.\n\nAlmost invariably, the process of running a medical practice requires some introspection, and practice management software usually contains reporting capabilities to allow users to extract detailed data on financial performance and patient financial histories. PMS often has both pre-setup reports as well as allow users to design their own, ad-hoc reports.\nIn some cases, the reporting functionality of PMS interfaces with Decision support systems or has similar functionality built-in.\n\nThe global veterinary PMS industry size was estimated to be 323 million in 2016 with more than 120 million from United States. Veterinary PMS is expected to be growing at the rate of 8.9% per year. There are more than 20 different software available in the market for Veterinary PMS.\n\nPractice management software (PMS) has traditionally been commercial; few viable free practice management systems exist, though a few open source systems are under development. PMS usually costs about $100 to tens of thousands of dollars to license and operate.\n\nPMS often needs to interface with the outside world. There are a number of standards that are used:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22081794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22081794", "title": "Mental disorders diagnosed in childhood", "text": "Mental disorders diagnosed in childhood\n\nMental disorders diagnosed in childhood are divided into two categories: childhood disorders and learning disorders. These disorders are usually first diagnosed in infancy, childhood, or adolescence, as laid out in the DSM-IV-TR and in the ICD-10. The DSM-IV-TR includes ten subcategories of disorders including mental retardation, Learning Disorders, Motor Skills Disorders, Communication Disorders, Pervasive Developmental Disorders, Attention-Deficit and Disruptive Behavior Disorders, Feeding and Eating Disorders, Tic Disorders, Elimination Disorders, and Other Disorders of Infancy, Childhood, or Adolescence.\n\nMental retardation is coded on Axis II of the DSM-IV-TR. The diagnostic criteria necessary in order to diagnose intellectual disability consists of:\nThere are varying degrees of intellectual disability, which are identified by an IQ test.\nMental retardation, Severity Unspecified: This unspecified diagnosis is given when there is a strong assumption that the child is mentally retarded, but cannot be tested because the individual is too impaired, not willing to take the IQ test or is an infant.\n\nIntellectual disability in children can be caused by genetic or environmental factors. The individual could have a natural brain malformation or pre or postnatal damage done to the brain caused by drowning or a traumatic brain injury, for example. Nearly 30 to 50% of individuals with intellectual disability will never know the cause of their diagnosis even after thorough investigation.\n\nPrenatal causes of intellectual disability include:\nSingle-gene disorders that result in intellectual disability include:\nThese single-gene disorders are usually associated with atypical physical characteristics. \nAbout 1/4 of individuals with intellectual disability have a detectable chromosomal abnormality. Others may have small amounts of deletion or duplication of chromosomes, which may go unnoticed and therefore, undetermined.\n\nAs an infant, the individual with intellectual disability might sit up, crawl, or walk later than what is developmentally appropriate. They may have trouble talking or learn to talk late. The infants with intellectual disability will probably have trouble learning to potty train, feeding themselves, remembering things, with problem-solving, and may have recurrent explosive tantrums. \nSome symptoms that a child with intellectual disability might show are continued infant-like behavior, a lack of curiosity, the inability to meet educational demands, learning ability that is below average, and the failure to meet developmentally appropriate intellectual goals. Some children with severe intellectual disability may have seizures, mobility problems, vision problem, or hearing problems.\n\nThere is no treatment for intellectual disability but there are plenty of services offered for those diagnosed to help them function in their everyday lives. Professionals will sometimes work out an Individualized Family Service Plan (IFSP), which documents the child's needs, as well as the services that would best help them specifically. Speech, physical, and occupational therapy may be offered. Intellectually disabled children can be placed in special education classes through the public school system, where the school and parents will map out an Individualized Education Program (IEP). This program lays out all of the services and classes the child will become involved in during their time in school.\n\n\nLearning disorders are believed to be caused by a nervous system abnormality. The abnormality could either be in the structure of the brain or in the functioning of chemicals in the brain. Because of this, individual has problems receiving, processing or communicating information normally. Some causes of the nervous system abnormality include problems during pregnancy, birth or early infancy, brain trauma at a young age, exposure to toxins, and prematurity.\n\nChildren with a learning disorder may display the following traits:\n\nThere is no specific treatment for children with learning disorders, but there are special programs and services offered to help them cope with their disorder. Children are taught new ways to interpret and understand information. Often, children with learning disorders can remain in their class, but may be pulled away to focus on trying to enhance their learning skills. Speech and language therapy is offered to those with learning disorders. Tutors are often beneficial.\n\n\nThe cause behind motor skills disorders is not exact, but the cause is usually genetic or environmental. Motor skills disorders are often associated with physiological or developmental abnormalities including ADHD, learning disorders, developmental disabilities and prematurity.\n\nIn infants, some babies may be hypotonia, a loose and floppy baby, or hypertonia, a stiff and rigid baby. Toddlers may have trouble feeding themselves or may stand, sit or walk later than what is developmentally normal. Other signs of motor skills disorders may be children that are clumsy or have excessive accidents, such as knocking things over. Children who have trouble with complex physical activities such as dancing, swimming, catching or throwing a ball, or drawing may avoid these activities completely.\n\nDifferent therapies are offered to children with motor skills disorders to help them improve their motor effectiveness. Many children work with an occupational and physical therapist, as well as educational professionals. This helpful combination is beneficial to the child. Cognitive therapy, sensory integration therapy, and kinesthetic training are often favorable treatment for the child.\n\n\nThe cause of communication disorders in children are usually biological, developmental or environmental. These causes include abnormalities in brain development, exposure to certain toxins during pregnancy, or genetic factors.\n\nSome children with communication disorders may not speak or may have a very limited vocabulary for their developmental period. Children with communication disorders may have trouble following directions or naming simple objects. During childhood, he or she may have trouble comprehending or forming sentences. As they get older, the child may have more trouble expressing or understanding abstract ideas.\n\nSpeech and language therapists are often very reliable for helping children with communication disorders. Remedial techniques are often used to help the child communicate more and work on their existing problems. Another technique is to help push the child to work on their strengths to improve their communication skills.\n\n\nPervasive developmental disorders have no known cause yet, but researchers are interested in finding a connection between the disorders and problems in the nervous system. Studies are being done on the brain and spinal cord in children with PDDs to try to find a link.\n\nChildren with pervasive developmental disorders may exhibit the following symptoms:\n\nA specific treatment plan is usually laid out for the child because of the wide range of behaviors and abilities in each child. Treatment often involves promoting better communication and socializing, and reducing behaviors that can be disruptive. Children with pervasive developmental disorders may be placed in special education classes, receive behavior modification training, speech, physical or occupational therapy, or medication.\n\n\nWith ADHD being one of the most common disorders diagnosed in childhood, the causes are often studied, yet still inconclusive. Many researchers say ADHD is caused by genetic factors, yet other studies are being done to expand on the cause. One research study showed that children who carry a certain gene associated with ADHD had a thinner layer of tissue in the areas of the brain associated with attention. As the children grew older, the brain tissue thickened and their ADHD symptoms improved. Environmental factors, such as the mother smoking or drinking during pregnancy is connected to children with ADHD. Children exposed to lead at a young age will also have an increased chance of developing ADHD. Brain injuries could cause ADHD, yet only a small number of children diagnosed fit into this category. Researchers have looked into sugar intake as the cause of ADHD, but have found little to support that theory.\n\nChildren with attention deficit and disruptive behavior disorders may show the following symptoms:\n\nMedication is often used to treat children with attention-deficit and disruptive behavior disorders. Individualized programs are available for children with these disorders in order to help them function in and complete school. It is the common belief that many of these disorders will disappear as the children get older, but recent research shows that it can carry on into adulthood.\n\n\nThere are a number of factors that could potentially contribute to the development of feeding and eating disorders of infancy or early childhood. These factors include:\n\nPhysical and emotional changes are often the most indicative symptoms of feeding and eating disorders of infancy or early childhood. The child's growth and development may be delayed due to the lack of necessary nutrients. The child will usually weigh much less than other children. Withdrawal and irritability are often associated with children that are malnourished.\n\nSince feeding and eating disorders in children can cause dangerous risks to the child, it is important to seek treatment as soon as possible. Cognitive behavioral therapy can be incredibly beneficial to children with feeding or eating disorders. Family therapy is usually encouraged in order to keep all members involved in nourishing the child.\n\n\nNo definitive cause of tic disorders has been declared, but for the most part, the cause lies within biological, chemical, or environmental factors. Studies have shown that abnormal neurotransmitters, such as dopamine and serotonin, which are active in chemical messages in the brain, can serve as a cause of tic disorders. Researchers have also found abnormal changes in certain parts of the brain that cause strain on the blood flow within the brain, which is likely a contributor of tic disorders. 75% of tic disorders have a genetic component. It appears that tic disorders can be caused or worsened by recreational or prescription drug use. Tics can form simply if a person repeats sounds or words they hear over the course of a normal day.\n\nChildren with a tic disorder may exhibit the following symptoms:\n\nAs part of the treatment, family members and friends are advised not to call attention to the tics when the child is performing them. If they do, the child may develop more tics more frequently. Behavioral therapy and medication are often the choices of treatment for tic disorders in children.\n\n\nEncopresis: The most common cause of encopresis is constipation. When a child becomes constipated, feces build up in and stretch the rectum. This stretching causes the nerve endings to become dull. The child may not feel when they need to eliminate the feces or if the waste is coming out. Inside the rectum, the feces could become too large or solid to eliminate without feeling pain. While the mass of feces is stuck in the child's rectum, liquid feces could leak from around the mass and out of the child's body. The main causes of constipation are diet, lack of sufficient amounts of water, stress, not enough exercise, and inconsistent bathroom routines.\n\nEnuresis: The cause of enuresis is thought to be unclear and usually is attributed to many factors.\n\n\nThe majority of children with enuresis show no other symptoms besides wetting the bed at night. If other symptoms are present, such as blood stains in their underwear or unusual pain, the child is likely to have a more serious medical problem. Children with encopresis are likely to exhibit symptoms such as; loss of appetite, loose or watery stools, abdominal pain, scratching or itching of anal area because of irritation, withdrawal from friends, or secretive attitude associated with bowel movements.\n\nChildren usually \"grow out\" of their elimination disorders by the time they reach their teens. If treatment is necessary, the most effective choice for enuresis is behavior modification, which involves a special pad that the child sleeps on at night. If the pad gets wet, an alarm goes off and the child is directed to go to the bathroom. Stool softeners or laxatives are the choice of treatment for encopresis.\n\n\nThere are multiple factors that contribute to the cause of other disorders of infancy, childhood, or adolescence. The majority of the factors are going to be physical or environmental. Some of the disorders could be caused by parental influence, such as their inability to properly take care of their child. Most of the other disorders diagnosed in infancy, childhood, or adolescence involve anxiety. If the child is continually put in anxiety producing situations, they could show symptoms of these disorders. Usually, the symptoms will be mild and the child will not get help, which may cause the symptoms to become worse.\n\nSeparation anxiety disorder\n\nSelective mutism\n\nReactive attachment disorder of infancy or early childhood\n\nStereotypic movement disorder\n\nCognitive behavioral therapy is often used to treat separation anxiety disorder. Family therapy may also be helpful to get to the core of the issue. Systemic desensitization techniques are usually used to help the child get used to being comfortable away from home.\nIt is important not to \"enable\" the child with selective mutism by allowing them to remain silent in the social settings that they are uncomfortable in. Both parents and teachers need to be involved in the treatment of selective mutism. The most important factor to remember is that the child does not have a speech disorder; it is an anxiety disorder.\n\nTreatment almost always involves the child and their parents or caregivers parents may need to take parenting skills classes and attend family therapy with the child. Individual therapy with the child and therapist is effective. Another technique is keeping close physical contact between the child and their parents.\nBehavioral techniques and psychotherapy are the most effective treatment for children with this disorder. It is important to change the child's environment so that they are unable to harm themselves. Medication is also effective.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIt is not uncommon for children with mental health disorders to be faced with stigma. Stigma against those with mental health disorders can be seen through stereotyping, prejudice, and discrimination. This stigma can come from the public (those without the disorder) and by oneself (those with the disorder). Both public and self-stigma can diminish the self-esteem of those with mental health disorders; especially children.\n\nTypically, children with mental health disorders are first exposed to stigma within their family unit before later being exposed to it in the school setting and the public. While some may view stigma as a minor problem when looking at the other obstacles children with mental illness may face, others view it as a major problem because of the negative impact it can have on a child's treatment and self perception.\n\nStigma within the family can cause a delay in the diagnosis of mental health disorders, delaying treatment. It can also cause children to be hesitant in seeking treatment, even when they are experiencing clear mental health symptoms. This is especially true for boys who are more likely than girls to avoid seeking out treatment because of the fear of experiencing stigma.\n\nThere are people such as Thomas Szasz and Peter Breggin who say child psychiatry should be made illegal because behaviours are not diseases. They believe psychiatric drugging is a form of child abuse.\n"}
{"id": "11157271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11157271", "title": "Mercer Quality of Living Survey", "text": "Mercer Quality of Living Survey\n\nThe Mercer Quality of Living Survey ranks 231 cities from Vienna to Baghdad on quality of life. Countries with cities commonly ranked in the top 50 include Austria, Switzerland, New Zealand, Germany, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Australia, Sweden and the United States. Vienna has been ranked first for eight consecutive years.\n\nThe quality of living survey is conducted to help governments and major companies place employees on international assignments. The survey also identifies those cities with the highest personal safety ranking based upon internal stability, crime, effectiveness of law enforcement and relationships with other countries. In this case, Luxembourg is top, followed by Bern, Helsinki and Zürich, all equally placed at number 2.\n\nThe 231 cities are evaluated on 39 factors including political, economic, environmental, personal safety, health, education, transportation and other public service factors. In 2010, cities were compared to New York City which was given a base score of 100. \n\nEurope\nOceania\nNorth America\nAsia\nSouth America\nAfrica\n\n"}
{"id": "13305310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13305310", "title": "Mindset Network", "text": "Mindset Network\n\nMindset Network is a non-profit organisation formed in 2002 to educate and improve health in South Africa. It develops, sources, distributes and uses digital content. Its multimedia content is distributed via broadcast television, IP based satellite datacast, the web, distributable media (hard drives, DVDs and CDs) and mobile networks.\n\nMindset has 3 programmes. Learn and Cabanga are for secondary and primary schools respectively, while Health is for the South African health sector. Mindset is developing a Livelihoods channel for developing the skills of out-of-school youth.\n\nMindset Learn, the original programme, is for Grades 10 to 12 at South African high schools. It covers Mathematics, Physical Science, English and Information Technology.\n\nMindset Cabanga, with support from USAID, is a programme for Grades 4 and 5 covering Mathematics, Natural Science and Technology.\n\nMindset Health is about treating HIV/AIDS. The programme reaches patients in clinic and hospital waiting rooms, and health care providers.\n\n"}
{"id": "52648714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52648714", "title": "Multiple sex partners", "text": "Multiple sex partners\n\nMultiple sex partners (MSP) is the measure and incidence of engaging in sexual activities with two or more people within a specific time period. Sexual activity with MSP can happen simultaneously or serially. MSP includes sexual activity between people of a different gender or the same gender. MSP can also mean that one person may have a long-term relationship or relationships, and when the second relationship begins, the person can be said to have multiple sex partners. Another term, \"polyamoruous\", is a behavior and not a measure describing multiple romantically sexually or romantically committed relationships at the same time.\n\nYoung people having MSP in the last year is an indicator used by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to evaluate risky sexual behavior in adolescents and monitoring changes in the worldwide HIV/AIDS infection rates and deaths.\n\nEpidemiologists and clinicians who quantify risks associated with MSP do so to identify those who have had sexual intercourse with more than one partner in the past 12 months. For the purposes of the World Health Organization (WHO)'s effort to eliminate HIV infection, quantifying measures progress in reducing the percentage of those with AIDS. The World Health Organization (WHO) has described their rationale by assuming that the spread of HIV in most locales depends upon the number of MSP. Those who have MSP possess a higher risk of HIV transmission than individuals that do not have multiple sex partners.\n\nWHO uses indicators, such as MSP, age, mortality, morbidity, geographical location and signs and symptoms of disease. This is done so that change can be measured and so that the effect of indicators can be assessed.\n\nFollowing the initial quantification of the number of MSP, the respondent is again surveyed three and then five years later. In addition to the survey, respondents' sexual histories are obtained. Analysis assists those conducting the study to verify and help define the term MSP.\n\nFor the indicator MSP, WHO has defined a summary of what it measures, rationale for the indicator, numerator, denominator and calculation, recommended measurement tools, measurement, frequency, and the strengths and weaknesses of the indicator.\n\nWHO's definition of MSP has some strengths and weaknesses The quantification is an indicator and a picture of the levels of higher-risk sex in a locale. If those surveyed changed their activity to one sexual partner, the change will be quantified by changes in the indicator. This disadvantage is that though a respondent may reduce the number of MSP in a 12 month period, the indicator will not reflect this change in sexual activity. Even so, decreasing the number of MSP may not indicate a change. Potentially this definition and quantification may have a significant impact on the pandemic of HIV and used as a measure of program success. WHO recommends that additional indicators that quantify MSP more precisely to capture the reduction in multiple sexual partners in general. According to the CDC’s Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System, having multiple sex partners has been quantified to mean that those greater than or equal to age 25 had four or more sexual partners in one year.\n\nEpidemiologists in Tanzania used the indicator MSP in their study of AIDS incidence among 15-19-year-olds by documenting the respondent as being sexually active and having MSP in the last 12 months.\n\nA complete medical history includes an assessment of the number sexual partners with which a person has had within a certain time period.\n\nA social history (abbreviated \"SocHx\") that part of a medical exam addressing familial, occupational, and recreational aspects of the patient's personal life that have the potential to be clinically important. MSP is only the description of the behavior described in clinical terms. Promiscuity can mean that a moral judgement is made because some parts of societies promote sexual activity to occur only within exclusive, single-partner, committed relationships. is often the way researchers define a society's promiscuity levels at any given time. MSP increases the risk of many diseases and other conditions.\n\nThe CDC in the past has quantified MSP for adolescents with the following descriptions:\n\nSome clinicians define MSP by also taking into account concurrent sexual relationships.\n\nThe likelihood of developing substance abuse or dependence increases linearly with the number of sex partners, an effect more pronounced for women. People who have a higher number of sex partners do not have higher rates of anxiety or depression.\n\nMSP increases the risk of developing bacterial vaginosis. MSP can result in pregnant women with a greater risk of contracting HIV. HIV is strongly associated with having MSP. Having multiple sex partners is associated with higher incidences of STIs. \n\nPrevention of disease strategies include intensive counseling of those who have met the definition of multiple sex partners.\n\nIn Jamaica one of the primary contributing associations to the AIDS/HIV epidemic is the risky behavior of having multiple sex partners. A 2004 Behavioral Surveillance Survey demonstrated that 89 percent of males and 78 percent of females aged 15 to 24 had sex with a nonmarital or noncohabitating partner in the preceding 12 months. Fifty-six percent of males and 16 percent of females had multiple sex partners in the preceding 12 months.\n\nIn Sub-sahara Africa, travel and wealth is a risk factor in engaging in sexual activities with multiple sex partners.\n"}
{"id": "29718054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29718054", "title": "Nutritional epidemiology", "text": "Nutritional epidemiology\n\nNutritional epidemiology is a relatively new field of medical research that studies the relationship between nutrition and health. Diet and physical activity are difficult to measure accurately, which may partly explain why nutrition has received less attention than other risk factors for disease in epidemiology.\n"}
{"id": "59196592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59196592", "title": "Occupational health and safety in the casino industry", "text": "Occupational health and safety in the casino industry\n\nIn 1970, the the United States Congress empowered the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) to oversee whether employers were providing a safe and healthy workplace environment. OSHA is empowered to educate employers and workers, set workplace standards, and enforce violations. OSHA requires casinos to have a written safety plan specific to their location which commonly addresses topics that put workers at risk such as ergonomics, blood born pathogens, personal protective equipment, food service, housekeeping, and slips/trips/falls. Taken from regulations for sporting events, there are additional requirements for casino employees working in entertainment to help workers avoid hazards, injuries, and illness caused by theatrical scenery/rigging/props, wardrobe/hair/makeup, and audio/camera/projection/video/lighting. As of January 1, 2018, workers in Nevada have a 10 hour training course on these subject they must complete within 15 days of being hired. They must renew this certification every 5 years. These rules are in place to prevent workplace hazards, injuries, and deaths which have occurred during performances.\n\nThe U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) research agency the National Institute of Occupational Safety & Health (NIOSH) conducts free workplace Health Hazard Evaluation (HHE) under 29 U.S.C. 669(a)(6) to identify workplace health hazards and make recommends to reduce hazards. NIOSH has evaluated casinos in the United States regarding employee exposure to second hand smoke, noise, and metal coin dust.\n\nIn the United States, there are approximately 360,000 casino employees with the largest proportion (over 170,000) working in Nevada.\n\nFor workers in the United States, the most common injury is slip and falls (33%) followed by overexertion from lifting, carrying, pushing or pulling objects (23.4%).\n\nSecond hand smoke contains over 7,000 chemicals, 700 of which are known to cause cancer. It is the number one cause of preventable death in the United States causing 41,000 deaths among adults each year. The Surgeon General of the United States determined in 2006 that exposure to second hand smoke is not safe at any level as smoke cannot be filtered by ventilation systems and separate \"no smoking\" areas do not keep smoke out. More typically, the heating and cooling systems distribute smoke throughout the building, rather than removing it. Employees working in casinos have historically had higher levels of exposure to nicotine than other employees in the United States who reported exposure to second hand smoke. Second hand smoke among casino workers is estimated to cost $112 per casino worker, per year in direct medical costs. In 1995, when NIOSH evaluated non-smoking casino workers who worked in casinos that allowed smoking, NIOSH found these workers were exposed to elevated levels of nicotine in the air. The American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH) publishes Threshold Limit Values (TLVs) for chemical and physical agents as well as Biological Exposure Indices (BEIs) each year that establishes a maximum exposure recommendation based on our current scientific knowledge. As of 2018, the ACGIH recommends employees not be exposed to an 8 hour time-weighted average (TWA) of more than 0.5 μg/m3 to prevent damage to the gastrointestinal tract, heart, brain or spinal cord. In studying these non-smoking casino workers, NIOSH found they were exposed to nicotine levels in the air of 6-12 μg/m3. The investigators also took urine samples of the workers to estimate the internal dose the workers were absorbing and found they had blood cotinine (a metabolite of nicotine) levels of 1.85 ng/ml after their shift. NIOSH monitored employees working in both \"smoking\" and \"non-smoking\" sections of the casino and found elevated levels of exposure in both, as measured in the air (externally) and in the worker's blood (internally). While all areas measured were above the recommended exposure limit, the highest concentrations were found at the poker tables. The national average at the time for non-smokers exposed in their work or home was 0.93 ng/ml. As a result of this study, NIOSH recommended that employees not be involuntarily exposed to smoke in the workplace. However, NIOSH is only a research agency and their recommendations do not have the force of law or ability to force employers to comply. Studies in casinos before and after smoking bans were enacted showed a decrease of 85-95% in cancer causing agents. Based on these studies, NIOSH expanded it's recommendation to make casinos in the United States 100% smoke free in 2009.\n\nEfficiently dealing or running table games often require workers to perform the same motion over and over for many hours. The repeated lifting and reaching needed to successfully run table games may lead to musculoskeletal injury (MSI). Considering workplace ergonomics can not only keep the employees safe, but can also keep the patrons comfortable, which will keep them at the tables longer. To prevent slip and falls, casino employers should establish well marked walking routes with changes in height marked by a visual signal. Employees should also be allowed to wear shoes with proper traction. Musculoskeletal injuries in casino workers are most common in the upper extremity, back, and legs. A table with a softer edge for the dealer to lean against will decrease nerve compression in the upper extremity. Carpal tunnel, a disorder caused by compressing the median nerve as it passes through the wrist into the hand, has been found more frequently in table game dealers. The American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists provides a threshold limit value (TLV) for the upper extremity is is 0.78 and the action level is 0.56.\n\nThose who work the night shift are known to be at increased risk of insomnia, general morbidity, and all cause mortality. Studies of casino shift workers have found increased emotional and behavioral problems in their children as well as six time higher rate of divorce in men with children who have been married less than 5 years. Women with children were also three times more likely to get divorced while performing shift work at casinos. However, there was no increased rate of divorce in couples without children who performed shift work at casinos. Employers should try to minimize this risk by keeping each worker on a consistent shift, rather than rotating them between days and nights. If shift rotation must occur, it is better to rotate employees forward from day into evening shifts.\n\nAccording to the United States Bureau of Labor and Statistics, slip, trips, and falls were the leading cause of days away from work (DAFW) in 2017 causing 20,000 workers to miss one or more days. While only 1 in 6 slips and falls will result in missed days of work, those who do miss work are often absent for a lengthy period (11 days on average).\n\nIn casinos, these most commonly occur in preparation or delivery of foods, beverages, or oils since liquid or steam at only 155° Fahrenheit can burn or scald the skin. These burns can often be avoided with special precautions taken when cleaning deep fryers or pressure cookers. If possible full containers of liquids should not be carried as they can spill, especially on slippery or cluttered floors.\n\nEmotions can run high during gambling and this combined with alcohol which is often provided for free while playing can lead patrons to become aggressive and agitated toward the staff or other players. Casinos also frequently have large amounts of money present increasing the possibility of a robbery that can put an employee in a dangerous situation. Since there may be blood after a fight, employees should be trained how to take appropriate measures to protect against blood born pathogens.\n\nCasino workers have had panic attacks at work when the casino is understaffed.\n\nCasino employees are known to be at higher risk for gambling problems than the average person. Employers should offer education as a preventative strategy as well as treatment for employees who become addicted. Casino managers can protect their employees and patrons by tracking and excluding gambling addicts as well as limiting the amount one can lose in any 24 hour period.\n\nCasino employees are known to be at higher risk for alcohol problems than the average person. Employers should offer education as a preventative strategy as well as treatment for employees who become addicted to alcohol.\n\nCasino employees are known to be at higher risk for depression than the average person. Employers should offer education as a preventative strategy as well as treatment for employees who develop depression.\n\nCasinos can protect their employees from high levels of ambient noise by locating their performing entertainment and slot machines in a separate physical location. NIOSH has conducted one noise evaluation of a casino in 2003, but did not find any evidence that noise in that casino was loud enough to put employees at risk of hearing loss. As a preventative measure going forward, NIOSH recommended that noise levels be reevaluate whenever a new piece of equipment is installed or whenever employees express concerns about the noise level. NIOSH generally recommends that such noise assessments be conducted on the busiest nights of the week or whenever the noise is likely to be loudest as that is the time of greatest risk to workers and patrons. The ACGIH 8 hour Threshold Limit Value (TLV) for sound is 85 A-weighted decibel (dBA). Exposure at or below this level of sound is expected to protect most workers from noise induced hearing loss over a 40 year career. Noise induced hearing loss typically begins in the higher frequencies of 4 or 6 kHz and the progresses to the 0.5, 1, 2, and 3 kHz which are the frequencies of most conversations. ACGIH's exposure limits are recommendations based on the most current science, though OSHA's standard still allows employers to expose workers to a maximum permissible exposure level (PEL) of 90 dBA for 8 hours each day under 29 CFR 1910.95. OSHA also a 5 dBA exchange allowing this to increase to 100 dBA for 4 hours of work or decrease to 85 dBA when working a 16 hour shift. Casino workers were generally found to be exposed to an 8-hr TWAs noise level of 76.4-81.8 dBA. Another key takeaway of the noise evaluation of the casino was that the highest noise detected was in the children's arcade with levels reaching 78 – 84 dBA.\n\nThe primary risk factor for casino workers is thought to be due to second hand smoke which can increase the risk of both lung cancer and breast cancer (42% higher) above the general population's risk. In addition to second hand smoke, an increased frequency of breast cancer of 35% has also been found in women who work night shifts. Female working night shift in casinos can lower their risks of breast cancer by limiting alcohol intake, staying physically active, and maintaining a healthy weight.\n\nIn 2000, NIOSH was asked to evaluate a casino for metal dust after employees reported eye, nose, and airway irritation that they thought might be related to the process used to count metal coins. NIOSH evaluated the air and employees for nickel, copper, and zinc because these metals make up the vast majority of modern US coins. All levels were below the NIOSH recommended exposure limit (REL), specifically nickel was 7 μg/m3 (REL 15 μg/m3), copper was 24 μg/m3 (REL 1,000 μg/m3), and zinc was below the limit of detection (REL 5,000 μg/m3).\n\nMusculoskeletal injury (MSI) is a common way dealers can be injured performing their routine duties. Ergonomics tries to prevent these injuries by \"fitting the job to the worker.\" This involves educating workers about how best to safely perform their job and prevent injury as much as it does providing them with any special or protective equipment. The human body is less vulnerable to injury when in a neutral posture. Beware that your risks of overuse injury increase when there are fewer players at the table as the variation in your body motions decrease. Stretching frequently or shifting your position during breaks in the game will decrease static posture. It is worth noting that dealing different card games poses different risks: for example black jack dealers deal more cards per shift than baccarat dealers. Therefore, a safety determination for one game does not assure a similar safety profile in other similar games. Rotation of dealers between different tables allows workers to engage different muscle groups. Common postures that put dealers at risk are listed below along with how best to minimize the risk of harm:\n\nMinimize bending your wrist by flicking the cards forward using your index and middle fingers. Keep your wrists straight (do not flex or bend them). Turn to face your players or use your peripheral vision, rather than turning your head which can strain your neck.\n\nThe cards and shoe should be at or just below elbow height and adjusted so that you can keep your elbows close to your body and do not have to move your elbows out to the side to deal or shuffle. Position the shoe so that you can use it comfortably with players in your line of sight without twisting your back, wrists, or hands. Alternatively, a shoe below the table allows the dealer to rest their hands on a flat surface. Keeping your joints in as straight a line as possible will decrease overuse injuries.\nYour waist should be even with the height of the table. An adjustable height step box for dealers is more appropriate than an adjustable height table, which could put patrons at risk of an awkward posture. Alternatively, patrons could be provided with chairs that adjust in height. If possible, use a step/footrest under the table to allow you to lean forward onto the elevated leg as you reach forward. A step/footrest also allows you to change your posture regularly to avoid becoming static. If cards are beyond your reach, ask players to slide them toward you. Standing tends to decrease static posture and relieve joint pain throughout the body. However, standing also increases pressure on your feet. Therefore, it is a good idea for employers to allow employees to wear supportive footwear.\n\nAdjust the chair such that it supports your lower back and your feet are supported with your knees flexed to 90 degrees. Use a chair that swivels to turn and face the player with whom you are interacting.\n\nMake sure commonly used items are within comfortable reach. When handing out or retrieving bets move along the length of the table so that you don't have to twist or reach. Using your arm to start the wheel spinning and use a \"snap\" technique to spin the ball in the opposite direction, rather than your wrist.\n\nIf work involves lifting or moving objects, then employees should be trained in safe manual handling procedures. Be careful to avoid awkward postures when loading or unloading luggage by having your feet facing the luggage and firmly planted on the ground. It is important to shorten the distance between you and the luggage by pulling it toward you or moving toward it because the further the weight is from your body, the more strain you put on your back. Although you may not feel pain while performing the movement, you can still put your joints at risk by lifting luggage awkwardly, especially if it is heavy. Use a luggage cart whenever the luggage does not have wheels or when moving more than 2 bags. When loading a luggage cart, attempt to store larger bags upright and on the bottom and medium bags at waist height and on top. As often as possible, avoid loading any bags higher than your shoulders as our ability to lift safely decreases substantially at this height. Loading the cart in this manner will also allow you to push, rather than pull the cart and will keep your field of vision clear. Pushing will protect your back and upper extremity from injury. Remember to use both hands touching the cart slightly below elbow level and generate power to push from your legs. If your luggage cart is not functioning properly due to misaligned or malfunctioning wheels, request it be serviced because a malfunctioning cart can lead to awkward forces being applied to your body.\n\nIt is important to make sure that you can see where you are going. Push your service cart with both hands just below shoulder level, rather than pulling it behind you. If your cart is not functioning properly due to misaligned or malfunctioning wheels, request it be serviced because a malfunctioning cart can lead to awkward forces being applied to your body. Use both arms to vary and lessen the load on either arm when doing tasks such as scrubbing, folding, vacuuming, and making beds. Employers should allow employees to wear comfortable shoes to reduce strain on their back and knees. If your work requires you to kneel, cushion your knees with a mat, towel, or knee pads. Maintain a straight back when making a bed by dropping to one knee to tuck in sheets, rather than bending your back. When changing duvets or pillows, turn the covers inside out to change them, rather than stuffing them back inside. This will reduce the force applied to your arm. Use a tool with a long handle or a step stool to clean hard or awkward to reach places like bathtubs and mirrors that extend above your head. When cleaning the shower or tub, stand inside to make it easier to reach. To avoid falling, never stand on the toilet or edge of the tub as it can be slippery. Housekeepers are often expected to clean biological material (blood, vomit, excrement) and if so, workers should receive proper training and protective equipment. Housekeepers need to be alert to possible abuse by guests and casino managers need to have a plan in place to keep workers safe from guests.\n\nIf standing for a prolonged period of time use anti-fatigue matting under your feet to provide cushioning or stand with one foot elevated to shift your weight periodically from side to side (see illustration above for card dealers). Employers should allow employees to wear comfortable shoes that provide them with enough cushioning. If you are too short to comfortably see and reach over the desk, ask for a platform to stand on or an adjustable chair with a footrest that your legs can reach. Make sure that frequently used items are within easy reach and in your line of sight that avoids twisting you back or rotating your neck. The telephone and computer require continuous attention to this recommendation. A goal is to have your computer monitor at or just below eye level and your keyboard just below or even with elbow height. Do not hold the phone by pinching the telephone between your ear and shoulder, but rather hold it or ask for a lightweight headset to prevent developing neck pain.\n\nMove toward the customer or around the table if possible to refill drinks or remove plates so as to avoid straining to reach. You are at higher risk when the pitcher or plate are full as they are heavier and your arm is outstretched moving the weight away from your body. Employers should allow employees to wear comfortable shoes to reduce strain on their back and knees which can lead to injury over time. Trays should be carried with the arm in a neutral position, which is typically with your elbow bent to 90° and the palm of your hand facing upward as close to the body as possible. To bring the weight of the tray closer to your body carry the weight on both your forearm and hand, rather than just your hand alone. Avoid awkward positions that can strain your body such as carrying the tray on your finger tips or above your shoulder. To avoid awkward positions or straining muscles unnecessarily, place heavy items close to the center of the tray or closer to your body such that they are over your forearm.\n"}
{"id": "47655600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47655600", "title": "Occupational hearing loss", "text": "Occupational hearing loss\n\nOccupational hearing loss (OHL) is hearing loss that occurs as a result of occupational hazards, such as excessive noise and ototoxic chemicals. OHL is a prevalent occupational concern in various work environments worldwide. In the United States, organizations such as the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) and the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) work with employers and workers to reduce or eliminate occupational hearing hazards through a hierarchy of hazard controls. OHL is one of the most common work-related illness in the United States. Occupational hearing hazards include industrial noise, and exposure to various ototoxic chemicals. Combined exposure to both industrial noise and ototoxic chemicals may cause more damage than either one would in isolation. Many chemicals have not been tested for ototoxicity, so unknown threats may exist.\n\nA 2016 study by NIOSH found that the mining sector had the highest prevalence of hearing impairment at 17%, followed by the construction sector (16%) and the manufacturing sector (14%). The public safety sector had the lowest rate of hearing impairment, at 7%.\n\nPersonal protective equipment, administrative controls, and engineering controls can all work to reduce exposure to noise and chemicals, either by providing the worker with protection such as earplugs, or by reducing the noise or chemicals at the source or limiting the time or level of exposure.\n\nOHL is defined as any type of hearing loss, i.e. sensorineural, conductive, or mixed hearing loss, that occurs due to hazardous characteristics of a work environment. The hearing loss can range in severity from mild to profound. Hazards of a work environment that can result in OHL include excessive noise, ototoxic chemicals, or physical trauma. OHL caused by excessive exposure to noise is also known as noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL). Noise exposure combined with ototoxic chemical exposure can results in more damage to hearing. OHL caused by physical trauma may include foreign bodies in the ear, vibration, barotrauma, or head injury. OHL, as well as hearing loss in general, can cause negative secondary social and emotional effects that can impact quality of life.\n\nWithin the United States of America, approximately 10 million people have NIHL. Over twice that number (~22 million) are occupationally exposed to dangerous noise levels. Hearing loss accounted for a sizable percentage of occupational illness in 2007, at 14% of cases. United States government agencies such as OSHA, NIOSH and MSHA are working to understand the causes of OHL and how it can be prevented while providing regulations and guidelines to help protect the hearing of workers in all occupations.\n\nExposure to noise can cause vibrations able to cause permanent damage to the ear. Both the volume of the noise and the duration of exposure can influence the likelihood of damage. Sound is measured in units called decibels, which is a logarithmic scale of sound levels that corresponds to the level of loudness that an individual's ear would perceive. Because it is a logarithmic scale, even small incremental increases in decibels correlate to large increases in loudness, and an increase in the risk of hearing loss.\n\nSounds above 80 dB have the potential to cause permanent hearing loss. The intensity of sound is considered too great and hazardous if someone must yell in order to be heard. Ringing in the ears upon leaving work is also indicative of noise that is at a dangerous level. Farming, machinery work, and construction are some of the many occupations that put workers at risk of hearing loss.\n\nNIOSH establishes recommended exposure limits (RELs) to protect workers against the health effects of exposure to hazardous substances and agents encountered in the workplace. These NIOSH limits are based on the best available science and practices. NIOSH established the REL for occupational noise exposures to be 85 decibels, A-weighted (dB[A]) as an 8-hour time-weighted average. Occupational noise exposure at or above this level are considered hazardous. The REL is based on exposures at work 5 days per week and assumes that the individual spends the other 16 hours in the day, as well as weekends, in quieter conditions. NIOSH also specifies a maximum allowable daily noise dose, expressed in percentages. For example, a person continuously exposed to 85 dB(A) over an 8-hour work shift will reach 100% of their daily noise dose. This dose limit uses a 3-dB time-intensity tradeoff commonly referred to as the exchange rate or equal-energy rule: for every 3-dB increase in noise level, the allowable exposure time is reduced by half. For example, if the exposure level increases to 88 dB(A), workers should only be exposed for four hours. Alternatively, for every 3-dB decrease in noise level, the allowable exposure time is doubled, as shown in the table below.\n\nOSHA's current permissible exposure limit (PEL) for workers is an average of 90 dB over an 8-hour work day. Unlike NIOSH, OSHA uses a 5-dB exchange rate, where an increase in 5-dB for a sound corresponds to the amount of time workers may be exposed to that particular source of sound being halved. For example, workers cannot be exposed to a sound level of 95 dB for more than 4 hours per day, or to sounds at 100 dB for more than 2 hours per day. Employers who expose workers to 85 dB or more for 8 hour shifts are required to provide hearing exams and protection, monitor noise levels, and provide training.\n\nSound level meters and dosimeters are two types of devices that are used to measure sound levels in the workplace. Dosimeters are typically worn by the employee to measure their own personal sound exposure. Other sound level meters can be used to double check dosimeter measurements, or used when dosimeters cannot be worn by the employees. They can also be used to evaluate engineering controls aimed at reducing noise levels.\n\nSome recent studies suggest that some smartphone applications may be able to measure noise as precisely as a Type 2 SLM. Although most smartphone sound measurement apps are not accurate enough to be used for legally required measurements, the NIOSH Sound Level Meter app met the requirements of IEC 61672/ANSI S1.4 Sound Level Meter Standards (Electroacoustics - Sound Level Meters - Part 3: Periodic Tests).\n\nChemically-induced hearing loss (CIHL) is a potential result of occupational exposures. Certain chemical compounds may have ototoxic effects. Exposure to organic solvents, heavy metals, and asphyxiants such as carbon monoxide can all cause hearing loss. These chemicals can be inhaled, ingested, or absorbed through the skin. Damage can occur to either the inner ear or the auditory nerve.Certain medications may also have the potential to cause hearing loss.\n\nBoth noise and chemical exposures are common in many industries, and can both contribute to hearing loss simultaneously. Damage may be more likely or more severe if both are present, in particular if noise is impulsive. Industries in which combinations of exposures may exist include construction, fiberglass, metal manufacturing, and many more.\n\nIt is estimated that over 22 million workers are exposed to dangerous noise levels, and 10 million are exposed to solvents that could potentially cause hearing loss every year, with an unknown number exposed to other ototoxic chemicals. A 2018 informational bulletin by the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) introduces the issue, provides examples of ototoxic chemicals, lists the industries and occupations at risk and provides prevention information.\n\nOHL is preventable, but currently the interventions to prevent NIHL are complex. A 2017 Cochrane review found that hearing loss prevention programs revealed that stricter legislation might reduce noise levels. Hearing protection devices, such as earmuffs and earplugs can reduce noise exposure to safe levels, but, instructions are needed on how to put plugs into the ears correctly to achieve potential attenuation. Giving workers information on their noise exposure levels by itself was not shown to decrease noise. Engineering solutions might lead to similar noise reduction as that provided by hearing protection. Better evaluation of the noise exposures resulting from engineering interventions is needed, as most of the available information is limited to observations in laboratory conditions. Overall, the effects of hearing loss prevention programs are unclear. Better use of hearing protection as part of a program but does not necessarily protect against hearing loss. The review concluded that in order to prevent NIHL in the workplace the quality of the implementation of prevention programs affects results, and that better quality of studies, especially in the field of engineering controls, and better implementation of legislation are needed. While the 2017 systematic review concluded there is a lack of conclusive evidence it highlighted that this should not be interpreted as evidence of lack of effectiveness. The implications is that further research could affect conclusions reached.\n\nThe hierarchy of controls provides a visual guide to the effectiveness of the various workplace controls set in place to eliminate or reduce exposure to occupational hazards, including noise or ototoxic chemicals. The hierarchy includes the following from most effective to least effective:\n\nEngineering controls is the next highest in the hierarchy of risk reduction methods when elimination and substitution of the hazard are not possible. These types of controls typically involve making changes in equipment or other changes to minimize the level of noise that reaches a worker's ear. They may also involve measures such as barriers between the worker and the source of the noise, mufflers, regular maintenance of the machinery, or substituting quieter equipment.\n\nThe OSHA Technical Manual (OTM) on noise provides technical information about workplace hazards and controls to OSHA’s Compliance Safety and Health Officers (CSHOs). The content of the OTM is based on currently available research publications, OSHA standards, and consensus standards. The OTM is available to the public for use by other health and safety professionals, employers, and anyone involved in developing or implementing an effective workplace safety and health program.\n\nExamples of noise control strategies adopted in the workplace can be seen among the winners of the Safe-in-Sound Excellence in Hearing Loss Prevention Awards.\n\nAdministrative control, behind engineering control, is the next best form of prevention of noise exposure. They can either reduce the exposure to noise, or reduce the decibel level of the noise itself. Limiting the amount of time a worker is allowed to be around an unsafe level of noise exposure, and creating procedures for operation of equipment that could produce harmful levels of noise are both examples of administrative controls.\n\nElimination or reduction of the source of noise or chemical exposure is ideal, but when that is not possible or adequate, wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) such as earplugs or earmuffs can help reduce the risk of hearing loss due to noise exposure. PPE should be a last resort and not be used in substitution for engineering or administrative controls. It is important that workers are properly trained on the use of PPE to ensure proper protection.\n\nIn addition to the hierarchy of controls, other programs have been created to promote the prevention of hearing loss in the workplace. For example, the Buy Quiet program was created to encourage the purchase of quieter tools and machinery in the workplace. Additionally, the Safe-n-Sound Award was created to recognize organizations that excel in preventing occupational hearing loss.\n\nOccupational hearing loss is a very present industrial issue that has been noticed since the Industrial Revolution. As industrial society continues to grow, this issue is becoming increasingly detrimental due to the exposure of chemicals and physical objects. Millions of employees have been affected by occupational hearing loss, especially in industry. Industrialized countries see most of these damages as they result in both economic and living problems.\n\nWithin the United States of America alone, 10 of the 28 million people that have experienced hearing loss related to noise exposure. Rarely do workers express concerns or complaints regarding Occupational hearing loss. In order to gather relevant information, workers who have experienced loud work environments are questioned regarding their hearing abilities during everyday activities. When analyzing OHP, it is necessary to consider family history, hobbies, recreational activities, and how they could play a role in a person’s hearing loss. In order to test hearing loss, audiometers are used to and are adjusted to American National Standards Institute (ANSI) regulations. The Occupation and Safety Health Association (OSHA) of the United States of America requires a program that conserves hearing when noise levels are greater than 85 dB. This program includes:\n1.”Monitoring to assess and record noise levels.”\n2. “Periodic audiometry.”\n3. “Noise Control”\n4. “Education and record keeping.”\n"}
{"id": "33713269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33713269", "title": "PhenX Toolkit", "text": "PhenX Toolkit\n\nPhenX (consensus measures for Phenotypes and eXposures) is a community-driven effort to provide standard measures for use in biomedical research. The goals are to help investigators identify opportunities for collaborative biomedical research and improve the consistency of data collection. The PhenX Toolkit is a web-based catalog of high-priority measures related to complex diseases, phenotypic traits and environmental exposures. These measures were selected by working groups of experts using a consensus process. Use of PhenX measures facilitates combining data from a variety of studies, and makes it easy for investigators to expand a study design beyond the primary research focus.\nThe Toolkit is funded by the National Institute of Health's National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI) with co-funding by the Office of Behavioral and Social Sciences Research (OBSSR) and the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA). Supplemental funding is provided by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) and the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities (NIMHD). The PhenX Toolkit is available to the scientific community at no cost.\n\nFor genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and other studies involving human subjects, the use of standard measures can facilitate cross-study analyses.\nSuch analyses compare independent findings to validate results or combine studies to increase sample size and statistical power. This increased power makes it possible to identify more subtle and complex associations such as gene-gene and gene-environment interactions.\n\nThe Toolkit has a broad scope and currently provides assessments for 24 research domains.\nIn addition, the Toolkit includes more focused add-on collections for specialists in 4 areas.\n\nThe PhenX Toolkit is a catalog of measures recommended by domain experts, with browse and search capabilities and bioinformatics support. PhenX measures and protocols are included in the Cancer Data Standards Repository (caDSR) Common Data Elements (CDE) Dictionary and the National Center for Biomedical Ontology (NCBO) BioPortal. PhenX protocols are available as REDCap Instrument Zip files, and work is underway to map PhenX variables to all studies in dbGaP. PhenX provides easy access to standard measures with the potential to increase the overall impact of individual studies via cross-study analyses. For each measure, the PhenX Toolkit provides a brief description, the protocol for measurement with supporting images and tables, the reasons for selecting the protocol, details about training and equipment, translations available and selected references. Users can browse research domains, measures, or collections, search using a “Smart Search” or a full text search, collect measures of interest in “My Toolkit”, and request custom data dictionaries and custom data collection worksheets.\n\nThe Toolkit can be particularly helpful when an investigator wants to expand a study to include measures that are outside his or her primary area of expertise. Whereas study specific measures are needed to address the primary research goal, common measures are needed to increase the overall impact of the study; both types of measures are important to overall study design.\n\nThe \"Link Your Study\" feature allows registered users to share their study with other registered users or find other studies using the same protocols and identify opportunities for cross-study analysis.\n\nIn addition to measures, PhenX also defines protocols. There may be multiple protocols defined for a measure. For example, for smoking cessation, there is an adult protocol (id: 030901) and adolescent protocol (id:030902).\n\nPhenX also provides a datatype (e.g., integer, string, date, enumerated, or encoded values) for each PhenX variable. For example, variable 'PX070501_Pregnancy_Outcome_1' for 'Outcome of Pregnancy?' is of type enumerated with value set of four possible values (Live birth,Still born,Miscarriage,Induced abortion).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53690", "title": "Physical Quality of Life Index", "text": "Physical Quality of Life Index\n\nThe Physical Quality of Life Index (PQLI) is an attempt to measure the quality of life or well-being of a country. The value is the average of three statistics: basic literacy rate, infant mortality, and life expectancy at age one, all equally weighted on a 0 to 100 scale.\n\nIt was developed for the Overseas Development Council in the mid-1970s by Morris David Morris, as one of a number of measures created due to dissatisfaction with the use of GNP as an indicator of development. PQLI might be regarded as an improvement but shares the general problems of measuring quality of life in a quantitative way. It has also been criticized because there is considerable overlap between infant mortality and life expectancy.\n\nThe UN Human Development Index is a more widely used means of measuring well-being.\n\nSteps to Calculate Physical Quality of Life:\n\n1) Find percentage of the population that is literate (literacy rate).\n\n2) Find the infant mortality rate. (out of 1000 births)\nINDEXED Infant Mortality Rate = (166 - infant mortality) × 0.625\n\n3) Find the Life Expectancy.\nINDEXED Life Expectancy = (Life expectancy - 42) × 2.7\n\n4) Physical Quality of Life =\n\n"}
{"id": "83896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83896", "title": "Priapism", "text": "Priapism\n\nPriapism is a condition in which a penis remains erect for hours in the absence of stimulation or after stimulation has ended. There are three types: ischemic (low-flow), nonischemic (high-flow), and recurrent ischemic (intermittent). Most cases are ischemic. Ischemic priapism is generally painful while nonischemic priapism is not. In ischemic priapism, most of the penis is hard; however, the glans penis is not. In nonischemic priapism, the entire penis is only somewhat hard. Very rarely, clitoral priapism occurs in women.\nSickle cell disease is the most common cause of ischemic priapism. Other causes include medications such as antipsychotics, SSRIs, and blood thinners, as well as drugs such as cocaine and cannabis. Ischemic priapism occurs when blood does not adequately drain from the penis. Nonischemic priapism is typically due to a connection forming between an artery and the corpus cavernosum or disruption of the parasympathetic nervous system resulting in increased arterial flow. Nonischemic priapism may occur following trauma to the penis or a spinal cord injury. Diagnosis may be supported by blood gas analysis of blood aspirated from the penis or ultrasound.\nTreatment depends on the type. Ischemic priapism is typically treated with a nerve block of the penis followed by aspiration of blood from the corpora cavernosa. If this is not sufficient, the corpus cavernosum may be irrigated with cold normal saline or injected with phenylephrine. Nonischemic priapism is often treated with cold packs and compression. Surgery may be done if usual measures are not effective. In ischemic priapism, the risk of permanent scarring of the penis begins to increase after four hours and definitely occurs after 48 hours. Priapism occurs in about 1 in 20,000 to 1 in 100,000 males per year.\n\nPriapism is classified into three groups: ischemic (low-flow), nonischemic (high-flow), and recurrent ischemic. The majority of cases (19 out of 20) are ischemic in nature.\n\nSome sources give a duration of four hours as a definition of priapism, but others give six: \"The duration of a normal erection before it is classifiable as priapism is still controversial. Ongoing penile erections for more than 6 hours can be classified as priapism.\"\n\nPriapism in females (continued, painful erection of the clitoris) is significantly rarer than priapism in men, and is known as clitoral priapism or clitorism. It is associated with persistent genital arousal disorder (PGAD). Only a few case reports of women experiencing clitoral priapism exist.\n\nBecause ischemic priapism causes the blood to remain in the penis for unusually long periods of time, the blood becomes deprived of oxygen and can cause damage to the penile tissue itself. Should the penile tissue become damaged, it can result in erectile dysfunction or disfigurement of the penis. In extreme cases, if the penis develops severe vascular disease, the priapism can result in penile gangrene.\n\nPriapism may be associated with haematological disorders, especially sickle-cell disease, sickle-cell trait, and other conditions such as leukemia, thalassemia, and Fabry's disease, and neurologic disorders such as spinal cord lesions and spinal cord trauma (priapism has been reported in people who have been hanged; see death erection).\n\nPriapism may also be associated with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, which leads to decreased NADPH levels. NADPH is a co-factor involved in the formation of nitric oxide, which may result in priapism.\n\nSickle cell disease often presents special treatment obstacles. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy has also been used with success in some patients. Priapism is also found to occur in extreme cases of rabies. Priapism also occurs due to encephalitic rabies.\n\nPriapism can also be caused by reactions to medications. The most common medications that cause priapism are intra-cavernous injections for treatment of erectile dysfunction (papaverine, alprostadil). Other groups reported are antihypertensives, antipsychotics (e.g., chlorpromazine, clozapine), antidepressants (most notably trazodone), anti-convulsant and mood stabilizer drugs such as sodium valproate, anticoagulants, cantharides (\"Spanish Fly\") and recreational drugs (alcohol, heroin and cocaine). Priapism is also known to occur from bites of the Brazilian wandering spider and the black widow spider.\n\nThe mechanisms are poorly understood but involve complex neurological and vascular factors.\n\nThe diagnosis is often based on the history of the condition and the physical exam.\n\nBlood gas testing the blood from the cavernosa of the penis can help in the diagnosis. If the low flow type of priapism is present the blood typically has a low pH while if the high flow type is present the pH is typically normal. Color doppler ultrasound may also help differentiate the two. Testing a person to make sure they do not have a hemoglobinopathy may also be reasonable.\n\nMedical evaluation is recommended for erections that last for longer than four hours. Pain can often be reduced with a dorsal penile nerve block or penile ring block. For those with nonischemic priapism cold packs and pressure to the area may be sufficient.\n\nFor those with ischemic priapism the initial treatment is typically aspiration of blood from the corpus cavernosum. This is done on either side. If this is not sufficiently effective then cold normal saline may be injected and removed.\n\nIf aspiration is not sufficient a small dose of phenylephrine may be injected into the corpus cavernosum. Side effects of phenylephrine may include high blood pressure, slow heart rate, and arrhythmia. If this medication is used, it is recommended that people be monitored for at least an hour after. For those with recurrent ischemic priapism diethylstilbestrol (DES) or terbutaline may be tried.\n\nDistal shunts, such as the Winter's, involve puncturing the glans (the distal part of the penis) into one of the cavernosa, where the old, stagnant blood is held. This causes the blood to leave the penis and return to the circulation. This procedure can be performed by a urologist at the bedside. Winter's shunts are often the first invasive technique used, especially in hematologically induced priapism, as it is relatively simple and repeatable.\n\nProximal shunts, such as the Quackel's, are more involved and entail operative dissection in the perineum to where the corpora meet the spongiosum, making an incision in both, and suturing both openings together. Shunts created between corpora cavernosa and saphenous vein called Grayhack shunt can be done though this technique is rarely used.\n\nAs the complication rates with prolonged priapism are high, early penile prosthesis implantation may be considered. As well as allowing early resumption of sexual activity, early implantation can avoid the formation of dense fibrosis and hence a shortened penis.\n\nIn sickle-cell anemia treatment is initially with intravenous fluids, pain medication, and oxygen therapy. The typical treatment of priapism may be carried out as well. Blood transfusions are not usually recommended as part of the initial treatment but if other treatments are not effective exchange transfusion may be done.\n\nPersistent semi-erections or intermittent states of prolonged erections have historically been sometimes called semi-priapism.\n\nThe name comes from the Greek god Priapus (), a fertility god often represented with a disproportionately large and permanent erection.\n\n"}
{"id": "35330387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35330387", "title": "Refugee children", "text": "Refugee children\n\nNearly half of all refugees are children, and almost one in three children living outside their country of birth is a refugee. These numbers encompass children whose refugee status has been formally confirmed, as well as children in refugee-like situations.\n\nIn addition to facing the direct threat of violence resulting from conflict, forcibly displaced children also face various health risks, including: disease outbreaks and long-term psychological trauma, inadequate access to water and sanitation, nutritious food, and regular vaccination schedules. Refugee children, particularly those without documentation and those who travel alone, are also vulnerable to abuse and exploitation. Although many communities around the world have welcomed them, forcibly displaced children and their families often face discrimination, poverty, and social marginalization in their home, transit, and destination countries. Language barriers and legal barriers in transit and destination countries often bar refugee children and their families from accessing education, healthcare, social protection, and other services. Many countries of destination also lack intercultural supports and policies for social integration. Such threats to safety and well-being are amplified for refugee children with disabilities.\n\nThe Convention on the Rights of the Child, the most widely ratified human rights treaty in history, includes four articles that are particularly relevant to children involved in or affected by forced displacement:\nStates Parties to the Convention are obliged to uphold the above articles, regardless of a child's migration status. As of November 2005, a total of 192 countries have become States Parties to the Convention. Somalia and the United States are the only two countries that have not ratified it.\n\nThe United Nations 1951 Convention on the Status of Refugees is a comprehensive and rigid legal code regarding the rights of refugees at an international level and it also defines under which conditions a person should be considered as a refugee and thus be given these rights. The Convention provides protection to forcibly displaced persons who have experienced persecution or torture in their home countries. For countries that have ratified it, the Convention often serves as the primary basis for refugee status determination, but some countries also utilize other refugee definitions, thus, have granted refugee status not based exclusively on persecution. For instance, the African Union has agreed on a definition at the 1969 Refugee Convention, that also accommodates people affected by external aggression, occupation, foreign domination, and events seriously disturbing public order. South Africa has granted refugee status to Mozambicans and Zimbabweans following the collapse of their home countries’ economies.\n\nOther international legal tools for the protection refugee children include two of the Protocols supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime which reference child migration:\n\nAdditionally the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families covers the rights of the children of migrant workers in both regular and irregular situations during the entire migration process.\n\nRefugee experiences can be categorized into three stages of migration: home country experiences (pre-migration), transit experiences (transmigration), and host country experiences (post-migration). However, the large majority of refugees do not travel into new host countries, but remain in the transmigration stage, living in refugee camps or urban centres waiting to be able to return home.\n\nThe pre-migration stage refers to home country experiences leading up to and including the decision to flee. Pre-migration experiences include the challenges and threats children face that drive them to seek refuge in another country. Refugee children migrate, either with their families or unaccompanied, due to fear of persecution on the premise of membership of a particular social group, or due to the threat of forced marriage, forced labor, or conscription into armed forces. Others may leave to escape famine or in order to ensure the safety and security of themselves and their families from the destruction of war or internal conflict.\nA 2016 report by UNICEF found that, by the end of 2015, five years of open conflict in the Syrian Arab Republic had forced 4.9 million Syrians out of the country, half of which were children. The same report found that, by the end of 2015, more than ten years of armed conflict in Afghanistan had forced 2.7 million Afghans beyond the country's borders; half of the refugees from Afghanistan were children. During times of war, in addition to being exposed to violence, many children are abducted and forced to become soldiers. According to an estimate, 12,000 refugee children have been recruited into armed groups within South Sudan. War itself often becomes a part of the child's identity, making reintegration difficult once he or she is removed from the unstable environment.\n\nExamples of children's pre-migration experiences: \n\nIn general, children may also cross borders for economic reasons, such as to escape poverty and social deprivation, or some children may do so to join other family members already settled in another State. But it is the involuntary nature of refugees' departure that distinguishes them from other migrant groups who have not undergone forced displacement. Refugees, and even more so their children, are neither psychologically nor pragmatically prepared for the rapid movement and transition resulting from events outside their control. Any direct or witnessed forms of violence and sexual abuse may characterize refugee children's pre-migration experiences.\n\nThe transmigration period is characterized by the physical relocation of refugees. This process includes the journey between home countries and host countries and often involves time spent in a refugee camp. Children may experience arrest, detention, sexual assault, and torture during their translocation to the host country. Children, particularly those who travel on their own or become separated from their families, are likely to face various forms of violence and exploitation throughout the transmigration period. The experience of traveling from one country to another is much more difficult for women and children, because they are more vulnerable to assaults and exploitation by people they encounter at the border and in refugee camps.\n\nSmuggling, in which a smuggler illegally moves a migrant into another country, is a pervasive issue for children travelling both with and without their families. While fleeing their country of origin, many unaccompanied children end up travelling with traffickers who may attempt to exploit them as workers. Including adults, sex trafficking is more prevalent in Europe and Central Asia, whereas in East Asia, South Asia, and the Pacific labour trafficking is more prevalent.\n\nMany unaccompanied children fleeing from conflict zones in Moldova, Romania, Ukraine, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, China, Afghanistan or Sri Lanka are forced into sexual exploitation. Especially vulnerable groups include girls belonging to single-parent households, unaccompanied children, children from child-headed households, orphans, girls who were street traders, and girls whose mothers were street traders. While refugee boys have been identified as the main victims of exploitation in the labor market, refugee girls aged between 13 and 18 have been the main targets of sexual exploitation. In particular, the number of young Nigerian women and girls brought into Italy for exploitation has been increasing: it was reported that 3,529 Nigerian women, among them underage girls, arrived by sea between January and June 2016. Once they reached Italy, these girls worked under conditions of slavery, for periods typically ranging from three to seven years.\n\nChildren may be detained in prisons, military facilities, immigration detention centers, welfare centers, or educational facilities. While detained, migrant children are deprived of a range of rights, such as the right to physical and mental health, privacy, education, and leisure. And many countries do not have a legal time limit for detention, leaving some children incarcerated for indeterminate time periods. Some children are even detained together with adults and subjected to a harsher, adult-based treatment and regimen.\n\nIn North Africa, children travelling without legal status are frequently subjected to extended periods of immigration detention. Children held in administrative detention in Palestine only receive a limited amount of education, and those held in interrogation centers receive no education at all. In two of the prisons visited by Defense for Children International Palestine, education was found to be limited to two hours a week. It has also been reported that child administrative detainees in Palestine do not receive sufficient food to meet their daily nutritional requirements.\n\nDocumented cases of child detention are available for more than 100 countries, ranging from the highest to the lowest income nations. Even so, a growing number of countries, including both Panama and Mexico, prohibit the detention of child migrants. And Yemen has adopted a community-driven approach, using small-group alternative care homes for child refugees and asylum-seekers, as a more age-appropriate way of detention. In the United States unaccompanied children are placed in single purpose non-secure “children’s shelters” for immigration violations, rather than in juvenile detention facilities. However, this change has not ended the practice of administrative detention entirely.\nAlthough there is commitment by the Council of Europe to work toward ending the detention of children for migration control purposes, asylum-seeking and migrant children and families often undergo detention experiences that conflict with international commitments.\n\nSome refugee camps operate at levels below acceptable standards of environmental health; overcrowding and a lack of wastewater networks and sanitation systems are common.\n\nHardships of a refugee camp may also contribute to symptoms following a refugee child's discharge from a camp. A small number of Cuban refugee children and adolescents, who were detained in a refugee camp, were assessed months after their release, and it was found that 57 percent of the youth exhibited moderate to severe posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms. Unaccompanied girls at refugee camps may also face harassment or assault from camp guards and fellow male refugees. In addition to having poor infrastructure and limited support services, there are a few refugee camps that can present danger to refugee children and families by housing members of armed forces. Also, at a few refugee camps, militia forces may try to recruit and abduct children.\n\nThe third stage, host country experiences, is the integration of refugees into the social, political, economic, and cultural framework of the host country society. The post-migration period involves adaptation to a new culture and re-defining one's identity and place in the new society. This stress can be exacerbated when the children arrive in the host country and are expected to adapt quickly to a new setting.\n\nIt is only a minority of refugees who travel into new host countries and who are allowed to start a new life there. Most refugees are living in refugee camps or urban centres waiting to be able to return home. For those who are starting a new life in a new country there are two options:\nAsylum seekers are people who have formally applied for asylum in another country and who are still waiting for a decision on their status. Once they have received a positive response from the host government, they will legally be considered as refugees. Refugees, like citizens of the host country, have the rights to education, health, and social services, whereas asylum seekers do not.\n\nFor instance, the majority of refugees and migrants who arrived in Europe in 2015 through mid-2016 were accommodated in overcrowded transit centers and informal settlements, where privacy and access to education and health services were often limited. In some accommodation centers in Germany and Sweden, where asylum seekers stayed until their claims were processed, separate living spaces for women, as well as sex-separated latrines and shower facilities, were unavailable.\n\nUnaccompanied children face particular difficulties throughout the asylum process. They are minors who are separated from their families once they reach the host country, or minors who decide to travel from their home countries to a foreign country without a parent or guardian. More children are traveling alone, with nearly 100,000 unaccompanied children in 2015 filing claims for asylum in 78 countries. Bhabha (2004) argues that it is more challenging for unaccompanied children than adults to gain asylum, as unaccompanied children are usually unable to find appropriate legal representation and stand up for themselves during the application process. In Australia, for instance, unaccompanied children, who usually do not have any kind of legal assistance, must prove beyond any reasonable doubt that they are in need of the country's protection. Many children do not have the necessary documents for legal entry into a host country, often avoiding officials due to fear of being caught and deported to their home countries. Without documented status, unaccompanied children often face challenges in acquiring education and healthcare in many countries. These factors make them particularly vulnerable to hunger, homelessness, and sexual and labor exploitation. Displaced youth, both male and female, are vulnerable to recruitment into armed groups. Unaccompanied children may also resort to dangerous jobs to meet their own survival needs. Some may also engage in criminal activity or drug and alcohol abuse. Girls, to a larger extent than boys, are vulnerable to sexual exploitation and abuse, both of which can have far-reaching effects on their physical and mental health.\n\nThird country resettlement refers to the transfer of refugees from the country they have fled to another country that is more suitable to their needs and that has agreed to grant them permanent settlement. Currently the number of places available for resettlement is less than the number needed for children for whom resettlement would be most appropriate. Some nations have prioritized children at risk as a category for resettlement:\n\nThe United States established its Unaccompanied Refugee Minor Program in 1980 to support unaccompanied children for resettlement. The Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) by the Department of Homeland Security currently works with state and local service providers to provide unaccompanied refugee children with resettlement and foster care services. This service is guaranteed to unaccompanied refugee minors until they reach the age of majority or until they are reunited with their families.\n\nSome European nations have established programs to support the resettlement and integration of refugee children. The European countries admitting the most refugee children in 2016 via resettlement were the United Kingdom (2,525 refugee children), Norway (1,930), Sweden (915), and Germany (595). Together, these accounted for 66% of the child resettlement admissions to all of Europe. The United Kingdom also established a new initiative in 2016 to support the resettlement of vulnerable refugee children from the Middle East and North Africa, regardless of family separation status. It was reported in February 2017 that this program has been partially suspended by the government; the program would no longer accept refugee youth with \"complex needs,\" such as those with disabilities, until further notice.\nRefugee children without caretakers have a greater risk of exhibiting psychiatric symptoms of mental illnesses following traumatic stress. Unaccompanied refugee children display more behavioral problems and emotional distress than refugee children with caretakers. Parental well-being plays a crucial role in enabling resettled refugees to transition into a new society. If a child is separated from his/her caretakers during the process of resettlement, the likelihood that he/she will develop a mental illness increases.\n\nThis section covers health throughout the different stages of the refugee experience.\n\nRefugee children arriving in the United States often come from countries with a high prevalence of undernutrition. Nearly half of a sample of refugee children who arrived to the American state of Washington, the majority of which were from Iraq, Somalia, and Burma, were found to have at least one form of malnutrition. In the under five age range refugee children had significantly higher rates of wasting syndrome and stunted growth, as well as a lower prevalence of obesity, in comparison to low-income non-refugee children.\n\nHowever, some time after they arrived in the United States and Australia, many refugee children demonstrated an increasing rate of overnutrition. An Australian study, assessing the nutritional status of 337 sub-Saharan African children aged between three and 12 years, found that the prevalence rate for overweight amongt refugee children was 18.4%. The prevalence rate of overweight and obesity among refugee children in Rhode Island, increased from 17.3% at initial measurement at first arrival to 35.4% at measurement three years after.\n\nBut the nutritional profiles of refugee children also often vary by their country of origin. A study involving Syrian refugee children in Jordanian refugee camps found them to be on average more likely overweight than acutely malnourished. The low prevalence of acute malnutrition among them was attributed, at least partly, to UNICEF's infant and child feeding interventions, as well as to the distribution of food vouchers by the World Food Programme (WFP).\n\nAmong newly arrived refugees in Washington state, significantly higher rates of obesity were observed among Iraqi children, whereas higher rates of stunting were found among Burmese and Somali children. The latter also had higher rates of wasting. Such variation in the nutrition profiles of refugee children may be explained by the variance in refugees' location and time in transition.\n\nCommunicable diseases are a pervasive issue faced by refugee children in camps and other temporary settlements. Governments and organizations are working to address a number of them, such as measles, rubella, diarrhea, and cholera. Refugee children often arrive in the United States from countries with a high prevalence of infectious disease.\n\nMeasles has been a major cause of child deaths in refugee camps and among internally displaced people; measles also exacerbates malnutrition and vitamin A deficiency. Some countries, such as Kenya, have developed preventative, detective, and curative programs to specifically target measles within the refugee children population. Kenya has reached over 20 million children with a measles and rubella immunization campaign carried out at the national level in May 2016. In 2017 the Kenya Ministry of Health even reported a routine vaccination coverage of 95 percent in the Dadaab refugee camp. As of April 2017, in response to the first confirmed cases of measles in the camp, UNICEF and UNHCR have collaborated with the Kenya Ministry of Health to swiftly implement an integrated measles vaccination program in Dadaab. The campaign, which has been targeting children aged six to 14 years, also includes screening, treatment referrals for cases of malnutrition, vitamin A supplementation, and deworming.\n\nDiarrhea, acute watery diarrhea, and cholera can also put children's lives at risk. Countries, such as Bangladesh, have identified the introduction and development of proper sanitation habits and facilities as potential solutions to these medical conditions. A 2008 study comparing refugee camps in Bangladesh reported that camps with sanitation facilities had cholera rates of 16%, whereas camps without such facilities had cholera rates that were almost three times higher. In a single week in 2017, 5,011 cases of diarrhea in refugee camps in Cox's Bazar in Bangladesh were reported. In response, UNICEF started a year-long cholera vaccination campaign in October 2017, targeting all children in the camps. At health centers in the refugee camps, UNICEF has been screening for potential cholera cases and providing oral rehydration salts. Community-based health workers are also going around the camps to share information on the risks of acute watery diarrhea, the cholera vaccination campaign, and the importance and necessity of good hygiene practices.\n\nDuring all points of the refugee experience, refugee children are often at risk of developing several noncommunicable diseases and conditions, such as lead poisoning, obesity, type 2 diabetes, and pediatric cancer.\n\nMany refugee children come to their host countries with elevated blood lead levels; others encounter lead hazards once they have resettled. A study published in January 2013 found that the blood lead levels of refugee children who had just arrived to the state of New Hampshire were more than twice as likely to be above 10 µg/dL as the blood lead levels of children born in the United States. Evidence from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in the United States also found that nearly 30% of 242 refugee children in New Hampshire developed elevated blood lead levels within three to six months of their arrival to the United States, even though their levels were not found to be elevated at initial screening. A more recent study reported that refugee children in Massachusetts were 12 times more likely to have blood lead levels over 20 µg/dL a year after an initial screening than non-refugee children of the same age and living in the same communities.\n\nA study analyzing the medical records of former refugees residing in Rochester, New York between 1980 and 2012 demonstrated that former child refugees may be at increased risk of obesity, type 2 diabetes, and hypertension following resettlement.\n\nMany Afghan children lack access to urban diagnosis centers in Pakistan; those who do have access have been found to have various types of cancer. It is also estimated that, within Turkey's Syrian refugee population, 60 to 100 children are diagnosed with cancer each year. Overall, the incidence rate of pediatric cancers among Turkey's Syrian refugee population was similar to that of Turkish children. The study additionally noted, however, that most refugee children affected by cancer were diagnosed when the tumor was already at an advanced stage. This could indicate that refugee children and their families often face obstacles such as poor prognoses, language barriers, financial problems, and social problems in adapting to a new setting.\n\nTraditionally, the mental health of children experiencing conflict is understood in terms of either post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) or toxic stress. Prolonged and constant exposure to stress and uncertainty, characteristic of a war environment may result in toxic stress that children express with a change in behavior that may include anxiety, self-harm, aggressiveness or suicide. A 2017 study conducted in Syria by Save the Children determined that 84% of all adults and most children considered ongoing bombing and shelling to be the main psychological stressor, while 89% said that children were more fearful as the war progressed, and 80% said that children had become more aggressive. These stressors are leading causes of the symptoms described above, which lead to diagnosis of PTSD and toxic stress, among other mental conditions. These issues may then be further exacerbated by a forced migration to a foreign country, and the beginning of the process of refugee status determination.\n\nRefugee children are extremely vulnerable during migration and resettlement, and may experience long-term pathological effects, due to \"disrupted development time.\" Psychoanalysts of refugee health have proposed that refugee children experience mourning for their culture and countries, despite the fact that the war-torn state of their homes is unsafe. This sudden loss of familiarity places children at a greater risk for mental dysfunction. In addition, studies have shown that refugee children show a higher vulnerability to stress when separated from their families. Studies from treatment facilities and small community samples have confirmed that refugee youth are at higher risk for psychopathologic disorders, including post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, conduct disorder, and problems resulting from substance abuse. However, it is important to note that other large-scale community surveys have found that the rate of psychiatric disorder among immigrant youth is not higher than that of native-born children. Nonetheless, experiments have shown that these adverse outcomes can be prevented through adequate protective factors, such as social support and intimacy. Additionally, effective adaptation strategies, such as absorption in work and creation of pseudofamilies, have led to successful coping in refugees. Many refugee populations, particularly Southeast Asian, undergo a secondary migration to larger communities of kinfolk from their countries of origin, which serve as social support networks for refugees. Research has shown that family reunification, formation of new social groups, community groups, and social services and professional support have contributed to successful resettlement of refugees.\n\nRefugees can be stigmatized if they encounter mental health deficiencies prior to and during their resettlement into a new society. Differences between parental and host country values can create a rift between the refugee child and his/her new society. Less exposure to stigmatization lowers the risk of refugee children developing PTSD.\n\nCognitive and structural barriers make it difficult to determine the medical service utilization rates and patterns of refugee children. A better understanding of these barriers will help improve mental healthcare access for refugee children and their families.\n\nMany refugees develop a mistrust of authority figures due to repressive governments in their country of origin. Fear of authority and a lack of awareness regarding mental health issues prevent refugee children and their families from seeking medical help. Certain cultures use informal support systems and self-care strategies to cope with their mental illnesses, rather than rely upon biomedicine. Language and cultural differences also complicate a refugee's understanding of mental illness and available healthcare.\n\nOther factors that delay refugees from seeking medical help are: \n\nA broad spectrum of translation services are available to all refugees, but only a small number of those services are government-sponsored. Community health organizations provide a majority of translation services, but there are a shortage of funds and available programs. Since children and adolescents have a greater capacity to adopt their host country's language and cultural practices, they are often used as linguistic intermediaries between service providers and their parents. This may result in increased tension in family dynamics where culturally sensitive roles are reversed. Traditional family dynamics in refugee families disturbed by cultural adaptation tend to destabilize important cultural norms, which can create a rift between parent and child. These difficulties cause an increase of depression, anxiety and other mental health concerns in culturally-adapted adolescent refugees.\n\nRelying on other family members or community members has equally problematic results where relatives and community members unintentionally exclude or include details relevant to comprehensive care. Healthcare practitioners are also hesitant to rely on members of the community because it is breaches confidentiality. A third party present also reduces the willingness of refugees to trust their healthcare practitioners and disclose information. Patients may receive a different translator for each of their follow-up appointments with their mental healthcare providers, which means that refugees need to recount their story via multiple interpreters, further compromising confidentiality.\n\nCulturally competent care exists when healthcare providers have received specialized training that helps them to identify the actual and potential cultural factors informing their interactions with refugee patients. Culturally competent care tends to prioritize the social and cultural determinants contributing to health, but the traditional Western biomedical model of care often fails to acknowledge these determinants.\n\nTo provide culturally competent care to refugees, mental healthcare providers should demonstrate some understanding of the patient's background, and a sensitive commitment to relevant cultural manners (for example: privacy, gender dynamics, religious customs, and lack of language skills). The willingness of refugees to access mental healthcare services rests on the degree of cultural sensitivity within the structure of their service provider.\n\nThe protective influence exercised by adult refugees on their child and adolescent dependents makes it unlikely that young adult-accompanied refugees will access mental healthcare services. Only 10-30 percent of youth in the general population, with a need for mental healthcare services, are currently accessing care. Adolescent ethnic minorities are less likely to access mental healthcare services than youth in the dominant cultural group.\n\nParents, caretakers and teachers are more likely to report an adolescent's need for help, and seek help resources, than the adolescent. Unaccompanied refugee minors are less likely to access mental healthcare services than their accompanied counterparts. Internalizing complaints (such as depression and anxiety) are prevalent forms of psychological distress among refugee children and adolescents.\n\nAdditional structural deterrents for refugees:\n\nStructural deterrents for healthcare professionals:\n\nThe World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts (WAGGGS) and Family Health International (FHI) have designed and piloted a peer-centered education program for adolescent refugee girls in Uganda, Zambia, and Egypt. The goal of the program was to reach young women who were interested in being informed about reproductive health issues. The program was split into three age-specific groups: girls aged seven to 10 learned about bodily changes and anatomy; girls aged 11 to 14 learned about sexually transmitted diseases; girls aged 15 and older focused on tips to ensure a healthy pregnancy and to properly care for a baby. According to qualitative surveys, increased self-esteem and greater use of health services among the program's participants were the largest benefits of the program.\n\nThis section covers education throughout the different stages of the refugee experience. The report, \"Left Behind: Refugee Education in Crisis,\" compares UNHCR sources and statistics on refugee education with data on school enrollment around the world provided by UNESCO, the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization. The report notes that, globally, 91 percent of children attend primary school. For all refugees, that figure is at 61 percent. Specifically in low-income countries, less than 50 percent of refugees are able to attend primary school. As refugee children get older, school enrollment rates drop: only 23 percent of refugee adolescents are enrolled in secondary school, versus the global figure of 84 percent. In low-income countries, nine percent of refugees are able to go to secondary school. Across the world, enrollment in tertiary education stands at 36 percent. For refugees, the percentage remains at one percent.\n\nAdapting to a new school environment is a major undertaking for refugee children who arrive in a new country or refugee camp. Education is crucial for the sufficient psychosocial adjustment and cognitive growth of refugee children. Due to these circumstances, it is important that educators consider the needs, obstacles, and successful educational pathways for children refugees.\n\nGraham, Minhas, and Paxton (2016) note in their study that parents' misunderstandings about educational styles, teachers' low expectations and stereotyping tendencies, bullying and racial discrimination, pre-migration and post-migration trauma, and forced detention can all be risk factors for learning problems in refugee children. They also note that high academic and life ambition, parents' involvement in education, a supportive home and school environment, teachers' understanding of linguistic and cultural heritage, and healthy peer relationships can all contribute to a refugee child's success in school.\n\nSchools in North America lack the necessary resources for supporting refugee children, particularly in negotiating their academic experience and in addressing the diverse learning needs of refugee children. Complex schooling policies that vary by classroom, building and district, and procedures that require written communication or parent involvement intimidate the parents of refugee children. Educators in North America typically guess the grade in which refugee children should be placed because there is not a standard test or formal interview process required of refugee children.\nThe ability to enroll in school and continue one's studies in developing countries is limited and uneven across regions and settings of displacement, particularly for young girls and at the secondary levels. The availability of sufficient classrooms and teachers is low and many discriminatory policies and practices prohibit refugee children from attending school. Educational policies promoting age-caps can also be harmful to refugee children.\n\nMany refugee children face legal restrictions to schooling, even in countries of first asylum. This is the case especially for countries that have not signed the 1951 Refugee Convention or its 1967 Protocol. In countries where they lack official refugee status, refugee children are unable to enroll in national schools. In Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, unregistered refugee children described being hesitant to go to school, due to risk of encountering legal authorities at school or while on the way to and from school.\n\nStudent-teacher ratios are very high in most refugee schools, and in some countries, these ratios are nearly twice the UNCHR guideline of 40:1. Although global policies and standards for refugee settings endorse child-centered teaching methods that promote student participation, teacher-centered instruction often predominates in refugee classrooms. Teachers lecture for the majority of the time, offering few opportunities for students to ask questions or engage in creative thinking. In eight refugee-serving schools in Kenya, for example, lecturing was the primary mode of instruction.\n\nRefugee children who live in large urban centers in North America have a higher rate of success at school, particularly because their families have greater access to additional social services that can help address their specific needs. Families who are unable to move to urban centers are at a disadvantage.\n\nAcculturation stress occurs in North America when families expect refugee youth to remain loyal to ethnic values while mastering the host culture in school and social activities. In response to this demand, children may over-identify with their host culture, their culture of origin, or become marginalized from both. Insufficient communication due to language and cultural barriers may evoke a sense of alienation or \"being the other\" in a new society. The clash between cultural values of the family and popular culture in mainstream Western society leads to the alienation of refugee children from their home culture.\n\nMany Western schools do not address diversity among ethnic groups from the same nation or provide resources for specific needs of different cultures (such as including halal food in the school menu). Without successfully negotiating cultural differences in the classroom, refugee children experience social exclusion in their new host culture. The presence of racial and ethnic discrimination can have an adverse effect on the well-being of certain groups of children and lead to a reduction in their overall school performance. For instance, cultural differences place Vietnamese refugee youth at a higher risk of pursuing disruptive behaviour. Contemporary Vietnamese American adolescents are prone to greater uncertainties, self-doubts and emotional difficulties than other American adolescents. Vietnamese children are less likely to say they have much to be proud of, that they like themselves as they are, that they have many good qualities, and that they feel socially accepted.\n\nClasses for refugees, more often than not, are taught in the host-country language. Refugees in the same classroom may also speak several different languages, requiring multiple interpretations; this can slow the pace of overall instruction. Refugees from the Democratic Republic of Congo living in Uganda, for example, had to transition from French to English. Some of these children were placed in lower-level classes due to their lack of English proficiency. Many older children therefore had to repeat lower-level classes, even if they had already mastered the content. Using the language of one ethnic group as the instructional language may threaten the identity of a minority group.\n\nThe content of the curriculum can also act as a form of discrimination against refugee children involved in the education systems of first asylum countries. Curricula often seem foreign and difficult to understand to refugees who are attending national schools alongside host-country nationals. For instance, in Kakuma refugee camp in Kenya, children described having a hard time understanding concepts that lacked relevance to their lived experiences, especially concepts related to Kenyan history and geography. Similarly, in Uganda, refugee children from the Democratic Republic of Congo studying together with Ugandan children in government schools did not have opportunities in the curriculum to learn the history of their home country. The teaching of one-sided narratives, such as during history lessons, can also threaten the identity of students belonging to minority groups.\n\nAlthough high-quality education helps refugee children feel safe in the present and enable them to be productive in the future, some do not find success in school. Other obstacles may include:\n\nNorth American schools are agents of acculturation, helping refugee children integrate into Western society. Successful educators help children process trauma they may have experienced in their country of origin while supporting their academic adjustment. Refugee children benefit from established and encouraged communication between student and teacher, and also between different students in the classroom. Familiarity with sign language and basic ESL strategies improves communication between teachers and refugee children. Also, non-refugee peers need access to literature that helps educate them on their refugee classmates experiences. Course materials should be appropriate for the specific learning needs of refugee children and provide for a wide range of skills in order to give refugee children strong academic support.\n\nEducators should spend time with refugee families discussing previous experiences of the child in order to place the refugee child in the correct grade level and to provide any necessary accommodations School policies, expectations, and parent's rights should be translated into the parent's native language since many parents do not speak English proficiently. Educators need to understand the multiple demands placed on parents (such as work and family care) and be prepared to offer flexibility in meeting times with these families.\n\nTeachers can make the transition to a new school easier for refugee children by providing interpreters. Schools meet the psychosocial needs of children affected by war or displacement through programs that provide children with avenues for emotional expression, personal support, and opportunities to enhance their understanding of their past experience. Refugee children benefit from a case-by-case approach to learning, because every child has had a different experience during their resettlement. Communities where the refugee populations are bigger should work with the schools to initiate after school, summer school, or weekend clubs that give the children more opportunities to adjust to their new educational setting.\n\nBicultural integration is the most effective mode of acculturation for refugee adolescents in North America. The staff of the school must understand students in a community context and respect cultural differences. Parental support, refugee peer support, and welcoming refugee youth centers are successful in keeping refugee children in school for longer periods of time. Education about the refugee experience in North America also helps teachers relate better with refugee children and understand the traumas and issues a refugee child may have experienced.\n\nRefugee children thrive in classroom environments where all students are valued. A sense of belonging, as well as ability to flourish and become part of the new host society, are factors predicting the well-being of refugee children in academics. Increased school involvement and social interaction with other students help refugee children combat depression and/or other underlying mental health concerns that emerge during the post-migration period.\n\nImplemented by UNICEF from 2012 to 2016 and funded by the Government of the Netherlands, Peacebuilding, Education, and Advocacy (PBEA) was a program that tested innovative education solutions to achieve peacebuilding results. The PBEA program in Kenya's Dadaab refugee camp aimed to strengthen resilience and social cohesion in the camp, as well as between refugees and the host community. The initiative was composed of two parts: the Peace Education Programme (PEP), an in-school program taught in Dadaab's primary schools, and the Sports for Development and Peace (SDP) program for refugee adolescents and youth. There was anecdotal evidence of increased levels of social cohesion from participation in PEP and potential resilience from participation in SDP.\n\nPeace education for refugee children may also have limitations and its share of opponents. Although peace education from past programs involving non-refugee populations reported to have had positive effects, studies have found that the attitudes of parents and teachers can also have a strong influence on students' internalization of peace values. Teachers from Cyprus also resisted a peace education program initiated by the government. Another study found that, while teachers supported the prospect of reconciliation, ideological and practical concerns made them uncertain about the effective implementation of a peace education program.\n\nChildren with disabilities frequently suffer physical and sexual abuse, exploitation, and neglect. They are often not only excluded from education, but also not provided the necessary supports for realizing and reaching their full potential.\n\nIn refugee camps and temporary shelters, the needs of children with disabilities are often overlooked. In particular, a study surveying Bhutanese refugee camps in Nepal, Burmese refugee camps in Thailand, Somali refugee camps in Yemen, the Dadaab refugee camp for Somali refugees in Kenya, and camps for internally displaced persons in Sudan and Sri Lanka, found that many mainstream services failed to adequately cater to the specific needs of children with disabilities. The study reported that mothers in Nepal and Yemen have been unable to receive formulated food for children with cerebral palsy and cleft palates. The same study also found that, although children with disabilities were attending school in all surveyed countries, and refugee camps in Nepal and Thailand have successful programs that integrate children with disabilities into schools, all other surveyed countries have failed to encourage children with disabilities to attend school. Similarly, Syrian parents consulted during a four-week field assessment conducted in northern and eastern Lebanon in March 2013 reported that, since arriving in Lebanon, their children with disabilities had not been attending school or engaging in other educational activities. In Jordan, too, Syrian refugee children with disabilities identified lack of specialist educational care and physical inaccessibility as the main barriers to their education.\n\nLikewise, limited attention is being given to refugee children with disabilities in the United Kingdom. It was reported in February 2017 that its government has decided to partially suspend the Vulnerable Children's Resettlement Scheme, originally set to resettle 3,000 children with their families from countries in the Middle East and North Africa. As a result of this suspension, no youth with complex needs, including those with disabilities and learning difficulties, would be accepted into the program until further notice.\n\nCountries may often overlook refugee children with disabilities with regards to humanitarian aid, because data on refugee children with disabilities are limited. Roberts and Harris (1990) note that there is insufficient statistical and empirical information on disabled refugees in the United Kingdom. While it was reported in 2013 that 26 percent of all Syrian refugees in Jordan had impaired physical, intellectual, or sensory abilities, such data specifically for children do not exist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5384623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5384623", "title": "Sex and drugs", "text": "Sex and drugs\n\nSex and the use of drugs (legal and illegal) have been linked throughout human history, encompassing all aspects of sex: desire, performance, pleasure, conception, gestation, and disease.\n\nDrugs are frequently associated with reduced sexual inhibition, both when used voluntarily in social circumstances, and involuntarily, as in the case of some date rape drugs.\n\nBecause the use of drugs, including alcohol, is commonly presented as an excuse for risky or socially unacceptable behaviour, it is necessary to treat the idea of a direct causal relation between drug use and unsafe sex with caution. Drugs may provide a socially acceptable excuse for engaging in sexual behaviours in which people may want to engage but perhaps feel that they should not.\n\nSome forms of sexual dysfunction such as erectile dysfunction can be treated with drugs. Because of their effects, erectile dysfunction drugs are sometimes used for recreational purposes.\n\nMany drugs, both legal and illegal, some sold online, have side effects that affect the user's sexual function. Many drugs can cause loss of libido as a side effect.\n\nSince the partial cause of the refractory period is the inhibition of dopamine by an orgasm-induced secretion of prolactin, such potent dopamine receptor agonists as cabergoline may help achieve multiple orgasms as well as the retention of sexual arousal for longer periods of time.\n\nDrug-based contraception has been available since the development of the contraceptive pill. As well as their contraceptive effects, contraceptive drugs can also have adverse sexual and reproductive side-effects. Prior to the availability of effective contraceptives, some substances were also used as abortifacients to terminate pregnancy; medical abortion exists as a modern medical practice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9559841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9559841", "title": "Special needs plan", "text": "Special needs plan\n\nA special needs plan (or SNP, often pronounced \"snip\") is a category of the US Medicare Advantage plan designed to attract and enroll Medicare beneficiaries who fall into a certain special needs demographic. There are two types of SNPs. The exclusive SNP enrolls only those beneficiaries who fall into the special needs demographic. The other type is the disproportionate share SNP. \"Disproportionate share\" SNPs enroll a greater percentage of the target special needs population as compared to a national percentage of the target population. Under the federal �Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, Congress identified special needs individuals\" as (1) institutionalized, or (2) dually eligible, or (3) individuals with severe or disabling chronic conditions. More specifically, special needs individuals include:\n\n"}
{"id": "38851547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38851547", "title": "Symptom targeted intervention", "text": "Symptom targeted intervention\n\nSymptom targeted intervention (STI) is a clinical program being used in medical settings to help patients who struggle with symptoms of depression or anxiety or adherence to treatment plans but who are not interested in receiving outpatient mental health treatment. STI is an individualized therapeutic model and clinical program that teaches patients brief, effective ways to cope with difficult thoughts, feelings, and behaviors using evidence-based interventions. Its individualized engagement process employs techniques from solution-focused therapy, using a Rogerian, patient-centered philosophy. This engagement process ensures that even challenging, at-risk, and non-adherent patients are able to participate.\n\nSocial workers and other mental health practitioners and medical professionals use STI to assist patients with a number of specific concerns, from sleep and stress to pain management, relationships and mood management. STI’s coping tools are cognitive behavioral therapy and mindfulness interventions that have been condensed and modified to make them user friendly and effective in brief sessions. After meeting with the clinician, the patient takes charge, performing interventions at home through assignments that extend and reinforce learning.\n\nUsing STI, the clinician helps the patient identify the most problematic symptom of the depression (such as depressed mood, insomnia, anxiety, rumination, irritability, negative thinking, social isolation), then together the clinician and patient address that symptom using STI’s evidence-based selection of brief cognitive, behavioral, and mindfulness techniques. The emphasis is on keeping interactions brief since mental health treatment in the primary care setting is typically time limited—although the Collaborative Care and Integrated Care models provides hope for improved and expanded mental health services in the primary care setting.\n\nAs patients learn better coping skills, they become more engaged with their treatment and more adherent to doctors’ recommendations.\n\nSTI also gives social workers ways to uncover their clinical strengths and tools to continue to work with resistant patients. With STI training, clinicians learn a nuanced approach to all patients, even those who resist help, since often those are the individuals who need help most. After learning STI, clinicians report that they are more likely to approach rather than avoid difficult patient situations.\n\nSTI was created in 2009 by licensed clinical social worker (LCSW) Melissa McCool to give clinicians a toolkit for helping depressed patients who cannot or will not seek outpatient psychotherapy. McCool originally developed STI for patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Patients with ESRD and other chronic diseases often suffer from depression and it often goes undiagnosed. Studies suggest that at least 25% of dialysis patients have clinical depression and at least 35% have symptoms that put them at risk for depression. Additionally, for a variety of reasons, patients who are suffering mentally and physically from depression often go untreated. Social workers using STI with ESRD patients have reported promising outcomes.\n\nThe intellectual premise for STI is based on systems theory, which considers a system as a set of interacting and independent parts. If depression is a system consisting of various symptoms, when one of the symptoms improves, the entire trajectory of the depressive episode is transformed. In this sense, STI is related to Bowen’s systemic theory and its interactional dynamics. Using STI, the patient and clinician focus on one element, or symptom, helping the patient avoid feeling overwhelmed by multiple problems. The parallel process is also in effect: Clinicians may be similarly overwhelmed by attempting to tackle multiple symptoms in their depressed patients.\n\nAlso central to STI is the cognitive triangle, which illustrates how one’s thoughts, feelings, and behaviors are all interconnected and dependent upon one another. If a behavior changes, thoughts and feelings change; if a thought changes, behaviors and feelings change.\n\nSTI has been expanded beyond ESRD to support the many patients who are suffering from depression who receive treatment for chronic disease in outpatient clinics, hospitals, nursing homes or rehabilitation centers. Kaiser Permanente is now using STI as the main treatment modality in its Collaborative Care study.\n\nA review of treatments for anxiety and depression in dialysis patients cited STI as an economical way to alleviate depression using brief, in-clinic sessions. A review that considered measures of quality of life in patients with ESRD noted that STI’s techniques are promising and productive. STI was included in a 2013 review of best practices for effective screening and managing depression in dialysis patients.\n\nIn a 2014 article about ways that social workers can ease chronically ill patients’ burdens and effectively address their emotional challenges, Joseph R. Merighi, PhD, MSW, an associate professor at the University of Minnesota School of Social Work, describes STI as “an innovative, brief, and patient-centered approach that modifies cognitive, behavioral, and mindfulness techniques to make them user-friendly for patients and brief in their delivery.” The article’s author adds that STI is “used by the leading dialysis providers and has become the standard of care.”\n\nSTI is now being used by medical social workers in a range of settings across the United States, who have reported positive results. To teach social workers STI’s techniques, trainings are held across the country, led by Ms. McCool and her colleagues, in person as well as through online webinars. Nephrology social workers who participated in a 2014 study of the effectiveness of STI webinar trainings found the trainings to be very useful and wanted them to continue.\n\nSTI is used by medical practices and Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs) for population health management and in integrated care and chronic care. STI provides curriculum, training, clinical assessment tools, and treatment plans for these organizations through 20 min win, a system that allows patient issues, identified in required biopsychosocial care plans, to be addressed in 20-minute sessions.\n\nIn 2011, STI was assessed by nephrology social workers in 17 states. Results suggested that STI further enhances existing social work skills in identifying, treating, and tracking outcomes of patient issues requiring clinical intervention. Most of the social workers spent 1.5 hours over a six-week period using STI to address symptoms of depression with a patient. This short period of intervention led to a reported improvement in physical component summary and mental component summary scores (part of the Short Form Health Survey (SF-36) patient evaluation) in 51% and 64% of patients, respectively, and improvement in CES-D scores in 72.1% of patients. In 2013, a pilot program showed that using STI's techniques helped increase patients' adherence to treatment recommendations.\n\nA 2013 study with DaVita Clinical Research, published at the National Kidney Foundation meeting in April 2014, showed statistically significant improvements in quality of life and depression scores for patients receiving STI. There were 91 participants in the study. Statistically significant improvement occurred in KDQOL-36 mental component scores (p < 0.001), physical component scores (p = 0.042), as well as burden (p < 0.001) and effects (p = 0.001) domain scores. Statistically significant improvement also occurred in patients' CES-D 10 scores (p < 0.001).\n\nIn an ongoing study conducted by Fresenius Medical Care, the use of STI, along with other clinical interventions, was shown to decrease missed treatments, decrease hospitalizations and improve quality of life indicators and depression scores. The baseline number of missed treatment rate (per month) was 1.7 (±1.3) vs. 0.9 (±1.0) post-intervention (p < 0.0001). The number of hospitalization was 0.4 (±0.8) vs. 0.2 (±0.8) per month for pre- and post-intervention, respectively, (p = 0.07). Significant improvement was found in CES-D 10 and KDQOL-36 domain scores except for physical component scores. Sleep-quality barriers and stressors also indicated significant improvement (except for restless legs and stressors related to health symptoms or loss/grief). Preliminary results indicated that an intensive social worker-initiated intervention program was able to reduce unexcused missed treatments in the short term (three months). Indicators of quality of life and well-being that potentially contributed to the non-adherent behavior also improved, which may help sustain the favorable results over the long term.\n\nResults of a 2015 study by Ms. McCool and colleagues at DaVita HealthCare Partners suggested that implementation of a social worker-based STI clinical program targeting improved quality of life for in-center hemodialysis patients led to health improvements due to increased adherence to the prescribed dialysis treatment regimen in the least-compliant patients. A poster presenting the results received best poster award at the National Kidney Foundation spring 2015 meeting. A pilot study using STI with transplant patients at the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh was completed in 2014, and a poster presenting the results was included in the British Renal Society's annual meeting in July 2015.\n\nFurther studies are under way on the effectiveness of STI in patients with a variety of chronic diseases, including an ongoing multi-center IRB-approved research study involving the University of Maryland, University of Utah, and University of Minnesota, on the use of STI with solid organ transplant recipients.\n\n"}
{"id": "50293718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50293718", "title": "Timeline of deworming", "text": "Timeline of deworming\n\nThis is a timeline of deworming, and specifically mass deworming.\n\n"}
{"id": "216188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216188", "title": "Toxic waste", "text": "Toxic waste\n\nToxic waste is any unwanted material in all forms that can cause harm (e.g. by being inhaled, swallowed, or absorbed through the skin). Many of today's household products such as televisions, computers and phones contain toxic chemicals that can pollute the air and contaminate soil and water. Disposing of such waste is a major public health issue.\n\nToxic materials are poisonous byproducts as a result of industries such as manufacturing, farming, construction, automotive, laboratories, and hospitals which may contain heavy metals, radiation, dangerous pathogens, or other toxins. Toxic waste has become more abundant since the industrial revolution, causing serious global health issues. Disposing of such waste has become even more critical with the addition of numerous technological advances containing toxic chemical components. Products such as cellular telephones, computers, televisions, and solar panels contain toxic chemicals that can harm the environment if not disposed of properly to prevent the pollution of the air and contamination of soils and water. A material is considered toxic when it causes death or harm by being inhaled, swallowed, or absorbed through the skin.\n\nThe waste can contain chemicals, heavy metals, radiation, dangerous pathogens, or other toxins. Even households generate hazardous waste from items such as batteries, used computer equipment, and leftover paints or pesticides. Toxic material can be either human-made and others are naturally occurring in the environment. Not all hazardous substances are considered toxic.\n\nThe United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) has identified 11 key substances that pose a risk to human health:\n\nThe most overlooked toxic and hazardous wastes are the household products in everyday homes that are improperly disposed of such as old batteries, pesticides, paint, and car oil. Toxic waste can be reactive, ignitable, and corrosive. In the United States, these wastes are regulated under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA).\n\nWith the increase of worldwide technology, there are more substances that are being considered toxic and harmful to human health. Some of this technology includes cell phones and computers. Such items have been given the name e-waste or EEE, which stands for Electrical and Electronic Equipment. This term is also used for goods such as refrigerators, toys, and washing machines. These items can contain toxic components that can break down into water systems when discarded. The reduction in the cost of these goods has allowed for these items to be distributed globally without thought or consideration to managing the goods once they become ineffective or broken.\n\nIn the US, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state environmental agencies develop and enforce regulations on the storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste. The EPA requires that toxic waste be handled with special precautions and be disposed of in designated facilities around the country. Also, many US cities have collection days where household toxic waste is gathered. Some materials that may not be accepted at regular landfills are ammunition, commercially generated waste, explosives/shock sensitive items, hypodermic needles/syringes, medical waste, radioactive materials, and smoke detectors.\n\nToxic wastes often contain carcinogens, and exposure to these by some route, such as leakage or evaporation from the storage, causes cancer to appear at increased frequency in exposed individuals. For example, a cluster of the rare blood cancer polycythemia vera was found around a toxic waste dump site in northeast Pennsylvania in 2008.\n\nThe Human & Ecological Risk Assessment Journal conducted a study which focused on the health of individuals living near municipal landfills to see if it would be as harmful as living near hazardous landfills. They conducted a 7-year study that specifically tested for 18 types of cancers to see if the participants had higher rates than those that don’t live around landfills. They conducted this study in western Massachusetts within a 1-mile radius of the North Hampton Regional Landfill.\n\nPeople encounter these toxins buried in the ground, in stream runoff, in groundwater that supplies drinking water, or in floodwaters, as happened after Hurricane Katrina. Some toxins, such as mercury, persist in the environment and accumulate. As a result of the bioaccumulation of mercury in both freshwater and marine ecosystems, predatory fish are a significant source of mercury in human and animal diets. Toxic Waste.\" National Geographic. National Geographic, 2010. Web. 26 Apr 2010.\n\nOne of the biggest problems with today's toxic material is how to dispose of it properly. Before the passage of modern environmental laws (in the US, this was in the 1970s), it was legal to dump such wastes into streams, rivers and oceans, or bury it underground in landfills. The US Clean Water Act, enacted in 1972, and RCRA, enacted in 1976, created nationwide programs to regulate the handling and disposal of hazardous wastes.\n\nThe agriculture industry uses over 800,000 tons of pesticides worldwide annually that contaminates soils, and eventually infiltrates into groundwater, which can contaminate drinking water supplies. The oceans can be polluted from the stormwater runoff of these chemicals as well. Toxic waste in the form of petroleum oil can either spill into the oceans from pipe leaks or large ships, but it can also enter the oceans from everyday citizens dumping car oil into the rainstorm sewer systems. Disposal is the placement of waste into or on the land. Disposal facilities are usually designed to permanently contain the waste and prevent the release of harmful pollutants to the environment.\n\nThe most common hazardous waste disposal practice is placement in a land disposal unit such as a landfill, surface impoundment, waste pile, land treatment unit, or injection well. Land disposal is subject to requirements under EPA's Land Disposal Restrictions Program. Injection wells are regulated under the federal Underground Injection Control program.\n\nOrganic wastes can be destroyed by incineration at high temperatures. However, if the waste contains heavy metals or radioactive isotopes, these must be separated and stored, as they cannot be destroyed. The method of storage will seek to immobilize the toxic components of the waste, possibly through storage in sealed containers, inclusion in a stable medium such as glass or a cement mixture, or burial under an impermeable clay cap. Waste transporters and waste facilities may charge fees; consequently, improper methods of disposal may be used to avoid paying these fees. Where the handling of toxic waste is regulated, the improper disposal of toxic waste may be punishable by fines or prison terms. Burial sites for toxic waste and other contaminated brownfield land may eventually be used as greenspace or redeveloped for commercial or industrial use.\n\nRCRA governs the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, and disposal of hazardous waste. The Toxic Substances Control Act, also enacted in 1976, authorizes EPA to collect information on all new and existing chemical substances, as well as to control any substances that were determined to cause unreasonable risk to public health or the environment. The Superfund law, passed in 1980, created a cleanup program for abandoned or uncontrolled hazardous waste sites.\n\nThere has been a long ongoing battle between communities and environmentalists versus governments and corporations about how strictly and how fairly the regulations and laws are written and enforced. That battle began in North Carolina in the late summer of 1979, as EPA's TSCA regulations were being implemented. In North Carolina, PCB-contaminated oil was deliberately dripped along rural Piedmont highways, creating the largest PCB spills in American history and a public health crisis that would have repercussions for generations to come. The PCB-contaminated material was eventually collected and buried in a landfill in Warren County, but citizens' opposition, including large public demonstrations, exposed the dangers of toxic waste, the fallibility of landfills then in use, and EPA regulations allowing landfills to be built on marginal, but politically acceptable sites.\n\nWarren County citizens argued that the toxic waste landfill regulations were based on the fundamental assumption that the EPA's conceptual dry-tomb landfill would contain the toxic waste. This assumption informed the siting of toxic waste landfills and waivers to regulations that were included in EPA's \"Federal Register.\" For example, in 1978, the base of a major toxic waste landfill could be no closer than five feet from ground water, but this regulation and others could be waived. The waiver to the regulation concerning the distance between the base of a toxic waste landfill and groundwater allowed the base to be only a foot above ground water if the owner/operator of the facility could demonstrate to the EPA regional administrator that a leachate collection system could be installed and that there would be no hydraulic connection between the base of the landfill and groundwater. Citizens argued that the waivers to the siting regulations were discriminatory mechanisms facilitating the shift from scientific to political considerations concerning the siting decision and that in the South this would mean a discriminatory proliferation of dangerous waste management facilities in poor black and other minority communities. They also argued that the scientific consensus was that permanent containment could not be assured. As resistance to the siting of the PCB landfill in Warren County continued and studies revealed that EPA dry-tomb landfills were failing, EPA stated in its \"Federal Register\" that all landfills would eventually leak and should only be used as a stopgap measure.\n\nYears of research and empirical knowledge of the failures of the Warren County PCB landfill led citizens of Warren County to conclude that the EPA's dry-tomb landfill design and regulations governing the disposal of toxic and hazardous waste were not based on sound science and adequate technology. Warren County's citizens concluded also that North Carolina's \"1981 Waste Management Act\" was scientifically and constitutionally unacceptable because it authorized the siting of toxic, hazardous and nuclear waste facilities prior to public hearings, preempted local authority over the siting of the facilities, and authorized the use of force if needed.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Warren County protests, the 1984 Federal Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments to the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act focused on waste minimization and phasing out land disposal of hazardous waste as well as corrective action for releases of hazardous materials. Other measures included in the 1984 amendments included increased enforcement authority for EPA, more stringent hazardous waste management standards, and a comprehensive underground storage tank program.\n\nThe disposal of toxic waste continues to be a source of conflict in the U.S. Due to the hazards associated with toxic waste handling and disposal, communities often resist the siting of toxic waste landfills and other waste management facilities; however, determining where and how to dispose of waste is a necessary part of economic and environmental policy-making.\n\nThe issue of handling toxic waste has become a global problem as international trade has arisen out of the increasing toxic byproducts produced with the transfer of them to less developed countries. In 1995, the United Nations Commission on Human Rights began to notice the illicit dumping of toxic waste and assigned a Special Rapporteur to examine the human rights aspect to this issue (Commission resolution 1995/81). In September 2011, the Human Rights Council decided to strengthen the mandate to include the entire life-cycle of hazardous products from manufacturing to final destination (aka cradle to grave), as opposed to only movement and dumping of hazardous waste. The title of the Special Rapporteur has been changed to the “Special Rapporteur on the implications for human rights of the environmentally sound management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes.\"(Human Rights Council 18/11). The Human Rights Council has further extended the scope of its mandates as of September 2012 due to the result of the dangerous implications occurring to persons advocating environmentally sound practices regarding the generation,management, handling, distribution and final disposal of hazardous and toxic materials to include the issue of the protection of the environmental human rights defenders.\n\nTOXMAP is a Geographic Information System (GIS) from the Division of Specialized Information Services of the United States National Library of Medicine (NLM) that uses maps of the United States to help users visually explore data from the United States Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Superfund and Toxics Release Inventory programs. TOXMAP is a resource funded by the US Federal Government. TOXMAP's chemical and environmental health information is taken from NLM's Toxicology Data Network (TOXNET) and PubMed, and from other authoritative sources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15536273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15536273", "title": "UNESCO Chair in Telemedicine", "text": "UNESCO Chair in Telemedicine\n\nUNESCO Chair of Telemedicine (UNES_CT) is a portion of UNESCO that was founded in 1999. It undertakes international activities related to the promotion of the information society and fights against technology transfer problems having the role of an “intermediate body”. The Chair is the first UNESCO Telemedicine Chair, and his activity is related with development and diffusion of Telemedicine and Information Society in Health Care in developing areas and undeveloped countries particularly South-America and Africa.\n\nThe expertise of the UNESCO chair of Telemedicine as a University Institution is based in the previous CATAI’s expertise founded in 1994 in the field of Information Society/Telemedicine with which is collaborating closely and from which received part of the sponsorship.\n\nActivities include: training and teaching aspects, to gain a minimal structured knowledge in Medical Informatics, have established the “Telemedicine Body of Knowledge” covering sociology, economics, technology transfer, technology and organizational issues, standardization, security and liability aspects in co-operation with the Universities of Queens-UK, Aveiro-PT, Belfast-IRL, Genova-IT, Innsbruck-AU, Udine-IT, Berlin-D, Athens-GR. CATAI published the first text-book of Telemedicine in English, complemented with a CD multimedia material particularly designed for developing countries, worldwide known by Winter and Summer Courses of Telemedicine training following the “Telemedicine Body of Knowledge\". At the present moment the book is translated into 6 languages (SP, E, IT, GR, FR, D) and is published in Spanish (PanAmerican Editorial) with title : “Telemedicine” 2001. Is participating in all editions of the European Telemedicine Glossary edited by the EC-DG Information Society. In the 4th Ed-2002 is the author of the Electronic Clinical Record.\n\nCATAI developed the Videophone network in the Canary Islands in 1991 for distant support. At the present it includes the best practice implementation pilots in phone medicine (oncology -particularly home-care- and psychiatry -particularly childhood psychiatry), Tele-ECG and Tele-ultrasounds -particularly obstetrics and gynaecology.\n\nFirst in the world (1991) to carry out distant DNA quantitation, it was applied to image analysis prognostic factors in breast cancer. Objective image analysis and prognostic factors have been incorporated into the regional breast cancer registry of 3000 patients (see above);\n\nCATAI was the promoter of the Centre of Excellence in Telemedicine, sponsored by Science Park DG-XIII, with enrolment of 3 continents: Europe, Africa and America to concentrate best practice examples as well as top experts to implement real world applications and development of hardware-software systems ready to be used. These activities link mainly technological firms of the UK and Germany.\n\nThe UNESCO chair was leader of two EU projects (Leonardo-DG XXII ; Science Park-DGXIII) and participating in other two (DGXIII- Teleultrasound for developing countries; Leonardo-DGXXII Teaching Medical informatics). Leader in Canary Islands and in the main land - Barcelona- of a project on Telephonic Medicine. Partner in 5 EU projects ( Smart-USB; KOD or knowledge on demand, ASKLEPIOS, CHS or Citizen Home Services, CATAI-CTC)\n\nUNESCO Chair of Telemedicine was involved in developing countries health support through the Midjan group-ITU-D working group of Telemedicine, TeleInViVo ultrasound devices with pilots in Katastan, Mali and Uganda. Additionally, the UNESCO chair was promoted the network of Telemedicine together with Argentina, Venezuela, Peru, and participated in ITU-Developing Word Congress in Malta 1997, and Georgia Telemedicine meeting in 1999. Is currently actively working with South-America ( Venezuela, Argentina, Cuba, Chile, Peru) and Africa (Uganda, Kenya)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4021184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4021184", "title": "Vitality", "text": "Vitality\n\nVitality is life, life force, health, youth, or ability to live or exist. The word vitality is derived from the Latin word \"vita\", which means \"life.\"\n\nAccording to Jain philosophy, there are ten vitalities or life-principles:-\n\nThe table below summaries the vitalities, living beings possess in accordance to their senses.\nAccording to major Jain text, Tattvarthsutra: \"The severance of vitalities out of passion is injury\".\n\nIn the context of urban planning, that vitality of a place is its capacity to grow or develop its liveliness and level of economic activity.\n"}
{"id": "39331594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39331594", "title": "Wellness in school", "text": "Wellness in school\n\nWellness in School is offered as a unit in some K-8 elementary schools in the United States. It is defined as the quality or state of being in good health, especially as an actively sought goal. Wellness is taught in 6 or 7 dimensions: physical, social, intellectual, emotional, occupational, spiritual and environmental. Inclusion of the latter two is controversial. While the teaching of \"The Whole Child\" seems to be an antiquated philosophy with public schools trending towards high-stakes testing, there are many schools such as Montessori and other philosophies/pedagogies that value this curriculum. The following isn't an expanded definition of each, but simply what the goals and objectives are for each dimension.\n\nThe physical dimension focuses on three sub-categories: healthy eating, exercise, and the human body (digestive system, skeletal system and circulatory systems).\n\nFor K-5 the focus can be on the brain controlling the body, all the way up to studying the parts of the brain. Students are expected to understand that different parts control different body functions.\n\nStudents learn techniques to harmonize their actions with the world around them.\n\nStudents learn to identify negative and positive emotions and coping strategies.\n\nStudents learn to connect the job they want with the necessary preparation.\n\nStudents learn the importance and skills of communication.\n\nStudents learn to connect their own and their family's actions to the health of the environment around them.\n"}
{"id": "17792367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17792367", "title": "Women &amp; Health", "text": "Women &amp; Health\n\nWomen & Health is a peer-reviewed healthcare journal established in 1976. It covers research in the field of women's health. The editor-in-chief is Ellen B. Gold (University of California, Davis).\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 1.377, ranking it 9th out of 40 journals in the category \"Women's Studies\" and 86th in the category \"Public, Environmental & Occupational Health\".\n\n\n"}
