{"id": "554691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=554691", "title": "A. S. Neill", "text": "A. S. Neill\n\nAlexander Sutherland Neill (17 October 1883 – 23 September 1973) was a Scottish educator and author known for his school, Summerhill, and its philosophies of freedom from adult coercion and community self-governance. Neill was raised in Scotland, where he was a poor student but became a schoolteacher. He taught in several schools across the country before attending the University of Edinburgh from 1908 to 1912. He took two jobs in journalism before World War I, and taught at Gretna Green Village School during the first year of the war, writing his first book, \"A Dominie's Log\" (1915), as a diary of his life as headteacher. He joined the staff of a school in Dresden in 1921, founding Summerhill upon his return to England in 1924. Summerhill received widespread renown in the 1920s to 1930s and then in the 1960s to 1970s, due to progressive and counter-culture interest. Neill wrote 20 books in his lifetime, and his best seller was the 1960 \"Summerhill\", a compilation of four previous books about his school. The book was a common ancestor to activists in the 1960s free school movement.\n\nAlexander Sutherland Neill was born in Forfar, Scotland, on 17 October 1883 to George and Mary Neill. He was their fourth son; one of the eight surviving children out of 13. He was raised in an austere, Calvinist house with values of fear, guilt, and adult and divine authority, which he later repudiated. As a child, he was obedient, quiet, and uninterested in school. His father was the village dominie (Scottish schoolmaster) of Kingsmuir, near Forfar in eastern Scotland, and his mother had been a teacher before her marriage. The village dominie held a position of prestige, hierarchically beneath that of upper classes, doctors, and clergymen. As typical of Scottish methods at the time, the dominie controlled overcrowded classrooms with his tawse, as corporal punishment. Neill feared his father, though he later claimed his father's imagination as a role model for good teaching. Scholars have interpreted Neill's harsh childhood as the impetus for his later philosophy, though his father was not shown to be harsher to Allie (as Neill was known) than to anyone else. Neill's mother (\"née\" Sutherland Sinclair) insisted on high standards for her family, and demanded comportment to set the family apart from the townspeople.\n\nChildren usually left the local school for Forfar Academy at the age of 14, and with his father a teacher, Neill was especially expected to do so. Instead of wasting time and money, Neill went to work as a junior clerk in an Edinburgh gas meter factory. His parents took pity on his hatred of the job, homesickness, and its low pay, and so Neill became an apprentice draper in Forfar. He found the work stultifying and came home after a foot inflammation. Neill tried to take an examination that would raise his pay grade, but could not bring himself to study. Now 15, his parents decided to make him his father's assistant \"pupil teacher\". The children liked Neill, though he received poor marks from a school inspector. He taught a wider range of topics as his self-confidence grew, and he developed an interest in mathematics from the Forfar Academy maths master. After four years, he tried for teacher training college, but came nearly last in his class. He continued as a pupil teacher in Bonnyrigg and Kingskettle, where he found the teachers' instruction militant and loathsome. He stayed in Kingskettle for three years, during which he learned Greek from a local priest, an experience that increased his interest in academicism and sublimated his interest in priesthood into a desire to attend university. After studying with the priest and the Forfar math master, Neill passed his university entrance exam and preliminary teacher's certification.\n\nNeill became an assistant teacher at the Newport Public School in the wealthy Newport-on-Tay, where he learned to dance and appreciate music and theatre. He also fell in love, and Margaret became an obsession of his. He adopted progressive techniques at this school, and abandoned the tawse for other forms of establishing discipline. Neill was friendly and relaxed with his pupils, and described his two years there as \"the happiest of [his] life thus far\". He finished his university entrance exams and received his full teaching certification.\n\nIn 1908, at the age of 25, Neill enrolled in the University of Edinburgh. He began as an agriculture student, at his father's behest for a well-salaried career, but switched to English literature by the end of his first year. Neill was excluded from cultural events due to his lack of funds, but participated in sports, showed interest in the military, and wrote for \"The Student\" (the university magazine) and the \"Glasgow Herald\". He became the student paper's editor during his last year, which opened Neill to a world of culture. He also felt more confident to pursue women. In his editorials, Neill criticized the tedium of lectures and the emphasis on tests instead of critical thinking. He began to develop his thoughts about the futility of forced education, and the axiom that all learning came from intrinsic interest. Neill graduated in 1912 and began to edit encyclopedias and similar reference books. He took a new job as art editor of the \"Piccadilly Magazine\", but its operations were halted by the 1914 onset of World War I, in which he served as an officer in the army. He returned to Scotland, working as a head teacher at Gretna Green School during the first year of the war. The diary he wrote for this year was published as a book, \"A Dominie's Log\", in November 1915 by Herbert Jenkins, and received good reviews for its humour and narrative style.\n\nNeill was invited to join a progressive school in Dresden in 1921. The school moved to a monastery near Vienna in 1923, where the townspeople did not receive it well. He moved to England in 1924 and started Summerhill in Lyme Regis, where the name came from the estate.\n\nThe school picked up some notoriety and the average enrollment was 40 pupils. In 1927, it moved to Leiston, where it remained.\n\nNeill credited Summerhill's environment instead of himself for the school's reformatory successes. Neill used to offer psychoanalytic therapy (\"private lessons\", since he was not a licensed therapist) for children who arrived as delinquents from other institutions, but later found love, affirmation, and freedom to be a better cure.\n\nThe Summerhill classroom was popularly assumed to reflect Neill's anti-authoritarian beliefs, though their classes were traditional in practice. Neill did not show outward interest in classroom pedagogy, and was mainly interested in student happiness. He did not consider lesson quality important, and thus there were no distinctive Summerhillian classroom methods. Leonard Waks wrote that, like Homer Lane, Neill thought all teaching should follow student interest, and that teaching method did not matter much once student interest was apparent. In a review of an algebra lesson taught by Neill as recounted through Herb Snitzer's \"Living at Summerhill\", Richard Bailey described Neill's teaching technique as \"simply awful\" for his lack of student engagement, inarticulate explanations, and insults directed at students. Bailey criticized Neill's absolution of responsibility for his pupils' academic performance, and his view that charismatic instruction was a form of persuasion that weakened child autonomy. Ronald Swartz referred to Neill's method as Socratic, about which Bailey disagreed.\n\nNeill was not religious. Despite this, he would flippantly remark that Summerhill was the only Christian school in England when its philosophy was compared with that of Christ. Neill saw the doctrine of \"original sin\" as a means of control and sought a world ruled by love and self-examination. Like Freud, he felt that children who were denied understanding of their sexuality in their youth became adults who were similarly fearful of their own sexuality.\n\nNeill felt that children (and human nature) were innately good, and that children naturally became just and virtuous when allowed to grow without adult imposition of morality. Children did not need to be coaxed or goaded into desirable behaviour, as their natural state was satisfactory and their natural inclinations \"in no way immoral\". If left alone, children would become self-regulating, reasonable and ethical adults. Together with Homer Lane, Neill supported personal freedoms for children to live as they please without adult interference, and called this position \"on the side of the child\". Neill's practice can be summarised as providing children with space, time, and empowerment for personal exploration and with freedom from adult fear and coercion.\n\nThe aim of life, to Neill, was \"to find happiness, which means to find interest.\" Likewise, the purpose of Neill's education was to be happy and interested in life, and children needed complete freedom to find their interests. Neill considered happiness an innate characteristic that deteriorated if children were denied personal freedom. Such unhappiness led to repressed and psychologically disordered adults. He blamed a \"sick and unhappy\" society for widespread unhappiness. Neill claimed that society harboured fears of life, children and emotions that were continually bequeathed to the next generation. He felt that children turned to self-hate and internal hostility when denied an outlet for expression in adult systems of emotional regulation and manipulation. Likewise, children taught to withhold their sexuality would see such feelings negatively, which would fuel disdain for self. Neill thought that calls for obedience quenched the natural needs of children. Moreover, their needs could not be fulfilled by adults or a society that simultaneously prolonged their unhappiness, although perhaps a school like Summerhill could help.\n\nAs for \"interest\", Neill felt it came organically and spontaneously as a prerequisite for learning. Neill considered forced instruction (without pupil interest) a destructive waste of time. Earlier in his career, he wrote that human interest releases emotions that otherwise congests a person. He added that education's role is to facilitate that release, with Summerhill actualizing this concept. Neill never defines \"true interest\" and does not account for the social influences on child interest. Bailey felt that this omission discredits Neill's position against external influence. Bailey also cited \"adaptive preferences\" literature, where human interests change based on their surroundings and circumstances, as evidence of how intrinsic interest can be externally influenced. Bailey also dubbed Neill's views on intelligence as \"innatist\" and fatalist — that children had naturally set capabilities and limitations. Neill saw contemporary interventionist practice as doing harm by emphasising conformity and stifling children's natural drive to do as they please.\n\nNeill did not identify with the progressive educators of his time. They advocated far gentler authority in child-rearing, which Neill considered more insidious than overt authority and altogether unnecessary. All imposed authority, even if meant well, was unjustified. He felt that adults asserted authority for its feelings of power, and that this motive was a type of repression. In Neill's philosophy, the goal was maintenance of happiness through avoidance of repressive habits from society. Despite Neill's common citation as a leader within progressive education, his ideas were considerably more radical, and he was called an extremist by other radicals. Unlike Friedrich Fröbel, Neill did not view children with romantic innocence. He saw their animalistic traits as qualities to be \"outgrown with time and freedom\". Neill also considered his role in providing emotional support.\n\nEmotional education trumped intellectual needs, in Neill's eyes, and he was associated with anti-intellectualism. In actuality, he had a personal interest in scholarship and used his autobiography near the end of his life to profess the necessity of both emotion and intellect in education, though he often took jabs at what he saw to be education's overemphasis on book-learning. Neill felt that an emotional education freed the intellect to follow what it pleased, and that children required an emotional education to keep up with their own gradual developmental needs. This education usually entailed copious amounts of play and distance from the adult anxieties of work and ambition. Neill was influenced by Sigmund Freud's theories of psychoanalysis, Homer Lane's interpretation of Freud, and later, by the unorthodox sexual theories of Wilhelm Reich. The reverence for Reich appears in the abundant correspondence between them. Neill accepted Reich's claims about cosmic energy and his utopian ideas on human sexuality. In Reich's view, \"discharge\" of sexual energy leads to happiness, whereas lack of such discharge leads to unhappiness and \"rigidity\". Although not a trained therapist, Neill gave psychoanalytic private lessons to individual children, designed to unblock impasses in their inner energies. Neill also offered body massage, as suggested by Reich. Neill later found that freedom cured better than this therapy.\n\nRichard Bailey placed Neill alongside William Godwin, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Voltaire, and Robert Owen in Thomas Sowell's \"unconstrained vision\" tradition, where human potential is naturally unlimited and human development is dependent on environment and not incentives. Bailey also compared Neill's thoughts on coercion to those of Godwin, who felt that regulation through reward and punishment stunted growth. Neill saw moral instruction as a wedge between natural instinct and conformity and thought children were best off without it. Neill trusted the natural inclinations of children and saw no need to externally and purposefully influence their behaviour. Denis Lawton likened Neill's ideas to Rousseauan \"negative education\", where children discover for themselves instead of receiving instruction. Neill is commonly associated with Rousseau for their similar thoughts on human nature, although Neill claimed to not have read Rousseau's \"Emile, or On Education\" until near the end of his life. John Cleverley and D. C. Phillips declared Neill \"the most notable figure in the Rousseauean tradition\", and Frank Flanagan credited Neill with actualising what Rousseau envisaged. Marc-Alexandre Prud-homme and Giuliano Reis found the comparison \"inappropriate\" on the basis of Rousseau's views on gender.\n\nPeter Hobson found Neill's philosophy of education incomplete, oversimplified, without a \"coherent theory of knowledge\", and too dependent on his experience instead of philosophical position. When presented with Hobson's position, four experts on Neill and Summerhill considered his assertions \"irrelevant\". Joel Spring likened Neill's views on the family to that of Mary Wollstonecraft, in that the parents would share power equally.\n\nWhen Neill said children should be free, he did not mean complete freedom, but freedom without licence—that everyone can do as they like unless such action encroaches upon another's freedom. As such, adults could and should protect children from danger, but not trample their self-regulation. Neill emphasised that adult removal from child affairs was distinct from disregard for their security. He felt that children met their own limits naturally. Neill believed in equal rights between parents and children, and that undesirable \"disciplined\" or \"spoiled\" homes were created when those rights were imbalanced. He felt it unnecessary to fulfil all of childhood's requests and had great disdain for spoiled children. Summerhill children were naturally restricted by the school's limited teaching expertise and low funds.\n\nBailey wrote that Neill did not have full faith in self-regulation due to his emphasis on the necessity of making specific environments for children. Robin Barrow argued that Neill's idea of self-regulation was contradictory, when its intent was, more simply, the extent to which children need to abide by external restraints. Bailey added that children cannot know the extent to which dull and unknown subjects can be exciting without guidance. He felt that Neill's belief in children's innate and realistic wisdom did not accommodate human characteristics \"such as error, prejudice, and ignorance\", ascribed genius-level intelligence to children, and did not consider social aspects in child decision-making.\n\nSelf-governance was a central idea to Summerhill, and is perhaps its \"most fundamental feature\". Summerhill held a weekly general meeting that decided the school's rules and settled school disputes, where every member of the community—staff and student alike—had a single vote. Almost everyone in the school attended the meeting, and children always held the majority. Meetings were managed by an elected Chairperson. At times, the school had over 200 rules.\n\nSummerhill sought to produce individualists conscious of their surrounding social order, and Neill chose the self-governance of Homer Lane's Little Commonwealth for the basis of that lesson. The general meeting replaced teacher authority with communal control, which freed teachers from their roles as disciplinarians and instructed children in the role of democratic participation and the role of rules. Additionally, reports of teacher–student disputes were rare. Neill felt that the community's authority never created resentment in those subject to sanctions. Sven Muller contended that the meeting was more useful than discipline for creating civic-minded citizens. An ex-pupil recalled some of the wild ideas Neill would propose at the meeting, and while the students would vote him down, she later recounted how the exercise was also intended as a lesson for the staff on the power of the meeting and communal authority. Neill considered self-governance \"the most valuable asset in education and life\" and the general meeting \"more important than all the textbooks in the world\".\n\nOn occasion, Neill exercised unilateral decision-making as the owner of the school, despite his emphasis on the authority figure-less nature of the school. Instances include when he once made a decision after the group's discussion protracted, and when he once asserted himself dictator. Ultimately, the school's freedom was Neill's to structure.\n\nNeill wrote 20 books in his lifetime. His style was simple and friendly, unlike didactic literature from the era. His topics included the balance of authority and the thoughts–feelings relationship.\n\nThe 1960 release of \"Summerhill\" catapulted Neill into the public view. Richard Bailey described its result as \"an American cult\" of Summerhillian schools and their support organizations. The book sold well and made Neill into a figurehead of new interest in education. Bailey added that the unpretentious book's message was easier to impart than Deweyan thought, and that its release inspired Neill's education critic contemporaries as to the viability of their ideas.\n\nCritics regard Neill's influence and importance with mixed opinion. Supporters counted Neill amongst the world's most influential educationists. UNESCO listed Neill within its 100 most important educationists worldwide. The \"Times Educational Supplement\" listed him in its 12 most important British educationists of the millennium. Herb Kohl declared Neill \"one of the greatest democratic educators of the last century\" in 2005. Academics and teachers cited Summerhill as the common ancestor for free schools, and Neill was poised to become a public figure during Summerhill's heyday in the 1970s. Its detractors do not classify Summerhill as a school. Max Rafferty called Summerhill \"a caricature of education\" and felt threatened by the implications of \"the spread of Neill's hedonism to the majority of the next generation\". Others criticized Neill for his progressive ideals despite agreement on his critique of traditional schools, and bemoaned his \"outdated radicalism\" and \"dangerously enthusiastic following in teaching training institutions\".\n\nRichard Bailey wrote that Summerhill received most of its public attention in the 1920s to 1930s and in the 1960s to 1970s, which were milieux of social change (progressivism and the counterculture, respectively). Neill was known in British education circles by the 1920s and was \"probably Britain's first educational celebrity\" in the 1930s, though he was not driven by his reception. Journal reviews called Neill \"the most popular writer on education today\" and said of his works, \"Nearly all the more alive and up-to-date teachers in Britain have read and argued about his notions\". He was known via his books as a figure in the new psychoanalysis. The accessible 1960 \"Summerhill\" crowned Neill the leader of a new avant-garde education and he became symbolic of the rebel decade.\n\nNeill is generally associated with democratic schools as a leader in its tradition. H. A. T. Child associated Summerhill with the Bedales School, Alfred the Great, and Child's Dartington Hall School, and David Gribble wrote about schools around the world following Neill's teachings in 1998. Timothy Gray linked the release of \"Summerhill\" with the rise of writers Herb Kohl, Jonathan Kozol, Neil Postman, and Ivan Illich. Scholars debate whether Neill fits best in a progressive or more radical tradition.\n\nFew of Neill's acolytes continued his work after his death. His family maintained Summerhill, with Neill's daughter as its headmaster . Others influenced by Neill included John Aitkenhead, Michael Duane, and R. F. Mackenzie. Richard Bailey wrote that Maria Montessori and Rudolf Steiner's followers were more evangelical in character, and that Neill deterred would-be devotees. He specifically discouraged American association with his school in both name and likeness. By 1972, Ray Hemmings wrote that Neill's ideas were misinterpreted in the hands of other schools. Hemmings found Neill to have moderate influence on state schools in areas such as teacher–student interactions. Neill's views on sexuality and non-compulsory lessons did not have widespread acceptance. Herb Snitzer said that Neill \"influenced thousand of teachers\". Both George Dennison and Bailey felt Neill's influence to not be easily measurable, with Dennison adding that non-Summerhill schools continue to adopt Neillian thought.\n\nNeill was awarded three honorary degrees: a master's and two honorary doctorates. One doctorate was from the Newcastle University in 1966. He was reportedly very proud of the awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "614484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=614484", "title": "Academic freedom", "text": "Academic freedom\n\nAcademic freedom is the conviction that the freedom of inquiry by faculty members is essential to the mission of the academy as well as the principles of academia, and that scholars should have freedom to teach or communicate ideas or facts (including those that are inconvenient to external political groups or to authorities) without being targeted for repression, job loss, or imprisonment.\n\nAcademic freedom is a contested issue and, therefore, has limitations in practice. In the United States, for example, according to the widely recognized \"1940 Statement on Academic Freedom and Tenure\" of the American Association of University Professors, teachers should be careful to avoid controversial matters that are unrelated to the subject discussed. When they speak or write in public, they are free to express their opinions without fear from institutional censorship or discipline, but they should show restraint and clearly indicate that they are not speaking for their institution. Academic tenure protects academic freedom by ensuring that teachers can be fired only for causes such as gross professional incompetence or behavior that evokes condemnation from the academic community itself.\n\nAlthough the notion of academic freedom has a long implicit history, the idea was first clearly formulated in response to the encroachments of the totalitarian state on science and academia in general for the furtherance of its own goals. For instance, in the Soviet Union, scientific research was brought under strict political control in the 1930s. A number of research areas were declared \"bourgeois pseudoscience\" and forbidden, notably genetics (see \"Lysenkoism\") and sociology. The trend toward subjugating science to the interests of the state also had proponents in the West, including the influential Marxist John Desmond Bernal, who published \"The Social Function of Science\" in 1939.\n\nIn contrast to this approach, Michael Polanyi argued that a structure of liberty is essential for the advancement of science – that the freedom to pursue science for its own sake is a prerequisite for the production of knowledge through peer review and the scientific method.\n\nIn 1936, as a consequence of an invitation to give lectures for the Ministry of Heavy Industry in the USSR, Polanyi met Bukharin, who told him that in socialist societies all scientific research is directed to accord with the needs of the latest five-year plan. Demands in Britain for centrally planned scientific research led Polanyi, together with John Baker, to found the influential Society for Freedom in Science. The Society promoted a liberal conception of science as free enquiry against the instrumental view that science should exist primarily to serve the needs of society.\n\nIn a series of articles, re-published in \"The Contempt of Freedom\" (1940) and \"The Logic of Liberty\" (1951), Polanyi claimed that co-operation amongst scientists is analogous to the way in which agents co-ordinate themselves within a free market. Just as consumers in a free market determine the value of products, science is a spontaneous order that arises as a consequence of open debate amongst specialists. Science can therefore only flourish when scientists have the liberty to pursue truth as an end in itself:\n\n[S]cientists, freely making their own choice of problems and pursuing them in the light of their own personal judgment, are in fact co-operating as members of a closely knit organization.\n\nSuch self-co-ordination of independent initiatives leads to a joint result which is unpremeditated by any of those who bring it about.\n\nAny attempt to organize the group ... under a single authority would eliminate their independent initiatives, and thus reduce their joint effectiveness to that of the single person directing them from the centre. It would, in effect, paralyse their co-operation.\nProponents of academic freedom believe that the freedom of inquiry by students and faculty members is essential to the mission of the academy. They argue that academic communities are repeatedly targeted for repression due to their ability to shape and control the flow of information. When scholars attempt to teach or communicate ideas or facts that are inconvenient to external political groups or to authorities, they may find themselves targeted for public vilification, job loss, imprisonment, or even death. For example, in North Africa, a professor of public health discovered that his country's infant mortality rate was higher than government figures indicated. He lost his job and was imprisoned.\n\nThe fate of biology in the Soviet Union is also cited as a reason why society has an interest in protecting academic freedom. A Soviet biologist Trofim Lysenko rejected Western science – then focused primarily on making advances in theoretical genetics, based on research with the fruit fly (\"Drosophila melanogaster\") – and proposed a more socially relevant approach to farming that was based on the collectivist principles of dialectical materialism. (Lysenko called this \"Michurinism\", but it is more popularly known today as Lysenkoism.) Lysenko's ideas proved appealing to the Soviet leadership, in part because of their value as propaganda, and he was ultimately made director of the Soviet Academy of Agricultural Sciences. Subsequently, Lysenko directed a purge of scientists who professed \"harmful ideas\", resulting in the expulsion, imprisonment, or death of hundreds of Soviet scientists. Lysenko's ideas were then implemented on collectivised farms in the Soviet Union and China. Famines that resulted partly from Lysenko's influence are believed to have killed 30 million people in China alone.\n\nAFAF (Academics For Academic Freedom) of the United Kingdom is a campaign for lecturers, academic staff and researchers who want to make a public statement in favour of free enquiry and free expression. Their statement of Academic Freedom has two main principles:\n\n\nAFAF and those who agree with its principles believe that it is important for academics to be able not only to express their opinions, but also to put them to scrutiny and to open further debate. They are against the idea of telling the public Platonic \"noble lies\" and believe that people need not be protected from radical views.\n\nThe concept of academic freedom as a right of faculty members is an established part of most legal systems. Different from the United States, where academic freedom is derived from the guarantee of free speech under the First Amendment, constitutions of other countries (and particularly of civil law jurisdictions) typically grant a separate right to free learning, teaching, and research.\n\nDuring the interwar years (cir. 1919–1939) Canadian academics were informally expected to be apolitical, lest they bring trouble to their respective universities who, at the time, were very much dependent upon provincial government grants. As well, many Canadian academics of the time considered their position to be remote from the world of politics and felt they had no place getting involved in political issues. However, with the increase of socialist activity in Canada during the Great Depression, due to the rise of social gospel ideology, some left-wing academics began taking active part in contemporary political issues outside of the university. Thus, individuals such as Frank H. Underhill at the University of Toronto and other members or affiliates with the League for Social Reconstruction or the socialist movement in Canada who held academic positions began to find themselves in precarious positions with their university employers. Frank H. Underhill, for example, faced criticism from within and without academia and near expulsion from his university position for his public political comments and his involvement with the League for Social Reconstruction and the Co-Operative Commonwealth Federation. According to Michiel Horn this era marked, \"...a relaxation of the unwritten controls under which many Canadian professors had previously worked. The nature of the institutions, natural caution and professional pre-occupation had before the Depression inhibited the professoriate. None of these conditions changed quickly, but even at the provincial universities there were brave souls in the 1930s who claimed, with varying success, the right publicly to discuss controversial subjects and express opinions about them.\"\n\nProfessors at public French universities and researchers in public research laboratories are expected, as are all civil servants, to behave in a neutral manner and to not favor any particular political or religious point of view during the course of their duties. However, the academic freedom of university professors is a fundamental principle recognized by the laws of the Republic, as defined by the Constitutional Council; furthermore, statute law declares about higher education that \"teachers-researchers (university professors and assistant professors), researchers and teachers are fully independent and enjoy full freedom of speech in the course of their research and teaching activities, provided they respect, following university traditions and the dispositions of this code, principles of tolerance and objectivity\". The nomination and promotion of professors is largely done through a process of peer review rather than through normal administrative procedures.\n\nThe German Constitution () specifically grants academic freedom: \"Art and science, research and teaching are free. Freedom of teaching does not absolve from loyalty to the constitution\" (Art. 5, para. 3). In a tradition reaching back to the 19th century, jurisdiction has understood this right as one to teach ('), study ('), and conduct research (') freely, although the last concept has sometimes been taken as a cover term for the first two. ' embraces the right of professors to determine the content of their lectures and to publish the results of their research without prior approval.\n\nSince professors through their \"Habilitation\" receive the right to teach () in a particular academic field, academic freedom is deemed to cover at least the entirety of this field. ' means a student's right to determine an individual course of study. Finally, ' permits academic self-governance and grants the university control of its internal affairs.\n\nIn Mauritius the academic staff have the following rights, which are stated in the Chapter II Constitution of Mauritius: the protection of Freedom of Conscience, Protection of Freedom of Expression, Protection of Freedom of Assembly and Association, Protection of Freedom to Establish schools and the Protection from Discrimination. In a 2012 paper on the University of Mauritius the author states that although there are no records of abuse of human rights or freedom of the state \"subtle threats to freedom of expression do exist, especially with regard to criticisms of ruling political parties and their leaders as well as religious groups.\" The government of Mauritius endorses the practice of academic freedom in the tertiary institutions of the country. Academic freedom became a public issue in May 2009 when the University of Mauritius spoke out against the previous vice chancellor Professor I. Fagoonee, who had forwarded a circular sent by the Ministry of Education to academics. This circular targeted public officers and required them to consult their superiors before speaking to the press. According to the paper, academics were annoyed by the fact that the vice chancellor had endorsed the circular by sending it to them when it was addressed to public officers. In an interview the vice- chancellor stated that while academics were free to speak to the press they should not compromise university policy or government policy. An academic spoke to the prime minister and the issue was eventually taken up to parliament. The vice chancellor was then required to step down. In return the government publicly endorsed the practice of academic freedom.\n\nThe institutional bureaucracy and the dependence on the state for funds has restricted the freedom of academics to criticize government policy. An interview with Dr. Kasenally an educator at the University of Mauritius expresses her views on academic freedom in the university. The professor states that in 1970s to 1980s the university was at the forefront of debates. But in the 1990s the university stepped away from controversial debates. In 1986, the rights of academics to engage in politics was removed to curtail academic freedom. Academics at the University of Mauritius have thus been encouraged to not express their views or ideas especially if the views oppose those of the management or government. While there have been no cases of arrests or extreme detention of academics, there is a fear that it would hinder their career progress especially at the level of a promotion thus, the academics try to avoid participating in controversial debates.\n\nIn the Netherlands the academic freedom is limited. In November 1985 the Dutch Ministry of Education published a policy paper titled \"Higher Education: Autonomy and Quality\". This paper had a proposal that steered away from traditional education and informed that the future of higher education sector should not be regulated by the central government. In 1992 the Law of Higher Education and Research (Wet op het hoger onderwijs en wetenschappelijk onderzoek, article 1.6) was published and became effective in 1993. However, this law governs only certain institutions.\n\nThe 1987 Philippine Constitution states that, \"Academic Freedom shall be enjoyed in all institutions of higher learning.\" Philippine jurisprudence and courts of law, including the Philippine Supreme Court tend to reflexively defer to the institutional autonomy of higher institutions of learning in determining academic decisions with respect to the outcomes of individual cases filed in the courts regarding the abuse of Academic Freedom by professors, despite the individual merits or demerits of any cases. A closely watched case was the controversial case of University of the Philippines at Diliman Sociology Professor Sarah Raymundo who was not granted tenure due to an appeal by the minority dissenting vote within the faculty of the Sociology Department. This decision was sustained upon appeal by the dissenting faculty and Professor Raymundo to the University of the Philippines at Diliman Chancellor Sergio S. Cao; and though the case was elevated to University of the Philippines System President Emerlinda R. Roman, Roman denied the appeal which was elevated by Professor Raymundo to the University's Board of Regents for decision and the BOR granted her request for tenure. A major bone of contention among the supporters of Professor Raymundo was not to question the institutional Academic Freedom of the Department in not granting her tenure, but in asking for transparency in how the Academic Freedom of the department was exercised, in keeping with traditions within the University of the Philippines in providing a basis that may be subject to peer review, for Academic decisions made under the mantle of Academic Freedom.\n\nThe South African Constitution of 1996 offers protection of academic freedom and the freedom of scholarly research. Academic freedom became a main principle for higher education by 1997. Three main threats are believed to jeopardize academic freedom: government regulations, excessive influence of private sector sponsor on a university, and limitations of freedom of speech in universities.\n\nThere have been an abundance of scandals over the restricted academic freedom at a number of universities in South Africa. The University of KwaZulu-Natal received fame over its restricted academic freedom and the scandal that occurred in 2007. In this scandal a sociology lecturer, Fazel Khan was fired in April 2007 for \"bringing the university into disrepute\" after he released information to the news media. According to Khan he had been airbrushed from a photograph in a campus publication because of his participation in a staff strike last February. In light of this scandal the South African Council on Higher Education released a report stating that the state is influencing academic freedom. In particular, public universities are more susceptible to political pressure because they receive funds from the public.\n\nAcademic freedom pertains to forms of expression by academic staff engaged in scholarship and is defined by the Education Act 1989 (s161(2)) as:\na) The freedom of academic staff and students, within the law, to question and test received wisdom, to put forward new ideas and to state controversial or unpopular opinions; \nb) The freedom of academic staff and students to engage in research; \nc) The freedom of the University and its staff to regulate the subject matter of courses taught at the University; \nd) The freedom of the University and its staff to teach and assess students in the manner they consider best promotes learning; and \ne) The freedom of the University through its Council and Vice-Chancellor to appoint its own staff. \nIn the United States, academic freedom is generally taken as the notion of academic freedom defined by the \"1940 Statement of Principles on Academic Freedom and Tenure\", jointly authored by the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) and the Association of American Colleges (AAC, now the Association of American Colleges and Universities). These principles state that \"Teachers are entitled to freedom in the classroom in discussing their subject.\" The statement also permits institutions to impose \"limitations of academic freedom because of religious or other aims\", so long as they are \"clearly stated in writing at the time of the appointment\". The Principles have only the character of private pronouncements, not that of binding law.\n\nSeven regional accreditors work with American colleges and universities, including private and religious institutions, to implement this standard. Additionally, the AAUP, which is not an accrediting body, works with these same institutions. The AAUP does not always agree with the regional accrediting bodies on the standards of protection of academic freedom and tenure. The AAUP lists (censures) those colleges and universities which it has found, after its own investigations, to violate these principles. There is some case law in the United States that holds that teachers are limited in their academic freedom.\n\nAcademic freedom has recently come under attack, but some people work to defend the first amendment on campuses.\n\nA prominent feature of the English university concept is the freedom to appoint faculty, set standards and admit students. This ideal may be better described as institutional autonomy and is distinct from whatever freedom is granted to students and faculty by the institution.\n\nThe Supreme Court of the United States said that academic freedom means a university can \"determine for itself on academic grounds:\n\n\nIn a 2008 case, a federal court in Virginia ruled that professors have no academic freedom; \"all\" academic freedom resides with the university or college. In that case, \"Stronach v. Virginia State University\", a district court judge held \"that no constitutional right to academic freedom exists that would prohibit senior (university) officials from changing a grade given by (a professor) to one of his students.\" The court relied on mandatory precedent of the U.S. Supreme Court case of \"Sweezy v. New Hampshire\" and a case from the fourth circuit court of appeals. The \"Stronach\" court also relied on persuasive cases from several circuits of the courts of appeals, including the first, third, and seventh circuits. That court distinguished the situation when a university attempts to coerce a professor into changing a grade, which is clearly in violation of the First Amendment, from when university officials may, in their discretionary authority, change the grade upon appeal by a student. The \"Stronach\" case has gotten significant attention in the academic community as an important precedent.\n\nAcademic freedom and free speech rights are not coextensive, although this widely accepted view has been recently challenged by an \"institutionalist\" perspective on the First Amendment. Academic freedom involves more than speech rights; for example, it includes the right to determine what is taught in the classroom. The AAUP gives teachers a set of guidelines to follow when their ideas are considered threatening to religious, political, or social agendas. When teachers speak or write in public, whether via social media or in academic journals, they are able to articulate their own opinions without the fear from institutional restriction or punishment, but they are encouraged to show restraint and clearly specify that they are not speaking for their institution. In practice, academic freedom is protected by institutional rules and regulations, letters of appointment, faculty handbooks, collective bargaining agreements, and academic custom.\n\nIn the U.S., the freedom of speech is guaranteed by the First Amendment, which states that \"Congress shall make no law... abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press...\" By extension, the First Amendment applies to all governmental institutions, including public universities. The U.S. Supreme Court has consistently held that academic freedom is a First Amendment right at \"public\" institutions. However, The United States' First Amendment has generally been held to not apply to \"private\" institutions, including religious institutions. These private institutions may honor freedom of speech and academic freedom at their discretion.\n\nAcademic freedom is also associated with a movement to introduce intelligent design as an alternative explanation to evolution in US public schools. Supporters claim that academic institutions need to fairly represent all possible explanations for the observed biodiversity on Earth, rather than implying no alternatives to evolutionary theory exist.\n\nCritics of the movement claim intelligent design is religiously motivated pseudoscience and cannot be allowed into the curriculum of US public schools due to the First Amendment to the United States Constitution, often citing \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\" as legal precedent. They also reject the allegations of discrimination against proponents of intelligent design, of which investigation showed no evidence.\n\nA number of \"academic freedom bills\" have been introduced in state legislatures in the United States between 2004 and 2008. The bills were based largely upon language drafted by the Discovery Institute, the hub of the Intelligent Design movement, and derive from language originally drafted for the Santorum Amendment in the United States Senate. According to the Wall Street Journal, the common goal of these bills is to expose more students to articles and videos that undercut evolution, most of which are produced by advocates of intelligent design or biblical creationism. The American Association of University Professors has reaffirmed its opposition to these academic freedom bills, including any portrayal of creationism as a scientifically credible alternative and any misrepresentation of evolution as scientifically controversial. , only the Louisiana bill has been successfully passed into law.\n\nIn the 20th Century and particularly the 1950s during McCarthyism, there was much public date in print on Communism's role in academic freedom, e.g., Sidney Hook's \"Heresy, Yes–Conspiracy, No\" and Whittaker Chambers' \"Is Academic Freedom in Danger?\" among many other books and articles.\n\n\"Students for Academic Freedom\" (SAF) was founded and is sponsored by the David Horowitz Freedom Center to advocate against a perceived liberal bias in U.S. colleges and universities. The organization collected many statements from college students complaining that some of their professors were disregarding their responsibility to keep unrelated controversial material out of their classes and were instead teaching their subjects from an ideological point of view. SAF drafted model legislation, called the Academic Bill of Rights, which has been introduced in several state legislatures and the U.S. House of Representatives. The Academic Bill of Rights is based on the Declaration of Principles on Academic Freedom and Academic Tenure as published by the American Association of University Professors in 1915, and modified in 1940 and 1970.\n\nAccording to Students for Academic Freedom, academic freedom is \"the freedom to teach and to learn.\" They contend that academic freedom promotes \"intellectual diversity\" and helps achieve a university's primary goals, i.e., \"the pursuit of truth, the discovery of new knowledge through scholarship and research, the study and reasoned criticism of intellectual and cultural traditions, the teaching and general development of students to help them become creative individuals and productive citizens of a pluralistic democracy, and the transmission of knowledge and learning to a society at large.\" They feel that, in the past forty years, the principles as defined in the AAUP Declaration have become something of a dead letter, and that an entrenched class of tenured radical leftists is blocking all efforts to restore those principles. In an attempt to override such opposition, the Academic Bill of Rights calls for state and judicial regulation of colleges. Such regulation would ensure that:\n\nOpponents claim that such a bill would actually restrict academic freedom, by granting politically motivated legislators and judges the right to shape the nature and focus of scholarly concerns. According to the American Association of University Professors, the Academic Bill of Rights is, despite its title, an attack on the very concept of academic freedom itself: \"A fundamental premise of academic freedom is that decisions concerning the quality of scholarship and teaching are to be made by reference to the standards of the academic profession, as interpreted and applied by the community of scholars who are qualified by expertise and training to establish such standards.\" The Academic Bill of Rights directs universities to implement the principle of neutrality by requiring the appointment of faculty \"with a view toward fostering a plurality of methodologies and perspectives,\" an approach they claim is problematic because \"It invites diversity to be measured by political standards that diverge from the academic criteria of the scholarly profession.\" For example,\"no department of political theory ought to be obligated to establish 'a plurality of methodologies and perspectives' by appointing a professor of Nazi political philosophy.\" Concurring, the president of Appalachian Bible College in West Virginia fears that the Academic Bill of Rights \"would inhibit his college's efforts to provide a faith-based education and would put pressure on the college to hire professors... who espouse views contrary to those of the institution.\"\n\nPontifical universities around the world such as The Catholic University of America, the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, \"Angelicum\" in Rome, the Université catholique de Louvain in Belgium, and the Pontifical Catholic University of Peru depend for their status as pontifical universities and for the terms of academic freedom on the Pope through the Congregation for Catholic Education. The terms of academic freedom at ecclesiastical institutions of education are outlined in the apostolic constitution \"Sapientia Christiana\".\n\nWhile some controversies of academic freedom are reflected in proposed laws that would affect large numbers of students through entire regions, many cases involve individual academics that express unpopular opinions or share politically unfavorable information. These individual cases may receive widespread attention and periodically test the limits of, and support for, academic freedom. Several of these specific cases are also the foundations for later legislature.\n\nThe Bassett Affair at Duke University in North Carolina in the early 20th century was an important event in the history of academic freedom. In October 1903, Professor John Spencer Bassett publicly praised Booker T. Washington and drew attention to the racism and white supremacist behavior of the Democratic party. Many media reports castigated Bassett, and several major newspapers published opinion pieces attacking him and demanding his termination. On December 1, 1903, the entire faculty of the college threatened to resign \"en masse\" if the board gave into political pressures and asked Bassett to resign. He resigned after \"parents were urged to withdraw their children from the college and churchmen were encouraged not to recommend the college to perspective students.\" President Teddy Roosevelt later praised Bassett for his willingness to express the truth as he saw it.\n\nIn 1929, Experimental Psychology Professor Max Friedrich Meyer and Sociology Assistant Professor Harmon O. DeGraff were dismissed from their positions at the University of Missouri for advising student Orval Hobart Mowrer regarding distribution of a questionnaire which inquired about attitudes towards partner's sexual tendencies, modern views of marriage, divorce, extramarital sexual relations, and cohabitation. The university was subsequently censured by the American Association of University Professors in an early case regarding academic freedom due a tenured professor.\n\nIn a famous case investigated by the American Association of University Professors, President Hamilton Holt of Rollins College in March 1933 fired John Andrew Rice, an atheist scholar and unorthodox teacher, whom Holt had hired, along with three other \"golden personalities\" in his push to put Rollins on the cutting edge of innovative education. Holt then required all professors to make a \"loyalty pledge\" to keep their jobs. The American Association of University Professors censured Rollins. Rice and the three other \"golden personalities\", who were all dismissed for refusing to make the loyalty pledge, founded Black Mountain College.\n\nIn 1978, a Nobel prize-winning physicist, electronics inventor, and electrical engineering professor, William Shockley, was concerned about relatively high reproductive rates among people of African descent, because he believed that genetics doomed black people to be intellectually inferior to white people. He stated that he believed his work on race to be more important than his work leading to the Nobel prize. He was strongly criticized for this stance, which raised some concerns about whether criticism of unpopular views of racial differences suppressed academic freedom.\n\nIn 2006, Lawrence Summers, while president of Harvard University, led a discussion that was intended to identify the reasons why fewer women chose to study science and mathematics at advanced levels. He suggested that the possibility of intrinsic gender differences in terms of talent for science and mathematics should be explored. He became the target of considerable public backlash. His critics were, in turn, accused of attempting to suppress academic freedom. Due to the adverse reception to his comments, he resigned after a five-year tenure. Another significant factor of his resignation was several votes of no-confidence placed by the deans of schools, notably multiple professors in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences.\n\nThe 2006 scandal in which several members of the Duke Lacrosse team were falsely accused of rape raised serious criticisms against exploitation of academic freedom by the university and its faculty to press judgement and deny due process to the three players accused. This case was very controversial due to the rape culture it pertains to.\n\nIn 2006 trade union leader and sociologist Fazel Khan was fired from the University of KwaZulu-Natal in Durban, South Africa after taking a leadership role in a strike. In 2008 international concern was also expressed at attempts to discipline two other academics at the same university – Nithiya Chetty and John van der Berg – for expressing concern about academic freedom at the university.\n\nJ. Michael Bailey wrote a popular science-style book, \"The Man Who Would Be Queen\", which promotes Ray Blanchard's theory that transwomen are motivated by sexuality, and dismisses the \"woman trapped in a man's body\" concept of transsexuality. In 2007 in an effort to discredit his book, some activists filed formal complaints with Northwestern University accusing Bailey of conducting regulated human research. They also filed a complaint with Illinois state regulators, requesting that they investigate Bailey for practicing psychology without a license. Regulators dismissed the complaint. Other academics have also accused him of sexual misconduct.\n\nIn 2009 Thio Li-ann withdrew from an appointment at New York University School of Law after controversy erupted about some anti-gay remarks she had made, prompting a discussion of academic freedom within the law school. Subsequently, Li-ann was asked to step down from her position in the NYU Law School.\n\nIn 2009 the University of California at Santa Barbara charged William I. Robinson with anti-Semitism after he circulated an email to his class containing photographs and paragraphs of the Holocaust juxtaposed to those of the Gaza Strip. Robinson was fired from the university, but after charges were dropped after a worldwide campaign against the management of the university.\n\nThe University of the Philippines at Diliman affair where controversy erupted after Professor Gerardo A. Agulto of the College of Business Administration was sued by MBA graduate student Chanda R. Shahani for a nominal amount in damages for failing him several times in the Strategic Management portion of the Comprehensive Examination. Agulto refused to give a detailed basis for his grades and instead invoked Academic Freedom while Shahani argued in court that Academic Freedom could not be invoked without a rational basis in grading a student.\n\nIn 2013 the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign offered Steven Salaita a faculty position in American Indian studies but then withdrew the offer in 2014, after reviewing some of his comments on Twitter about Israel.\n\nProfessor David Guth of Kansas University was persecuted by the Kansas Board of Regents due to his tweet, from a personal account linked to the university, regarding the shootings which stated, \"#NavyYardShooting The blood is on the hands of the #NRA. Next time, let it be YOUR sons and daughters. Shame on you. May God damn you.\" Following the controversial comments, Kansas University suspended, but ultimately allowed him to come back. Because of this incident and the moral qualms it raised, the Kansas Board of Regents passed a new policy regarding social media. This new legislature allowed universities to discipline or terminate employees who used social media in ways \"contrary to the best interests of the university.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26690992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26690992", "title": "Academic integrity", "text": "Academic integrity\n\nAcademic integrity is the moral code or ethical policy of academia. The term was coined by the late Don McCabe, who is considered to be the \"grandfather of academic integrity\". This includes values such as avoidance of cheating or plagiarism; maintenance of academic standards; honesty and rigor in research and academic publishing.\n\nDuring the late 18th century, academic integrity tightly correlated to the southern honor code (United States). This was monitored mainly by the students and surrounding culture of the time. The southern honor code focused on duty, pride, power, and self-esteem. Any act promoting the uprising or building of any of these within an individual was the goal. Thus, academic integrity was tied solely to the status and appearance of upstanding character of the individual. Any acts of academic dishonesty performed to maintain their good name was seen as a necessary means to an end.\n\nIt wasn't until the end of the 19th century when the goals of the university changed that the concept of academic integrity changed. Academics of this era were required to teach and produce original research. The pressure to acquire tenure and publish added extra stress to their jobs, though acts of academic dishonesty were viewed as acts of follies. Still, the southern honor code concept of academic integrity was evolving into a more contemporary concept. Academic integrity was now beginning to replace honor of the individual honor to the university as an institution. Such an evolution was important to promote unity throughout the academic institution and encourage students to hold each other accountable for dishonest acts. It also allowed the students to feel empowered through the self-monitoring of each other.\n\nAs the importance of original research grew among faculty members the questioning of research integrity grew as well. With so much pressure linked to their professional status professor were under intense scrutiny by the surrounding society. This inevitably led to the separating academic integrity ideals for student and faculty. Because of each groups different goal orientations it no longer made sense to hold them to the same standards. By 1970 most universities in the United States has established honor codes for their student body and faculty members, although this concept has not really caught on elsewhere in the world (e.g. see Yakovchuk et al.).\n\nImprovements in information technology have created challenges academic integrity, especially with respect to increased plagiarism and use of poor-quality sources found on the internet. Technology has also increased opportunities for collaborative writing, raising issues of proper attribution of authorship.\n\nAcademic integrity is practiced in the majority of educational institutions, it is noted in mission statements and represented in honor codes, but it is also being taught in ethics classes and being noted in syllabuses. Many universities have sections on their websites devoted to academic integrity which define what the term means to their specific institution.\n\nHonor code can help improve trust and honesty to students and give credits to those that actually wrote it. It can help teachers and students create an honor pledge that allows them to have severe punishments to those who committed academic dishonesty. The honor pledge is created before the assignment is assigned and need to be read over and signed, so it can show that the student is agreeing to not violate any rules.\n\nUniversities have moved toward an inclusive approach to inspiring academic integrity, by creating Student Honor Councils as well as taking a more active role in making students aware of the consequences for academic dishonesty.\n\nAcademic Integrity is also the meaning of what it truly feels to be involved with many on campus activities, and making contributions to your local community.\n\nGary Pavela, Director of Judicial Programs and Student Ethical Development, University of Maryland stated that \"Promoting student moral development requires affirming shared values. More colleges are starting to focus on one value that goes to the heart of the academic enterprise: a commitment to honesty in the pursuit of truth.\"\n\nTo help with understanding of a university's level of academic integrity, Clemson University's International Center for Academic Integrity at Rutland Institute for Ethics has developed a Campus Assessment Guide which includes information for universities to survey their own current academic integrity.\n\nTo promote the academic integrity, publication ethics, and responsible research in the higher education system in India, the University Grants Commission (India) enacted the \"UGC (Promotion of Academic Integrity and Prevention of Plagiarism in Higher Educational Institutions) Regulations, 2018\" on July 23, 2018 . The Regulations then recommend some institutional mechanisms to eliminate the scope of plagiarism. \n\nApart from the Assessment Guide, the Computer Science and Engineering Department of The Chinese University of Hong Kong has invented a plagiarism detection software system named as VeriGuide. This system aims at upholding the academic honesty levels of various academic institutions (such as: universities, community colleges). Through its website, the system provides a platform for students and educators to manage and submit academic works (i.e. student assignments). The system also provides as a function of analyzing the readability of academic works and serve as an assignment collection system and database.\n\nDespite these advances, academic dishonesty still plagues the university and in the 1990s the academic dishonesty rates were as bad as, and in some cases, worse than they were in the 1960s. The acknowledgement of this ethics crisis is inspiring many universities to focus more on promoting common values of academic integrity.\n\nConversely, critics have drawn attention to the fact that \"teaching and learning are interrupted because faculty, in an effort to control plagiarism and protect notions of intellectual capital, are forced to engage with the students as detectives rather than as teachers, advisors, or mentors. The focus on controlling plagiarism among students is critiqued as unnecessarily legalistic and the rules more rigid than those necessarily accorded to intellectual property law (Marsh, 2004)\". Similarly, contributions made from a societal perspective question or critique previously unexamined assumptions of the \"inherent goodness, universality, and absoluteness of independence, originality, and authorship (Valentine, 2006). Authors who write about the societal dimension such as Ede and Lundsford (2001) do not suggest the elimination of notions of individual authorship and the unconditional acceptance of copying and collaboration in its place. Rather, the societal dimension highlights the need to consider both and the importance of deconstructing how the idea of the \"individual author\" might be serving (or not serving) the goals of teaching (learning), service, and research. ... Postsecondary education institutions are urged to step back from the mindless or fear-based ready adoption of the \"turnitin culture\" (Maruca, 2005) to allow for such question asking in the spirit of enhancing academic integrity and the teaching and learning environment.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3050021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3050021", "title": "Actual development level", "text": "Actual development level\n\nActual development level refers to how much a child can achieve independently without the assistance of a parents, teachers, or peers.\n"}
{"id": "50618747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50618747", "title": "Adjunct professor", "text": "Adjunct professor\n\nAdjunct professor (adjunct lecturer and adjunct instructor, or adjunct faculty collectively) is a type of academic appointment in higher education. \n\n"}
{"id": "30873725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30873725", "title": "Adult learner", "text": "Adult learner\n\nAn adult learner (North America) or mature student (UK) (sometimes also called adult student, returning adult, and adult returner) is a person who is 25 years and up who is involved in forms of learning. Adult learners fall in a specific criteria of being experienced, and do not have the high school diploma. Many of the adult learners go back to school to finish a degree, or earn a new one.\n\nMalcolm Knowles's work distinguished adult learners as distinct from adolescent and child learners in his principle of andragogy. He established 5 assumptions about the adult learner. This included self-concept, adult learner experience, readiness to learn, orientation to learning, and motivation to learning.\n\nIn the US, adult learners fall into the category of nontraditional students, whom the National Center for Education Statistics defines as meeting at least one of the following seven criteria:\n\nNot all nontraditional students are adult learners, as the term refers to the brain development of the person, but adult learners are considered nontraditional students. This can be due to the wide range of cultural, job, and educational backgrounds.\n\nIn the UK, a student is normally classified as a mature student if he or she is an (undergraduate) student who is at least 25+ years old at the start of his or her course, or in the Irish case on the first of January of the year of entry, and usually having been away from school for at least two years. The normal entry requirements for school-leavers wishing to start an undergraduate degree are often not applied to mature students. \n\nAdult students are frequently referred to as nontraditional students in higher education. Adult students are contrasted with traditional students, who are typically aged 18–22, attend full-time, live on campus, do not work, and have few, if any, family responsibilities. In 2008, 36 percent of postsecondary students were age 25 or older and 47 percent were independent students.\n\nAs opposed to a child or adolescent, adult learners typically have more life experience and their brains are more fully developed. When confronted with new knowledge or an experience, adult learners construe new meaning based on their life experiences and their more developed brains process these experiences differently than someone with a less developed brain (children and adolescents).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3719215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3719215", "title": "Animated narrative vignette", "text": "Animated narrative vignette\n\nAn animated narrative vignette (ANV) is an instructional technology used to motivate and facilitate role-playing, problem solving, and discussion. Teachers develop the ANVs to present in class or in online training. Students might also create them in experiential learning exercises. They provide computer animation representations of teachable situations that encourage critical thinking and may also provide an instrument for assessing attitudes and behaviors. Vignettes have been used to teach mathematics and science, management skills, problem solving, and character education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9530784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9530784", "title": "Bachelor of Industrial Design", "text": "Bachelor of Industrial Design\n\nThe Bachelor of Industrial Design (B.I.D.) is an undergraduate academic degree awarded by a university for a four-year course of study that specializes on the design of industrial products.\n"}
{"id": "17978786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17978786", "title": "Backward design", "text": "Backward design\n\nBackward design is a method of designing educational curriculum by setting goals before choosing instructional methods and forms of assessment. Backward design of curriculum typically involves three stages:\nBackward design challenges \"traditional\" methods of curriculum planning. In traditional curriculum planning, a list of content that will be taught is created and/or selected. In backward design, the educator starts with goals, creates or plans out assessments and finally makes lesson plans. Supporters of backward design liken the process to using a \"road map\". In this case, the destination is chosen first and then the road map is used to plan the trip to the desired destination. In contrast, in traditional curriculum planning there is no formal destination identified before the journey begins.\n\nThe idea in backward design is to teach toward the \"end point\" or learning goals, which typically ensures that content taught remains focused and organized. This, in turn, aims at promoting better understanding of the content or processes to be learned for students. The educator is able to focus on addressing what the students need to learn, what data can be collected to show that the students have learned the desired outcomes (or learning standards) and how to ensure the students will learn. Although backward design is based on the same components of the ADDIE model, backward design is a condensed version of these components with far less flexibility.\n\nBackward design is often used in conjunction with two other terms: curriculum design and instructional design.\n\nCurriculum design is the act of designing or developing curricula for students. Curricula may differ from country to country and further still between provinces or states within a country. Curriculum is based on benchmark standards deemed important by the government. Typically, the time frame of attainment of these outcomes or standards is set by physical age.\n\nInstructional design is a technology for the development of learning experiences and environments which promote the acquisition of specific knowledge and skill by students. In addition, instructional design models or theories may be thought of as frameworks for developing modules or lessons that increase and/or enhance the possibility of learning and encourage the engagement of learners so that they learn faster and gain deeper levels of understanding.\n\nThere are numerous instructional design models available to instructors that hold significant importance when planning and implementing curriculum. Many of the models are quite similar in that they essentially all address the same four components in some form or another: 1) the learners; 2) the learning objectives; 3) the method of instruction; and 4) some form of assessment or evaluation. Based around those components, the instructor then has the opportunity to choose the design model and stages that work best for them in their specific situation. This way they can achieve the appropriate learning outcomes or create a plan or strategy for improvement. As learners and instructors may vary, instructional design must be a good fit for both and therefore different models can have behavioral, cognitive or constructivist roots.\n\nRalph W. Tyler introduced the idea of \"backward design\" (without using this particular term) in 1949 when referring to a \"statement of objectives\". A statement of objectives is used to indicate the kinds of changes in the student to be brought about so that instructional activities can be planned and developed in a way likely to attain these objectives.\nThe term \"backward design\" was introduced to curriculum design in 1998/9 by Jay McTighe and Grant Wiggins (\"Understanding by Design\"). The somewhat idiosyncratic term is ultimately due to James S. Coleman, who in his \"Foundations of Social Theory\" (1990) used it to parallel the term \"backward policing\" which he coined for a policy which he found in the production process in Honda factories.\n\nAccording to Doug Buehl (2000), advantages of backward design include: \n\nThe primary starting point for backward design is to become familiar with the standards/outcomes for the grade level and curriculum being taught. The second part of curriculum planning with backward design is finding appropriate assessments. It can be difficult for \"traditional\" educators to switch to this model because it is hard to conceptualize an assessment before deciding on lessons and instruction. The idea is that the assessments (formative and/or summative) should meet the initial goals identified.\n\nWiggins and McTighe (2008) also utilize the \"WHERE\" approach during the assessment stage of the process.\n\nMost models of instructional design follow the core elements found in the ADDIE model of design: \"analyze\" (designer develops an understanding of the desired outcomes and the learner's knowledge and skills); \"design\" (documents learning outcomes, assessment tools, exercise and content); \"develop\" (creating the learning materials); \"implement\" (the created learning materials are distributed to the learners); and \"evaluate\" (the effectiveness of the learning materials is assessed and documented). Many instructional designers and training developers use the ADDIE model as a generic process for creating other models. This model is purposely not designed to be followed in a linear step-by-step fashion, but rather is circular so that it is possible to re-trace steps once data have been collected and analyzed.\n\nThe Dick and Carey model is made up of nine different stages which are meant to be executed in parallel, rather than linear, fashion, but this model still follows the same basic instructional design pattern of the ADDIE model, as does backward design. The Dick and Carey model focuses on the interrelationship between context, content, learning and instruction, and addresses instruction as an entire system. In this model, all of the components of this model work together to enable learners to meet the desired learning outcomes. The model includes the following components: (1) identify instructional goals; (2) conduct instructional analysis; (3) identify entry behaviors and learner characteristics; (4) write performance objectives; (5) develop assessment instruments; (6) develop instructional strategy; (7) develop and select instructional materials; (8) design and conduct formative evaluation of instruction; and (9) design and conduct summative evaluation. Both the Dick and Carey model and the backward design model are goal and objective oriented; assessment is created based on learning objectives and goals, and instruction is created based on evaluation and assessment. The Dick and Carey model, however, is a more systemic model in that making changes to components affects other components and, therefore, the changes occur in parallel. In the more linear backward design model, the steps are non-flexible which means that skipping or changing steps is not an option.\n\nThe Kemp instructional design model is a holistic form of instructional design, taking into account all factors of the learning environment. It is very systemic and also follows the same basic design pattern of the ADDIE model. The Kemp model is much more focused on the individual learner needs and goals by following nine components: 1) identify instructional problems, and specify goals for designing an instructional program; 2) examine learner characteristics that should receive attention during planning; 3) identify subject content, and analyze task components related to stated goals and purposes; 4) state instructional objectives for the learner; 5) sequence content within each instructional unit for logical learning; 6) design instructional strategies so that each learner can master the objectives; 7) plan the instructional message and delivery; 8) develop evaluation instruments to assess objectives; and 9) select resources to support instruction and learning activities. The largest difference between backward design and the Kemp model is that the Kemp model is meant to be used on a smaller scale. This allows for easier adaptations to be made for individual lessons and individual learners. It also places more emphasis on support and service for learners and instruction.\n\n\n\nHere is a practical example of a 5th grade teacher developing a three-week unit on nutrition:\n\nStage 1: Identify desired results\n\nBased on three curriculum expectations about nutrition (concepts about nutrition, elements of a balanced diet, and understanding eating patterns), the take-away message that the teacher wants his/her students to understand is \"Students will use an understanding of the element of good nutrition to plan a balanced diet for themselves and others\".\n\nStage 2: Determine acceptable evidence\n\nThe teacher has created an authentic task in which students will design a 3-day meal plan for a camp that uses food pyramid guidelines. The goal is a tasty and nutritionally balanced menu.\n\nStage 3: Plan learning experiences and instruction\n\nThe teacher first considers the knowledge and skills that students will need in order to complete the authentic assessment. Specifically, students will need to know about different food groups, human nutritional needs (carbohydrates, proteins, sugars, vitamins, minerals etc.), and about what foods provide these needs. They will need to know how to read nutrition labels. Resources will be a pamphlet from the UDSA on food groups, the health textbook, and a video \"Nutrition for You\". Teaching methods will include direct instruction, inductive methods, cooperative learning, and group activities.\n\nAlthough this approach is widely accepted, the following are criticisms of the backward design approach:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25828468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25828468", "title": "Bloom's 2 sigma problem", "text": "Bloom's 2 sigma problem\n\nBloom's 2 sigma problem refers to an educational phenomenon observed by educational psychologist Benjamin Bloom and initially reported in 1984 in the journal \"Educational Researcher\". Bloom found that the average student tutored one-to-one using mastery learning techniques performed two standard deviations better than students who learn via conventional instructional methods—that is, \"the average tutored student was above 98% of the students in the control class\". Additionally, the variation of the students' achievement changed: \"about 90% of the tutored students ... attained the level of summative achievement reached by only the highest 20%\" of the control class. Bloom's graduate students J. Anania and A. J. Burke conducted studies of this effect at different grade levels and in different schools, observing students with \"great differences in cognitive achievement, attitudes, and academic self-concept\".\n\nThough Bloom concluded that one-to-one tutoring is \"too costly for most societies to bear on a large scale\", Bloom conjectured that a combination of two or three altered variables may result in a similar performance improvement. Bloom thus challenged researchers and teachers to \"find methods of group instruction as effective as one-to-one tutoring\".\n\nBloom classified alterable variables that may have, in combination, a 2 sigma effect as the following \"objects of change process\": \n\nBloom and his graduate students considered and tested various combinations of these variables, focusing only on those variables that individually had a 0.5 or higher effect size. These included:\n\nConsidering the significant outcomes of these studies on student performance, educational researchers can make a number of implications and conjectures for follow-up studies. Among them:\n\n"}
{"id": "30046514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30046514", "title": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Multan", "text": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Multan\n\nThe Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Multan was established on 30 March 1968. It is located near Gol Bagh, Gulgasht Colony, Multan.\nIt is responsible to take all Matriculation (Secondary) and Intermediate (Higher Secondary) exams (F.A /F.Sc.) of Multan Division schools and colleges as well as all the private candidates.\n\nMultan board takes the examination from 9th class to 12th Class. Usually the Admissions are announced as follows:\nResults of these exams are announced as following schedule (Approximately +/- 2 days):\n\nAround 240,000 candidates appear for annual matric exam every year in BISE Multan and around 130,000 candidates appear for annual Intermediate exam every year. if we include the supply exams figures in it, we can say that every year the BISE Multan manage the exam process of around 400,000 candidates. And this figure is increasing around 10% yearly.\n\nJurisdiction of Multan Board includes Multan Division which includes following districts:-\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49609800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49609800", "title": "Certificate of Secondary Education Examination (Tanzania)", "text": "Certificate of Secondary Education Examination (Tanzania)\n\nThe Certificate of Secondary Education Examination (CSEE) is an academic O Level examination that is done by Form four students (12th grade) across Tanzania to prepare them for their A level studies. The exams are usually done between late September to early or mid November and they are managed by the National Examinations Council of Tanzania (NECTA). Students are required to obtain three credits in order to pass the exams.\n"}
{"id": "2390461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2390461", "title": "Common room", "text": "Common room\n\nThe phrase common room is used especially in British and Canadian English to describe a type of shared lounge, most often found in dormitories, at (for example) universities, colleges, military bases, hospitals, rest homes, hostels, and even minimum-security prisons. It is generally connected to several private rooms, and may incorporate a bathroom. However, they may also be found in day schools and sixth forms.\n\nRegular features include couches, televisions, coffee tables, and other generic lounge furniture for socializing. Depending on its location and purpose of use, a common room may be known by another name. For instance, in mental hospitals, where access is usually restricted to the daytime hours, this type of room is often called a \"day room\".\n\nIn Singapore, the term usually refers to a bedroom without attached bathroom in an HDB apartment unit.\n\nCommon rooms are mentioned in the Harry Potter series. \n\n"}
{"id": "2307679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307679", "title": "Comprehensive examination", "text": "Comprehensive examination\n\nIn higher education, a comprehensive examination (or comprehensive exam or exams), often abbreviated as \"comps\", is a specific type of examination that must be completed by graduate students in some disciplines and courses of study, and also by undergraduate students in some institutions and departments. Unlike final examinations, comprehensive examinations are not linked to any particular course, but rather test knowledge across one or more general fields of study.\n\nGraduate-level comprehensive examinations are sometimes also known as preliminary examinations (\"prelims\"), general examinations (\"generals\"), qualifying examinations (\"quals\"), or as major field examinations. If these examinations are held orally, they may be known colloquially as \"orals\". The comps most commonly come after the student has completed required coursework and before starting on the dissertation; successful passage of the comps is sometimes required for a student to be considered a \"Ph.D. candidate\".\n\nThe form and general requirements for the comprehensive exam vary according to the faculty or department, degree sought, university, and country, but typically tests knowledge of the student's subject area and two or more related areas, and may be used to determine a candidate's eligibility to continue his or her course of study. At the graduate level, the purpose of the comprehensive exam is to ensure the student is familiar enough with her area of research to make original contributions.\n\nThere is no standard definition for what such exams entail, with some universities having almost no exam, whilst at other universities the process is quite rigorous. The exams thus take a number of forms, including an informal meeting of just a few hours, a critical review of one's academic portfolio, the submission of an academic paper which may take several hours or months to write, or a series of proctored exams taking anywhere from a few hours to two days.\n\nThe comprehensive examination system is used primarily in US and Canadian higher education, but it has also been adopted by some programs in other countries such as Pakistan and India. Other countries use alternative forms of evaluating Ph.D. candidates: in the United Kingdom, for example, students typically must first enroll in an M.Phil. program and are then admitted to doctoral study only upon successfully defending their research proposal.\n\nSome colleges or universities in the United States require undergraduate students to pass comprehensive examinations in order to receive their degree. These include Wabash College, Kenyon College, Bethany College, The Catholic University of America, The University of Iowa, Maryville College, Occidental College, Reed College, The University of the South, Eckerd College, Millsaps College, Earlham College, Hanover College, Rosemont College, St. Anselm College, Shimer College, Whitman College, North South University and University of Dallas.\n\nMany degree programs require students to pass comprehensive examinations within colleges or universities that don't otherwise require them. The same is true for many schools and colleges within larger universities. These include Texas A&M-Commerce Honors College, The University of Virginia's Politics Honors Program, and the University of Alabama at Birmingham's Mass Communications program.\n\nIn some terminal non-thesis Master's programs, successful completion of a comprehensive examination, conducted online or through the university's testing center, is a requirement for graduation during a student's last semester of coursework. A prominent example of such is the Major Field Test for Master of Business Administration (MFT-MBA) which has been used in the MBA programs of over 300 U.S. universities.\n\nA comprehensive exam may also be required for a master's degree earned on the way to the completion of a doctoral program. In such cases, students might take an oral exam and/or field exam in order to both earn a Master's in their field and advance to the status of doctoral or PhD candidate. Typically, one exam will question the student on theory while the other will show competency or expertise in their chosen subfield (or major field) within their program. This also allows students enrolled in the program who do not wish to continue to the completion of a doctoral degree to leave early and in good standing with a Master's.\n\nIn most doctoral programs, students must take a series of written cumulative examinations on the subject of their study in the first year or two of the PhD program. These cumulative exams are often given on a pass/fail basis and a graduate student who seeks to continue in the PhD program must pass a minimum number of these cumulative exams. After this minimum number of cumulative exams is passed, this degree requirement is considered to be met, and the PhD student no longer takes these exams but continues work on other PhD requirements. In some fields, such as history, the student must pass the comprehensive examinations before submitting a dissertation proposal.\n\nTypically, comprehensive exams consist of either a written or an oral exam, but some programs require both. In others, a written exam is taken, and depending on the grade, the student may or may not have to continue with an oral exam. In some fields, the level of detailed knowledge required is relatively limited, while in others such as economics the level of detail is similar to a final exam.\n\nComprehensive examinations are often based on a reading list agreed upon by the student and his or her committee, which is staffed by the primary supervisor and several advisors, normally professors at the university, but not necessarily in the same faculty. They also frequently have a standardized component for all students in the discipline, or may be entirely standardized. This reading list may comprise dozens or hundreds of books and other works.\n\nFor some social science and many humanities disciplines, graduate students might not have studied the discipline at the undergraduate level. These examinations will be the first set of comprehensive exams, and be based either on graduate coursework or on specific preparatory reading (sometimes up to a year's work in reading).\n\nPreparing for comprehensive exams is normally both stressful and time consuming. Passing them allows the student to stay, begin doctoral research, and rise to the status of a doctoral candidate. Failing usually results in the student leaving the program or re-taking the test after some time has passed. A second failure normally guarantees dismissal from the graduate program, though progress on previous attempts may convince the student's program to grant a third, final attempt. Some schools have an intermediate category, passing at the master's level, which does not permit the student to continue doctoral study, but does allow the student to leave with a master's degree despite not having completed a thesis.\n\nIn some U.S. graduate programs, particularly in the natural sciences, the majority of students do not have master's degrees when they begin doctoral work, and the successful students will earn doctorates without getting master's degrees on the way. In these programs, a student who does not pass \"comps\" or \"prelims\" on the second attempt will generally be allowed to earn a terminal master's degree but is not permitted to become a candidate for a doctoral degree. At some institutions, students who pass the exam and are formally accepted as PhD candidates are technically entitled to a Master of Arts or Master of Sciences degree, but submitting an application is required, so no master's degree will be awarded unless the student specifically requests it. Other institutions issue an All But Dissertation certificate after a student has passed the comprehensive exams.\n\nPhD students at some Canadian universities must complete their comprehensive exams by the end of their second year; those who fail to pass with a sufficiently high mark may retake the examination usually only once. Failure to pass a second time will normally result in expulsion from the program. Students who pass are distinguished with the title \"PhD candidate.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4935101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4935101", "title": "Computationally enhanced craft item", "text": "Computationally enhanced craft item\n\nA Computationally enhanced craft item (CETI) is a simple mechanical device that is fitted with a small computer or computer interface and a servo system. A larger computer programs or directly controls the CETI according to the wishes of the user-programmer. CETIs are educational devices, but they can possibly provide guidance towards a future of user-programmable robots and ubiquitous computing. Tom Wrensch was one of the earliest proponents of CETI.\n\n"}
{"id": "5311894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5311894", "title": "Curriculum mapping", "text": "Curriculum mapping\n\nCurriculum mapping is a procedure for reviewing the operational curriculum as it is entered into an electronic database at any education setting. It is based largely on the work of Heidi Hayes Jacobs in \"Mapping the Big Picture: Integrating Curriculum and Assessment K-12\" (ASCD, 1997) and \"Getting Results with Curriculum Mapping\" (2004, ASCD). Schools are using curriculum templates that display key components of the curriculum: content, skills, assessments, and essential questions.\n\nSome states such as South Dakota have adopted curriculum mapping on a statewide basis and provide detailed online curriculum mapping resources for their professional staff. Other states such as Indiana have mandated curriculum mapping as a tool for schools which do not meet Adequate Yearly Progress and also provide numerous online tools.\n\nKey to the approach is that each teacher enters what is actually taught in real-time during the school year, in contrast to having an outside or separate committee determine decisions. The entries by teachers are not left alone, however; in fact, because the work is displayed via internet-based programs, it is open to view by all personnel in a school or district. This allows educators to view both K-12 and across grade levels and subjects what is transpiring in order to be informed and to revise their work.\n\nThe curriculum mapping model as originally defined by Dr. Jacobs has seven specific steps that schools use to thoroughly examine and then revise their curriculum. There are both commercial companies and not-for-profit groups that have generated curriculum mapping software used around the world. Related to mapping, but separate from it, is the concept of a curriculum audit, described by Fenwick W. English. in \"Deciding What to Teach and Test: Developing, Auditing, and Aligning the Curriculum\" (1999, Sage).\n\nCurriculum mapping is not limited to United States public schools. A number of independent schools have adopted the curriculum mapping process to review and revise their curriculum. The bulk of schools using curriculum mapping outside the US tend to be independent schools that follow an international curriculum (such as IB, AERO, or IGCSE) or public schools located in Anglo-Saxon countries.\n\nA development of a consensus map (also called an essential map, core map, district map, or master map) takes places in Phase 3 of Heidi Hayes Jacobs’s Four Phases of Curriculum Mapping. Hale (2008) distinguishes between consensus maps and essential maps, assigning the former to the building level, and the latter to the district level (p. 145). Jacobs (2004) defines a consensus map as one that “reflects the policy agreed on by a professional staff that targets those specific areas in each discipline that are to be addressed with consistency and flexibility in a school or district” (para. 4; Jacobs & Johnson, 2009, p. 65). It provides an opportunity, by thoughtful reflection, for teachers to have a common ground for communication about their curriculum while also maintaining the necessary flexibility to do what is right for each child. Hale (2008) adds that a consensus map functions as a communication tool to convey to stakeholders the students’ learning expectations (p. 145). Ideally, it comes later in the curriculum mapping process - after horizontal and vertical data examination and after interdisciplinary or mixed-group review (Jacobs, 2004, para. 13). According to Jacobs and Johnson (2009) mixed group reviews “add a unique perspective to the process and are sometimes able to see things that other teachers do not” (p. 58). For example, a social studies teacher might be able to observe that students are taught the Holocaust in 9th grade social studies and again in 10th grade English. An effective map would seek to marry the two instructional units, eliminating redundancies and providing a cross-disciplinary approach to instruction. By this time, professionals are working on “multiple levels and tiers” (Jacobs, n.d.), reviewing the maps for “possible gaps, repetitions, or omissions” (Jacobs & Johnson, 2009, p. 57). This takes time and, as with all curriculum mapping, cannot be rushed and the big picture must be taken into account. Phase 3 in the Mapping Process is critical because “ if we don't have consensus on where we want to go, we will never get there” (Jacobs, n.d.).\n\nA consensus map might include what they district staff have targeted as the “nonnegotiables that will be taught in each grade level or subject in a school or district” and should represent “best practices, 21st century curriculum, higher order thinking, high standards, and clearly defined grade- or course-level expectations” (Jacobs & Johnson, 2009, p. 65). According to Hale (2008), its elements are “compulsory and are designed according to national, state, [or] district… standard[s]” (p. 146). They may include content and skills, essential questions, and required assessments.\n\nIndividual curriculum maps are “developed by individual teachers [and] reflect what they teach in their class or classes. They include essential questions, content, skills, and assessments” (Jacobs & Johnson, 2009, p. 115). More detailed than the consensus map, “allow for individual teacher autonomy” (Hale, 2008, p. 146). In a small school “with only one section of a course or subject, the individual map becomes the consensus map” (Jacobs & Johnson, 2009, p. 65). These maps showcase what takes place in an individual classroom, ideally providing evidence of the students’ learning with that teacher. For example, in a Unit applying ELA Standard RL11-12.5, students are expected to learn to “[a]nalyze how an author's choices concerning how to structure specific parts of a text (e.g., the choice of where to begin or end a story, the choice to provide a comedic or tragic resolution) contribute to its overall structure and meaning as well as its aesthetic impact.” While a teacher may choose to teach this standard using The Crucible by Arthur Miller, theoretically, another teacher may use a series of short stories, or perhaps even a novel. While the standard is the same and would be represented on the consensus map (as would the common assessments), the individual map would show the different content being employed in the classroom, along with the activities and skill work that might be specific to the piece of literature under study. Jacobs & Johnson (2009) suggest that “[i]deally, a school or district is able to focus on individual maps first, and then map the taught curriculum,” though they do acknowledge that some schools do the reverse, often under external influences that can rush the process (p. 67).\n\nBoth consensus and individual maps might show the essential questions for units of study and content learned, but individual maps will be more detailed in regards to the daily activities, strategies, and assignments that introduce, practice, and inspire mastery of the skills and standards indicated on the consensus map, the latter of which will also eventually mandate the common or same assessments that should take place across the board in individual classrooms. By the daily trial and error that is inherent in an individual map, resources might be suggested to the consensus map.\n\nThere are online programs that offer insight to curriculum mapping throughout the year. Take OnCourse Systems for Education's Curriculum Builder tool, when used in tandem with the Lesson Planner it can create a report that will show you all standards that have been aligned to units and what standards still need to be addressed.\n"}
{"id": "32367018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32367018", "title": "Design-focused evaluation", "text": "Design-focused evaluation\n\nDesign Focused Evaluation (DFE) is an approach to the evaluation of educational quality. In this approach the evaluation specifically focuses on the effectiveness of the constructive alignment in the course (subject, paper, unit) design. It was developed for use in the higher education sector but has relevance in training environments also, and may be broadly applicable in any educational environment.\n\nDFE was developed by Calvin Smith, an educational researcher in Australia, to address the fact that most evaluation systems involve a focus on either inputs (the quality of the teaching, the quality of the resources, etc.) or outputs/outcomes (e.g. learning outcomes). Where both inputs and outcomes are included in an approach the items are separate (e.g. The Course Experience Questionnaire (Ramsden 1991) which has scales on inputs and a scale on generic skill development as outcomes). There was at the time no approach that focused on the \"alignment\" of the learning activities and the learning objectives.\n\nDFE is primarily to be used to gather students' perceptions of the efficacy of the alignment (of teaching and learning activities with learning objectives) in the design of a course or unit of study (or part thereof). The reason for doing this is that it is considered a high-quality design practice that learning activities and learning objectives are aligned (Biggs and Tang 2007). Therefore, 'efficacy' here means 'the degree to which the teaching and learning activities \"supported the development of\" the learning outcomes'.\n\nDFE is a survey-based approach to gathering evaluative data, therefore it generates quantitative data. The approach relies heavily on the way items are written for the surveys used. There is a clear articulation of how items can be written for the DFE approach in Smith (2008). In short, each question is composed in two parts conjoined by a grammatical structure that does the work of '...helped me to learn...'. The first part of the question indexes the teaching and learning activity (e.g. 'the lab session on dissection...') and the second part indexes the learning objective ('...how to dissect the human torso.').\n\nOne sophistication in this process is that on both sides of the item structure there can be varying degrees of specificity-generality (or granularity). Compare the following three items all of which are stable on the right hand side, but vary on the left hand side:\n\n\nThese items become increasingly granular, or more specific, moving from reference to all the lectures right down to a specific lecture session. The same issue of degrees of granularity/specificity can apply on the learning objective side of the item construction. Consider the following three items:\n\n\nAgain, the degree of specificity increases with each step.\n\nThis ability means the DFE approach is extremely flexible and allows the course designer to target specific aspects of the course design. This allows a more strategic approach to evaluation design, and allows for the selective and high-leverage use of the limited 'real estate' in any survey instrument.\n\nA further observation about the scope of each side of a DFE item is that, as well as being more or less generic or specific, it can make an \"implicit\" reference to the teaching and learning activities or the learning objectives (respectively). An example of this is when reference is made to 'the course' or 'learning'. Consider the following: 'the course helped me to learn'. In this case the reference to the course is an implicit reference to all of the teaching and learning activities the student experienced. Similarly, the reference to 'learning' in this case implies all of the learning objectives in the course. In one sense implicit references to either the learning objectives or the teaching and learning activities is the most generic level of reference, but a distinction is made in DFE between generic or general references to either TLAs or LOBs and implicit references.\n\nWith these three categories a cross-tabulation of the combinations of left-hand- and right-hand-side components of DFE items can be devised. This is useful in helping novice DFE survey designers develop items (Table 1).\n\nTable 1 - Nine combinations of specific-generic-implicit\nIn the table S=Specific G=Generic I=Implicit\n\nSome examples of follow:\n\n"}
{"id": "52786956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52786956", "title": "Digital pedagogy", "text": "Digital pedagogy\n\nDigital pedagogy is the study and use of contemporary digital technologies in teaching and learning. Digital pedagogy may be applied to online, hybrid, and face-to-face learning environments.\n\nDigital pedagogy has its origins in distance learning, which during the early twentieth century took the form of correspondence courses delivered by mail. The University of London offered the first distance learning degrees with its External Programme of 1858. Charles Dickens famously said of the External Programme that it was the \"Peoples' University,\" as it allowed broader access to higher education. With the improvement of communication technologies, it was assumed that the TV and radio would begin to change the course of education. In the United States, educational TV programs and radio broadcasts were created by institutions such as the University of Louisville with the cooperation of NBC. Telecourses saw a resurgence in the early 1970s with the spread of community colleges. These distance courses paved the way for online education, which came to prevalence during the popularization of the Internet, beginning at the end of the twentieth century.\n\nDigital pedagogy values open education, including open educational resources; sharing syllabi; sharing teaching resources through tools such as GitHub and Creative Commons; self-directed interest based student project, and publishing using open access and open peer review. Digital Pedagogy is not only about using digital technologies for teaching and learning but rather approaching digital tools from a critical pedagogical perspective. So, it is as much about using digital tools thoughtfully as it is about deciding when not to use digital tools, and about paying attention to the impact of digital tools on learning.\n\nImmersive technology can be used in the classroom as a form of digital pedagogy. It provides students the ability to engage in 3D modeling and collaborative world building. Examples of 3D modeling includes Matthew Nicholls' Virtual Rome and SketchUp Pro which allows users to create 3D models of historical structures.\n\nDigital pedagogy looks critically at digital tools as potential means for learning and teaching. It considers digital content and space as valuable sites for information and knowledge, in addition to traditional mediums such as books or the classroom. Digital pedagogy itself is also sensitive to the ongoing discussions and debates happening within the sphere of digital humanities, namely to its practices, principles and politics.\n\nThe following tools have been widely utilized in elementary school and high school classrooms in successful examples of digital pedagogy:\n\n\nThe experimental nature of digital pedagogy enables critical reflection on its successes and contradictions in its educative possibilities. As such, it becomes a key foray into the ongoing discussion of educational technology. For example, engagement in the philosophies of digital pedagogy has renewed discussion on the politics and ethics of technology and its implication of learning as a whole.\n\n\nAcknowledging the changing nature of new media practices and interaction, digital pedagogy centers the student by designing various student-led, collaborative and project-based activities to allow students to control the pace and space of learning. It is within the digital geography where new collaborative, interactive, and participatory possibilities are introduced. Platforms, such as massive open online courses (MOOCs), now supplement the physically-located classrooms.\n\nThe following tools have been utilized in higher education classrooms:\n\n\nBased on theories stemming from Critical Race Theory, Feminist Theory, Liberation-based theory and other philosophical approaches that address how understanding power structures is essential to the dismantling of oppression, Critical Digital Pedagogy follows the ethics of acknowledging no information, knowledge, learning or teaching is ever neutral of political meaning. Reflective dialogue is a key component of a critical consciousness-raising, a liberatory praxis attributed to Paulo Freire, in learning so that the learning process itself is a praxis of liberation. Critical Digital Pedagogy integrates a second-order, metal-level analysis as part of teaching and learning about or through the use of web-based tools, digital platforms and other forms of technology. As a method or resistance against oppression, Critical Digital Pedagogy seeks to engage individuals in collaborative practices, is inclusive of voices across social-political identities, and situates itself outside boundaries of traditional education, which is considered to be based on a banking model of teaching.\n\nDigital pedagogy for K-12 education follows models such as hybrid or blended learning and online-only classes. The implementation of online-only courses in K-12 education has become more popular as budget cuts make offering higher level courses such as AP classes less feasible, or if there is not enough student interest to warrant offering the subject. Fully online courses involve a digital teacher who has many digital students with no in-class or face-to-face time. These courses can be facilitated either within a school or made accessible to home-school or abroad students. Many virtual school options receive at least partial funding from state education initiatives and are monitored by state educational committees. Florida Virtual School, is funded through the Florida Education Finance Program (FEFP), and is free to Florida residents. FLVS is governed by a board of trustees appointed by the governor, and its performance is monitored by the Commissioner of Education and reported to the State Board of Education and Legislature.\n\nThere is much debate over the efficacy of virtual school options. The consensus on blended education, where students receive face-to-face instruction from teachers and the online portions are only conducted in partial time, is largely positive. Blended learning is credited with allowing students to take some agency with the pace of learning, something that would not otherwise be available to them in a traditional classroom. It allows students to make meaningful decisions about their learning and sets a basis for lifelong self-motivation and learning. The use of new technologies in classrooms also allows students to keep pace with innovations in learning technologies, to expand the pedagogical toolset available to them, such as message-boards and videos, and to have instantaneous feedback and evaluation.\n\nHowever, in fully online courses, the benefits of online learning is less clear. While more advanced students may excel in online courses, reported in one study of online mathematics for grade 8 students, the students who need the most help may suffer disproportionately to their peers in traditional face-to-face courses. It would appear that online-only courses exacerbate difficulties for needy students as well as allow more advanced students the agency desired to excel in individual learning.  \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53709658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53709658", "title": "Economics of Education Review", "text": "Economics of Education Review\n\nEconomics of Education Review is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal covering education economics. It was established in 1981 and is published by Elsevier. The editor-in-chief is Daniel Rees (University of Colorado Denver). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 1.456.\n"}
{"id": "53491795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53491795", "title": "Education and technology", "text": "Education and technology\n\nOne of the defining features of development today is the relationship between education and technology, stimulated by the spectacular growth in internet connectivity and mobile penetration. We live in a connected world. An estimated 40% of the world’s population now uses the internet and this number is growing at a remarkable rate. While there are significant variations in internet connectivity among countries and regions, the number of households with such links in the global South has now overtaken those in the global North. Moreover, over 70% of mobile telephone subscriptions worldwide are now in the global South. Five billion people are expected to go from no to full connectivity within the next twenty years. However, there are still significant gaps among countries and regions, for example between urban and rural areas. Limited broadband speed and lack of connectivity hamper access to knowledge, participation in society and economic development.\n\nThe internet has transformed how people access information and knowledge, how they interact, and the direction of public management and business. Digital connectivity holds promise for gains in health, education, communication, leisure and well-being. Artificial intelligence advances, 3D printers, holographic recreation, instant transcription, voice-recognition and gesture-recognition software are only some examples of what is being tested. Digital technologies are reshaping human activity from daily life to international relations, from work to leisure, redefining multiple aspects of our private and public life.\n\nSuch technologies have expanded opportunities for freedom of expression and for social, civic and political mobilization, but they also raise important concerns. The availability of personal information in the cyber world, for example, brings up significant issues of privacy and security. New spaces for communication and socialization are transforming what constitutes the idea of ‘social’ and they require enforceable legal and other safeguards to prevent their overuse, abuse and misuse. Examples of such misuse of the internet, mobile technology and social media range from cyber-bullying to criminal activity, even to terrorism. In this new cyber world, educators need to better prepare new generations of ‘digital natives’ to deal with the ethical and social dimensions of not only existing digital technologies but also those yet to be invented.\n\nTechnology plays an increasingly significant role in improving access to education for people living in impoverished areas and developing countries. Charities like One Laptop per Child are dedicated to providing infrastructures through which the disadvantaged may access educational materials.\n\nThe OLPC foundation, a group out of MIT Media Lab and supported by several major corporations, has a stated mission to develop a $100 laptop for delivering educational software. The laptops were widely available as of 2008. They are sold at cost or given away based on donations.\n\nIn Africa, the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) has launched an \"e-school program\" to provide all 600,000 primary and high schools with computer equipment, learning materials and internet access within 10 years. An International Development Agency project called nabuur.com, started with the support of former American President Bill Clinton, uses the Internet to allow co-operation by individuals on issues of social development.\n\nIndia is developing technologies that will bypass land-based telephone and Internet infrastructure to deliver distance learning directly to its students. In 2004, the Indian Space Research Organisation launched EDUSAT, a communications satellite providing access to educational materials that can reach more of the country's population at a greatly reduced cost.\n\nAn AI-based tutoring system, Education Dominance, was put into an entry-level IT school in Pensacola by the U.S. Navy. This system relates to a human tutor in which the student's progress is monitored while providing individual assessments. According to the Navy, the students that worked with the digital tutoring system consistently performed better on the tests than did the students who did not use the digital tutor. The adaptive technology appears to affect students positively because it can assist individuals that have different learning skills than others and therefor better equipped to learn on their own. Technology programs that are already being used in education fields: Tablets, such as google chrome book, where students can access a range of google's educational software. DreamBox, Zearn, and ST Math, are math software programs that adapt to students as they learn.\n"}
{"id": "18103379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18103379", "title": "Education in Kiribati", "text": "Education in Kiribati\n\nEducation in Kiribati is free and compulsory from age 6 to 14, which includes primary school through grade six, and Junior Secondary School for three additional grade levels. In 1998, the gross primary enrollment rate was 84.4 percent, and net primary enrollment rate was 70.7 percent. School quality and access to education are better in urban areas; schools in small communities on isolated islands are expensive to maintain. Mission schools are slowly being absorbed into the government primary school system.\n\nThere are primary schools on most of the inhabited islands. Secondary schools are located on some of the islands with students travelling to live at their school. For example, Abaiang, which is in the northern Gilbert Islands, has three secondary schools, in 2011 there were 212 students at the Ministry of Education school, Ueen Abaiang, which is located between the villages of Koinawa and Aonobuaka. A further 135 students are enrolled at St Joseph’s College in Tabwiroa and 23 students at Steven Whitmee High School in Morikao, making 370 secondary school students in total. The two high schools at Morikao and Tabuiroa accommodate students from all over Kiribati who have passed the entrance examinations to get into the schools.\n\nSt. Joseph's College was founded in 1939. Its alumni include both current President Anote Tong, and previous incumbent Teburoro Tito.\n\nThere are primary schools and secondary schools operated by the Christian denominations including the Roman Catholic Church (such as St. Joseph's College) and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, (such as Moroni High School in South Tarawa, of which Waitea Abiuta has been the headmaster).\n\nThe Kiribati Teacher College and King George V and Elaine Bernachi School, the Government High School, are in Bikenibeu in South Tarawa.\n\nHigher education is expanding; students may seek technical, teacher or marine training, or study in other countries. To date, most choosing to do the latter have gone to Fiji to attend University of the South Pacific, and those wishing to complete medical training have been sent to Cuba.\n\nThe University of the South Pacific has a campus in Kiribati for distant/flexible learning, but also to provide preparatory studies towards obtaining certificates, diplomas and degrees at other campus sites.\n\nKiribati Ministry of Education is the education ministry. Kiribati has 94 elementary schools, 24 junior high schools, and 16 senior high schools. The government high schools are King George V and Elaine Bernacchi School, Tabiteuea North Senior Secondary School, and Melaengi Tabai Secondary School; Tabiteuea North, in Eita, is also known as Teabike College. Previously KGV/EBS was the sole government high school.\n\n13 high schools are operated by Christian churches. They are:\n"}
{"id": "52084206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52084206", "title": "Flexible seating classrooms", "text": "Flexible seating classrooms\n\nA flexible seating classroom is one in which traditional seating charts are replaced with seating arrangements that allow the students to seat where they choose. One of its principal objectives is to reduce the number/duration of sedentary periods of time, which research has identified as a danger to health. The Albemarle County Public School system in Virginia adopted this approach with reported success.\n\nStudies have found that extended sitting affects the development of the musculoskeletal system, leading to health disorders such as cardiovascular problems, poor posture, back pain and neck pain.\n\nAccording to Dieter Breithecker at Germany's Federal Institute for Posture and Mobilisation Support, brain activity slows down when the body becomes stationary, for example when sitting in a traditional classroom. Breithecker recommended flexible seating arrangements to remedy these dangers.\n\nFlexible seating classroom designs include:\n"}
{"id": "12682501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12682501", "title": "Hot potato (game)", "text": "Hot potato (game)\n\nHot potato is a party game that involves players gathering in a circle and tossing a small object such as a beanbag or even a real potato to each other while music plays. The player who is holding the object when the music stops is eliminated.\n\nThe origins of the hot potato game are not clear. However, it may go back as far as 1888 when Sidney Oldall Addy's Glossary of Sheffield Words describes a game in which a number of people sit in a row, or in chairs round a parlor. In this game, a lighted candle is handed to the first person, who says:\n\nThe one in whose hand the light expires has to pay the forfeit.\n\n"}
{"id": "3659718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3659718", "title": "Information held under Section 142 of the Education Act 2002", "text": "Information held under Section 142 of the Education Act 2002\n\nList 99 (also known as the Children’s Barred List and, later, as information held under Section 142 of the Education Act 2002) was a controversial, confidential register of people barred from working with children by the Department for Education and Skills (DfES) In the United Kingdom. The list contained the names, dates of birth, aliases, and national insurance numbers of those people deemed not suitable to work with children in schools, social work and voluntary settings.\n\nIn 1955, the list that came to be called List 99 was started by the Home Office Consultancy Service.\n\nThe Bichard Enquiry (2003) resulted in a report (2004) that noted shortcomings in the use of List 99.\n\nAs of 2007, List 99 contained approximately 5000 names.\n\nIn January or October 2009, List 99 and some other, similar lists, were replaced by the Children's Barred List, which was created under the Safeguarding Vulnerable Groups Act 2006 and which was maintained by the Independent Safeguarding Authority (ISA).\n\nThe ISA merged with the Criminal Records Bureau in 2012 to form the Disclosure and Barring Service.\n\nUnder the Protection of Children Act 1999, people were placed onto List 99 if they had been convicted of, or had received a caution for, an offence against a child.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, List 99 was not primarily concerned with child protection, but section 142 allows the Secretary of State to prohibit certain persons from working in schools. Section 143 prohibits a person from arranging to hire any other person who is\nsubject to a direction under section 142 to work in a school.\n\nAdults convicted of serious sexual offences committed against children under the age of 16 since 1995 were automatically placed on List 99. Additional reasons for inclusion were sexual or violent behaviour towards children, abuses of trust, drug offences, any violent crime (for example, conviction of rioting or football hooliganism), stealing school property and deception in job applications. Medical conditions such as drug or alcohol abuse and mental illness were grounds for exclusion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "861360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=861360", "title": "Institutional pedagogy", "text": "Institutional pedagogy\n\nInstitutional pedagogy is a practice of education that is centered on two factors: 1. the complexity of the learner, and the \"unconscious\" that he or she brings to the classroom. This unconscious is another name for the diversity of social, economic, cultural and other unspoken elements that an educator interacts with in an institutional setting; and 2. the role of the institution in the process of intervening in both those psycho-social factors and in what is known by a student.\n\nBut even more than this, as conceived by its founder, Fernand Oury, Institutional Pedagogy is a constant calling into question of the institutional context itself. Thus the classroom is never a presupposed and static setting. The movement of Institutional Pedagody is thus in direct opposition to the prevailing trends of education prior to the late 1960s, almost all of which tended to homogenize socio-cultural differences amongst learners, psycho-social factors in learning and most important the presence of the \"unconscious\" in the classroom itself.\n\nThus the use of 'institution' in Institutional Pedagogy is broader than in its more colloquial sense. To Oury the institution could be defined as:\n\n\"the places, moments, status of each according to his/her level of performance, that is to say according to his/her potentialities, the functions (services, posts, responsibilities), roles (president, secretary), diverse meetings (team captains, different levels of classes, etc.), and the rituals that maintain their efficacy.\"\n\ninstitutionnelle. Paris: Maspero, 1968.\n\n[Petite Bibliothèque n. 382], 1980).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44217228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44217228", "title": "Jenaplan schools", "text": "Jenaplan schools\n\nJenaplan (or Jena Plan) schools are based on a teaching concept conceived and founded by the German pedagogue Peter Petersen from 1923-1927. The term Jenaplan was coined by the London committee for preparing the 4th meeting of the ‘’New Education Fellowship’’ in Locarno in 1927. Petersen developed his concept at the University of Jena (hence the term), where he was the head of the Department of Education since 1923.\n\nThe basic ideas are: independent learning by doing, cooperation and communal life, shared responsibility by school children and parents.\nThe basic forms of education according to the Jenaplan approach are:\n\n\nThe Jenaplan schools operate according to 20 basic principles, e.g.:\n\nJenaplan schools in Germany are, among others:\n\nJenaplan schools in the Netherlands are, among others:\n\nOther Jenaplan schools are located in Austria, Belgium, and in South Tyrol, Italy.\n\n"}
{"id": "58707221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58707221", "title": "Kim Taylor (entrepreneur)", "text": "Kim Taylor (entrepreneur)\n\nKim Taylor is an American entrepreneur. She founded the online college manager company Ranku and the recruitment technology company Cluster, the latter of which she is serving as its CEO.\n\nTaylor attended college at a small Jesuit school in Wisconsin, during which she spent a year as an NBA dancer with the Milwaukee Bucks which went to the East conference finals. She then transferred to Arizona State University to study journalism, during which she covered football games for \"The Arizona Republic\". She graduated from Arizona State in 2005 with a Bachelor of Arts, and continued working with \"The Arizona Republic\".\n\nIn 2008, she was working with an online publisher in Chicago but started having interests in online education. In 2012, she joined the cast of entrepreneurs in the reality television series \"\" where she worked as an account manager and head of sales for Ampush Media. During the series, she quit Ampush and created a startup business called Shonova which focused on the fashion industry. However, Shonova lasted a few weeks before she gave that up.\n\nIn June 2013, Taylor joined Kaplan EdTech Accelerator, a partnership between Kaplan, Inc. and Techstars which hosts, mentors, and funds startup companies in education technology and product innovation for a three-month program in New York City. As part of joining EdTech, she co-founded with childhood friend Cecilia Retelle the online degree company Ranku and served as the Chief Executive Officer. She named it after the Japanese rending of the phrase rank. The goal of the company was to enable non-profit universities that offer online degrees to compete with the larger for-profit online degree companies such as University of Phoenix. Mark Cuban was the lead investor in Ranku. Business Insider named Taylor one of “Silicon Alley Top 100 Coolest People In New York Tech” in 2013. In 2016, Ranku was acquired by John Wiley & Sons.\n\nTaylor founded the company Cluster, which aims to help job seekers in the manufacturing industry.\n"}
{"id": "5971280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5971280", "title": "Knowledge-centered support", "text": "Knowledge-centered support\n\nKnowledge-Centered Service (KCS; previously known as Knowledge-Centered Support) is a service delivery method that focuses on knowledge as a key asset of the organization implementing it. Development began in 1992 by the Consortium for Service Innovation, a non-profit alliance of service organizations. Its methodology is to integrate use of a knowledge base into the workflow.\n\nWhile the legacy of KCS lies in customer support organizations, the methodology is now being adopted across all the functions of business, as noted in the latest version of the KCS v6 Practices Guide.\n\nKCS seeks to:\n\nWith over 20 years in development and over $50 million invested in developing the methodology, KCS has produced significant benefits for support organizations around the world, including Apollo Group, Autodesk, Avaya, Dell, EMC, Ericsson, HP Enterprise, Omgeo/DTCC, Oracle, PTC, Salesforce.com and SDL.\n\nThe KCS Academy is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Consortium for Service Innovation. The KCS Academy is the only designated certification body by the Consortium for Service Innovation. The KCS Academy offers certification programs for people and a KCS \"Verified\" program for knowledge base tools that enable the KCS practices.\n\nDevelopment began in 1992 by the Consortium for Service Innovation, a non-profit alliance of support organizations. Its premise is to capture, structure, and reuse technical support knowledge. Initially it was known as Solution-Centered Support, and was renamed to acknowledge the methodology as best practices in knowledge management.\n\nThe Consortium for Service Innovation was founded in Seattle in 1992 by Symbologic. Shelly Benton was the founding Executive Director and built the membership-based organization. The early work of the Consortium was used to identify features and functionality for a tool that would help organizations capture and reuse knowledge as a by-product of doing work.\n\nFrom 1992 to 1994 the nature of the member's conversation was largely focused on technology. However the members began to see that success in capturing and reusing knowledge was more about people and their behaviors than it was about the tool. From 1994 to 1996 the conversation shifted to defining a methodology that focused on people and the organizational culture.\n\nAs the conversation evolved both the members of the Consortium and Symbologic agreed that the Consortium's work was about much more than technology and that both the work and the members would be better served by being independent and vendor agnostic. In 1996 Greg Oxton, who was a member of the Consortium at the time, joined the Consortium staff with the goal of creating a member funded non-profit organization.\n\nIn January 1997 the Consortium became an independent legal entity registered as a 501(c)(6) with the Internal Revenue Service. At that time it was called the Customer Support Consortium.\n\nFrom 1997 through 1999 the Consortium members began to report dramatic benefits from implementing the methodology. In 1999 the Consortium released the first Practices Guide. This was written by Livia Wilson and John Chamj. With the help of the members who shared their adoption experiences and results Wilson and Chamj created the first prescriptive, comprehensive definition on how to do KCS.\n\nFor the next few years the Consortium facilitated member conversations and based on a model of collective thinking and shared experiences continued to evolve the KCS methodology.\n\nIn 2003, HDI partnered with the Consortium for Service Innovation to promote the learnings and experiences of the Consortium's members to the market. Working together, they captured this information into a three-day workshop: The Knowledge Management Foundations: KCS Principles course now known as \"KCS Principles\". Since that time, hundreds of companies have been learning about and implementing Knowledge Centered Service within their environments.\n\nIn 2005, the Consortium for Service Innovation introduced the KCS-Verified program for knowledge management software vendors. There are a number of popular software applications verified to enable the KCS best practices to learn more about KCS Verified products. This program defines the functional requirements that software vendors must implement to successfully enable KCS. Implementation is then verified by KCS certified at one of levels, \"Aligned\" or \"Verified\". Program implementation is enabled through experts through the Consortium for Service Innovation or other certified practitioners.\n\nIn 2006, the Consortium updated KCS to version 4.1 and published the Practices Guide. Version 5.0 and 5.1 were published in 2011. Version 5.3 was published in 2012 and version 6.0 in 2016. They continue to evolve KCS through the experiences of their members and other companies that share their personal stories.\n\nIn 2007, HDI introduced the first KCS certification in the industry with the KCS Principles Certification that allows individuals to demonstrate their knowledge of the KCS methodology and how to implement it.\n\nIn 2010, The KCS Academy was formed as an outreach company of the Consortium for Service Innovation. Development of the KCS Certified Publisher exam began and became publicly available in 2011.\n\nIn June 2014, AXELOS and HDI jointly published a whitepaper on the Synergies between ITIL and KCS. While KCS and ITIL were developed independently, guidance on how these two best practices can be used together to enhance service management processes is helping support organizations to improve their operations.\n\nIn April 2016, the Consortium for Service Innovation released KCS v6. This released renamed Knowledge Centered Support to Knowledge Centered Service. The terminology in the methodology was updated to be more generic as KCS adoption has expanded beyond the technical support environment to the enterprise. The following documents were published: KCS Principles and Core Concepts and the KCS v6 Practices Guide\n\n"}
{"id": "4750686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4750686", "title": "Law school rankings in the United States", "text": "Law school rankings in the United States\n\nLaw school rankings are a specific subset of college and university rankings dealing specifically with law schools. Like college and university rankings, law school rankings can be based on empirical data, subjectively-perceived qualitative data (often survey research of educators, law professors, lawyers, students, or others), or some combination of these. Such rankings are often consulted by prospective students as they choose which schools they will apply to or which school they will attend.\n\nThere are several different law school rankings, each with a different emphasis and different methodology. Most either emphasize inputs or readily measurable outcomes (i.e., outcomes shortly after graduation); none measure value-added or long-term outcomes. In general, these rankings are controversial, not universally accepted as authoritative.\n\nSeveral ranking systems are explicitly designed to focus on employment outcomes at or shortly after graduation, including rankings by the \"National Law Journal\" and Law.com.\n\nThe \"National Law Journal\" ranks the top 50 law schools by the percentage of juris doctor graduates who took jobs at NLJ 250 firms, the nation's largest by headcount as identified by \"The National Law Journal\"’s annual survey. It provides an alternative comparison of its own employment-based rankings to the \"U.S. New\"s rankings. For students who are primarily interested in lucrative employment outcomes rather than scholarly prestige, this comparison may suggest which law schools are most undervalued by the market. However, the \"National Law Journal\" ranking is considerably less mainstream due to its specificity and limited viewership compared to \"U.S. News\" publications.\n\n\"U.S. News & World Report\" organizes rankings into two main sections. The first section is a \"Top 145\" that lists the top one hundred forty-five schools in order from highest ranked to lowest ranked. While the top 145 law schools are ranked individually, \"U.S. News\" groups the remaining schools, or the bottom 25 percent of those that are ranked, into a \"Rank Not Published\" group. Schools that fall into this category are listed alphabetically and not by actual ranking. \"U.S. News\" also ranks each school's specialty programs using a similar method, if applicable. U.S. News ranked 196 schools in 2016. Each school's \"U.S. News\" ranking tends to fluctuate annually. \"U.S. News\"'s ranking system has incurred various criticisms over the years due in no small part to its arbitrary nature. The American Bar Association has issued disclaimers of law school rating systems. The ABA encourages prospective law students to consider a variety of factors in making their choice among schools.\n\n\"U.S. News\" rankings are heavily weighted toward \"reputation\", which is measured through a survey with small sample size and low response rates. The reputation scores are highly correlated with the previous years' reputation scores and may not reflect changes in law school quality over time.\n\n\"U.S. News\" has published an annual version of the rankings since 1987 (with the exception of 1988-89), and there has been consistency at the top of the \"U.S. News Rankings\". Yale Law School is consistently ranked first. There exists an informal category known as the top 14, or T14. This term refers to the 14 institutions that regularly claim the top spots in the yearly \"U.S. News & World Report\" ranking of American law schools. Only these top 14 schools have ever placed within the top 10 spots in the rankings. Although \"T14\" is not a designation used by \"U.S News\" itself, the term is \"widely known in the legal community.\" While these schools have seen their ranking within the top fourteen spots shift frequently, they have not placed outside of the top fourteen since the inception of the annual rankings (with rare exceptions). Because of their consistent placement at the top of these rankings, these schools are commonly referred to as the \"Top Fourteen\" in published books on Law School Admissions, undergraduate university pre-law advisers, professional law school consultants, and newspaper articles on the subject. There have been occasional changes in the top 14 ranking over the years, such as the University of Texas School of Law taking the 14th spot in 2017 and displacing Georgetown University to 15th, but the significance of these changes has been debated.\n\nThese schools are ranked in the top 14 of the \"U.S. News & World Report\" Law School rankings:\n\n\nSocial Science Research Network—a repository for draft and completed scholarship in law and the social sciences—publishes monthly rankings of law schools based on the number of times faculty members' scholarship was downloaded. Rankings are available by total number of downloads, total number of downloads within the last 12 months, and downloads per faculty member to adjust for the size of different institutions. SSRN also provides rankings of individual law school faculty members on these metrics.\n\nThe 2018 QS World University Rankings for Law ranked 13 U.S. institutions in the top 50 worldwide. The U.S. institutions in the top 10 were Harvard Law School, ranked first, with Yale Law School ranked fourth, Stanford Law School ranked fifth, NYU Law School ranked sixth, UC Berkeley School of Law ranked seventh and Columbia Law School ranked tenth. Every other Law school in \"U.S. News & World Report\" T14 rankings except University of Virginia School of Law and Northwestern University School of Law made the QS top 50. The UCLA School of Law was the only other U.S. school ranked in the top 50.\n\nIn 2017, ARWU released its rankings of World universities by Subject Law. Taking into account only the academic strength of the institution, it ranked Harvard Law School the first, NYU Law School the Second, Columbia Law the third, Chicago the fourth, Yale the fifth and Georgetown the sixth. Princeton University, which does not have a law school, is nevertheless ranked between 75 - 100 based on faculty from other subjects publishing in law journals.\n\nAmong the criticisms of law school rankings is that they are arbitrary in the characteristics they measure and the value given to each one. Another complaint is that a prospective law student should take into account the \"fit\" and appropriateness of each school, and that there is not a \"one size fits all\" ranking. Others complain that common rankings shortchange schools due to geographical or demographic reasons. One critic has gone so far as to create a website that sarcastically ranks US magazines. \"U.S. News\" is placed alone in the \"Third Tier.\"\n\nThe American Bar Association (ABA), has consistently refused to support or participate in law school rankings. Further, the Association of American Law Schools has also voiced criticisms of \"U.S. News\"'s ranking system. Carl Monk, its former executive director, once went so far as to say \"these rankings are a misleading and deceptive, profit-generating commercial enterprise that compromises \"U.S. News and World Report\"'s journalistic integrity.\"\n\nAs a response to the prevalence of law school rankings, the ABA and the LSAC publish an annual law school guide. This guide, which does not seek to rank or sort law schools by any criteria, instead seeks to provide the reader with a set of standard, important data on which to judge law schools. It contains information on all 200 ABA-Approved Law Schools. This reference, called The Official Guide to ABA-Approved Law Schools is provided free online and also in print for a small cost. A similar guide for Canadian Law Schools is also published by the Law School Admission Council and is called Official Guide to Canadian Law Schools. These guides seek to serve as an alternative to the \"U.S. News\" Rankings and law school rankings in general.\n\nAdditionally, the American Bar Association issued the MacCrate Report in 1992, which outlined many fundamental problems with modern legal education and called for reform in American law schools. While the report was hailed as a \"template for modern legal education\", its practice-oriented tenets have met resistance by law schools continually ranked in the \"top 13.\"\n\n\"U.S. News\" has not allowed these criticisms to go unanswered. They regularly outline and justify their methodology alongside the rankings, and have even published defenses of their value. Additionally, law professors William Henderson and Andrew Morriss have come out with a study criticizing law schools' (and the ABA's) refusal to adopt any better objective comparison method for the continued widespread reliance on U.S. News. Henderson and Morriss allege that law schools' attempts to \"game\" their \"U.S. News\" ranking by manipulating postgraduation employment statistics or applicant selectivity have led \"U.S. News\" to adjust its methodology accordingly, resulting in a counter-productive cycle. They go on to suggest that the ABA should use its accreditation power to mandate greater transparency in law schools' statistical reporting.\n\nIn March 2011, Loyola Law School Dean Victor Gold penned an op-ed in the \"Huffington Post\", accusing \"U.S. News & World Report\" of \"refus[ing] to consider diversity as a factor in its ranking system.\" Gold asserted that \"[t]here is a broad consensus among law school deans and professors that diversity enriches law school education.\" Loyola, which has a large Asian student body, claims 37% of its students are \"minorities,\" but it does not provide any specifics.\n\nDespite these criticisms, law school rankings in general and those by \"U.S. News\" in particular play a role in the world of legal education. When a school's ranking drops, fewer admitted applicants accept spots at the school, and people may get fired. Likewise, when a school rises in the rankings, the school often accidentally over-enrolls. This pressure has also resulted in various schools \"gaming the rankings.\" In a March 2003 article in \"Student Lawyer\", Jane Easter Bahls stated that, in order to appear more selective, some law schools reject applicants whose high LSAT scores indicate that they probably would go somewhere else. Other schools, in an attempt to increase the amount of money spent per student, increase tuition and return it to the students as financial aid.\n"}
{"id": "24111720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24111720", "title": "Learning for Life and Work", "text": "Learning for Life and Work\n\nLearning for Life and Work is a subject taught in schools in Northern Ireland.\n\nThe curriculum at Key Stage 3 covers employability, home economics, local and global citizenship and personal development.\n\nThe GCSE covers the following areas:\n"}
{"id": "37457417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37457417", "title": "Mashup (education)", "text": "Mashup (education)\n\nMashups are a combination of two or more data sources that have been integrated into one source. They typically consist of graphics, texts, audio clips, and video that have been sourced from various media such as blogs, wikis, YouTube, Google Maps, etc., into a new product. Remix is a related term, referring to how data sources have been combined to produce a constellation of elements that were not originally intended by the creators. Mashups rely on open and discoverable resources, open and transparent licensing, and open and remixable formats. \n\nIn the educational context, mashups are being used as an instructional tool by the teacher and/or as a product created by the student who are responsible for manipulating the data themselves. For example, http://rru.worldbank.org/businessplanet/, is a mashup website that was created by the World Bank to provide learners with data about country GDP, GDP growth, taxes, and other related information about countries around the globe. Students can use this platform to investigate real-world questions and generate their own arguments as a form of inquiry-based learning. Also, this places students into the role of the participant in the internet as they engage in discovering, remixing, and sharing content. As a result, mashups provide pedagogical opportunities, among them, as a tool within the constructivist approach to learning and also a way of teaching digital literacy, science, social studies, video production, and web development. Mashups rely on open and discoverable resources, open and transparent licensing, and open and remixable formats.\n\nStudents can create mashups as objects for evaluation and assessment in the classroom. Mashups can be included in reports and assignments to provide a visual representation to describe data and to \"demonstrate mastery of a subject\". On the internet learners access free development platforms such as Yahoo’s Pipes, Google Mashup Editor, and Microsoft’s Popfly. One example of a student created mashup project is MapSkip. Students manipulated a Google Map by marking different places they have visited by adding their videos, audio clips, or images. Student created mashups are also used in Higher Education; graduate students in a YouTube for Educators course learned to make mashups for their students, incorporating three or more video clips from different sources into an educational short on YouTube. The goals of this project were not only learning video editing skills, but also \"raise[ing] awareness of copyright issues and how to obtain media online from public sources\". This ties into teaching digital literacy as students need to be able to \"effectively and critically navigate, evaluate and create information using a range of digital technology\" (digital literacy wiki page).\n\nBecause research can be displayed on interactive graphs, charts, or maps to clarify difficult concepts for the learners through a mashup, they can serve as dynamic learning materials for students to use in the classroom. Students can use this platform to \"reach new conclusions or discern new relationships by uniting large amounts of data in a manageable way\". This would facilitate inquiry-based learning as students investigate and generate their own arguments dealing with real-world problems (Archambault et al.). For example, a fifth grade classroom used Mapdango to explore US National Parks. Mapdango uses data from Wikipedia, Google Maps, Panoramia, and weather data to create reports about a specific national park. Students used this mashup to get additional information when exploring the National Parks.\n\nA common issue surrounding the widespread use of mashups in education is the lack of open and discoverable resources because of non-transparent licensing issues (Snelson). \nEducators must be wary of issues of plagiarism and copyright infringement in their student-created mashups and in those they present to their students. Issues of the legal reuse of media should be explicitly addressed by instructors. Problems with data accuracy, content appropriateness and stability play into the credibility of mashups' use in the educational context. As mashups are a dynamic resource (and user-generated), they can be unpredictable in their uses. In addition, \"most publicly available data used in mashups today (e.g., Flickr or YouTube) are not designed for educational purposes.\"\n"}
{"id": "58043016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58043016", "title": "National Conservation Training Center", "text": "National Conservation Training Center\n\nThe National Conservation Training Center supports the mission of the U.S Fish and Wildlife Service in the following ways:\n\n\nThe National Conservation Training Center, or frequently referred to as NCTC, is located near Washington DC metropolitan beltway.\n\nNCTC is a walking campus on a 533 acre property. NCTC occupies 17 buildings, which make up a self-contained community. The instructional classrooms, commons, and housing are situated within the rural setting of both forest and grasslands. The architectural design demonstrates the buildings and walkways are blended with the landscape to entice guests to shed their metropolis pressures. Outdoor patios, walkways, and break areas are situated to easily view the Mid-Atlantic area wildlife throughout the four seasons. Birds, white-tailed deer, fox, and other critters are frequently seen skittering up nearby trees or moving along a grassland culvert.\n<mapframe latitude=\"39.4849\" longitude=\"-77.8064\" zoom=\"15\" width=\"400\" height=\"300\" align=\"right\">\n</mapframe>\n\nOver five miles of asphalt trails inner-connect the buildings to each other. Instructional, dining, and lodging are all in separate buildings. Umbrella bins are available to migrate between buildings during inclement weather.NCTC is a walking campus on a 533 acre property. The instructional classrooms, commons, and housing are situated within the rural setting of both forest and grasslands. The architectural design demonstrates the buildings and walkways are blended with the landscape to entice guests to shed their metropolis pressures. Outdoor patios, walkways, and break areas are situated to easily view the Mid-Atlantic area wildlife throughout the four seasons. Birds, white-tailed deer, fox, and other critters are frequently seen skittering up nearby trees or moving along a grassland culvert.\n\nThe central portion of the property known as the core campus is the instructional buildings complete with the guest Front Desk check in-out, auditorium, classrooms, computer and biology laboratories, and NCTC staff offices.\n\nA bridge built at the height of a bird’s-eye view connects the core instructional area to the commons dining hall, social lounge, a full size gymnasium, workout room, and overnight guest housing units.\n\nSupporting over 300 staff, 200+ overnight guests, and any number of day guests are the NCTC central plant, maintenance shops, water treatment facility, and a waste management plant.\n"}
{"id": "51540636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51540636", "title": "Open Education Resource Foundation", "text": "Open Education Resource Foundation\n\nThe Open Education Resource Foundation is a New Zealand open educational organisation that supports the following projects:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7118266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7118266", "title": "Peer Leadership Program", "text": "Peer Leadership Program\n\nThe Peer Leadership is a school educational program that looks upon upperclassmen to help ease the transition to the underclassman's respective freshmen year, usually run in public Universities and high schools. The Peer Program is considered to stress communal interaction and social insight. Before meeting with smaller groups of newcomers the larger Peer Leader is trained to deal and mentor with the educational needs the newcomers may express.\n\nThe methodology most commonly used in training the members of Peer is known as the Five Stages Approach, which teaches Peer Leaders about the five stages of a group. It is important to note that this is the interpretation of the journey, per se, that many peer groups embark upon. The stages are:\n\nStage One: \"Forming\", which understands that upon first creating groups, the members will be nervous. This stage remains crucial for leaders to emerge.\n\nStage Two: \"Norming\", following \"forming\", is the stage in which group members begin to adjust to their new, institutionalized atmosphere. The Peer members themselves begin to initiate general conversation and, within time, to manifest state-sponsored curriculum upon their members.\n\nStage Three: \"Storming\", the stage in which the freshmen begin to fight for roles in the group. Often conflict erupts emotionally as true feelings are expressed and group members learn about how others perceive them.\n\nStage Four: \"Performing\", the point in which the group members have the capacity to feel comfortable with each other. Unlike the stage preceding it, many of the emotions felt on this level are of trust and kindness, although apathy and disinterest may also peak in certain members during this stage.\n\nStage Five: \"Mourning and Reform\", the final stage which involves a parting of ways as group members review and reflect on the past. At the same time, they also focused on their future lives and ways that they will impart their differences upon the world. The Peer Leader must stress that it is the responsibility of the individual group members to act responsibly and morally in their future endeavors, taking care to especially stress the value of autonomy and self-direction.This is the most vital of all stages it ties all the stages together and helps to students cope with their feelings as they move on.\n\nPeer leaders often have various ways of recognizing each other as well as expressing the Peer bond and emotional trust between Peer leaders. There are many levels on which Peer recognition functions, starting from the most basic and common form to the most complex form:\n\nLevel 1: \"Fist Peer\": This is a soft fist pound in which Peer leaders recognize each other and express their bond through Peer, often repeating such phrases as \"Peer\" or \"Peer love\". This is by far the most common form of Peer recognition.\n\nLevel 2: \"Eye Peer\": This type of recognition involves Peer leaders making eye contact with each other for several seconds, followed by a slight head nod, which signifies that both leaders recognize each other as fellow Peer members. The Eye Peer works well because it can allow Peer members to bond from long distances.\n\nLevel 3: \"Mental Peer\": The Mental Peer allows a Peer leader to recognize the presence of other Peer members without making direct contact, as well as allowing the Peer member to recognize when other members are thinking of Peer.\n\nThese 3 levels are the only known levels of Peer recognition, although other, more complex forms are reputed to be in development. Some forms of Peer recognition vary from school to school and program to program and may contain handshakes, shared sayings or certain high five like motions or dance moves. These forms of peer recognition are usually handed down through the years and their exact meanings safeguarded.\n\nSome object to the standardization that the program imposes upon its members, especially within the high school level, where a significant majority of the freshmen class may be members. For example, Peer Leaders are given curriculum to follow each week under strict instruction to not deviate. Much of the curriculum that Peer Leaders and members give/receive, respectively, is pre-screened by school officials, in addition to having been directly handed down from the respective state Department of Education (i.e. NJ Dept. of Education, NJ being the first state to implement the Peer Program). Thus, an argument can be made that neither freshmen nor seniors have input on the information and pro-social lessons that they must discuss, and are forced into discussions on topics that are frequently irrelevant, unimportant, or generally uninteresting. High School freshmen have especially been known to express their dissent about issues, rules, and values that are taught to them. Furthermore, not all group members feel comfortable discussing personal problems and giving input to conversation, leading to an estrangement between the more socially-oriented group members and those who are more introverted in nature. For many freshmen, large Peer Groups (as many as 20+ in several instances) are intimidating and may reach a state of uncontrollability on the part of the Peer Leaders, who lack the authority of teachers.\n\nThe Peer Leader selection process has been a particular subject of scrutiny. Peer Leaders chosen are typically gregarious and outgoing, and females comprised 65% of the Peer force within the 2008-2009 Somerville High School school year. Through a series of group examinations in which random Peer applicants are given physical leadership puzzles to complete within specified time periods, the most outspoken individuals are looked upon highly. Through group interviews that follow, seniors that are similarly self-confident and socially agreeable are chosen as Peer Leaders. Those judged to have a speaking impediment, perceived shyness of character, or any other noticeable personality flaw(s) are passed up in favor of other students. Seniors who have been given a certain number of after school, and/or Saturday detentions, and/or suspensions are officially banned from the program and cannot apply. Through careful selection of Peer Leaders, socially acceptable role models for incoming freshmen students can be chosen and institutional image reinforced.\n\nAstin, A. W., (1985). Achieving Educational Excellence. San Francisco: Josses-Bass.\n\nAstin, A. W., (1993). What matters in college? Four critical years revisited. San Francisco: Josses-Bass.\n\nChickering, A. W., (1969). Education and Identity. San Francisco: Josses-Bass.\n\nGardner, J. N., (1996). “Power to Peers.” Keystone Newsletter. Belmont, CA. Wadsworth Publishing Company.\n\nGardner, J. N., (1998, August). Current Trends in the first college year. Lee University Annual Training Seminar for Freshman Seminar Instructors and Peer Leaders, conducted at Johnston Woods, Cleveland, TN.\nHamid, S. L. & VanHook, J., (1999). [Peer Leader Program Questionnaire]. Unpublished raw data. (Available from the Office of First-Year Programs, Lee University, \nCleveland, TN, 37320-3450.\n\nPascarella, E. T. & Terenzini, P.T., (1991). How college affects students. San Francisco: Josses-Bass.\n"}
{"id": "3609555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3609555", "title": "Peer support", "text": "Peer support\n\nPeer support occurs when people provide knowledge, experience, emotional, social or practical help to each other. It commonly refers to an initiative consisting of trained supporters (although it can be provided by peers without training), and can take a number of forms such as peer mentoring, reflective listening (reflecting content and/or feelings), or counseling. Peer support is also used to refer to initiatives where colleagues, members of self-help organizations and others meet, in person or online, as equals to give each other support on a reciprocal basis.\n\nPeer support is distinct from other forms of social support in that the source of support is a \"peer\", a person who is similar in fundamental ways to the recipient of the support; their relationship is one of equality. A peer is in a position to offer support by virtue of relevant experience: he or she has \"been there, done that\" and can relate to others who are now in a similar situation. Trained peer support workers such as peer support specialists and peer counselors receive special training and are required to obtain Continuing Education Units, like clinical staff. Some other trained peer support workers may also be law-enforcement personnel and firefighters as well as emergency medical responders.\n\nThe effectiveness of peer support is believed to derive from a variety of psychosocial processes described best by Mark Salzer in 2002: social support, experiential knowledge, social learning theory, social comparison theory and the helper-therapy principle.\n\n\nPeer mentoring takes place in learning environments such as schools, usually between an older more experienced student and a new student. Peer mentors appear mainly in secondary schools where students moving up from primary schools may need assistance in settling into the whole new schedule and lifestyle of secondary school life. Peer mentoring is also used in the workplace as a means of orienting new employees. New employees who are paired with a peer mentor are twice as likely to remain in their job than those who do not receive mentorship.\n\nThis form of peer support is widely used within schools. Peer supporters are trained, normally from within schools or universities, or sometimes by outside organizations, such as Childline's CHIPS (Childline In Partnership With Schools) program, to be \"active listeners\". Within schools, peer supporters are normally available at break or lunch times.\n\nPeer mediation is a means of handling incidents of bullying by bringing the victim and the bully together under mediation by one of their peers.\n\nA peer helper in sports works with young adults in sports such as football, soccer, track, volleyball, baseball, cheerleading, swimming, and basketball. They may provide help with game tactics (e.g. keeping your eye on the ball), emotional support, training support, and social support.\n\nPeer support can occur within, outside or around traditional mental health services and programs, between two people or in groups. Peer support is a key concept in the recovery approach and in consumer-operated services programs. Consumers/clients of mental health programs have also formed non-profit self-help organizations, and serve to support each other and to challenge associated stigma and discrimination. The role of peer workers in mental health services was the subject of a conference in London in April 2012, jointly organized by the Centre for Mental Health and the NHS Confederation. Research has shown that peer-run self-help groups yield improvement in psychiatric symptoms resulting in decreased hospitalization, larger social support networks and enhanced self-esteem and social functioning. There is considerable variety in the ways that peer support is defined and conceptualized as it relates to mental health services. In some cases, clinicians, psychiatrists, and other staff who do not necessarily have their own experiences of receiving psychiatric treatment are being trained, often by psychiatric survivors, in peer support as an approach to building relationships that are genuine, mutual, and non-coercive.\n\nIn Canada, the LEAF \"(Living Effectively with Anxiety and Fear)\" Program is a peer-led support group for cognitive-behavioral therapy of persons with mild to moderate panic disorders.\n\nIn a 2011 meta-analysis of seven randomized trials that compared a peer support intervention to group cognitive-behavioral therapy in patients suffering from depression, peer support interventions were found to improve depression symptoms more than usual care alone and results may be comparable to those of group cognitive behavioral therapy. These findings suggest that peer support interventions have the potential to be effective components of depression care, and they support the inclusion of peer support in recovery-oriented mental health treatment.\n\nSeveral studies have shown that peer support reduces fear during stressful situations such as combat and domestic violence and may mitigate Posttraumatic stress disorder. The 1982 Vietnam-Era Veterans Adjustment Survey showed that PTSD was highest in those men and women who lacked positive social support from family, friends, and society in general.\n\nPeer support programs have also been implemented to address stress and psychological trauma among law-enforcement personnel and firefighters as well as emergency medical responders. Peer support is an important component of the critical incident stress management program used to alleviate stress and trauma among disaster first responders.\n\nPeer support has been used to help survivors of trauma, such as refugees, cope with stress and deal with difficult living conditions. Peer support is integral to the services provided by the National Center for Trauma-Informed Care. Other programs have been designed for female victims of domestic violence and for women in prison.\n\nSurvivor Corps defines peer support for trauma survivors as \"Encouragement and assistance provided by a colleague who has overcome similar difficulties to engender self-confidence and autonomy and to enable the survivor to make his or her own decisions and implement them.\" Peer support is a fundamental strategy in the rehabilitation of landmine survivors in Afghanistan, Bosnia, El Salvador and Vietnam. A study of 470 amputee survivors of war-related violence in six countries showed that nearly one hundred percent said they had benefited from peer support.\n\nA peer support program operated by the \"Centre d’Encadrement et de Développement des Anciens Combattants\" in Burundi with support from the Center for International Stabilization and Recovery and Action on Armed Violence has assisted survivors of war-related violence, including women with disabilities, and female ex-combatants since 2010. A similar program in Rwanda works with survivors of the Rwandan genocide. Peer support has been recommended as a fundamental part of victim assistance programs for survivors of war-related violence.\n\nA 1984 study on the impact of peer support and support groups for victims of domestic violence showed that 146 battered women found women's peer support groups the most helpful source of a range of available treatments. The women in these groups appeared to give direct advice and to act as role models. A 1986 study on 70 adolescent mothers considered to be at risk for domestic violence showed that peer support improved cognitive problem-solving skills, self-reinforcement, and parenting competence.\n\nPandora's Aquarium, an online support group operating as part of Pandora's Project, offers peer support to survivors of rape and sexual abuse and their friends and family.\n\nTwelve-step programs for overcoming substance misuse and other addiction recovery groups are often based on peer support. Since the 1930s Alcoholics Anonymous has promoted peer support between new members and their sponsors: \"The process of sponsorship is this: an alcoholic who has made some progress in the recovery program shares that experience on a continuous, individual basis with another alcoholic who is attempting to attain or maintain sobriety through AA.\" Other addiction recovery programs rely on peer support without following the twelve-step model.\n\nPeer support has been beneficial for many people living with diabetes. Diabetes encompasses all aspects of people's lives, often for decades. Support from peers can offer emotional, social, and practical assistance that helps people do the things they need to do to stay healthy. Peer support groups for diabetics complement and enhance other health care services. J.F. Caro is the co-founder and Chief Scientific Officer of one of such groups named Peer for Progress.\n\nPeer support has also been provided for people with cancer and HIV. The Breast Cancer Network of Strength trains peer counselors to work with breast cancer survivors.\n\nPeer support is considered to be a key component of the independent living movement and has been widely used by organizations that work with people with disabilities, including the Amputee Coalition of America (ACA) and Survivor Corps. Since 1998 the ACA has operated a National Peer Network for survivors of limb loss. The Blinded Veterans Association has recently launched Operation Peer Support (OPS), a program designed to support men and women returning to the US blinded or experiencing significant visual impairment in connection with their military service. Peer support has also benefited survivors of traumatic brain injury and their families. There is also FacingDisability for Families Facing Spinal Cord Injuries , which has a peer counseling program in addition to 1,000 videos drawn from interviews of people with spinal cord injuries, their families, caregivers and experts.\n\nSeveral programs exist that provide peer support for military veterans in the US and Canada. In 2010 the Military Women to Women Peer Support Group was established in Helena, MT.\n\nThe Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors (TAPS) provides peer support, crisis care, casualty casework assistance, and grief and trauma resources for families of members of the US military. Operation Peer Support (OPS) is a program for US military veterans who were blinded or have significant visual impairment.\n\nIn January 2013 Senator Patty Murray, Chairman of the United States Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, sponsored an amendment of the National Defense Authorization Act (S.3254) that would require peer counseling as part of a comprehensive suicide prevention program for US veterans.\n\nResearchers at the Palo Alto VA National Center for PTSD reviewed the literature on peer interventions for PTSD and found that studies fell into three broad categories, referred to as \"peer outreach for those exposed to traumatic events;” “paraprofessional peer delivery of a trauma-focused intervention” and “peer support for recovery from PTSD\". Peer support outreach for those exposed to traumatic events refers to programs that seek to identify and reach out to those suffering from or at risk for mental health problems following a traumatic event as a means of connecting those people to mental health services. Paraprofessional peers are defined as having a shared background as the target population and work closely with and supplement the services of the mental healthcare team. These peers are trained in certain interventions (such as Psychological First Aid) and are closely supervised by professional mental healthcare personnel. Peer support for recovery from PTSD refers to programs in which someone with lived experience of PTSD, who experienced a significant reduction in symptoms, provides formal services to those who have not yet made significant steps in recovery from his or her condition. The peer support for recovery model focuses on improvement in overall health and wellness, and has long been successful in the treatment of SMI (serious mental illness) but is relatively new for PTSD.\n\nA further review of existing literature found that carefully recruited, trained, supervised, and supported paraprofessionals can deliver mental health interventions effectively, and may be valuable in communities with fewer resources for mental healthcare.\n\nResearchers at the Palo Alto VA National Center for PTSD also conducted focus groups at the VA Palo Alto Health Care System Trauma Recovery Programs, a PTSD Residential Rehabilitation Program, and a Women's Trauma Recovery Program to determine veteran and staff perceptions of informal peer support interventions already in place. Four themes were identified, including \"peer support contributing to a feeling of social connectedness,\" \"positive role modeling by the peer support provider,\" \"peer support augmenting care offered by professional providers,\" and \"peer supporter acting as a 'culture broker' and orienting recipients to mental health treatment.\"\n\nThese findings have been put into practice through a peer support program for veterans in the Sonora, Stockton, and Modesto VA outpatient clinics. The clinics are part of the Palo Alto Veterans Affairs Healthcare System that extend to more rural parts of northern California. The program is funded through grants in support of new treatment approaches to serve veterans in rural, traditionally underserved areas. Leadership for the program comes from the Menlo Park division of the Palo Alto VA system.\n\nThe peer support program has been operational since 2012 with over 268 unique veterans seen between 2012 and 2015. The two peer support providers involved in the program are veterans of the Vietnam and Iraq wars, respectively, and after having recovered from their own mental health disorders utilize their experiences to help their fellow veterans. The two providers have been responsible for leading between 5 and 7 groups each week as well as conducting telephone outreach and one-on-one engagement visits These services have successfully helped to augment the often overburdened mental health treatment teams at the central valley outpatient VA clinics.\n\nThe peer support program has been described in several publications. A personal story of success was featured in Stanford Medicine magazine and the collaborative nature of the program was described in the recently published book, Partnerships for Mental Health.\n\nSeveral peer based organisations exist for sex workers. The aim of these organisations is to support the health, rights and well being of sex workers and advocate on their behalf for law reform in order to make working safer. Sex work is work and there are many people who willingly choose it as a job/career. While sex trafficking does exist, not everyone who does sex work is doing so under duress. Social stigma is a major hurdle sex workers encounter, with many people trying to 'save' them. Peer support workers and peer educators are seen as best practice by the Sex Industry Network (SIN) when engaging with community members because peers can understand that someone could willingly choose to do sex work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44419959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44419959", "title": "Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service", "text": "Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service\n\nThe Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service is an award issued by the Association for Computing Machinery's Special Interest Group on University and College Computing Services. It was established in 2000 to recognise individuals who have made significant contributions to the Special Interest Group, and to computing in higher education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31252165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31252165", "title": "Percy Hughes", "text": "Percy Hughes\n\nPercy Hughes (1872–1952) was a philosopher and teacher, and a leading figure in the Philosophy, Education, and Psychology department at Lehigh University.\n\nHughes was born in Peshawar in British India. A child of missionary Anglican parents, Hughes lived in London before arriving to the United States at the age of 16. He received his A.B degree from Alfred University, and his MA and Ph.D. degrees from the Teachers College at Columbia University under John Dewey, who would become a lifelong friend.\n\nHughes joined Lehigh University in 1907 as an assistant professor of Philosophy, Education and Psychology, and remained there until his retirement in 1942. A prolific writer, he published extensively in a variety of topics including philosophy, education and psychology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "102571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102571", "title": "Personal trainer", "text": "Personal trainer\n\nA personal trainer is an individual certified to have a varying degree of knowledge of general fitness involved in exercise prescription and instruction. They motivate clients by setting goals and providing feedback and accountability to clients. Trainers also measure their client's strengths and weaknesses with fitness assessments. These fitness assessments may also be performed before and after an exercise program to measure their client's improvements in physical fitness. They may also educate their clients in many other aspects of wellness besides exercise, including general health and nutrition guidelines. \n\nQualified personal trainers recognize their own areas of expertise. If a trainer suspects that one of their clients has a medical condition that could prevent the client from safe participation in an exercise program, they must refer the client to the proper health professional for prior clearance.\n\n The scope of practice for a personal trainer is to enhance the components of fitness for the general, healthy population.\n\nProper exercise prescription may result in improved body composition, physical performance, heart condition and health outcomes. The decision to hire a trainer may be related to a perceived ability to facilitate these factors through proper prescription and instruction or factors related to motivation and adherence. A trainer pays close attention to their client's exercise form, workout routine, and nutrition plan.\n\nFew studies have investigated training for men, however, training in women has been shown to exercise behavior patterns, improve perceptual benefit-to-concern ratio for exercise (decisional balance), and increase confidence to choose exercise in the face of other time demands (scheduling self-efficacy). Personal training results in higher strength, higher workout intensities, and higher perceived exertion during exercise in women. Although women working with personal trainers do self-select heavier loads than women who did not, the loads used are still below recommended training load percentages.\n\nThe profession is generally not restricted by venue, and personal trainers may work in fitness facilities, in their personal homes, in client homes, over live video (also called \"virtual personal trainers\"), or outdoors. Almost all personal trainers and group exercise instructors work in physical fitness facilities, health clubs, and fitness centers located in the amusement and recreation industry or in civic and social organizations. Personal training is not regulated in any jurisdiction in the United States except for Washington D.C. which adopted registration requirements for personal fitness trainers in February 2014.\n\nPersonal trainers may specialize in a certain training type, training philosophy, performance type, exercise modality, or client population. In general, most personal trainers develop exercise prescription plans for aerobic exercise, resistance exercise, and/or flexibility training. With aerobic exercise prescription, personal trainers determine the type of exercise, duration of exercise, and frequency of exercise. For resistance exercise prescription, the type of exercise, total session volume, rest period, frequency, and intensity are determined. Personal trainers may also be involved in prescription of stretching routines or other approaches. Personal trainers help clients to perform exercises with correct technique, minimising the risk of injury. While some discuss nutrition, ergogenic supplementation, and spiritual practices with clients, there is debate within the industry as to whether it fits within their scope of practice and training qualifications.\n\nPersonal trainer accreditation is a process that provides certification of competency as a personal trainer. Qualification standards for personal trainers vary between countries.\n\nIn Australia, personal trainers may work independently with suitable insurance or choose to be a member of a registering body (Fitness Australia or Physical Activity Australia). The qualifications levels include; Level 1 - Certificate III in Fitness, Level 2 - Certificate IV in Fitness and Level 3 - Diploma of Fitness. These can be obtained from nationally accredited colleges (TAFE, Australian College of Sport & Fitness, Fitness Industry Training, Global Fitness Institute, Australian Institute of Fitness, Australian Fitness Academy). Once working in the industry, trainers who are members of associations are also required to complete short courses to obtain continuing education credit (CEC) points they need to keep their registration. A minimum of 20 CEC points every two years is required. Many personal trainers also have additional qualifications in weight loss, strength training, kid's fitness, and nutrition, which is in part due to the CEC program. CEC courses can cover a wide variety of topics such as different training techniques, nutrition, exercise styles, health conditions, physiology, lifestyle and rehabilitation.\n\nIn Brazil, personal trainers must have a bachelor's degree in \"Physical Education\" (a degree that combines knowledge in the fields of Exercise Science and Healthcare science) and be registered with the Conselho Federal de Educação Física (Federal Council of Physical Education), and risk criminal charges if they operate without these two requirements.\n\nIn Canada, the main certifying bodies are Canadian Fitness Education Services (CFES), Canadian Fitness Professionals, Certified Personal Trainers Network, and Canadian Society of Exercise Physiology. CSEP requires a diploma or degree in the exercise field, most require experience and/or workshops. Ontario does not have any personal training regulation. Many personal trainers receive a CFES, CanFit Pro certification or an NCCA accredited certification. The National Personal Training Institute is the only private trade school and is a registered College under the Private Career Colleges Act.\n\nIn Europe, personal trainers may work independently, but will always need accreditation by one of the main certifying bodies such as:\n\nNASM: National Academy of Sports Medicine. NASM Certified Personal Trainers are eligible to join the European Register of Exercise Professionals (EREPS). The NASM has attributed to the success of personal trainers in Europe and accredited companies like UNITEDFIT in the Netherlands became recognized as a qualified fitness organization in Europe.\n\nEREPS: The European Register of Exercise Professionals (EREPS) is an independent process for the registering of instructors, trainers and teachers working in the European health, fitness and physical activity sector. It is a pan-European system, based on independent national registers, which culminate in a central European database.\n\nIn the UK, there are several ways to achieve a personal training qualification. Most personal training qualifications are accredited through awarding bodies like CYQ (Central YMCA Qualifications), Active IQ (Active International Qualifications) and City and Guilds. These qualifications are generally delivered by Further Education (FE) establishments like colleges, or by private training providers. Upon successful completion of an accredited awarding body qualification, candidates become eligible for Level 3 REPs(Register of Exercise Professionals)status. University graduates with an appropriate honours degree can also apply to become an approved by REPs through Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL) and Accreditation of Prior Achievement (APA).\n\nREPs is the professional body for the UK health and fitness industry, and does not award qualifications directly. Most health and fitness qualifications endorsed by REPs vary in levels from 1 - 5, 1 being basic GCSE level and 5 being advanced specialized training professionals. For a qualification to become eligible for endorsement by REPs, it must conform to the National Occupational Standards (NOS), which are set at governmental level by the Sector Skills Council (SSC) Skills Active.\n\nThere is no legal restriction on the title of Personal Trainer nor any formal body associated with regulating Personal Training.\n\nA number of certifications are available in the U.S., although a number are not accredited. Most require a high school diploma, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and automated external defibrillator (AED) certification, and some type of examination.\n\nA 2002 investigation evaluated a random sample of 115 personal trainers using the Fitness Instructors Knowledge Assessment (FIKA) (which measures knowledge in nutrition, health screening, testing protocols, exercise prescription, and special populations). The study described that:\n\nIn partnership with the fitness industry, the International Health, Racquet & Sportsclub Association (IHRSA), which represents over 9,000 health and fitness facilities, started an initiative in 2002 to improve standards for both its own clubs and the industry as a whole. In January 2006, IHRSA implemented a recommendation that its facilities only accept personal trainers with certifications recognized by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA) if recognized either by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) and/or the U.S. Department of Education (USDE). As a result, the Distance Education and Training Council (DETC) was recognized by IHRSA as a recognized accreditor of fitness professional certification organizations. Since then, the DETC has accredited several personal trainer certification organizations, including the Aerobics and Fitness Association of America (AFAA) and the International Sports Sciences Association (ISSA) among others. As of August 2012, NASM, ISSA, AFAA, ACSM and NSCA certifications are among the 15 accredited certifications recognized by IHRSA, three of which are accredited by the Distance Education Training Council (DETC).\n\nVarious organizations within the profession have lobbied for the adoption of a more stringent criteria for certification developed by the NSF International. There remains no national legal restriction on the industry to date except for the District of Columbia (D.C.) which as of February 2014, passed legislation requiring personal fitness trainers to register in that jurisdiction. The law went into effect in the first half of 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "35512081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35512081", "title": "Public alternative school", "text": "Public alternative school\n\nA public alternative school is a state school that \"provides alternative learning experiences to the conventional school program and which is available by choice to every family in the community at no extra cost”\" They include:\n\n"}
{"id": "11029259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11029259", "title": "School-leaving age", "text": "School-leaving age\n\nThe school leaving age is the minimum age a person is legally allowed to cease attendance at an institute of compulsory secondary education. Most countries have their school leaving age set the same as their minimum full-time employment age, thus allowing smooth transition from education into employment, whilst a few have it set just below the age at which a person is allowed to be employed.\n\nIn contrast, there are numerous countries that have several years between their school leaving age and their legal minimum employment age, thus in some cases preventing any such transition for several years. Countries which have their employment age set below the school leaving age of 5 years old but (mostly developing countries), risk giving children the opportunity to leave their education early to earn money for their families.\n\nSome countries have different leaving or employment ages, but in certain countries like China and Japan, the average age at which people graduate is 15, depending upon part-time or full-time learning or employment. The table below states the school leaving ages in countries across the world and their respective minimum employment age, showing a comparison of how many countries have synchronised these ages. All information is taken from the Right to Education Project's table unless otherwise indicated.\n\nLegend\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23692542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23692542", "title": "School life expectancy", "text": "School life expectancy\n\nSchool life expectancy is a measure of how many years of education a child of school-entering age would receive during his or her lifetime if the school enrollment rates stay the same as of today. It is computed by UNESCO Institute for Statistics and is used by statisticians and organisations to compare and assess the development of nations.\n"}
{"id": "26952610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26952610", "title": "Scottish Council for Research in Education", "text": "Scottish Council for Research in Education\n\nThe Scottish Council for Research in Education (SCRE) was set up by the Scottish teachers’ union (The Educational Institute of Scotland, EIS) and the Association of Directors of Education in 1928. At that time, there were no similar organisations anywhere in the world . The Council itself consisted of some 60 members drawn from a wide range of bodies with an interest in education . This Council appointed a director and arranged for some basic funding to come from government local authorities, but the EIS provided free accommodation and secretarial assistance. For more than 20 years, most of the work was carried out by groups of teachers on a voluntary basis.\n\nThroughout these years and on into the 1980s Council staff and associates made distinguished contributions to educational research, often setting world standards. Two key reports were the reports of 1921 and 1947\n\nThe authors of the Council's early publications make up a who's who of the greats in this field — Godfrey Thomson, Drever, P.E.Vernon, McClelland and Boyd. These men influenced educational thinking throughout the world. They found worthy successors in later years — Maxwell, Fraser, Clark, Nisbet, Hope, Dockrell, Patricia Broadfoot, Spencer, John Raven, Ian Deary.\n\nIn later years the Council's research programme came more and more under government control with the Council itself finally being disbanded and the few remaining staff moved to an all-but non-existent renamed Scottish Center for Educational research within the Faculty of Education of Glasgow University. Its website was likewise disbanded. For this reason a complete list of the publications of the Council is no longer available.\n\nA short but comprehensive account of the Council's work has been contributed by Powell and an earlier, but fuller, account by Morris.\n\nPowell, John L. (2012) \"The Scottish Council for Research in Education 1928-2003: a Short History\", \"Scottish Educational Review\", 44, 59-76. www.scotedreview.org.uk/pdf/348pdf\n\nMorris, J.G. (1994) \"The Scottish Council for Educational Research 1928-1993\". Edinburgh University PhD thesis. (Copy available from National Library for Scotland.)\n\nSome indication of the scope of the Council's more recent work may be derived from the list below. Although several are not Council publications they indicate the nature of some of the work ... and refer to subsequent developments built upon it.\n\nDockrell, W. B., Broadfoot, P. M. et al. (1977). \"Pupils in Profile\". Edinburgh: Scottish Council for Research in Education.\n\nDockrell, W.B. & Hamilton, D. (1980). \"Rethinking Educational Research\". London: Hodder & Saughton.\n\nHamilton, D., Jenkins, D., King, C., MacDonald, B., & Parlett, M. (Eds.). (1977). \"Beyond the Numbers Game\". London: MacMillan Education.\n\nHope, K. (1984). \"As Others See Us: Schooling and Social Mobility in Scotland and the United States\". New York: Cambridge University Press.\n\nRaven, J., & Stephenson, J. (Eds.). (2001). \"Competence in the Learning Society\". New York: Peter Lang.\n\nRaven, J., & Raven, J. (Eds.). (2008). \"Uses and Abuses of Intelligence: Studies Advancing Spearman and Raven’s Quest for Non-Arbitrary Metrics\". Unionville, New York: Royal Fireworks Press; Edinburgh, Scotland: Competency Motivation Project; Budapest, Hungary: EDGE 2000; Cluj Napoca, Romania: Romanian Psychological Testing Services SRL.\n\nSpencer, E. (1983). \"Writing Matters Across the Curriculum\". Edinburgh: Scottish Council for Research in Education.\n\nA list of some 70 publications by a previous Director, W. Bryan Dockrell, will be found in a link cited on that page.\n\nPublications from the Scottish Mental Surveys\n\nMacPherson, J. S. (1958). \"Eleven Year Olds Grow Up\". London: University of London Press.\n\nMaxwell, J. N. (1961). \"The Level and Trend of National Intelligence: The Contribution of the Scottish Mental Surveys\". London: University of London Press.\n\nMaxwell, J. N. (1969). \"Sixteen Years On\". Edinburgh: Scottish Council for Research in Education.\n\nHope, K. (1984). \"As Others See Us: Schooling and Social Mobility in Scotland and the United States\". New York: Cambridge University Press.\n\nDeary, I. J., Whalley, L. W., Lemmon, H., Crawford, J. R., & Starr, J. M. (2000). The stability of individual differences in mental ability from childhood to old age: Follow-up of the 1932 Scottish Mental Survey. \"Intelligence\", 28(1), 49-55.\n\n"}
{"id": "23747263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23747263", "title": "Teachable moment", "text": "Teachable moment\n\nA teachable moment, in education, is the time at which learning a particular topic or idea becomes possible or easiest.\n\nThe concept was popularized by Robert Havighurst in his 1952 book, \"Human Development and Education.\" In the context of education theory, Havighurst explained, \n\nThe concept pre-dates Havighurst's book, as does use of the phrase, but he is credited with popularizing it.\n\nThe phrase sometimes denotes not a developmental stage, but rather \"that moment when a unique, high interest situation arises that lends itself to discussion of a particular topic.\" It implies \"personal engagement\" with issues and problems.\n\nThese moments can (and often do) come when least expected. Teachers and parents alike can benefit from use of teachable moments.\n\nIn July 2009, Harvard professor Henry Louis Gates was arrested at his home; the incident garnered media attention throughout the United States. The mayor of Cambridge, E. Denise Simmons, said that she hoped that the result would be a \"teachable moment\". U.S. President Barack Obama expressed the same hope as Simmons:\n\nObama's use of the phrase attracted considerable comment in the American media and blogosphere. Gates himself echoed the same theme, stating, \"I told the President that my entire career as an educator has been devoted to racial healing and improved race relations in this country. I am determined that this be a teaching moment.\"\n\nOn July 4, 2011, Professor Glyn Davis, vice-chancellor of the University of Melbourne, used the term in an article in Campus Review, describing the Australian Higher Education Base Funding Review as a rare opportunity to educate a wider public about how public tertiary education is supported. Davis argued that Australian Universities must show why Australia's public universities returned to the community the money spent providing higher education, and that this constituted a teachable moment.\n\nA teachable moment is often best demonstrated with a significant emotional or traumatic event, the emphasis being on the 'moment' versus the lesson. An example would be, after a high-speed motor vehicle accident, when the use of a seat belt has obviously saved a life, or conversely, when the lack of a seat belt has caused loss of life.\n\nLaw enforcement and first responders are often taught and encouraged to use appropriate situations to 'teach' the public.\n\nTeachable moments are not limited to episodes following error or miscreancy, where vulnerability opens the learner to teaching. There is also much work on the mechanisms and psychology by which teachable moments are created in relationships.\n\nRecent work by developmental psychologists Gyorgy Gergely and Gergely Csibra that has been picked up by other psychologists and psychotherapists, especially Peter Fonagy and Elizabeth Allison, describes a \"natural pedagogical stance\": this is accessed only when \"epistemic trust\" is created in the \"learner\", and epistemic trust is created when the learner experiences (\"recognises\") his or her own mind in that \"teachable moment\" as having been accepted and understood by the \"teacher\". This is what triggers curiosity in the contents of the understanding mind of the teacher, and a readiness to \"generalise\" the information taken in from the teacher to other contexts and people. Some impressive experimental evidence supports this theory. They argue that this learning pathway is almost entirely human-specific, requiring as it does the linked psychological function of mentalization to have occurred.\n\nThe logical corollary of this line of thinking is that in creating the \"teachable moment\" the \"teacher's\" first job is not to consider how to change the learner's mind, but \"how to change his or her own mind\", in order to better represent that mind of the learner \"as it is now\", and create conditions (through utterances, facial expression and other cues) in which it can be recognised by the learner.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8146278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8146278", "title": "Test anxiety", "text": "Test anxiety\n\nTest anxiety is a combination of physiological over-arousal, tension and somatic symptoms, along with worry, dread, fear of failure, and catastrophizing, that occur before or during test situations. It is a physiological condition in which people experience extreme stress, anxiety, and discomfort during and/or before taking a test. This anxiety creates significant barriers to learning and performance. Research suggests that high levels of emotional distress have a direct correlation to reduced academic performance and higher overall student drop-out rates. Test anxiety can have broader consequences, negatively affecting a student's social, emotional and behavioural development, as well as their feelings about themselves and school.\n\nHighly test-anxious students score about 12 percentile points below their low anxiety peers. Test anxiety is prevalent amongst the student populations of the world. It has been studied formally since the early 1950s beginning with researchers George Mandler and Seymour Sarason. Sarason's brother, Irwin G. Sarason, then contributed to early investigation of test anxiety, clarifying the relationship between the focused effects of test anxiety, other focused forms of anxiety, and generalized anxiety.\n\nTest anxiety can also be labeled as anticipatory anxiety, situational anxiety or evaluation anxiety. Some anxiety is normal and often helpful to stay mentally and physically alert. When one experiences too much anxiety, however, it can result in emotional or physical distress, difficulty concentrating, and emotional worry. Inferior performance arises not because of intellectual problems or poor academic preparation, but because testing situations create a sense of threat for those experiencing test anxiety; anxiety resulting from the sense of threat then disrupts attention and memory function. Researchers suggest that between 25 and 40 percent of students experience test anxiety. Students with disabilities and students in gifted educations classes tend to experience high rates of test anxiety. Students who experience test anxiety tend to be easily distracted during a test, experience difficulty with comprehending relatively simple instructions, and have trouble organizing or recalling relevant information.\n\nResearchers believe that feelings of anxiety arise to prepare a person for threats. In humans, anxiety symptoms are distributed along a continuum and different symptom levels of anxiety predict outcomes. Responses consist of increased heart rate, stress hormone secretion, restlessness, vigilance, and fear of a potentially dangerous environment. Anxiety prepares the body physically, cognitively, and behaviourally to detect and deal with threats to survival. As a result, a person’s body begins to hyperventilate to allow more oxygen to enter the bloodstream, divert blood to muscles, and sweat to cool the skin. In individuals, the degree to which an anxiety response is developed is based on the probability of bad things happening in the environment and the individual’s ability to cope with them. In the case of test taking, this might be a failing exam grade that prevents the student from being accepted to a post-secondary institution. A person's beliefs about their own competencies are a form of self-knowledge, which plays an important role in analyzing situations that might be threatening. When a person has feelings of low competence about their abilities they are likely to anticipate negative outcomes such as failure, under uncertain conditions. Thus, evaluative situations including tests and exams, are perceived as more threatening by students who have low competencies.\n\nThere is a difference between generalized anxiety disorders (GAD) and test anxiety. GAD is characterized by \"trait anxiety\" which results in a person experiencing high levels of stress across a wide range of situations. In contrast, people with test anxiety have a \"state anxiety\" which results in high levels of nervousness specific to testing.\n\nSymptoms of test anxiety can range from moderate to severe. \"Students who exhibit moderate symptoms are still able to perform relatively well on exams. Other students with severe anxiety will often experience panic attacks.\"\n\nCommon physical symptoms include: headache, upset stomach, feeling of fear, feeling of dread, shortness of breath, sweating, pacing or fidgeting, crying, racing thoughts and blanking out.\n\nDuring states of excitement or stress, the body releases adrenaline. Adrenaline is known to cause physical symptoms that accompany test anxiety, such as increased heart rate, sweating, and rapid breathing. In many cases having adrenaline is a good thing. It is helpful when dealing with stressful situations, ensuring alertness and preparation. But for some people the symptoms are difficult or impossible to handle, making it impossible to focus on tests.\n\nTest anxiety consists of:\n\n\nResearch shows that parental pressure is associated with greater worry, test irrelevant thoughts, and stronger bodily symptoms relating to anxiety during a test.\n\nOther causes of test anxiety may include fear of failure, procrastination, and previous poor test performance. As well, characteristics of the test environment such as: nature of the task, difficulty, atmosphere, time constraints, examiner characteristics, mode of administration and physical setting can affect the level of anxiousness felt by the student. Researchers Putwain & Best (2011), examined test performance among elementary children when the teacher put pressure on the students in an attempt to create a more high stress environment. Their findings showed that students performed worse in high threat situations and experienced more test anxiety and worrisome thoughts than when in a low threat environment.\n\nTest anxiety is known to develop into a vicious cycle. After experiencing test anxiety on one test, the student may become so fearful of it happening again they become more anxious and upset than they would normally, or even than they experienced on the previous test. If the cycle continues without acknowledgement, or the student seeking help, the student may begin to feel helpless in the situation.\n\nPeople who experience test anxiety often have parents or siblings who have test anxiety or other types of anxiety. Anxiety does seem to have some genetic components.\n\nBiological causes:\n\n      During times of stress the body releases a hormone called adrenaline that helps prepare for what is about to happen. Generally this adrenaline discharge is a good thing, but in some people the symptoms of nerves can be so strong that it does not allow them to concentrate on the tests.\n\nMental causes\n\n      In addition to the biological causes are the mental causes, one of the most influential is the students' expectations, if the student goes to the exam with the mentality that it will go wrong, is much more likely to feel anxiety before and during the exam which will lead to poor performance in the tests.\n\nTest anxiety can be diagnosed using the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual-IV, under the classification of \"social phobia.\"\nSocial phobias are characterized by \"a marked and persistent fear of social or performance situations in which embarrassment may occur\". In order to be diagnosed as suffering from a social phobia, the DSM-IV states that the individual must present four different factors.\n\n\nOther variables related to test anxiety are:\n\n\nAnxiety is defined as the \"psychological mechanism whereby the current intensification of a dangerous drive results in the elicitation of defenses.\" George Mandler and Seymour Sarason (1952), developed the theory that anxiety present in testing situations is an important determinate of test performance. Individuals that become highly anxious during tests typically perform more poorly on tests than low-test anxious persons, especially when tests are given under stressful evaluative conditions such as a post-secondary exam. The feelings of forgetfulness, or drawing a \"blank\" are developed because of anxiety-produced interference between relevant responses and irrelevant responses generated from the person’s anxious state. The difference in performance of a high-anxious test taker compared to a low-anxious test taker is largely due to the difference in their ability to focus on the tasks required. A low-anxious test taker is able to focus greater attention on the tasks required of them while taking the test, while a high-anxious test taker is focused on their internal self, and the anxiety they are feeling. Anxious test takers do not perform adequately on the test as their attention is divided between themselves and the test. Therefore, students with high test anxiety are unable to focus their full attention on the test. Furthermore, anxiousness is evoked when a student believes that the evaluative situation, such as an assessment, exceeds his or her intellectual, motivational, and social capabilities.\n\nPsychologists Liebert and Morris (1967) analyzed the structure of test anxiety given on two distinct factors: \"Cognitive Test Anxiety\" and \"Emotionality\". Emotionality means that the individual shows high levels of several different symptoms related to test anxiety that can be seen through physiological responses experienced during situations where they are being evaluated; such as an exam. Some of the physiological manifestations include: increased galvanic skin response and heart rate, dizziness, nausea, or feelings of panic. There is evidence that emotionality is a distinct part of test anxiety; however, it can be seen that when an individual displays high emotionality it means that it is mostly associated with declining performance, but only when the individual is also experiencing high levels of worry.\n\nThe other factor mentioned is Cognitive Test Anxiety, also known as worry. It is mostly composed of the individuals cognitive reactions to situations where they are being evaluated, in the times prior to, during, and after those tasks. Some of the thoughts that individuals with high cognitive test anxiety are constantly dealing with are comparing self performance to peers, considering the consequences of failure, low levels of confidence in performance, excessive worry about grades, feeling that they are unprepared for tests, and loss of self-worth.\n\nResearchers Putwain, Woods & Symes (2010), found that a low academic self-concept was associated with higher worry and tension about their abilities to do well on a test. A student's metacognitive beliefs play an important role in the maintenance of negative self-beliefs.\n\nAnxiety reactions can be generalized from previous experiences to testing situations. Feelings of inadequacy, helplessness, anticipations of punishment or loss of status and esteem manifest anxiety responses. As well, the presence of an audience can debilitate the performance of high anxious test takers and increase the performance of low anxious test takers. Persons who score high on anxiety scales tend to describe themselves in negative, self-devaluing terms. Highly anxious test takers also blame themselves for their failure significantly more than low anxious test takers.\n\nThe study of the relationship between anxiety and performance can be understood by using the Yerkes-Dodson Law, where one can see the facilitating and debilitating effects of arousal on performance as an inverted \"U\". \nAn example of this correlation can be seen in terms of a child taking a test where the degree of arousal or anxiety that the child portrays can be seen as beneficial to the performance. Though, if the child doesn't have a feeling or fear or failure or some sort of encouragement to perform well on the test, then the child is unlikely to put the necessary effort into preparing or being motivated when taking the test and so he or she will not perform to their fullest potential.\n\nHowever, if before or during a test a child's level of anxiety is above the optimum level, they may also fail to demonstrate their true abilities. Under these circumstances fear of the actual test may disrupt preparation and cause a great amount of distress during the test that it is more than likely to impair their performance.\n\nThere are two main groups of attentional theories that attempt to explain compromised performance in pressured situations.\n\nOne group of theories are the \"explicit monitoring theories\". They state that when a person is expected to perform a specific skill, the pressure may cause an increased self-consciousness and inward focus, which can disrupt their ability to successfully perform that task. Thinking about step-by-step procedures can inhibit one’s ability to execute a task. For example, a study by R. Gray found that baseball players put into the high-pressure condition had increased errors, and an increased ability to recall details like the direction their bat was moving. This indicates that the pressured players were monitoring themselves more, which impacted their ability to successfully hit the ball.\n\nA second group of theories are the \"distraction theories\". These theories states that high-pressure environments create a dual-task situation, in which the person’s attention is divided between the task at hand and unhelpful thoughts about the situation and possible negative consequences of poor performance. \nAttention is an important part of working memory, which is the system that actively holds several pieces of relevant information in the mind while inhibiting irrelevant information. Working memory has a limited capacity, and the addition of stress and anxiety reduces the resources available to focus on relevant information.\n\nIn situations in which individuals need to concentrate their attention on a specific task, emotional stimuli can divert their attention to a greater degree than non-emotional stimuli. Emotional stimuli will often dominate a person’s thoughts, and any attempt to suppress them will require additional working memory resources. When working memory divides resources between the aversive cognitions and the task-relevant material, then the person’s ability to use the relevant information on a test will suffer.People who suffer from test anxiety are more likely to experience negative cognitions while in evaluative situations. Furthermore, test anxious persons have been found to bias their attention towards threatening and anxiety related stimuli more than nonemotional stimuli.Research has accordingly found that tasks that rely heavily on working memory are the ones that suffer the most during pressure. Shortfalls in performance that are caused by test anxiety seem to be related to the extent to which the student has full access to their working memory.\n\nWhen comparing these two theories in the context of academic performance, a majority of work supports distraction theories. One reason for this is that many of the skills performed in the classroom require heavy demands on working memory. However, there are different kinds of pressure situations. There is \"monitoring pressure\", in which an individual’s performance is impacted due to the presence of an audience, and \"outcome pressure\", in which an individual’s performance is influenced by the consequences of the testing results. In a study, DeCaro \"et al.\" found that performance on a rule-based task, that relies heavily on working memory, was impaired by outcome pressure, but not monitoring pressure, whereas performance on an information-integration task, which does not require attentional control, was hurt by monitoring pressure, but not outcome pressure. These findings indicate that performance is compromised in different ways depending on the type of task, and the types of pressure, and that both theories can be correct.\n\nEysenck \"et al.\" elaborate upon the distraction theories and propose the attentional control theory. This theory uses Baddeley's model of working memory to explain the effects of anxiety on working memory and on performance. In Baddeley's theory, working memory (WM) consists of four components, one of them the central executive that has a number of tasks such as coordination of the temporary stores of phonological and visual information (phonological loop and visuospatial sketchpad, respectively).\n\nThe attentional control theory assumes that anxiety primarily affects attentional control, which is a key function of the central executive. Attentional control is the balance between the two attentional systems, the \"goal-directed system\", influenced by the individual's goals, and the \"stimulus-driven system\", influenced by salient stimuli. According to the attentional control theory, anxiety disrupts the balance between these two systems. The stimulus-driven system becomes stronger at the expense of the goal-directed system, thereby impairing the efficiency of the inhibition and shifting functions of the central executive.\n\nIn support of this theory, there is strong evidence that anxiety largely impairs processing efficiency rather than performance effectiveness. Performance effectiveness refers to the quality of performance whereas processing efficiency refers to the amount of resources used to attain an effective performance. There is also evidence that anxiety impairs both the inhibition and the shifting function. Therefore, this theory suggests that students high in test anxiety will have to allocate more resources to the task at hand than non-test anxiety students in order to achieve the same results.\n\nIn general, people with higher working memory capacity do better on academic tasks, but this changes when people are under acute pressure. Sian Beilock \"et al.\" found that pressure led individuals with a high working memory capacity to perform worse on a complicated task, whereas individuals with a low WM capacity got the same low results with or without pressure. This was because people with high WM could use more better but more demanding problem solving strategies in the low pressure condition, which they had to abandon in the high pressure condition. The low WM people never used these demanding strategies in the first place. Evidence for similar working memory effects in children has also been found. Evidence that trait anxiety might have different effects on working memory than state or acute pressure situations comes from Johnson \"et al.\" who found individuals' performances on a task showed a decrease in accuracy due to trait anxiety for individuals with low or average WM capacity, but did not significantly decrease for individuals with high WM.\n\nEarly scales, by authors such as Charles Spielberger, tended to focus on physiological and somatic features and on worry, commonly referred to as \"emotionality\", while more recent offerings, such as that by Cassady & Johnson, emphasize cognitive processes. \"Test anxiety\" for these authors consists of physiological and mental processes, and impaired test performance is seen as the result.\n\nThe \"Children's Test Anxiety Questionnaire\" is specifically designed to measure test anxiety in children 8–12 years of age. It provides scores for three dimensions of test anxiety: \"worrisome thoughts concerning failure (i.e. 'when I take tests, I worry about failing'), automatic reactions concerning students' general and specific somatic indications of anxiety (i.e. 'when I take tests, my heart beats fast'), and off-task behaviours concerning nervous habits and distracting behaviours (i.e. 'when I take tests, I play with my pencil')\" \n\nThe \"Test Anxiety Inventory for Children and Adolescent\" (TAICA) is a way to measure and assess test anxiety in children and adolescents in Grades 4 through 12. Those individuals who are being assessed rate their responses on a 5-point Likert-type scale ranging from 1 (never true about me) to 5 (always true about me). The TAICA is a 45-item self-report measure which consists of four sub scales.\n\n\nMedication is not recommended to treat test anxiety; instead, standard suggestions include sleep, proper nutrition, exercise, meditation, studying without stress, and enacting habits to reduce stress during the test. \n\nTo gain an accurate assessment of student comprehension, instructors should be concerned with minimizing the effects of test anxiety. Instructors might offer \"second chances\" post test, familiarize students with test format and grading scheme, and lower the impact of any one test. If students have greater confidence in their test-taking skills, they are more likely to be comfortable and relaxed when the testing does occur. Having an intentional thinking strategy should help student performance improve.\n\nFor some individuals, poor academic performance is due to skill deficits, which could include problems in encoding (learning),rehearsal (study skills) or retrieval during a test (test-taking strategies). Skill deficits may lead to poor performance directly (failure to adequately learn the material) or indirectly (awareness of being ill-prepared causes anxiety that, in turn, leads to poor performance). Therefore, the most effective interventions are those that combine skill-focused strategies (i.e. study skills training, test-taking skills) with cognitive (i.e. cognitive restructuring) or behavioural approaches (i.e. relaxation training, systematic desensitization). \n\nStudents also need to stay healthy in order to be able to deal with stress and anxiety. They need to eat healthy, and get enough sleep. \n\n"}
{"id": "10788964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10788964", "title": "The False Principle of our Education", "text": "The False Principle of our Education\n\nThe False Principle of Our Education: Or, Humanism and Realism () is an article written by Max Stirner and published in the \"Rheinische Zeitung\" in April 1842.\n\nStirner begins by stressing the importance of education: \"the school question is a life question.\"\n\nHe then sketches a brief history of education from the Reformation. For him, the Enlightenment introduced a new principle behind education to challenge the classical humanist principle. Where education had taught the few \"to talk about everything,\" the Enlightenment saw the rise of the realist \"demand for a practical finishing education.\" Stirner concludes \"Henceforth, knowledge was to be lived...\"\n\nStirner saw educational theory in his day as a battlefield between the two parties - humanists, grasping the past, and realists, seizing the present. He criticised both as seeking power over the \"transitory,\" as viewing education as a \"struggle towards mastery in the handling of material.\" Stirner supports the realist criticism that the humanists seek knowledge for its own sake, but asks whether the realists do any better. Because the realists merely supply the individual with the tools to achieve his will, without reforming that will, they fail to achieve what Stirner calls \"freedom of will.\" They fail to reach self-understanding (a concept Stirner took from Hegel and twisted in his fashion in \"The Ego and its Own\") and \"fall in the abyss of their own emptiness.\"\n\nIf the failures of the humanists (and realists) are truly to be overcome, \"the final goal of education can no longer be knowledge.\" Asserting that \"only the spirit which understands itself is eternal,\" Stirner calls for a shift in the principle of education from making us \"masters of things\" to making us \"free natures.\" Till one knows oneself, one has not mastered one's own will, and one is merely subservient; once one masters it one is free.\n\nStirner names his educational principle \"personalist,\" explaining that self-understanding consists in hourly self-creation. Education is to create \"free men, sovereign characters,\" by which he means \"eternal characters...who are therefore eternal because they form themselves each moment.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "20183765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20183765", "title": "The Mentoring Partnership of Southwestern Pennsylvania", "text": "The Mentoring Partnership of Southwestern Pennsylvania\n\nThe Mentoring Partnership of Southwestern Pennsylvania is a non-profit organization located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania that provides a variety of free services to local mentoring agencies and is the chief public advocate for mentoring in the region. It is one of almost three dozen mentoring partnerships across the country that is affiliated with MENTOR/National Mentoring Partnership but remains an administratively independent organization.\n\nThe Mentoring Partnership provides resources and training to individuals and organizations who are interested in starting new mentoring programs. These services include print materials, group trainings and individual meetings with Mentoring Partnership staff.\n\nIn addition to the services provided to new programs, the Mentoring Partnership offers their expertise to existing programs to help them diagnose the strengths and weaknesses of their program in order to improve mentor/mentee relationships and outcomes.\n\nThe Mentoring Partnership works to recruit volunteer mentors for their partner programs. The centerpiece is National Mentoring Month in January, during which The Mentoring Partnership partners with MENTOR to raise awareness about mentoring. Ongoing efforts include presentations to community organizations, businesses and universities as well as advertising and attracting media attention.\n\nResearch has shown that mentoring relationships are more productive when mentors receive training. The Mentoring Partnership offers free trainings to mentors who are at any of their partner programs. These include both basic pre-match training as well as more specialized ongoing trainings for mentors. \n\nThe Mentoring Partnership provides opportunities for mentoring programs' staff and volunteers to collaborate with and learn from each other. The primary conduit is monthly MLN (Mentoring Leadership Network) meetings, which are usually held on the second Tuesday of the month in Pittsburgh and the third Tuesday of the month in Beaver County.\n"}
{"id": "17684703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17684703", "title": "Train to Gain", "text": "Train to Gain\n\nTrain to Gain (T2G), was a UK government funded initiative to deliver vocational training to employed adults. It was discontinued in 2010.\n\nTrain to Gain was designed to deliver vocational training to employed individuals in the UK, primarily those in the 25+ age band who did not already have a Full Level 2 Qualification, via the Skills Funding Agency, formerly the Learning and Skills Council (LSC). The initiative was rolled out nationally in September 2006. Train to Gain formed a part of the Employer Responsive training model. On 24 May 2010 the UK government announced a £200 million reduction in this programme as part of its planned £6.2 billion reduction in expenditure in the 2010-11 government financial year. The Train to Gain brand was scrapped in July 2010.\n\nTrain to Gain was designed to ameliorate the skills deficiency in the UK identified by the Leitch review. The purported idea of the service is to offer skills advice and match business needs with Further Education and training providers. The service will also identify any funding or grants that can be used to offset the investment in training. The support and advice offered by Train to Gain is claimed to be flexible, responsive and offered at a time and place to suit businesses.\n\nThe supposed appeal to employers is that they receive targeted, quality approved training to upskill their staff in line with their individual and business related needs. The appeal to employees is allegedly that they are invested in, given training to help them in their role and the opportunity to certify their existing skills. In addition to this there is funding available to improve their overall skills and levels of literacy and numeracy. A NAO report published in July 2009 queried whether the tax payer was receiving good value for money from this programme.\n\nTrain to Gain is designed to maximise on the effectiveness of the Skills Brokerage — Skills Brokers liaise with employers to identify their skill needs and then provide a matching service with appropriate training providers. Thus Train to Gain can also reference the entirety of employer training and liaison.\n\nThe fundamental criteria for eligibility for Train to Gain core funding are:\n\n\nLearners in the 19–25 age band are eligible for funding through Train to Gain where an apprenticeship would not be considered appropriate, for example where the learner is on a temporary contract. Apprenticeships are the UK government's preferred route for vocational training in this age group. Learners below the age of 19 cannot be funded through Train to Gain.\n\nQualifications that are eligible for funding via Train to Gain are identified as such in the LSC's Learning Aims Database (LAD). These are primarily NVQs at level 2 or level 3 alongside Skills for Life at levels 1 & 2.\n\nDuring the course of the 07/08 contract year the LSC released several additional \"flexibilities\" applying to learner eligibility. These allowed volunteers to access the Train to Gain service, as well as self-employed learners. A further flexibility allows exemption from the criteria concerning prior attainment (i.e. no full level 2), for learners coming through the local employment partnership (LEP) route. That is to say, those learners who find work through Jobcentre Plus and subsequently come on to Train to Gain.\n\nThe LSC has outlined further enhancements to the Train to Gain service in a recent letter to training providers. These include additional level 2s and level 3s for those who already have them (under specific circumstances), accessibility to Skills for life for those ineligible due to prior attainment and funding for Skills for life at levels other than 1 and 2.\n\nNAO report on train to gain. http://www.nao.org.uk/publications/0809/train_to_gain.aspx\nAnnouncement of reduction in govt funding http://bis.gov.uk/news/topstories/2010/May/BIS-savings\n\nPlease note: there is a fraudulent training company called Train2GainHGV which has embezzled large sums of money from members of the public who enrolled with them in order to take HGV driving courses. Police Fraud Squad investigations are ongoing as of 21 February 2014.\n"}
{"id": "30666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30666", "title": "Trivium", "text": "Trivium\n\nThe trivium is the lower division of the seven liberal arts and comprises grammar, dialectic, and rhetoric.\n\nThe trivium is implicit in \"De nuptiis Philologiae et Mercurii\" (\"On the Marriage of Philology and Mercury\") by Martianus Capella, but the term was not used until the Carolingian Renaissance, when it was coined in imitation of the earlier quadrivium. Grammar, logic, and rhetoric were essential to a classical education, as explained in Plato's dialogues. The three subjects together were denoted by the word \"trivium\" during the Middle Ages, but the tradition of first learning those three subjects was established in ancient Greece. Contemporary iterations have taken various forms, including those found in certain British and American universities (some being part of the Classical education movement) and at the independent Oundle School in the United Kingdom.\n\nEtymologically, the Latin word trivium means \"the place where three roads meet\" (tri + via); hence, the subjects of the trivium are the foundation for the quadrivium, the upper division of the medieval education in the liberal arts, which comprised arithmetic (number), geometry (number in space), music (number in time), and astronomy (number in space and time). Educationally, the trivium and the quadrivium imparted to the student the seven liberal arts of classical antiquity.\n\nGrammar teaches the mechanics of language to the student. This is the step where the student \"comes to terms,\" defining the objects and information perceived by the five senses. Hence, the Law of Identity: \"a tree is a tree, and not a cat\".\n\nLogic (also dialectic) is the \"mechanics\" of thought and of analysis, the process of identifying fallacious arguments and statements and so systematically removing contradictions, thereby producing factual knowledge that can be trusted.\n\nRhetoric is the application of language in order to instruct and to persuade the listener and the reader. It is the knowledge (grammar) now understood (logic) and being transmitted outwards as wisdom (rhetoric).\n\nSister Miriam Joseph, in \"The Trivium: The Liberal Arts of Logic, Grammar, and Rhetoric\" (2002), described the trivium as follows:\n\nGrammar is the art of inventing symbols and combining them to express thought; logic is the art of thinking; and rhetoric is the art of communicating thought from one mind to another, the adaptation of language to circumstance.\n\nGrammar is concerned with the thing as-it-is-symbolized. Logic is concerned with the thing as-it-is-known. Rhetoric is concerned with the thing as-it-is-communicated.\n\nJohn Ayto wrote in the \"Dictionary of Word Origins\" (1990) that study of the trivium (grammar, logic, and rhetoric) was requisite preparation for study of the quadrivium (arithmetic, geometry, music, and astronomy). For the medieval student, the trivium was the curricular beginning of the acquisition of the seven liberal arts; as such, it was the principal undergraduate course of study. The word \"trivial\" arose from the contrast between the simpler trivium and the more difficult quadrivium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19725260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19725260", "title": "University", "text": "University\n\nA university (, \"a whole\") is an institution of higher (or tertiary) education and research which awards academic degrees in various academic disciplines. Universities typically provide undergraduate education and postgraduate education.\n\nThe word \"university\" is derived from the Latin \"universitas magistrorum et scholarium\", which roughly means \"community of teachers and scholars\". While antecedents had existed in Asia and Africa, the modern university system has roots in the European medieval university, which was created in Italy and evolved from Catholic Cathedral schools for the clergy during the High Middle Ages.\n\nThe original Latin word \"universitas\" refers in general to \"a number of persons associated into one body, a society, company, community, guild, corporation, etc\". At the time of the emergence of urban town life and medieval guilds, specialized \"associations of students and teachers with collective legal rights usually guaranteed by charters issued by princes, prelates, or the towns in which they were located\" came to be denominated by this general term. Like other guilds, they were self-regulating and determined the qualifications of their members.\n\nIn modern usage the word has come to mean \"An institution of higher education offering tuition in mainly non-vocational subjects and typically having the power to confer degrees,\" with the earlier emphasis on its corporate organization considered as applying historically to Medieval universities.\n\nThe original Latin word referred to degree-awarding institutions of learning in Western and Central Europe, where this form of legal organisation was prevalent, and from where the institution spread around the world.\n\nAn important idea in the definition of a university is the notion of academic freedom. The first documentary evidence of this comes from early in the life of the University of Bologna, which adopted an academic charter, the \"Constitutio Habita\", in 1158 or 1155, which guaranteed the right of a traveling scholar to unhindered passage in the interests of education. Today this is claimed as the origin of \"academic freedom\". This is now widely recognised internationally - on 18 September 1988, 430 university rectors signed the \"Magna Charta Universitatum\", marking the 900th anniversary of Bologna's foundation. The number of universities signing the \"Magna Charta Universitatum\" continues to grow, drawing from all parts of the world.\n\nAccording to \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", the earliest universities were founded in Asia and Africa, predating the first European medieval universities. The University of Al Quaraouiyine, founded in Morocco by Fatima al-Fihri in 859, is considered by some to be the oldest degree-granting university.\n\nTheir endowment by a prince or monarch and their role in training government officials made early Mediterranean universities similar to Islamic madrasas, although madrasas were generally smaller, and individual teachers, rather than the madrasa itself, granted the license or degree. Scholars like Arnold H. Green and Hossein Nasr have argued that starting in the 10th century, some medieval Islamic madrasas became universities. However, scholars like George Makdisi, Toby Huff and Norman Daniel argue that the European university has no parallel in the medieval Islamic world. Several other scholars consider the university as uniquely European in origin and characteristics. Darleen Pryds questions this view, pointing out that madaris and European universities in the Mediterranean region shared similar foundations by princely patrons and were intended to provide loyal administrators to further the rulers' agenda.\n\nSome scholars, including Makdisi, have argued that early medieval universities were influenced by the madrasas in Al-Andalus, the Emirate of Sicily, and the Middle East during the Crusades. Norman Daniel, however, views this argument as overstated. Roy Lowe and Yoshihito Yasuhara have recently drawn on the well-documented influences of scholarship from the Islamic world on the universities of Western Europe to call for a reconsideration of the development of higher education, turning away from a concern with local institutional structures to a broader consideration within a global context.\n\nThe university is generally regarded as a formal institution that has its origin in the Medieval Catholic tradition. European higher education took place for hundreds of years in Catholic cathedral schools or monastic schools (\"scholae monasticae\"), in which monks and nuns taught classes; evidence of these immediate forerunners of the later university at many places dates back to the 6th century. The earliest universities were developed under the aegis of the Latin Church by papal bull as \"studia generalia\" and perhaps from Catholic cathedral schools. It is possible, however, that the development of cathedral schools into universities was quite rare, with the University of Paris being an exception. Later they were also founded by Kings (University of Naples Federico II, Charles University in Prague, Jagiellonian University in Kraków) or municipal administrations (University of Cologne, University of Erfurt). In the early medieval period, most new universities were founded from pre-existing schools, usually when these schools were deemed to have become primarily sites of higher education. Many historians state that universities and cathedral schools were a continuation of the interest in learning promoted by monasteries. Pope Gregory VII was critical in promoting and regulating the concept of modern university as his 1079 Papal Decree ordered the regulated establishment of Catholic cathedral schools that transformed themselves into the first European universities.\n\nThe first universities in Europe with a form of corporate/guild structure were the University of Bologna (1088), the University of Paris (c.1150, later associated with the Sorbonne), and the University of Oxford (1167).\n\nThe University of Bologna began as a law school teaching the \"ius gentium\" or Roman law of peoples which was in demand across Europe for those defending the right of incipient nations against empire and church. Bologna's special claim to \"Alma Mater Studiorum\" is based on its autonomy, its awarding of degrees, and other structural arrangements, making it the oldest continuously operating institution independent of kings, emperors or any kind of direct religious authority.\n\nThe conventional date of 1088, or 1087 according to some, records when Irnerius commences teaching Emperor Justinian's 6th century codification of Roman law, the \"Corpus Iuris Civilis\", recently discovered at Pisa. Lay students arrived in the city from many lands entering into a contract to gain this knowledge, organising themselves into 'Nationes', divided between that of the Cismontanes and that of the Ultramontanes. The students \"had all the power … and dominated the masters\".\n\nIn Europe, young men proceeded to university when they had completed their study of the trivium–the preparatory arts of grammar, rhetoric and dialectic or logic–and the quadrivium: arithmetic, geometry, music, and astronomy.\n\nAll over Europe rulers and city governments began to create universities to satisfy a European thirst for knowledge, and the belief that society would benefit from the scholarly expertise generated from these institutions. Princes and leaders of city governments perceived the potential benefits of having a scholarly expertise develop with the ability to address difficult problems and achieve desired ends. The emergence of humanism was essential to this understanding of the possible utility of universities as well as the revival of interest in knowledge gained from ancient Greek texts.\n\nThe rediscovery of Aristotle's works–more than 3000 pages of it would eventually be translated–fuelled a spirit of inquiry into natural processes that had already begun to emerge in the 12th century. Some scholars believe that these works represented one of the most important document discoveries in Western intellectual history. Richard Dales, for instance, calls the discovery of Aristotle's works \"a turning point in the history of Western thought.\" After Aristotle re-emerged, a community of scholars, primarily communicating in Latin, accelerated the process and practice of attempting to reconcile the thoughts of Greek antiquity, and especially ideas related to understanding the natural world, with those of the church. The efforts of this \"scholasticism\" were focused on applying Aristotelian logic and thoughts about natural processes to biblical passages and attempting to prove the viability of those passages through reason. This became the primary mission of lecturers, and the expectation of students.\n\nThe university culture developed differently in northern Europe than it did in the south, although the northern (primarily Germany, France and Great Britain) and southern universities (primarily Italy) did have many elements in common. Latin was the language of the university, used for all texts, lectures, disputations and examinations. Professors lectured on the books of Aristotle for logic, natural philosophy, and metaphysics; while Hippocrates, Galen, and Avicenna were used for medicine. Outside of these commonalities, great differences separated north and south, primarily in subject matter. Italian universities focused on law and medicine, while the northern universities focused on the arts and theology. There were distinct differences in the quality of instruction in these areas which were congruent with their focus, so scholars would travel north or south based on their interests and means. There was also a difference in the types of degrees awarded at these universities. English, French and German universities usually awarded bachelor's degrees, with the exception of degrees in theology, for which the doctorate was more common. Italian universities awarded primarily doctorates. The distinction can be attributed to the intent of the degree holder after graduation – in the north the focus tended to be on acquiring teaching positions, while in the south students often went on to professional positions. The structure of northern universities tended to be modeled after the system of faculty governance developed at the University of Paris. Southern universities tended to be patterned after the student-controlled model begun at the University of Bologna. Among the southern universities, a further distinction has been noted between those of northern Italy, which followed the pattern of Bologna as a \"self-regulating, independent corporation of scholars\" and those of southern Italy and Iberia, which were \"founded by royal and imperial charter to serve the needs of government.\"\n\nDuring the Early Modern period (approximately late 15th century to 1800), the universities of Europe would see a tremendous amount of growth, productivity and innovative research. At the end of the Middle Ages, about 400 years after the first European university was founded, there were twenty-nine universities spread throughout Europe. In the 15th century, twenty-eight new ones were created, with another eighteen added between 1500 and 1625. This pace continued until by the end of the 18th century there were approximately 143 universities in Europe, with the highest concentrations in the German Empire (34), Italian countries (26), France (25), and Spain (23) – this was close to a 500% increase over the number of universities toward the end of the Middle Ages. This number does not include the numerous universities that disappeared, or institutions that merged with other universities during this time. The identification of a university was not necessarily obvious during the Early Modern period, as the term is applied to a burgeoning number of institutions. In fact, the term \"university\" was not always used to designate a higher education institution. In Mediterranean countries, the term \"studium generale\" was still often used, while \"Academy\" was common in Northern European countries.\n\nThe propagation of universities was not necessarily a steady progression, as the 17th century was rife with events that adversely affected university expansion. Many wars, and especially the Thirty Years' War, disrupted the university landscape throughout Europe at different times. War, plague, famine, regicide, and changes in religious power and structure often adversely affected the societies that provided support for universities. Internal strife within the universities themselves, such as student brawling and absentee professors, acted to destabilize these institutions as well. Universities were also reluctant to give up older curricula, and the continued reliance on the works of Aristotle defied contemporary advancements in science and the arts. This era was also affected by the rise of the nation-state. As universities increasingly came under state control, or formed under the auspices of the state, the faculty governance model (begun by the University of Paris) became more and more prominent. Although the older student-controlled universities still existed, they slowly started to move toward this structural organization. Control of universities still tended to be independent, although university leadership was increasingly appointed by the state.\n\nAlthough the structural model provided by the University of Paris, where student members are controlled by faculty \"masters\", provided a standard for universities, the application of this model took at least three different forms. There were universities that had a system of faculties whose teaching addressed a very specific curriculum; this model tended to train specialists. There was a collegiate or tutorial model based on the system at University of Oxford where teaching and organization was decentralized and knowledge was more of a generalist nature. There were also universities that combined these models, using the collegiate model but having a centralized organization.\n\nEarly Modern universities initially continued the curriculum and research of the Middle Ages: natural philosophy, logic, medicine, theology, mathematics, astronomy (and astrology), law, grammar and rhetoric. Aristotle was prevalent throughout the curriculum, while medicine also depended on Galen and Arabic scholarship. The importance of humanism for changing this state-of-affairs cannot be underestimated. Once humanist professors joined the university faculty, they began to transform the study of grammar and rhetoric through the studia humanitatis. Humanist professors focused on the ability of students to write and speak with distinction, to translate and interpret classical texts, and to live honorable lives. Other scholars within the university were affected by the humanist approaches to learning and their linguistic expertise in relation to ancient texts, as well as the ideology that advocated the ultimate importance of those texts. Professors of medicine such as Niccolò Leoniceno, Thomas Linacre and William Cop were often trained in and taught from a humanist perspective as well as translated important ancient medical texts. The critical mindset imparted by humanism was imperative for changes in universities and scholarship. For instance, Andreas Vesalius was educated in a humanist fashion before producing a translation of Galen, whose ideas he verified through his own dissections. In law, Andreas Alciatus infused the \"Corpus Juris\" with a humanist perspective, while Jacques Cujas humanist writings were paramount to his reputation as a jurist. Philipp Melanchthon cited the works of Erasmus as a highly influential guide for connecting theology back to original texts, which was important for the reform at Protestant universities. Galileo Galilei, who taught at the Universities of Pisa and Padua, and Martin Luther, who taught at the University of Wittenberg (as did Melanchthon), also had humanist training. The task of the humanists was to slowly permeate the university; to increase the humanist presence in professorships and chairs, syllabi and textbooks so that published works would demonstrate the humanistic ideal of science and scholarship.\n\nAlthough the initial focus of the humanist scholars in the university was the discovery, exposition and insertion of ancient texts and languages into the university, and the ideas of those texts into society generally, their influence was ultimately quite progressive. The emergence of classical texts brought new ideas and led to a more creative university climate (as the notable list of scholars above attests to). A focus on knowledge coming from self, from the human, has a direct implication for new forms of scholarship and instruction, and was the foundation for what is commonly known as the humanities. This disposition toward knowledge manifested in not simply the translation and propagation of ancient texts, but also their adaptation and expansion. For instance, Vesalius was imperative for advocating the use of Galen, but he also invigorated this text with experimentation, disagreements and further research. The propagation of these texts, especially within the universities, was greatly aided by the emergence of the printing press and the beginning of the use of the vernacular, which allowed for the printing of relatively large texts at reasonable prices.\n\nExamining the influence of humanism on scholars in medicine, mathematics, astronomy and physics may suggest that humanism and universities were a strong impetus for the scientific revolution. Although the connection between humanism and the scientific discovery may very well have begun within the confines of the university, the connection has been commonly perceived as having been severed by the changing nature of science during the scientific revolution. Historians such as Richard S. Westfall have argued that the overt traditionalism of universities inhibited attempts to re-conceptualize nature and knowledge and caused an indelible tension between universities and scientists. This resistance to changes in science may have been a significant factor in driving many scientists away from the university and toward private benefactors, usually in princely courts, and associations with newly forming scientific societies.\n\nOther historians find incongruity in the proposition that the very place where the vast number of the scholars that influenced the scientific revolution received their education should also be the place that inhibits their research and the advancement of science. In fact, more than 80% of the European scientists between 1450–1650 included in the Dictionary of Scientific Biography were university trained, of which approximately 45% held university posts. It was the case that the academic foundations remaining from the Middle Ages were stable, and they did provide for an environment that fostered considerable growth and development. There was considerable reluctance on the part of universities to relinquish the symmetry and comprehensiveness provided by the Aristotelian system, which was effective as a coherent system for understanding and interpreting the world. However, university professors still utilized some autonomy, at least in the sciences, to choose epistemological foundations and methods. For instance, Melanchthon and his disciples at University of Wittenberg were instrumental for integrating Copernican mathematical constructs into astronomical debate and instruction. Another example was the short-lived but fairly rapid adoption of Cartesian epistemology and methodology in European universities, and the debates surrounding that adoption, which led to more mechanistic approaches to scientific problems as well as demonstrated an openness to change. There are many examples which belie the commonly perceived intransigence of universities. Although universities may have been slow to accept new sciences and methodologies as they emerged, when they did accept new ideas it helped to convey legitimacy and respectability, and supported the scientific changes through providing a stable environment for instruction and material resources.\n\nRegardless of the way the tension between universities, individual scientists, and the scientific revolution itself is perceived, there was a discernible impact on the way that university education was constructed. Aristotelian epistemology provided a coherent framework not simply for knowledge and knowledge construction, but also for the training of scholars within the higher education setting. The creation of new scientific constructs during the scientific revolution, and the epistemological challenges that were inherent within this creation, initiated the idea of both the autonomy of science and the hierarchy of the disciplines. Instead of entering higher education to become a \"general scholar\" immersed in becoming proficient in the entire curriculum, there emerged a type of scholar that put science first and viewed it as a vocation in itself. The divergence between those focused on science and those still entrenched in the idea of a general scholar exacerbated the epistemological tensions that were already beginning to emerge.\n\nThe epistemological tensions between scientists and universities were also heightened by the economic realities of research during this time, as individual scientists, associations and universities were vying for limited resources. There was also competition from the formation of new colleges funded by private benefactors and designed to provide free education to the public, or established by local governments to provide a knowledge hungry populace with an alternative to traditional universities. Even when universities supported new scientific endeavors, and the university provided foundational training and authority for the research and conclusions, they could not compete with the resources available through private benefactors.\nBy the end of the early modern period, the structure and orientation of higher education had changed in ways that are eminently recognizable for the modern context. Aristotle was no longer a force providing the epistemological and methodological focus for universities and a more mechanistic orientation was emerging. The hierarchical place of theological knowledge had for the most part been displaced and the humanities had become a fixture, and a new openness was beginning to take hold in the construction and dissemination of knowledge that were to become imperative for the formation of the modern state.\n\nBy the 18th century, universities published their own research journals and by the 19th century, the German and the French university models had arisen. The German, or Humboldtian model, was conceived by Wilhelm von Humboldt and based on Friedrich Schleiermacher's liberal ideas pertaining to the importance of freedom, seminars, and laboratories in universities. The French university model involved strict discipline and control over every aspect of the university.\n\nUntil the 19th century, religion played a significant role in university curriculum; however, the role of religion in research universities decreased in the 19th century, and by the end of the 19th century, the German university model had spread around the world. Universities concentrated on science in the 19th and 20th centuries and became increasingly accessible to the masses. In the United States, the Johns Hopkins University was the first to adopt the (German) research university model; this pioneered the adoption by most other American universities. In Britain, the move from Industrial Revolution to modernity saw the arrival of new civic universities with an emphasis on science and engineering, a movement initiated in 1960 by Sir Keith Murray (chairman of the University Grants Committee) and Sir Samuel Curran, with the formation of the University of Strathclyde. The British also established universities worldwide, and higher education became available to the masses not only in Europe.\n\nIn 1963, the Robbins Report on universities in the United Kingdom concluded that such institutions should have four main \"objectives essential to any properly balanced system: instruction in skills; the promotion of the general powers of the mind so as to produce not mere specialists but rather cultivated men and women; to maintain research in balance with teaching, since teaching should not be separated from the advancement of learning and the search for truth; and to transmit a common culture and common standards of citizenship.\"\n\nIn the early 21st century, concerns were raised over the increasing managerialisation and standardisation of universities worldwide. Neo-liberal management models have in this sense been critiqued for creating \"corporate universities (where) power is transferred from faculty to managers, economic justifications dominate, and the familiar 'bottom line' ecclipses pedagogical or intellectual concerns\". Academics' understanding of time, pedagogical pleasure, vocation, and collegiality have been cited as possible ways of alleviating such problems.\n\nA national university is generally a university created or run by a national state but at the same time represents a state autonomic institution which functions as a completely independent body inside of the same state. Some national universities are closely associated with national cultural, religious or political aspirations, for instance the National University of Ireland, which formed partly from the Catholic University of Ireland which was created almost immediately and specifically in answer to the non-denominational universities which had been set up in Ireland in 1850. In the years leading up to the Easter Rising, and in no small part a result of the Gaelic Romantic revivalists, the NUI collected a large amount of information on the Irish language and Irish culture. Reforms in Argentina were the result of the University Revolution of 1918 and its posterior reforms by incorporating values that sought for a more equal and laic higher education system.\n\nUniversities created by bilateral or multilateral treaties between states are intergovernmental. An example is the Academy of European Law, which offers training in European law to lawyers, judges, barristers, solicitors, in-house counsel and academics. EUCLID (Pôle Universitaire Euclide, Euclid University) is chartered as a university and umbrella organisation dedicated to sustainable development in signatory countries, and the United Nations University engages in efforts to resolve the pressing global problems that are of concern to the United Nations, its peoples and member states. The European University Institute, a post-graduate university specialised in the social sciences, is officially an intergovernmental organisation, set up by the member states of the European Union.\n\nAlthough each institution is organized differently, nearly all universities have a board of trustees; a president, chancellor, or rector; at least one vice president, vice-chancellor, or vice-rector; and deans of various divisions. Universities are generally divided into a number of academic departments, schools or faculties. Public university systems are ruled over by government-run higher education boards. They review financial requests and budget proposals and then allocate funds for each university in the system. They also approve new programs of instruction and cancel or make changes in existing programs. In addition, they plan for the further coordinated growth and development of the various institutions of higher education in the state or country. However, many public universities in the world have a considerable degree of financial, research and pedagogical autonomy. Private universities are privately funded and generally have broader independence from state policies. However, they may have less independence from business corporations depending on the source of their finances.\n\nThe funding and organization of universities varies widely between different countries around the world. In some countries universities are predominantly funded by the state, while in others funding may come from donors or from fees which students attending the university must pay. In some countries the vast majority of students attend university in their local town, while in other countries universities attract students from all over the world, and may provide university accommodation for their students.\n\nThe definition of a university varies widely, even within some countries. Where there is clarification, it is usually set by a government agency. For example:\n\nIn Australia, the Tertiary Education Quality and Standards Agency (TEQSA) is Australia's independent national regulator of the higher education sector. Students rights within university are also protected by the Education Services for Overseas Students Act (ESOS).\n\nIn the United States there is no nationally standardized definition for the term \"university\", although the term has traditionally been used to designate research institutions and was once reserved for doctorate-granting research institutions. Some states, such as Massachusetts, will only grant a school \"university status\" if it grants at least two doctoral degrees.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Privy Council is responsible for approving the use of the word \"university\" in the name of an institution, under the terms of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992.\n\nIn India, a new designation deemed universities has been created for institutions of higher education that are not universities, but work at a very high standard in a specific area of study (\"An Institution of Higher Education, other than universities, working at a very high standard in specific area of study, can be declared by the Central Government on the advice of the University Grants Commission as an Institution 'Deemed-to-be-university'\"). Institutions that are 'deemed-to-be-university' enjoy the academic status and the privileges of a university. Through this provision many schools that are commercial in nature and have been established just to exploit the demand for higher education have sprung up.\n\nIn Canada, \"college\" generally refers to a two-year, non-degree-granting institution, while \"university\" connotes a four-year, degree-granting institution. Universities may be sub-classified (as in the Macleans rankings) into large research universities with many PhD-granting programs and medical schools (for example, McGill University); \"comprehensive\" universities that have some PhDs but are not geared toward research (such as Waterloo); and smaller, primarily undergraduate universities (such as St. Francis Xavier).\n\nIn Germany, universities are institutions of higher education which have the power to confer bachelor, master and PhD degrees. They are explicitly recognised as such by law and cannot be founded without government approval. The term Universitaet (i.e. the German term for university) is protected by law and any use without official approval is a criminal offense. Most of them are public institutions, though a few private universities exist. Such universities are always research universities. Apart from these universities, Germany has other institutions of higher education (Hochschule, Fachhochschule). Fachhochschule means a higher education institution which is similar to the former polytechnics in the British education system, the English term used for these German institutions is usually 'university of applied sciences'. They can confer master degrees but no PhDs. They are similar to the model of teaching universities with less research and the research undertaken being highly practical. Hochschule can refer to various kinds of institutions, often specialised in a certain field (e.g. music, fine arts, business). They might or might not have the power to award PhD degrees, depending on the respective government legislation. If they award PhD degrees, their rank is considered equivalent to that of universities proper (Universitaet), if not, their rank is equivalent to universities of applied sciences.\n\nColloquially, the term \"university\" may be used to describe a phase in one's life: \"When I was at university...\" (in the United States and Ireland, \"college\" is often used instead: \"When I was in college...\"). In Ireland, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Nigeria, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain and the German-speaking countries, \"university\" is often contracted to \"uni\". In Ghana, New Zealand, Bangladesh and in South Africa it is sometimes called \"varsity\" (although this has become uncommon in New Zealand in recent years). \"Varsity\" was also common usage in the UK in the 19th century. \"Varsity\" is still in common usage in Scotland.\n\nIn many countries, students are required to pay tuition fees.\nMany students look to get 'student grants' to cover the cost of university. In 2016, the average outstanding student loan balance per borrower in the United States was US$30,000. In many U.S. states, costs are anticipated to rise for students as a result of decreased state funding given to public universities.\n\nThere are several major exceptions on tuition fees. In many European countries, it is possible to study without tuition fees. Public universities in Nordic countries were entirely without tuition fees until around 2005. Denmark, Sweden and Finland then moved to put in place tuition fees for foreign students. Citizens of EU and EEA member states and citizens from Switzerland remain exempted from tuition fees, and the amounts of public grants granted to promising foreign students were increased to offset some of the impact. The situation in Germany is similar; public universities usually do not charge tuition fees apart from a small administrative fee. For degrees of a postgraduate professional level sometimes tuition fees are levied. Private universities, however, almost always charge tuition fees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13232954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13232954", "title": "Youth engagement", "text": "Youth engagement\n\nYouth engagement is the sentiment young people feel towards a particular person, activity, place or outcome. It has been a focus of youth development, public policy and social change movements for at least forty years.\n\nA study exploring foster youth and aging out defines youth engagement as, \"involving young people in the creation of their own destinies,\" and suggest that in social work that means \"genuinely involving them in case planning and encouraging them to advocate for themselves.\" This sentiment was best summarized by youth who said, \"Nothing about us without us. The concept of youth engagement has emerged in recent years as a leading-edge, broad-based approach and best practice to meet the needs of youth, including youth at risk. It is a process that offers meaningful participation for youth—that is, participation with passion—and opportunities for youth to take responsibility and leadership while working in partnership with caring adults who value, respect and share power with them.\nResearch suggests that a supportive family background, mentors or role models, involvement in cooperative activities, cultivation of intrinsic interest, awareness of moral and political issues, and traits such as moral sensitivity and optimism are among the central factors that support youth engagement. A separate study explores \"the roles of adult support, a youth-friendly environment, the completion of meaningful tasks, and the learning and utilization of new skills\" as key supports. Other studies suggest that youth councils, youth-led media, youth advisory boards, youth organizing and other self-advocacy and community youth development activities are the best avenues for achieving youth engagement. Traditional activities such as youth conferences have also been cited. Consulting on public policy, involvement in community coalitions, involving youth in organizational decision-making, and school-based service learning have all also been cited as effective venues.\nBoth the philosophy and activities within a program or activity need to be a \"good fit\" for the young people participating in them. In the United States, activities and campaigns including those by the National Commission on Resources for Youth and Youth Communications have been cited for their effectiveness in engaging young people.\n\nResearch has identified a spectrum of approaches to youth engagement, beginning with training for adults that work with youth. These range from traditional programs that treat youth as clients to organizations that are led by youth and for youth. There are also groups who foster engagement among traditionally non-involved youth by working to foster more significant youth participation outside of the program or organization itself. Other points in this spectrum can include:\n\nEach has value, and where a program or groups sits depends on the degree to which youth are engaged in the program with meaningful participation, and the degree to which the organization offering the program has policies and infrastructures to support youth involvement in a meaningful way.\n\nA number of foundations recognize youth engagement as a best practice in programs for young people. For example, the Paul Allen Foundation promotes youth engagement as an avenue to achieving early reading proficiency, expand opportunities for experiential learning, and involve young people in addressing community needs. The Walter and Duncan Gordon Foundation in Canada supports youth engagement because it believes young Canadians, \"already tend to think globally; take advantage of opportunities to expand their understanding of global challenges; want to contribute new ideas and perspectives to the discussion about Canadian international policy and; are creative in their use of new technologies to further their engagement in the world.\" The Ontario Trillium Foundation recognizes youth engagement as a best practice and has been developing a framework to support youth engagement in its grantmaking and encourage applications that include a youth engagement approach. Hands On Learning Australia implement youth engagement programs as an integral part of secondary education in Australian schools. These programs attempt to reengage school age youth through building strong relationships within the context of practical activities, and also address literacy and numeracy issues.\n\nYouth engagement has been identified as a key measure in promoting adolescent health programs. Increasing the likelihood of young people voting has also been an outcome of said programs. Engaging youth in pro-social opportunities is also a goal in the field of Positive Youth Development. \n\nIt is also seen as central to developing \"inclusive participation\" in civil society. Numerous national initiatives have utilized that belief to rationalize a variety of programs, including efforts focused on civic engagement, social justice and education reform. In the latter field, student engagement is used to specifically address this issues within school environments. Several researchers, such as Barry Checkoway, Peter Levine and Shawn Ginwright, as well as advocates including Karen Pittman and Adam Fletcher have been acknowledged for their efforts to promote youth engagement.\n\nYouth engagement faces a variety of obstacles. They include a \"disjunction in what adults believe is important to do with young people, and what they actually do,\" as well as social norms that encourage youth engagement, and the presence of strong norms the discourage youth/adult partnerships. A historical disconnect between Positive Youth Development and civic engagement has also been cited as a leading barrier.\n\nYouth engagement has taken a huge growth over the past six years with the advent of social networks. The activities that promote youth development and social change movements are now shifting to the World Wide Web, fostering online communities based on interests, causes, and purpose. Young people are promoting ideas, vocalizing their goals, organizing community groups, engaging in political discussions, reclaiming identities, creating identities, connecting with others, and taking over these networks full force as their own personal environments. The engagement over social networks “forms and maintains social capital, a dimension that assesses one’s ability to stay connected with members of a community.” This connection is stimulated by the activity characteristic of the particular virtual community. Social network sites engage activity such as individual presentation of oneself, articulating and building outside networks, creating work-related collaboration, building romantic relationships, provoking political debates, connecting college student populations and opportunities, sharing hobbies and interests, and essentially forming anything that meets the imagination, made possible through the innovative capacities of current technology. Today’s youth are able to “tie offline networks to online memberships” through current social network sites like Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, MySpace, Friendster, and Blogger. They support the “maintenance of existing social ties and the formation of new connections, connecting with others outside their pre-existing social group or location, liberating them to form communities around shared interests.” This increased social capital enhances youth engagement and manages interactions regarding current events around the world, major life changes, and relations as they move from one offline community to another such as changing schools or joining different civic and community groups. The intensity and usage over online communities are reliable indicators of current trends among youth and psychological well-being. The robust growth of this current technology is steadily growing and becoming a greater percentage of daily youth interactions.\n\n"}
