{"id": "569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=569", "title": "Anthropology", "text": "Anthropology\n\nAnthropology is the study of humans and human behavior and societies in the past and present. Social anthropology and cultural anthropology study the norms and values of societies. Linguistic anthropology studies how language affects social life. Biological or physical anthropology studies the biological development of humans.\n\nArchaeology, which studies past human cultures through investigation of physical evidence, is thought of as a branch of anthropology in the United States and Canada, while in Europe, it is viewed as a discipline in its own right or grouped under other related disciplines, such as history.\n\nThe abstract noun \"anthropology\" is first attested in reference to history. Its present use first appeared in Renaissance Germany in the works of Magnus Hundt and Otto Casmann. Their New Latin ' derived from the combining forms of the Greek words \"ánthrōpos\" (, \"human\") and \"lógos\" (, \"study\"). (Its adjectival form appeared in the works of Aristotle.) It began to be used in English, possibly via French ', by the early 18th century.\n\nIn 1647, the Bartholins, founders of the University of Copenhagen, defined \" as follows:\n\nAnthropology, that is to say the science that treats of man, is divided ordinarily and with reason into Anatomy, which considers the body and the parts, and Psychology, which speaks of the soul.\n\nSporadic use of the term for some of the subject matter occurred subsequently, such as the use by Étienne Serres in 1839 to describe the natural history, or paleontology, of man, based on comparative anatomy, and the creation of a chair in anthropology and ethnography in 1850 at the National Museum of Natural History (France) by Jean Louis Armand de Quatrefages de Bréau. Various short-lived organizations of anthropologists had already been formed. The Société Ethnologique de Paris, the first to use Ethnology, was formed in 1839. Its members were primarily anti-slavery activists. When slavery was abolished in France in 1848 the Société was abandoned.\n\nMeanwhile, the Ethnological Society of New York, currently the American Ethnological Society, was founded on its model in 1842, as well as the Ethnological Society of London in 1843, a break-away group of the Aborigines' Protection Society. These anthropologists of the times were liberal, anti-slavery, and pro-human-rights activists. They maintained international connections.\n\nAnthropology and many other current fields are the intellectual results of the comparative methods developed in the earlier 19th century. Theorists in such diverse fields as anatomy, linguistics, and Ethnology, making feature-by-feature comparisons of their subject matters, were beginning to suspect that similarities between animals, languages, and folkways were the result of processes or laws unknown to them then. For them, the publication of Charles Darwin's \"On the Origin of Species\" was the epiphany of everything they had begun to suspect. Darwin himself arrived at his conclusions through comparison of species he had seen in agronomy and in the wild.\n\nDarwin and Wallace unveiled evolution in the late 1850s. There was an immediate rush to bring it into the social sciences. Paul Broca in Paris was in the process of breaking away from the Société de biologie to form the first of the explicitly anthropological societies, the Société d'Anthropologie de Paris, meeting for the first time in Paris in 1859. When he read Darwin, he became an immediate convert to \"Transformisme\", as the French called evolutionism. His definition now became \"the study of the human group, considered as a whole, in its details, and in relation to the rest of nature\".\n\nBroca, being what today would be called a neurosurgeon, had taken an interest in the pathology of speech. He wanted to localize the difference between man and the other animals, which appeared to reside in speech. He discovered the speech center of the human brain, today called Broca's area after him. His interest was mainly in Biological anthropology, but a German philosopher specializing in psychology, Theodor Waitz, took up the theme of general and social anthropology in his six-volume work, entitled \"Die Anthropologie der Naturvölker\", 1859–1864. The title was soon translated as \"The Anthropology of Primitive Peoples\". The last two volumes were published posthumously.\n\nWaitz defined anthropology as \"the science of the nature of man\". By nature he meant matter animated by \"the Divine breath\"; i.e., he was an animist. Following Broca's lead, Waitz points out that anthropology is a new field, which would gather material from other fields, but would differ from them in the use of comparative anatomy, physiology, and psychology to differentiate man from \"the animals nearest to him\". He stresses that the data of comparison must be empirical, gathered by experimentation. The history of civilization, as well as ethnology, are to be brought into the comparison. It is to be presumed fundamentally that the species, man, is a unity, and that \"the same laws of thought are applicable to all men\".\n\nWaitz was influential among the British ethnologists. In 1863 the explorer Richard Francis Burton and the speech therapist James Hunt broke away from the Ethnological Society of London to form the Anthropological Society of London, which henceforward would follow the path of the new anthropology rather than just ethnology. It was the 2nd society dedicated to general anthropology in existence. Representatives from the French \"Société\" were present, though not Broca. In his keynote address, printed in the first volume of its new publication, \"The Anthropological Review\", Hunt stressed the work of Waitz, adopting his definitions as a standard. Among the first associates were the young Edward Burnett Tylor, inventor of cultural anthropology, and his brother Alfred Tylor, a geologist. Previously Edward had referred to himself as an ethnologist; subsequently, an anthropologist.\n\nSimilar organizations in other countries followed: The Anthropological Society of Madrid (1865), the American Anthropological Association in 1902, the Anthropological Society of Vienna (1870), the Italian Society of Anthropology and Ethnology (1871), and many others subsequently. The majority of these were evolutionist. One notable exception was the Berlin Society for Anthropology, Ethnology, and Prehistory (1869) founded by Rudolph Virchow, known for his vituperative attacks on the evolutionists. Not religious himself, he insisted that Darwin's conclusions lacked empirical foundation.\n\nDuring the last three decades of the 19th century, a proliferation of anthropological societies and associations occurred, most independent, most publishing their own journals, and all international in membership and association. The major theorists belonged to these organizations. They supported the gradual osmosis of anthropology curricula into the major institutions of higher learning. By 1898 the American Association for the Advancement of Science was able to report that 48 educational institutions in 13 countries had some curriculum in anthropology. None of the 75 faculty members were under a department named anthropology.\n\nThis meager statistic expanded in the 20th century to comprise anthropology departments in the majority of the world's higher educational institutions, many thousands in number. Anthropology has diversified from a few major subdivisions to dozens more. Practical Anthropology, the use of anthropological knowledge and technique to solve specific problems, has arrived; for example, the presence of buried victims might stimulate the use of a forensic archaeologist to recreate the final scene. The organization has reached global level. For example, the World Council of Anthropological Associations (WCAA), \"a network of national, regional and international associations that aims to promote worldwide communication and cooperation in anthropology\", currently contains members from about three dozen nations.\n\nSince the work of Franz Boas and Bronisław Malinowski in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, \"social\" anthropology in Great Britain and \"cultural\" anthropology in the US have been distinguished from other social sciences by its emphasis on cross-cultural comparisons, long-term in-depth examination of context, and the importance it places on participant-observation or experiential immersion in the area of research. Cultural anthropology, in particular, has emphasized cultural relativism, holism, and the use of findings to frame cultural critiques. This has been particularly prominent in the United States, from Boas' arguments against 19th-century racial ideology, through Margaret Mead's advocacy for gender equality and sexual liberation, to current criticisms of post-colonial oppression and promotion of multiculturalism. Ethnography is one of its primary research designs as well as the text that is generated from anthropological fieldwork.\n\nIn Great Britain and the Commonwealth countries, the British tradition of social anthropology tends to dominate. In the United States, anthropology has traditionally been divided into the four field approach developed by Franz Boas in the early 20th century: \"biological\" or \"physical\" anthropology; \"social\", \"cultural\", or \"sociocultural\" anthropology; and archaeology; plus anthropological linguistics. These fields frequently overlap but tend to use different methodologies and techniques.\n\nEuropean countries with overseas colonies tended to practice more ethnology (a term coined and defined by Adam F. Kollár in 1783). It is sometimes referred to as sociocultural anthropology in the parts of the world that were influenced by the European tradition.\n\nAnthropology is a global discipline involving humanities, social sciences and natural sciences. Anthropology builds upon knowledge from natural sciences, including the discoveries about the origin and evolution of \"Homo sapiens\", human physical traits, human behavior, the variations among different groups of humans, how the evolutionary past of \"Homo sapiens\" has influenced its social organization and culture, and from social sciences, including the organization of human social and cultural relations, institutions, social conflicts, etc. Early anthropology originated in Classical Greece and Persia and studied and tried to understand observable cultural diversity. As such, anthropology has been central in the development of several new (late 20th century) interdisciplinary fields such as cognitive science, global studies, and various ethnic studies.\n\nAccording to Clifford Geertz,\nSociocultural anthropology has been heavily influenced by structuralist and postmodern theories, as well as a shift toward the analysis of modern societies. During the 1970s and 1990s, there was an epistemological shift away from the positivist traditions that had largely informed the discipline. During this shift, enduring questions about the nature and production of knowledge came to occupy a central place in cultural and social anthropology. In contrast, archaeology and biological anthropology remained largely positivist. Due to this difference in epistemology, the four sub-fields of anthropology have lacked cohesion over the last several decades.\n\nSociocultural anthropology draws together the principle axes of cultural anthropology and social anthropology. Cultural anthropology is the comparative study of the manifold ways in which people \"make sense\" of the world around them, while social anthropology is the study of the \"relationships\" among individuals and groups. Cultural anthropology is more related to philosophy, literature and the arts (how one's culture affects the experience for self and group, contributing to a more complete understanding of the people's knowledge, customs, and institutions), while social anthropology is more related to sociology and history. In that, it helps develop an understanding of social structures, typically of others and other populations (such as minorities, subgroups, dissidents, etc.). There is no hard-and-fast distinction between them, and these categories overlap to a considerable degree.\n\nInquiry in sociocultural anthropology is guided in part by cultural relativism, the attempt to understand other societies in terms of their own cultural symbols and values. Accepting other cultures in their own terms moderates reductionism in cross-cultural comparison. This project is often accommodated in the field of ethnography. Ethnography can refer to both a methodology and the product of ethnographic research, i.e. an ethnographic monograph. As a methodology, ethnography is based upon long-term fieldwork within a community or other research site. Participant observation is one of the foundational methods of social and cultural anthropology. Ethnology involves the systematic comparison of different cultures. The process of participant-observation can be especially helpful to understanding a culture from an emic (conceptual, vs. etic, or technical) point of view.\n\nThe study of kinship and social organization is a central focus of sociocultural anthropology, as kinship is a human universal. Sociocultural anthropology also covers economic and political organization, law and conflict resolution, patterns of consumption and exchange, material culture, technology, infrastructure, gender relations, ethnicity, childrearing and socialization, religion, myth, symbols, values, etiquette, worldview, sports, music, nutrition, recreation, games, food, festivals, and language (which is also the object of study in linguistic anthropology).\n\nComparison across cultures is a key element of method in sociocultural anthropology, including the industrialized (and de-industrialized) West. Cultures in the Standard Cross-Cultural Sample (SCCS) of world societies are:\n\nBiological anthropology and physical anthropology are synonymous terms to describe anthropological research focused on the study of humans and non-human primates in their biological, evolutionary, and demographic dimensions. It examines the biological and social factors that have affected the evolution of humans and other primates, and that generate, maintain or change contemporary genetic and physiological variation. \n\nArchaeology is the study of the human past through its material remains. Artifacts, faunal remains, and human altered landscapes are evidence of the cultural and material lives of past societies. Archaeologists examine this material remains in order to deduce patterns of past human behavior and cultural practices. Ethnoarchaeology is a type of archaeology that studies the practices and material remain of living human groups in order to gain a better understanding of the evidence left behind by past human groups, who are presumed to have lived in similar ways.\n\nLinguistic anthropology (not to be confused with anthropological linguistics) seeks to understand the processes of human communications, verbal and non-verbal, variation in language across time and space, the social uses of language, and the relationship between language and culture. It is the branch of anthropology that brings linguistic methods to bear on anthropological problems, linking the analysis of linguistic forms and processes to the interpretation of sociocultural processes. Linguistic anthropologists often draw on related fields including sociolinguistics, pragmatics, cognitive linguistics, semiotics, discourse analysis, and narrative analysis.\n\nOne of the central problems in the anthropology of art concerns the universality of 'art' as a cultural phenomenon. Several anthropologists have noted that the Western categories of 'painting', 'sculpture', or 'literature', conceived as independent artistic activities, do not exist, or exist in a significantly different form, in most non-Western contexts. To surmount this difficulty, anthropologists of art have focused on formal features in objects which, without exclusively being 'artistic', have certain evident 'aesthetic' qualities. Boas' \"Primitive Art\", Claude Lévi-Strauss' \"The Way of the Masks\" (1982) or Geertz's 'Art as Cultural System' (1983) are some examples in this trend to transform the anthropology of 'art' into an anthropology of culturally specific 'aesthetics'.\n\nMedia anthropology (also known as the anthropology of media or mass media) emphasizes ethnographic studies as a means of understanding producers, audiences, and other cultural and social aspects of mass media. The types of ethnographic contexts explored range from contexts of media production (e.g., ethnographies of newsrooms in newspapers, journalists in the field, film production) to contexts of media reception, following audiences in their everyday responses to media. Other types include cyber anthropology, a relatively new area of internet research, as well as ethnographies of other areas of research which happen to involve media, such as development work, social movements, or health education. This is in addition to many classic ethnographic contexts, where media such as radio, the press, new media, and television have started to make their presences felt since the early 1990s.\n\nEthnomusicology is an academic field encompassing various approaches to the study of music (broadly defined), that emphasize its cultural, social, material, cognitive, biological, and other dimensions or contexts instead of or in addition to its isolated sound component or any particular repertoire.\n\nVisual anthropology is concerned, in part, with the study and production of ethnographic photography, film and, since the mid-1990s, new media. While the term is sometimes used interchangeably with ethnographic film, visual anthropology also encompasses the anthropological study of visual representation, including areas such as performance, museums, art, and the production and reception of mass media. Visual representations from all cultures, such as sandpaintings, tattoos, sculptures and reliefs, cave paintings, scrimshaw, jewelry, hieroglyphics, paintings, and photographs are included in the focus of visual anthropology.\n\nEconomic anthropology attempts to explain human economic behavior in its widest historic, geographic and cultural scope. It has a complex relationship with the discipline of economics, of which it is highly critical. Its origins as a sub-field of anthropology begin with the Polish-British founder of anthropology, Bronisław Malinowski, and his French compatriot, Marcel Mauss, on the nature of gift-giving exchange (or reciprocity) as an alternative to market exchange. Economic Anthropology remains, for the most part, focused upon exchange. The school of thought derived from Marx and known as Political Economy focuses on production, in contrast. Economic anthropologists have abandoned the primitivist niche they were relegated to by economists, and have now turned to examine corporations, banks, and the global financial system from an anthropological perspective.\n\nPolitical economy in anthropology is the application of the theories and methods of Historical Materialism to the traditional concerns of anthropology, including, but not limited to, non-capitalist societies. Political economy introduced questions of history and colonialism to ahistorical anthropological theories of social structure and culture. Three main areas of interest rapidly developed. The first of these areas was concerned with the \"pre-capitalist\" societies that were subject to evolutionary \"tribal\" stereotypes. Sahlin's work on hunter-gatherers as the \"original affluent society\" did much to dissipate that image. The second area was concerned with the vast majority of the world's population at the time, the peasantry, many of whom were involved in complex revolutionary wars such as in Vietnam. The third area was on colonialism, imperialism, and the creation of the capitalist world-system. More recently, these political economists have more directly addressed issues of industrial (and post-industrial) capitalism around the world.\n\nApplied anthropology refers to the application of the method and theory of anthropology to the analysis and solution of practical problems. It is a \"complex of related, research-based, instrumental methods which produce change or stability in specific cultural systems through the provision of data, initiation of direct action, and/or the formulation of policy\". More simply, applied anthropology is the practical side of anthropological research; it includes researcher involvement and activism within the participating community. It is closely related to development anthropology (distinct from the more critical anthropology of development).\n\nAnthropology of development tends to view development from a \"critical\" perspective. The kind of issues addressed and implications for the approach simply involve pondering why, if a key development goal is to alleviate poverty, is poverty increasing? Why is there such a gap between plans and outcomes? Why are those working in development so willing to disregard history and the lessons it might offer? Why is development so externally driven rather than having an internal basis? In short, why does so much planned development fail?\n\n\"Kinship\" can refer both to \"the study of\" the patterns of social relationships in one or more human cultures, or it can refer to \"the patterns of social relationships\" themselves. Over its history, anthropology has developed a number of related concepts and terms, such as \"descent\", \"descent groups\", \"lineages\", \"affines\", \"cognates\", and even \"fictive kinship\". Broadly, kinship patterns may be considered to include people related both by descent (one's social relations during development), and also relatives by marriage.\n\nFeminist anthropology is a four field approach to anthropology (archeological, biological, cultural, linguistic) that seeks to reduce male bias in research findings, anthropological hiring practices, and the scholarly production of knowledge. Anthropology engages often with feminists from non-Western traditions, whose perspectives and experiences can differ from those of white European and American feminists. Historically, such 'peripheral' perspectives have sometimes been marginalized and regarded as less valid or important than knowledge from the western world. Feminist anthropologists have claimed that their research helps to correct this systematic bias in mainstream feminist theory. Feminist anthropologists are centrally concerned with the construction of gender across societies. Feminist anthropology is inclusive of birth anthropology as a specialization. \n\nThe first African-American female anthropologist and Caribbeanist is said to be Vera Mae Green who studied ethnic and family relations in the Caribbean as well as the United States, and thereby tried to improve the way black life, experiences, and culture were studied.\n\nMedical anthropology is an interdisciplinary field which studies \"human health and disease, health care systems, and biocultural adaptation\". It is believed that William Caudell was the first to discover the field of medical anthropology. Currently, research in medical anthropology is one of the main growth areas in the field of anthropology as a whole. It focuses on the following six basic fields:\nOther subjects that have become central to medical anthropology worldwide are violence and social suffering (Farmer, 1999, 2003; Beneduce, 2010) as well as other issues that involve physical and psychological harm and suffering that are not a result of illness. On the other hand, there are fields that intersect with medical anthropology in terms of research methodology and theoretical production, such as \"cultural psychiatry\" and \"transcultural psychiatry\" or \"ethnopsychiatry\".\n\nNutritional anthropology is a synthetic concept that deals with the interplay between economic systems, nutritional status and food security, and how changes in the former affect the latter. If economic and environmental changes in a community affect access to food, food security, and dietary health, then this interplay between culture and biology is in turn connected to broader historical and economic trends associated with globalization. Nutritional status affects overall health status, work performance potential, and the overall potential for economic development (either in terms of human development or traditional western models) for any given group of people.\n\nPsychological anthropology is an interdisciplinary subfield of anthropology that studies the interaction of cultural and mental processes. This subfield tends to focus on ways in which humans' development and enculturation within a particular cultural group—with its own history, language, practices, and conceptual categories—shape processes of human cognition, emotion, perception, motivation, and mental health. It also examines how the understanding of cognition, emotion, motivation, and similar psychological processes inform or constrain our models of cultural and social processes.\n\nCognitive anthropology seeks to explain patterns of shared knowledge, cultural innovation, and transmission over time and space using the methods and theories of the cognitive sciences (especially experimental psychology and evolutionary biology) often through close collaboration with historians, ethnographers, archaeologists, linguists, musicologists and other specialists engaged in the description and interpretation of cultural forms. Cognitive anthropology is concerned with what people from different groups know and how that implicit knowledge changes the way people perceive and relate to the world around them.\n\nTranspersonal anthropology studies the relationship between altered states of consciousness and culture. As with transpersonal psychology, the field is much concerned with altered states of consciousness (ASC) and transpersonal experience. However, the field differs from mainstream transpersonal psychology in taking more cognizance of cross-cultural issues—for instance, the roles of myth, ritual, diet, and texts in evoking and interpreting extraordinary experiences.\n\nPolitical anthropology concerns the structure of political systems, looked at from the basis of the structure of societies. Political anthropology developed as a discipline concerned primarily with politics in stateless societies, a new development started from the 1960s, and is still unfolding: anthropologists started increasingly to study more \"complex\" social settings in which the presence of states, bureaucracies and markets entered both ethnographic accounts and analysis of local phenomena. The turn towards complex societies meant that political themes were taken up at two main levels. Firstly, anthropologists continued to study political organization and political phenomena that lay outside the state-regulated sphere (as in patron-client relations or tribal political organization). Secondly, anthropologists slowly started to develop a disciplinary concern with states and their institutions (and on the relationship between formal and informal political institutions). An anthropology of the state developed, and it is a most thriving field today. Geertz' comparative work on \"Negara\", the Balinese state, is an early, famous example.\n\nLegal anthropology or anthropology of law specializes in \"the cross-cultural study of social ordering\". Earlier legal anthropological research often focused more narrowly on conflict management, crime, sanctions, or formal regulation. More recent applications include issues such as human rights, legal pluralism, and political uprisings.\n\nPublic anthropology was created by Robert Borofsky, a professor at Hawaii Pacific University, to \"demonstrate the ability of anthropology and anthropologists to effectively address problems beyond the discipline – illuminating larger social issues of our times as well as encouraging broad, public conversations about them with the explicit goal of fostering social change\".\n\nCyborg anthropology originated as a sub-focus group within the American Anthropological Association's annual meeting in 1993. The sub-group was very closely related to STS and the Society for the Social Studies of Science. Donna Haraway's 1985 \"Cyborg Manifesto\" could be considered the founding document of cyborg anthropology by first exploring the philosophical and sociological ramifications of the term. Cyborg anthropology studies humankind and its relations with the technological systems it has built, specifically modern technological systems that have reflexively shaped notions of what it means to be human beings.\n\nDigital anthropology is the study of the relationship between humans and digital-era technology, and extends to various areas where anthropology and technology intersect. It is sometimes grouped with sociocultural anthropology, and sometimes considered part of material culture. The field is new, and thus has a variety of names with a variety of emphases. These include techno-anthropology, digital ethnography, cyberanthropology, and virtual anthropology.\n\nEcological anthropology is defined as the \"study of cultural adaptations to environments\". The sub-field is also defined as, \"the study of relationships between a population of humans and their biophysical environment\". The focus of its research concerns \"how cultural beliefs and practices helped human populations adapt to their environments, and how their environment across space and time. The contemporary perspective of environmental anthropology, and arguably at least the backdrop, if not the focus of most of the ethnographies and cultural fieldworks of today, is political ecology. Many characterize this new perspective as more informed with culture, politics and power, globalization, localized issues, century anthropology and more. The focus and data interpretation is often used for arguments for/against or creation of policy, and to prevent corporate exploitation and damage of land. Often, the observer has become an active part of the struggle either directly (organizing, participation) or indirectly (articles, documentaries, books, ethnographies). Such is the case with environmental justice advocate Melissa Checker and her relationship with the people of Hyde Park.\n\nEthnohistory is the study of ethnographic cultures and indigenous customs by examining historical records. It is also the study of the history of various ethnic groups that may or may not exist today. Ethnohistory uses both historical and ethnographic data as its foundation. Its historical methods and materials go beyond the standard use of documents and manuscripts. Practitioners recognize the utility of such source material as maps, music, paintings, photography, folklore, oral tradition, site exploration, archaeological materials, museum collections, enduring customs, language, and place names.\n\nThe anthropology of religion involves the study of religious institutions in relation to other social institutions, and the comparison of religious beliefs and practices across cultures. Modern anthropology assumes that there is complete continuity between magical thinking and religion, and that every religion is a cultural product, created by the human community that worships it.\n\nUrban anthropology is concerned with issues of urbanization, poverty, and neoliberalism. Ulf Hannerz quotes a 1960s remark that traditional anthropologists were \"a notoriously agoraphobic lot, anti-urban by definition\". Various social processes in the Western World as well as in the \"Third World\" (the latter being the habitual focus of attention of anthropologists) brought the attention of \"specialists in 'other cultures'\" closer to their homes. There are two main approaches to urban anthropology: examining the types of cities or examining the social issues within the cities. These two methods are overlapping and dependent of each other. By defining different types of cities, one would use social factors as well as economic and political factors to categorize the cities. By directly looking at the different social issues, one would also be studying how they affect the dynamic of the city.\n\nAnthrozoology (also known as \"human–animal studies\") is the study of interaction between living things. It is an interdisciplinary field that overlaps with a number of other disciplines, including anthropology, ethology, medicine, psychology, veterinary medicine and zoology. A major focus of anthrozoologic research is the quantifying of the positive effects of human-animal relationships on either party and the study of their interactions. It includes scholars from a diverse range of fields, including anthropology, sociology, biology, and philosophy.\n\nBiocultural anthropology is the scientific exploration of the relationships between human biology and culture. Physical anthropologists throughout the first half of the 20th century viewed this relationship from a racial perspective; that is, from the assumption that typological human biological differences lead to cultural differences. After World War II the emphasis began to shift toward an effort to explore the role culture plays in shaping human biology.\n\nEvolutionary anthropology is the interdisciplinary study of the evolution of human physiology and human behaviour and the relation between hominins and non-hominin primates. Evolutionary anthropology is based in natural science and social science, combining the human development with socioeconomic factors. Evolutionary anthropology is concerned with both biological and cultural evolution of humans, past and present. It is based on a scientific approach, and brings together fields such as archaeology, behavioral ecology, psychology, primatology, and genetics. It is a dynamic and interdisciplinary field, drawing on many lines of evidence to understand the human experience, past and present.\n\nForensic anthropology is the application of the science of physical anthropology and human osteology in a legal setting, most often in criminal cases where the victim's remains are in the advanced stages of decomposition. A forensic anthropologist can assist in the identification of deceased individuals whose remains are decomposed, burned, mutilated or otherwise unrecognizable. The adjective \"forensic\" refers to the application of this subfield of science to a court of law.\n\nPaleoanthropology combines the disciplines of paleontology and physical anthropology. It is the study of ancient humans, as found in fossil hominid evidence such as petrifacted bones and footprints.\n\nContemporary anthropology is an established science with academic departments at most universities and colleges. The single largest organization of anthropologists is the American Anthropological Association (AAA), which was founded in 1903. Its members are anthropologists from around the globe.\n\nIn 1989, a group of European and American scholars in the field of anthropology established the European Association of Social Anthropologists (EASA) which serves as a major professional organization for anthropologists working in Europe. The EASA seeks to advance the status of anthropology in Europe and to increase visibility of marginalized anthropological traditions and thereby contribute to the project of a global anthropology or world anthropology.\n\nHundreds of other organizations exist in the various sub-fields of anthropology, sometimes divided up by nation or region, and many anthropologists work with collaborators in other disciplines, such as geology, physics, zoology, paleontology, anatomy, music theory, art history, sociology and so on, belonging to professional societies in those disciplines as well.\n\nAs the field has matured it has debated and arrived at ethical principles aimed at protecting both the subjects of anthropological research as well as the researchers themselves, and professional societies have generated codes of ethics.\n\nAnthropologists, like other researchers (especially historians and scientists engaged in field research), have over time assisted state policies and projects, especially colonialism.\n\nSome commentators have contended:\n\nAs part of their quest for scientific objectivity, present-day anthropologists typically urge cultural relativism, which has an influence on all the sub-fields of anthropology. This is the notion that cultures should not be judged by another's values or viewpoints, but be examined dispassionately on their own terms. There should be no notions, in good anthropology, of one culture being better or worse than another culture.\n\nEthical commitments in anthropology include noticing and documenting genocide, infanticide, racism, mutilation (including circumcision and subincision), and torture. Topics like racism, slavery, and human sacrifice attract anthropological attention and theories ranging from nutritional deficiencies to genes to acculturation have been proposed, not to mention theories of colonialism and many others as root causes of Man's inhumanity to man. To illustrate the depth of an anthropological approach, one can take just one of these topics, such as \"racism\" and find thousands of anthropological references, stretching across all the major and minor sub-fields.\n\nAnthropologists' involvement with the U.S. government, in particular, has caused bitter controversy within the discipline. Franz Boas publicly objected to US participation in World War I, and after the war he published a brief expose and condemnation of the participation of several American archaeologists in espionage in Mexico under their cover as scientists.\n\nBut by the 1940s, many of Boas' anthropologist contemporaries were active in the allied war effort against the Axis Powers (Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy, and Imperial Japan). Many served in the armed forces, while others worked in intelligence (for example, Office of Strategic Services and the Office of War Information). At the same time, David H. Price's work on American anthropology during the Cold War provides detailed accounts of the pursuit and dismissal of several anthropologists from their jobs for communist sympathies.\n\nAttempts to accuse anthropologists of complicity with the CIA and government intelligence activities during the Vietnam War years have turned up surprisingly little. Many anthropologists (students and teachers) were active in the antiwar movement. Numerous resolutions condemning the war in all its aspects were passed overwhelmingly at the annual meetings of the American Anthropological Association (AAA).\n\nProfessional anthropological bodies often object to the use of anthropology for the benefit of the state. Their codes of ethics or statements may proscribe anthropologists from giving secret briefings. The Association of Social Anthropologists of the UK and Commonwealth (ASA) has called certain scholarship ethically dangerous. The AAA's current 'Statement of Professional Responsibility' clearly states that \"in relation with their own government and with host governments ... no secret research, no secret reports or debriefings of any kind should be agreed to or given.\"\n\nAnthropologists, along with other social scientists, are working with the US military as part of the US Army's strategy in Afghanistan. The \"Christian Science Monitor\" reports that \"Counterinsurgency efforts focus on better grasping and meeting local needs\" in Afghanistan, under the \"Human Terrain System\" (HTS) program; in addition, HTS teams are working with the US military in Iraq. In 2009, the American Anthropological Association's Commission on the Engagement of Anthropology with the US Security and Intelligence Communities released its final report concluding, in part, that, \"When ethnographic investigation is determined by military missions, not subject to external review, where data collection occurs in the context of war, integrated into the goals of counterinsurgency, and in a potentially coercive environment – all characteristic factors of the HTS concept and its application – it can no longer be considered a legitimate professional exercise of anthropology. In summary, while we stress that constructive engagement between anthropology and the military is possible, CEAUSSIC suggests that the AAA emphasize the incompatibility of HTS with disciplinary ethics and practice for job seekers and that it further recognize the problem of allowing HTS to define the meaning of \"anthropology\" within DoD.\"\n\nBefore WWII British 'social anthropology' and American 'cultural anthropology' were still distinct traditions. After the war, enough British and American anthropologists borrowed ideas and methodological approaches from one another that some began to speak of them collectively as 'sociocultural' anthropology.\n\nThere are several characteristics that tend to unite anthropological work. One of the central characteristics is that anthropology tends to provide a comparatively more holistic account of phenomena and tends to be highly empirical. The quest for holism leads most anthropologists to study a particular place, problem or phenomenon in detail, using a variety of methods, over a more extensive period than normal in many parts of academia.\n\nIn the 1990s and 2000s, calls for clarification of what constitutes a culture, of how an observer knows where his or her own culture ends and another begins, and other crucial topics in writing anthropology were heard. These dynamic relationships, between what can be observed on the ground, as opposed to what can be observed by compiling many local observations remain fundamental in any kind of anthropology, whether cultural, biological, linguistic or archaeological.\n\nBiological anthropologists are interested in both human variation and in the possibility of human universals (behaviors, ideas or concepts shared by virtually all human cultures). They use many different methods of study, but modern population genetics, participant observation and other techniques often take anthropologists \"into the field,\" which means traveling to a community in its own setting, to do something called \"fieldwork.\" On the biological or physical side, human measurements, genetic samples, nutritional data may be gathered and published as articles or monographs.\n\nAlong with dividing up their project by theoretical emphasis, anthropologists typically divide the world up into relevant time periods and geographic regions. Human time on Earth is divided up into relevant cultural traditions based on material, such as the Paleolithic and the Neolithic, of particular use in archaeology. Further cultural subdivisions according to tool types, such as Olduwan or Mousterian or Levalloisian help archaeologists and other anthropologists in understanding major trends in the human past. Anthropologists and geographers share approaches to culture regions as well, since mapping cultures is central to both sciences. By making comparisons across cultural traditions (time-based) and cultural regions (space-based), anthropologists have developed various kinds of comparative method, a central part of their science.\n\nBecause anthropology developed from so many different enterprises (see History of anthropology), including but not limited to fossil-hunting, exploring, documentary film-making, paleontology, primatology, antiquity dealings and curatorship, philology, etymology, genetics, regional analysis, ethnology, history, philosophy, and religious studies, it is difficult to characterize the entire field in a brief article, although attempts to write histories of the entire field have been made.\n\nSome authors argue that anthropology originated and developed as the study of \"other cultures\", both in terms of time (past societies) and space (non-European/non-Western societies). For example, the classic of urban anthropology, Ulf Hannerz in the introduction to his seminal \"Exploring the City: Inquiries Toward an Urban Anthropology\" mentions that the \"Third World\" had habitually received most of attention; anthropologists who traditionally specialized in \"other cultures\" looked for them far away and started to look \"across the tracks\" only in late 1960s.\n\nNow there exist many works focusing on peoples and topics very close to the author's \"home\". It is also argued that other fields of study, like History and Sociology, on the contrary focus disproportionately on the West.\n\nIn France, the study of Western societies has been traditionally left to sociologists, but this is increasingly changing, starting in the 1970s from scholars like Isac Chiva and journals like \"Terrain\" (\"fieldwork\"), and developing with the center founded by Marc Augé (\"Le Centre d'anthropologie des mondes contemporains\", the Anthropological Research Center of Contemporary Societies).\n\nSince the 1980s it has become common for social and cultural anthropologists to set ethnographic research in the North Atlantic region, frequently examining the connections between locations rather than limiting research to a single locale. There has also been a related shift toward broadening the focus beyond the daily life of ordinary people; increasingly, research is set in settings such as scientific laboratories, social movements, governmental and nongovernmental organizations and businesses.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840675", "title": "Anti-romance", "text": "Anti-romance\n\nAn anti-romance, sometimes referred to as a satire, is a type of story characterized by having an apathetic or self-doubting anti-hero cast as the protagonist, who fails in the object of his journey or struggle. Most anti-romances take place in urban settings, and frequently feature insanity, depression, and the meaning of reality as major themes. An anti-romance is the antithesis of a romance.\n\nJ. D. Salinger's \"The Catcher in the Rye\" is probably the most famous and successful anti-romance, though there are many others, including Thomas Pynchon's \"The Crying of Lot 49\", \"Araby\" by James Joyce and Joseph Heller's \"Catch-22\".\n\nThe film \"\" (1994) has been considered an anti-romance.\n"}
{"id": "44547828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44547828", "title": "Bangladeshi English", "text": "Bangladeshi English\n\nBangladeshi English or Banglish is one of the dialects of English characteristic of Bangladesh.\n\nAn estimated 18 million Bangladeshis can use English as a second language.\n\nEducation, newspapers, business and nongovernmental organizations in English are prevalent throughout Bangladesh.\n\nEnglish is the principal language of the Bangladeshi upper judiciary, including the Bangladesh Supreme Court and the Dhaka High Court. Bengali is the sole official language, but English is often used secondarily for official purposes, especially in the judiciary. The Government of Bangladesh extensively uses English as a working language. Bangladeshi laws are written in both English and Bengali.\n\nThe territory of modern Bangladesh was the heartland of the Bengal Presidency in the British Empire.\n\nHistorically, the Bengali bhadralok class were heavily influenced by the British accent. The efforts of Sir Syed Ahmed Khan played a key role in building an English-speaking Muslim intelligentsia and middle class in Bengal. Modern Bangladeshi English is noted for its neutral accent, in comparison to other forms of Asian English, and has been influenced by the American accent. Spellings continue to be adopted from British English. English was an official language of East Pakistan. After independence, the Constitution of Bangladesh was written in both English and Bengali in 1972.\n\nHowever, successive Bangladeshi governments have converted many original English-medium universities, schools and colleges to Bengali instruction in order to spread mass education. In 1987, President Hussain Muhammad Ershad replaced English with Bengali as the language of most of the lower courts, which was reversed in 2001. In 2012, the High Court banned the use of \"Banglish\", described as a slang mixture of Bengali and English, in radio and television programs to prevent the corruption of both languages.\n\nEnglish literature in Bangladesh includes the early works of Begum Rokeya, one of the world's earliest feminist science fiction writers, and Rabindranath Tagore, whose English translation of Gitanjali won him the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1913.\n\nThe Indian numbering system is preferred for digit grouping. When written in words, or when spoken,\nnumbers less than 100,000/100 000 are expressed just as they are in Standard English. Numbers including and beyond 100,000 /\n100 000 are expressed in a subset of the South Asian numbering system.\n\nThus, the following scale is used:\n\n"}
{"id": "6867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6867", "title": "Context-free language", "text": "Context-free language\n\nIn formal language theory, a context-free language (CFL) is a language generated by a context-free grammar (CFG).\n\nContext-free languages have many applications in programming languages, in particular, most arithmetic expressions are generated by context-free grammars.\n\nDifferent context-free grammars can generate the same context-free language. Intrinsic properties of the language can be distinguished from extrinsic properties of a particular grammar by comparing multiple grammars that describe the language.\n\nThe set of all context-free languages is identical to the set of languages accepted by pushdown automata, which makes these languages amenable to parsing. Further, for a given CFG, there is a direct way to produce a pushdown automaton for the grammar (and thereby the corresponding language), though going the other way (producing a grammar given an automaton) is not as direct.\n\nA model context-free language is formula_1, the language of all non-empty even-length strings, the entire first halves of which are 's, and the entire second halves of which are 's. is generated by the grammar formula_2.\nThis language is not regular.\nIt is accepted by the pushdown automaton formula_3 where formula_4 is defined as follows:\n\nUnambiguous CFLs are a proper subset of all CFLs: there are inherently ambiguous CFLs. An example of an inherently ambiguous CFL is the union of formula_6 with formula_7. This set is context-free, since the union of two context-free languages is always context-free. But there is no way to unambiguously parse strings in the (non-context-free) subset formula_8 which is the intersection of these two languages.\n\nThe language of all properly matched parentheses is generated by the grammar formula_9.\n\nThe context-free nature of the language makes it simple to parse with a pushdown automaton.\n\nDetermining an instance of the membership problem; i.e. given a string formula_10, determine whether formula_11 where formula_12 is the language generated by a given grammar formula_13; is also known as \"recognition\". Context-free recognition for Chomsky normal form grammars was shown by Leslie G. Valiant to be reducible to boolean matrix multiplication, thus inheriting its complexity upper bound of \"O\"(\"n\").\nConversely, Lillian Lee has shown \"O\"(\"n\") boolean matrix multiplication to be reducible to \"O\"(\"n\") CFG parsing, thus establishing some kind of lower bound for the latter.\n\nPractical uses of context-free languages require also to produce a derivation tree that exhibits the structure that the grammar associates with the given string. The process of producing this tree is called \"parsing\". Known parsers have a time complexity that is cubic in the size of the string that is parsed.\n\nFormally, the set of all context-free languages is identical to the set of languages accepted by pushdown automata (PDA). Parser algorithms for context-free languages include the CYK algorithm and Earley's Algorithm.\n\nA special subclass of context-free languages are the deterministic context-free languages which are defined as the set of languages accepted by a deterministic pushdown automaton and can be parsed by a LR(k) parser.\n\nSee also parsing expression grammar as an alternative approach to grammar and parser.\n\nContext-free languages are closed under the following operations. That is, if \"L\" and \"P\" are context-free languages, the following languages are context-free as well:\n\nThe context-free languages are not closed under intersection. This can be seen by taking the languages formula_22 and formula_23, which are both context-free. Their intersection is formula_24, which can be shown to be non-context-free by the pumping lemma for context-free languages. As a consequence, context-free languages cannot be closed under complementation, as for any languages \"A\" and \"B\", their intersection can be expressed by union and complement: formula_25. In particular, context-free language cannot be closed under difference, since complement can be expressed by difference: formula_26. \n\nHowever, if \"L\" is a context-free language and \"D\" is a regular language then both their intersection formula_27 and their difference formula_28 are context-free languages.\n\nIn formal language theory, questions about regular languages are usually decidable, but ones about context-free languages are often not. It is decidable whether such a language is finite, but not whether it contains every possible string, is regular, is unambiguous, or is equivalent to a language with a different grammar.\n\nThe following problems are undecidable for arbitrarily given context-free grammars A and B:\n\nThe following problems are \"decidable\" for arbitrary context-free languages:\n\nAccording to Hopcroft, Motwani, Ullman (2003), \nmany of the fundamental closure and (un)decidability properties of context-free languages were shown in the 1961 paper of Bar-Hillel, Perles, and Shamir\n\nThe set formula_8 is a context-sensitive language, but there does not exist a context-free grammar generating this language. So there exist context-sensitive languages which are not context-free. To prove that a given language is not context-free, one may employ the pumping lemma for context-free languages or a number of other methods, such as Ogden's lemma or Parikh's theorem.\n\n"}
{"id": "4812780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4812780", "title": "Contra vim mortis non crescit herba in hortis", "text": "Contra vim mortis non crescit herba in hortis\n\nContra vim mortis non crescit herba in hortis (or Contra vim mortis non crescit salvia in hortis, Latin meaning \"\"No herb grows in the gardens against the power of death\", or \"No sage grows in the gardens against the power of death\", respectively, is a phrase that appears in medieval literature. The broader meaning of the maxim is, \"Although you search any garden, you won't find a medical remedy against the lethal power of death\"\". The second wording that uses \"salvia\" in place of \"herba\" is a wordplay with the name of \"salvia\" (sage), which literally means healer or healthmaker.\n\nLike many adages and maxims handed on from the Latin cultural tradition, this line is a hexameter, the rhythmical verse typical of the great epic poetry in both Greek and Latin literature.\n\nAccording to Jan Wielewicki in his \"Dziennik spraw Domu zakonnego OO. Jezuitów u św. Barbary w Krakowie\", these words were said by Sigismund III Vasa on his deathbed. In \"Das Buch der Zitate\" by Gerhard Hellwig, the phrase appears in \"Flos medicinae\".\n"}
{"id": "48897671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48897671", "title": "Cosmetic textile", "text": "Cosmetic textile\n\nCosmetic textiles are the functional textiles, including garments, underwear which come in direct contact with the skin through the process of microencapsulation. They concern the treatment of the skin for a cosmetic approach (for example, the orange peel effect), but can also be a vehicle for other active functions, such as slimming and body shaping. Cosmetic textiles currently offered on the market claim to be moisturizing, perfumed, cellulite reducing and body slimming.\n"}
{"id": "3810802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3810802", "title": "Crying the Neck", "text": "Crying the Neck\n\nCrying The Neck is a harvest festival tradition once common in counties of Devon and Cornwall in the United Kingdom in Europe. The tradition declined following the invention of machines such as the combine harvester.\n\nThe tradition is no longer known to be practiced in Devon. In Cornwall, however, the tradition was revived in the early twentieth century by the Old Cornwall Society.\n\nIn \"The Story of Cornwall\", by Kenneth Hamilton Jenkin, the following explanation is given on the practice:\n\nThe rest would then shout, \n\nand the reply would be: \n\nEveryone then joined in shouting:\n\n(calling the farmer by name.)\"\n\nIn a harvest scene in the third episode of the second series of the 2015 of \"Poldark\" (S02 E03), Francis Poldark performs the tradition at Trenwith, his estate.\n\nIn a harvest scene in the third episode of supernatural drama \"The Living and the Dead\" (S01 E03), Charlotte Appleby performs the tradition at her husband's family farm, which she manages.\n\n\n\n \n\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20120315040347/http://picturepenzance.co.uk/photos/showimage.php?i=24287&c=680"}
{"id": "1414921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1414921", "title": "Culture of capitalism", "text": "Culture of capitalism\n\nThe culture of capitalism or capitalist culture is the set of social practices, social norms, values and patterns of behavior that are attributed to the capitalist economic system in a capitalist society. Capitalist culture promotes the accumulation of capital and the sale of commodities, where individuals are primarily defined by their relationship to business and the market. The culture is composed of people who, behaving according to a set of learned rules, act as they must act in order to survive in capitalist societies.\n\nElements of capitalist culture include the mindset of business and corporate culture, consumerism and working class culture.\n\nWhile certain political ideologies, such as neoliberalism, assume and promote the view that the behavior that capitalism fosters in individuals is natural to humans, anthropologists like Richard Robbins point out that there is nothing natural about this behavior - people are not naturally dispossessed to accumulate wealth and driven by wage-labor.\n\nPolitical ideologies such as neoliberalism abstract the economic sphere from other aspects of society (politics, culture, family etc., with any political activity constituting an intervention into the natural process of the market, for example) and assume that people make rational exchanges in the sphere of market transactions. However, applying the concept of embeddedness to market societies, the sociologist Granovetter demonstrates that rational economic exchanges are actually heavily influenced by pre-existing social ties and other factors.\n\nIn a capitalist system, society and culture revolve around business activity (the accumulation of capital). As such, business activity and the market exchange are often viewed as being absolute or \"natural\" in that all other human social relations revolve around these processes (or should exist to facilitate one's ability to perform these processes).\n\n"}
{"id": "1091420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1091420", "title": "Dahomey Amazons", "text": "Dahomey Amazons\n\nThe Dahomey Amazons or Mino, which means \"our mothers,\" were a Fon all-female military regiment of the Kingdom of Dahomey in the present-day Republic of Benin which lasted until the end of the 19th century. They were so named by Western observers and historians due to their similarity to the mythical Amazons of ancient Anatolia and the Black Sea.\n\nKing Houegbadja (who ruled from 1645 to 1685), the third King of Dahomey, is said to have originally started the group which would become the Amazons as a corps of elephant hunters called the \"gbeto\".\n\nHouegbadja's son King Agaja (ruling from 1708 to 1732) established a female bodyguard armed with muskets. European merchants recorded their presence. According to tradition, Agaja developed the bodyguard into a militia and successfully used them in Dahomey's defeat of the neighbouring kingdom of Savi in 1727. The group of female warriors was referred to as \"Mino\", meaning \"Our Mothers\" in the Fon language, by the male army of Dahomey. Other sources contest that King Agaja's older sister Queen Hangbe was the ruler to establish the units, however some contest if Queen Hangbe actually existed.\n\nFrom the time of King Ghezo (ruling from 1818 to 1858), Dahomey became increasingly militaristic. Ghezo placed great importance on the army, increasing its budget and formalizing its structure from ceremonial to a serious military. While European narratives refer to the women soldiers as \"Amazons\", they called themselves \"ahosi\" (king's wives) or \"Mino\" (our mothers). Europeans exchanged goods such as knives, bayonets, firearms and fabrics for prisoners that the Dahomey captured during wars and raids.\n\nGhezo recruited both men and women soldiers from foreign captives, though women soldiers were also recruited from free Dahomean women, some enrolled as young as 8 years old. Other accounts indicate that the \"Mino\" were recruited from among the \"ahosi\" (\"king's wives\") of which there were often hundreds. Some women in Fon society became soldiers voluntarily, while others were involuntarily enrolled if their husbands or fathers complained to the king about their behavior.\n\nMembership among the \"Mino\" was supposed to hone any aggressive character traits for the purpose of war. During their membership they were not allowed to have children or be part of married life (though they were legally married to the king). Many of them were virgins. The regiment had a semi-sacred status, which was intertwined with the Fon belief in Vodun.\n\nThe \"Mino\" trained with intense physical exercise. They learnt survival skills and indifference to pain and death, storming acacia-thorn defenses in military exercises and executing prisoners. Discipline was emphasised.\n\nServing in the \"Mino\" offered women the opportunity to \"rise to positions of command and influence\" in an environment structured for individual empowerment. The \"Mino\" were also wealthy and held high status.\n\nThe \"Mino\" took a prominent role in the Grand Council, debating the policy of the kingdom. From the 1840s to 1870s (when the opposing party collapsed), they generally supported peace with Abeokuta and stronger commercial relations with England, favouring the trade in palm oil above that in slaves; this set them at odds with their male military colleagues.\n\nApart from the Council, the Annual Customs of Dahomey included a parade and reviewing of the troops, and the troops swearing of an oath to the king. The celebrations on the 27th day of the Annual Customs consisted of a mock battle in which the Amazons attacked a \"fort\" and \"captured\" the slaves within, a custom recorded by the priest Francesco Borghero in his diaries.\n\nThe women soldiers were rigorously trained and given uniforms. By the mid-19th century, they numbered between 1,000 and 6,000 women, about a third of the entire Dahomey army, according to reports written by visitors. These documented reports also indicated that the women soldiers suffered several defeats.\n\nThe women soldiers were said to be structured in parallel with the army as a whole, with a center wing (the king's bodyguards) flanked on both sides, each under separate commanders. Some accounts note that each male soldier had a female warrior counterpart. In an 1849/50 account by an Englishman, it was documented that the women that had three stripes of whitewash around each leg, were honored with marks of distinction.\n\nThe women's army consisted of a number of regiments: huntresses, riflewomen, reapers, archers, and gunners. Each regiment had different uniforms, weapons and commanders.\n\nIn the latter period, the Dahomean female warriors were armed with Winchester rifles, clubs and knives. Units were under female command. A 1851 published translation of a war chant of the women claims the warriors would chant, \"a[s] the blacksmith takes an iron bar and by fire changes its fashion so have we changed our nature. We are no longer women, we are men.\" \n\nThe Dahomey kingdom was often at war with its neighbors, and captives were needed for the slave trade. The Dahomey women soldiers fought in slave raids, as referenced in the Zora Neale Hurston non-fiction work , and in the unsuccessful wars against Abeokuta.\n\nEuropean encroachment into West Africa gained pace during the latter half of the 19th century, and in 1890 King Béhanzin started fighting French forces in the course of the First Franco-Dahomean War. European observers noted that they \"handled admirably\" in hand to hand combat, but that they did not know how to use their flintlocks. The Amazons participated in one major battle: Cotonou, where thousands of Dahoney (including many Amazons) charged the French lines and engaged the defenders in hand-to-hand combat. Despite the compliments given to them by the Europeans, the Amazons were decisively crushed, with several hundred Dahomey troops being gunned down while 129 Dahomey were killed in melee combat within the French lines. The French lost 5 men killed and a few dozen wounded. \n\nAccording to Holmes, many of the French soldiers fighting in Dahomey hesitated before shooting or bayoneting the Amazons. The resulting delay led to many of the French casualties. By the end of the Second Franco-Dahomean War, special units of the Amazons were being assigned specifically to target French officers. After several battles, the French prevailed in the Second Franco-Dahomean War and put an end to the independent Dahomean kingdom. The legionnaires were impressed by the boldness of the Amazons and later wrote about the \"incredible courage and audacity.\" Against a military unit with decidedly superior weaponry and a longer bayonet, however, the Dahomey Amazons could not prevail. During a battle with French soldiers at Adegon on October 6 during the second war, the bulk of the Amazon corps were wiped out in a matter of hours in hand-to-hand combat after the French engaged them with a bayonet charge. For the loss of 86 Regulars and 417 Amazons, the Dahomey only managed to kill 6 French troops in the melee.\n\nThe troops were disbanded when the kingdom became a French protectorate. Oral tradition states that some surviving amazons secretly remained in Abomey afterwards, where they quietly assassinated a number of French officers. Other stories say the women pledged their services in protection of Agoli-Agbo, the brother of Béhanzin, disguising themselves as his wives in order to guard him.\n\nSome of the women married and had children, while others remained single. According to a historian who traced the lives of almost two dozen ex-amazons, all the women displayed difficulties adjusting to life as retired warriors, often struggling to find new roles in their communities that gave them a sense of pride comparable to their former lives. Many displayed a tendency to start fights or arguments that frightened their neighbours and relatives.\n\nBetween 1934 and 1942, several British travelers in Abomey recorded encounters with ex-amazons, now old women who spun cotton or idled around courtyards. The last survivor of the Dahomey Amazons is thought to have been a woman named Nawi. In a 1978 interview with a Beninese historian, Nawi claimed to have fought the French in 1892. Nawi died in November 1979, aged well over 100.\n\nDahomey Amazons were represented in the 1987 film \"Cobra Verde\" by German director Werner Herzog. Ghezo's Amazons play a significant role in the novel \"Flash for Freedom!\" by George MacDonald Fraser.\n\nThe unit is also depicted in (a special edition of, and now DLC of) PC game \"\". In the African Kingdoms expansion to \"Age of Empires II\", Gbeto are the Malian unique unit. In either game, the Dahomey/Gbeto are the only female military units.\n\nA segment of \"QI\" Series 7 Episode 7 discussed Dahomey Amazons and showed a photo.\n\nReferenced in Stieg Larsson's novel \"The Girl Who Kicked the Hornets' Nest\" in the prelude to Part 4 \"Rebooting System\".\n\nThe warriors are also mentioned in Patrick O'Brian's novel \"The Commodore\", book 17 of the Aubrey-Maturin series.\n\nThe main character of Charles R. Saunders fantasy novel \"Dossouye\", an ahosi of Abomey, is closely modelled on the Dahomey ahosi.\n\nP. C. Wren's 1917 book of short stories \"Stepsons of France\" contains a story called \"Here are Ladies\", describing a series of clashes between troops of the Foreign Legion and the Dahomey Amazons.\n\nThe warriors are also the main focus and written about in Layon Gray's stage play \"Black Sparta\".\n\nThe Dora Milaje, army/bodyguards to the \"Black Panther\", are based partially off the Dahomey Amazons.\n\nIn Zora Neale Hurston’s \"\", 86 year old Cudjo Lewis, the last known survivor of the slaver Clotilda, describes his own capture by Dahomey Amazons when he was 19 years old.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "766049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=766049", "title": "Dramatic structure", "text": "Dramatic structure\n\nDramatic structure is the structure of a dramatic work such as a play or film. Many scholars have analyzed dramatic structure, beginning with Aristotle in his \"Poetics\" (c. 335 BCE). This article looks at Aristotle's analysis of the Greek tragedy and on Gustav Freytag's analysis of ancient Greek and Shakespearean drama.\n\nIn his \"Poetics\", the Greek philosopher Aristotle put forth the idea the play should imitate a single whole action. \"A whole is what has a beginning and middle and end\" (1450b27). He split the play into two parts: complication and unravelling.\n\nThe Roman drama critic Horace advocated a 5-act structure in his Ars Poetica: \"Neue minor neu sit quinto productior actu fabula\" (lines 189–190) (\"A play should not be shorter or longer than five acts\").\n\nThe fourth-century Roman grammarian Aelius Donatus defined the play as a three part structure, the protasis, epitasis, and catastrophe).\n\nIn 1863, around the time that playwrights like Henrik Ibsen were abandoning the 5-act structure and experimenting with 3 and 4-act plays, the German playwright and novelist Gustav Freytag wrote \"Die Technik des Dramas\", a definitive study of the 5-act dramatic structure, in which he laid out what has come to be known as Freytag's pyramid. Under Freytag's pyramid, the plot of a story consists of five parts: exposition (originally called introduction), rising action (rise), climax, falling action (return or fall), and dénouement/<wbr>resolution/<wbr>revelation/<wbr>catastrophe.\n\nMany structural principles still in use by modern storytellers were explained by Aristotle in his \"Poetics\". In the part that we still have, he mostly analyzed the tragedy. A part analyzing the comedy is believed to have existed but is now lost.\n\nAristotle stated that the tragedy should imitate a whole action, which means that the events follow each other by probability or necessity, and that the causal chain has a beginning and an end. There is a knot, a central problem that the protagonist must face. The play has two parts: complication and unravelling. During complication, the protagonist finds trouble as the knot is revealed or tied; during unraveling, the knot is resolved.\n\nTwo types of scenes are of special interest: the reversal, which throws the action in a new direction, and the recognition, meaning the protagonist has an important revelation. Reversals should happen as a necessary and probable cause of what happened before, which implies that turning points needs to be properly set up.\n\nComplications should arise from a flaw in the protagonist. In the tragedy, this flaw will be his undoing.\n\nAccording to Freytag, a drama is divided into five parts, or acts, which some refer to as a : exposition, rising action, climax, falling action, and dénouement. Freytag's Pyramid can help writers organize their thoughts and ideas when describing the main problem of the drama, the rising action, the climax and the falling action.\n\nAlthough Freytag's analysis of dramatic structure is based on five-act plays, it can be applied (sometimes in a modified manner) to short stories and novels as well, making dramatic structure a literary element. Nonetheless, the pyramid is not always easy to use, especially in modern plays such as Alfred Uhry's \"Driving Miss Daisy\" and Arthur Miller's \"The Crucible\", which is actually divided into 25 scenes without concrete acts.\n\nThe exposition is the portion of a story that introduces important background information to the audience; for example, information about the setting, events occurring before the main plot, characters' back stories, etc. Exposition can be conveyed through dialogues, flashbacks, characters' thoughts, background details, in-universe media, or the narrator telling a back-story.\n\nIn the rising action, a series of events build toward the point of greatest interest. The rising action of a story is the series of events that begin immediately after the exposition (introduction) of the story and builds up to the climax. These events are generally the most important parts of the story since the entire plot depends on them to set up the climax and ultimately the satisfactory resolution of the story itself.\n\nThe climax is the turning point, which changes the protagonist's fate. If the story is a comedy and things were going badly for the protagonist, the plot will begin to unfold in his or her favor, often requiring the protagonist to draw on hidden inner strengths. If the story is a tragedy, the opposite state of affairs will ensue, with things going from good to bad for the protagonist, often revealing the protagonist's hidden weaknesses.\n\nDuring the falling action, the conflict between the protagonist and the antagonist unravels, with the protagonist winning or losing against the antagonist. The falling action may contain a moment of final suspense, in which the final outcome of the conflict is in doubt.\n\nThe dénouement (, ; ) comprises events from the end of the falling action to the actual ending scene of the drama or narrative. Conflicts are resolved, creating normality for the characters and a sense of catharsis, or release of tension and anxiety, for the reader. Etymologically, the French word \"dénouement\" is derived from the word \"dénouer\", \"to untie\", from \"nodus\", Latin for \"knot.\" It is the unraveling or untying of the complexities of a plot.\n\nThe comedy ends with a \"dénouement\" (a conclusion), in which the protagonist is better off than at the story's outset. The tragedy ends with a catastrophe, in which the protagonist is worse off than at the beginning of the narrative. Exemplary of a comic \"dénouement\" is the final scene of Shakespeare’s comedy \"As You Like It\", in which couples marry, an evildoer repents, two disguised characters are revealed for all to see, and a ruler is restored to power. In Shakespeare's tragedies, the \"dénouement\" is usually the death of one or more characters.\n\nFreytag's analysis was intended to apply to ancient Greek and Shakespearean drama, not modern.\n\nContemporary dramas increasingly use the fall to increase the relative height of the climax and dramatic impact (melodrama). The protagonist reaches up but falls and succumbs to doubts, fears, and limitations. The negative climax occurs when the protagonist has an epiphany and encounters the greatest fear possible or loses something important, giving the protagonist the courage to take on another obstacle. This confrontation becomes the classic climax.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1007362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1007362", "title": "Enculturation", "text": "Enculturation\n\nEnculturation is the process by which people learn the dynamics of their surrounding culture and acquire values and norms appropriate or necessary in that culture and worldviews. As part of this process, the influences that limit, direct, or shape the individual (whether deliberately or not) include parents, other adults, and peers. If successful, enculturation results in competence in the language, values, and rituals of the culture.\n\nEnculturation is related to socialization. In some academic fields, socialization refers to the deliberate shaping of the individual. In others, the word may cover both deliberate and informal enculturation.\n\nConrad Phillip Kottak (in \"Window on Humanity\") writes:\n\n\"Enculturation\" is sometimes referred to as \"acculturation\", a word recently used to more distinctively refer only to exchanges of cultural features with foreign cultures. Note that this is a recent development, as \"acculturation\" in some literatures has the same meaning as \"enculturation\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18984969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18984969", "title": "Encyclopedia of India", "text": "Encyclopedia of India\n\nThe Encyclopedia of India is a four-volume encyclopedia on Indian history and culture under editor-in-chief Stanley Wolpert. The series was published by Gale (Cengage) in November 2005 under .\n\nThe \"Library Journal\" has described Wolpert's work as \"outstanding\" \n\n"}
{"id": "2444015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2444015", "title": "Encyclopedia of White Power", "text": "Encyclopedia of White Power\n\nEncyclopedia of White Power: A Sourcebook on the Radical Racist Right is a reference book edited by Jeffrey Kaplan. It focuses on the White Power movement, mainly United States groups and individuals (with a few Norwegian and Swedish groups and individuals also included).\n\nIn addition to contributions by academics, it includes entries by far-right-wing people, as well as a section of primary sources. Kaplan's criteria for inclusion was that \"the movements and individuals should be (i) strongly racialist, (ii) revolutionary, and (iii) have a strong religious streak.\" He approached contributors with the requirement that the authors \"write an entry that would 'neither demonize nor proselytize, but would leave an accurate and unbiased historical record.'\" It contains analysis of the organizations and philosophies in the white power movement and the inter-relationships that exist between the movement's leaders and groups. It was published by Altamira Press, a division of Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, Inc., as a 585-page hardcover in 2000 ().\n\n"}
{"id": "181117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181117", "title": "Epistle", "text": "Epistle\n\nAn epistle (; , \"epistolē,\" \"letter\") is a writing directed or sent to a person or group of people, usually an elegant and formal didactic letter. The epistle genre of letter-writing was common in ancient Egypt as part of the scribal-school writing curriculum. The letters in the New Testament from Apostles to Christians are usually referred to as epistles. Those traditionally attributed to Paul are known as Pauline epistles and the others as catholic (i.e., \"general\") epistles.\n\nThe ancient Egyptians wrote epistles, most often for pedagogical reasons. Egyptologist Edward Wente (1990) speculates that the Fifth-dynasty Pharaoh Djedkare Isesi—in his many letters sent to his viziers—was a pioneer in the epistolary genre. Its existence is firmly attested during the Sixth Dynasty of the Old Kingdom, and is prominently featured in the educational guide \"The Book of Kemit\" written during the Eleventh Dynasty. A standardized formulae for epistolary compositions existed by the time of the Middle Kingdom of Egypt. The epistolary formulae used in the Ramesside Period found its roots in the letters composed during the Amarna Period of the Twentieth Dynasty. Wente describes the \"Satirical Letter\" found on the Papyrus Anastasi I of the Nineteenth Dynasty as an epistle which was commonly copied as a writing exercise by Egyptian schoolchildren on ceramic ostraca (over eighty examples of which have been found so far by archaeologists). Epistle letters were also written to the dead, and, by the Ramesside Period, to the gods; the latter became even more widespread during the eras of Persian and Greek domination.\n\nEpistles in prose and verse were a major genre of literature among the Greeks and particularly the Romans. The letters of Cicero are one of the most important sources on the history of the late Roman Republic and preserve features of colloquial Latin not always in evidence in his speeches and treatises. The letters of Pliny the Younger likewise are studied as both examples of Latin prose with self-conscious literary qualities and sources for historical information. Ovid produced three collections of verse epistles, composed in elegiac couplets: the \"Heroides\", letters written in the person of legendary women to their absent lovers; and the \"Tristia\" and \"Ex Ponto\", written in first person during the poet's exile. The epistles of Seneca, with their moral or philosophical ruminations, influenced later patristic writers.\n\nEpistles are written in strict accordance to formalized, Hellenistic tradition, especially the Pauline epistles. This reflects the amount of Hellenistic influence upon the epistle writers. Any deviancy is not the result of accident but indicates an unusual motive of the writer.\n\nIn contrast to modern letters, epistles usually named the author at the very beginning, followed by the recipient (for example, see Philippians 1:1). The scribe (or more correctly, the amanuensis) who wrote down the letter may be named at the end of the \"episte\" (e.g., Romans 16:22). In the absence of a postal system, the courier may also be named (e.g. Ephesians 6:21–22).\n\nAfter the names of the author and recipient, Pauline epistles often open with the greeting, \"Grace and peace to you.\" \"Grace\" was a common Hellenistic greeting, while \"peace\" (shalom) was the common Jewish greeting; this reflected Paul's dual identity in Jewish faith and Hellenistic culture. There may also be a word of thanks to the audience. In secular letters, a prayer or wish for health followed.\n\nThe body begins with a brief statement introducing the main topic of the entire body.\n\nThe epistles of the New Testament canon are usually divided as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\nThese are letters written by some very early Christian leaders, in the 1st or 2nd century, which are not part of the New Testament. They are generally considered to form part of the basis of Christian tradition. The ennobling word \"epistle\" is used partly because these were all written in Greek, in a time period close to when the epistles of the New Testament were written, and thus \"epistle\" lends additional weight of authority.\n\n\nIn the context of a liturgy, epistle may refer more specifically to a particular passage from a New Testament epistle (the Pauline epistles and the General epistles)—sometimes also from the Book of Acts or the Revelation of John, but not the Four Gospels—that is scheduled to be read on a certain day or at a certain occasion.\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Mass and Anglican Eucharist, epistles are read between the Collect and the Gospel reading. The corresponding Gregorian chants have a special tone (\"tonus epistolae\"). When the epistle is sung or chanted at Solemn Mass it is done so by the subdeacon. Epistles are also read by an Elder or Bishop in the Lutheran Divine Service, between the gradual and the Gospel.\n\nIn the Divine Liturgy of the Eastern Orthodox Church and the Byzantine Rite Catholics the Epistle reading is called the \"Apostol\" (the same name is given to the lectionary from which it is read). The Apostol includes the Acts of the Apostles as well as the Epistles, but never the Apocalypse (Revelation of John). Unlike the Latin Rite there are never readings from the Old Testament. There are Epistle lessons for every day of the year, except for weekdays during Great Lent, when the Divine Liturgy is not celebrated. These daily Epistle readings are a part of the Paschal cycle, being ultimately dependent upon the date of Pascha (Easter). There are also lessons appointed for the feast days of numerous saints and commemorations. There may be one, two, or three readings from the Apostol during a single Liturgy. The Epistle is read between the Prokeimenon and the Alleluia. The Epistle reading is always linked to a reading from the Gospel, though some services, such as Matins, will have a Gospel lesson, but no Epistle. A number of services besides the Divine Liturgy will have an Epistle and Gospel reading. Such services often include a Prokeimenon and Alleluia as well. The Epistle is chanted by the reader, though at a Hierarchical Liturgy (a Divine Liturgy celebrated by a bishop), it is read by a deacon. The one who chants the Epistle also reads the verses of the Prokeimenon.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, the art of letter writing was taught in numerous manuals, and the ars dictaminis became an important genre of instructional discourse. The necessity for letter writing was in large part due to the general deterioration of civil life and the decay of the Roman road system in the early Middle Ages, factors that obliged literate people with business to transact to send letters instead of travel themselves. A vast number of letters and letter-writing manuals were written in the period's \"lingua franca\", Latin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "263257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=263257", "title": "First language", "text": "First language\n\nA first language, native language, or mother/father/parent tongue (also known as arterial language or L1) is a language that a person has been exposed to from birth or within the critical period. In some countries, the term \"native language\" or \"mother tongue\" refers to the language of one's ethnic group rather than one's first language. Children brought up speaking more than one language can have more than one native language, and be bilingual or multilingual. By contrast, a \"second language\" is any language that one speaks other than one's first language.\n\nOne of the more widely accepted definitions of native speakers is that they were born in a particular country raised to speak the language of that country during the critical period of their development. The person qualifies as a \"native speaker\" of a language by being born and immersed in the language during youth, in a family in which the adults shared a similar language experience as the child. Native speakers are considered to be an authority on their given language because of their natural acquisition process regarding the language, as opposed to having learned the language later in life. That is achieved by personal interaction with the language and speakers of the language. Native speakers will not necessarily be knowledgeable about every grammatical rule of the language, but they will have good \"intuition\" of the rules through their experience with the language.\n\nSometimes, the term \"mother tongue\" or \"mother language\" is used for the language that a person learned as a child at home (usually from their parents). Children growing up in bilingual homes can, according to this definition, have more than one mother tongue or native language.\n\nIn the context of population censuses conducted on the Canadian population, Statistics Canada defines \"mother tongue\" as \"the first language learned at home in childhood and still understood by the individual at the time of the census.\"\nIt is quite possible that the first language learned is no longer a speaker's dominant language. That includes young immigrant children whose families have moved to a new linguistic environment as well as people who learned their mother tongue as a young child at home (rather than the language of the majority of the community), who may have lost, in part or in totality, the language they first acquired (see language attrition).\n\nAccording to Ivan Illich, the term \"mother tongue\" was first used by Catholic monks to designate a particular language they used, instead of Latin, when they are \"speaking from the pulpit\". That is, the \"holy mother the Church\" introduced this term and colonies inherited it from Christianity as a part of colonialism.\n\nIn some countries, such as Kenya, India, and various East Asian countries, \"mother language\" or \"native language\" is used to indicate the language of one's ethnic group in both common and journalistic parlance (\"I have no apologies for not learning my mother tongue\"), rather than one's first language. Also, in Singapore, \"mother tongue\" refers to the language of one's ethnic group regardless of actual proficiency, and the \"first language\" refers to English, which was established on the island under the British Empire, which is the lingua franca for most post-independence Singaporeans because of its use as the language of instruction in government schools and as a working language.\n\nJ. R. R. Tolkien, in his 1955 lecture \"English and Welsh,\" distinguishes the \"native tongue\" from the \"cradle tongue.\" The latter is the language one happens to learn during early childhood, and one's true \"native tongue\" may be different, possibly determined by an inherited linguistic taste and may later in life be discovered by a strong emotional affinity to a specific dialect (Tolkien personally confessed to such an affinity to the Middle English of the West Midlands in particular).\n\nOn 17 November 1999, UNESCO designated 21 February as International Mother Language Day.\n\nThe first language of a child is part of the personal, social and cultural identity. Another impact of the first language is that it brings about the reflection and learning of successful social patterns of acting and speaking. It is basically responsible for differentiating the linguistic competence of acting. While some argue that there is no such thing as \"native speaker\" or a \"mother tongue,\" it is important to understand the key terms as well as understand what it means to be a \"non-native\" speaker and the implications that can have on one's life. Research suggest that while a non-native speaker may develop fluency in a targeted language after about two years of immersion, it can actually take between five and seven years for that child to be on the same working level as their native speaking counterparts. That has implications on the education of non-native speakers.\n\nThe topic of native speaker also gives way to discussion about what exactly bilingualism is. One definition is that a person is bilingual by being equally proficient in both languages. A person who grows up speaking English and begins learning Spanish for four years is not necessarily bilingual unless they speak the two languages with equal fluency. Pearl and Lambert were the first to test only “balanced” bilinguals—that is, a child who is completely fluent in two languages and feel that neither is their “native” language because they grasp the two so perfectly. This study found the following: balanced bilinguals perform significantly better in tasks that require flexibility (they constantly shift between the two known languages depending on the situation/requires constant juggling), more aware of arbitrary nature of language and also that balanced bilinguals choose word associations based on logical rather than phonetic preferences.\n\nOne can have two or more native languages, thus being a native \"bilingual\" or indeed \"multilingual\". The order in which these languages are learned is not necessarily the order of proficiency. For instance, if a French-speaking couple have a child who learned French first but then the child grew up in an English-speaking country, the child would likely be most proficient in English. Other examples are in India, Indonesia, the Philippines, Kenya, Malaysia, Singapore, and South Africa, where most people speak more than one language.\n\nThe designation \"native language,\" in its general usage, is thought to be imprecise and subject to various interpretations that are biased linguistically, especially with respect to bilingual children from ethnic minority groups. Many scholars have given definitions of 'native language' based on common usage, the emotional relation of the speaker towards the language, and even its dominance in relation to the environment. However, all of three criteria lack precision. For many children whose home language differs from the language of the environment (the 'official' language), it is debatable which language is one's 'native language'. \n\n\nThe article titled “The Native Speaker: An Achievable Model?” published by the Asian EFL Journal states that there are six general principles that relate to the definition of \"native speaker\". The principles, according to the study, are typically accepted by language experts across the scientific field. A native speaker is defined according to the guidelines as this:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42788403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42788403", "title": "Folklore and Ethnography Collection", "text": "Folklore and Ethnography Collection\n\nThe Folklore and Ethnography Collection (, \"Sbornik za narodni umotvoreniia i narodopis\") is \na serial publication covering various aspects of Bulgarian folklore and cultural anthropology. It has been published in Sofia since 1889; Volume 63 appeared in 2007, and Volume 64 appeared in 2012.\n\nThe title of this serial is commonly abbreviated as SbNU (СбНУ). It is fairly difficult to translate precisely, as the words \"народни умотворения\" literally means \"creations of the folk mind\". The title has been translated into English in various ways, including \"Collection of folklore and folk studies\", \"Collection of works of the popular spirit\", etc.\n\nThis is a publication in which a great amount of Bulgarian (including from Macedonia, Bessarabia etc.) folk songs, tales, etc. have been first published.\n\nThe Folklore and Ethnography Collection should be distinguished from another publication with a fairly similar name, the \"Bulgarian Folklore Collection\"(, \"Sbornik ot bâlgarski narodni umotvoreniia\"). Edited by Kuzman Shapkarev, that collection, in several volumes, appeared in 1891.\n\n"}
{"id": "1694883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1694883", "title": "Goldfish swallowing", "text": "Goldfish swallowing\n\nThe act of swallowing live goldfish was an American school trend popularized in the late 1930s. \n\nAlthough it is not clear how the fad emerged, various people have made claims. A 1963 letter to the \"New York Times\" claimed that it was started by a man named Lothrop Withington Jr., who was a freshman at Harvard University and supposedly did so as part of a bid to become class president. The stunt started a competition between multiple universities such as Penn State, MIT, and Harvard in an attempt to surpass one another. Women also took part in the trend, as in April 1939 Marie Hensen from the University of Missouri was recorded as the first woman to swallow a goldfish. \n\nAlthough once widely practiced, the stunt is rare today, but has made appearances in recent entertainment. In 2000, \"Jackass\" star Steve-O swallowed a live goldfish, only to vomit it moments later.\n\nAnother possibility in the origins of goldfish swallowing comes from Chicago bartenders, most notably Matt Schulien (who performed magic while tending bar at his family's restaurant), who would cut up carrots to look like goldfish tails. When performing the stunt, bartenders would reach into a bowl of goldfish kept behind the bar while palming the carrot piece, placing that in between their pursed lips, using their tongues to lever it up and down to mimic the actions of a live fish, finally swallowing the carrot piece. The trick dates back to the 1920s, and some people believe that the fad could have been started by college students fooled by the trick.\n\nAccording to the National Museum of American History, goldfish swallowing was such a craze at universities during the early 20th century that it made appearances in several news publications, including the \"New York Times\" and the \"Washington Post\". \n\nThe stunt became so popular that Massachusetts State Senator George Krapf filed a bill to \"preserve the fish from cruel and wanton consumption.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15474", "title": "Infanticide", "text": "Infanticide\n\nInfanticide (or infant homicide) is the intentional killing of infants.\n\nParental infanticide researchers have found that mothers are far more likely than fathers to be the perpetrators of neonaticide and slightly more likely to commit infanticide in general.\n\nAnthropologist Laila Williamson notes that \"Infanticide has been practiced on every continent and by people on every level of cultural complexity, from hunter gatherers to high civilizations, including our own ancestors. Rather than being an exception, then, it has been the rule.\"\n\nIn many past societies, certain forms of infanticide were considered permissible. \n\nThe practice of infanticide has taken many forms over time. Child sacrifice to supernatural figures or forces, such as that believed to have been practiced in ancient Carthage, may be only the most notorious example in the ancient world. \n\nA frequent method of infanticide in ancient Europe and Asia was simply to abandon the infant, leaving it to die by exposure (i.e. hypothermia, hunger, thirst, or animal attack).\n\nIn at least one island in Oceania, infanticide was carried out until the 20th century by suffocating the infant, while in pre-Columbian Mesoamerica and in the Inca Empire it was carried out by sacrifice (see below).\n\nMany Neolithic groups routinely resorted to infanticide in order to control their numbers so that their lands could support them. Joseph Birdsell believed that infanticide rates in prehistoric times were between 15% and 50% of the total number of births, while Laila Williamson estimated a lower rate ranging from 15% to 20%. Both anthropologists believed that these high rates of infanticide persisted until the development of agriculture during the Neolithic Revolution. Comparative anthropologists have calculated that 50% of female newborn babies were killed by their parents during the Paleolithic era. From the infants hominid skulls (e.g. Taung child skull) that had been traumatized, has been proposed cannibalism by Raymond A. Dart. The children were not necessarily actively killed, but neglect and intentional malnourishment may also have occurred, as proposed by Vicente Lull as an explanation for an apparent surplus of men and the below average height of women in prehistoric Menorca.\n\nArchaeologists have uncovered physical evidence of child sacrifice at several locations. Some of the best attested examples are the diverse rites which were part of the religious practices in Mesoamerica and the Inca Empire.\n\nThree thousand bones of young children, with evidence of sacrificial rituals, have been found in Sardinia. Pelasgians offered a sacrifice of every tenth child during difficult times. Syrians sacrificed children to Jupiter and Juno. Many remains of children have been found in Gezer excavations with signs of sacrifice. Child skeletons with the marks of sacrifice have been found also in Egypt dating 950–720 BCE. In Carthage \"[child] sacrifice in the ancient world reached its infamous zenith\". Besides the Carthaginians, other Phoenicians, and the Canaanites, Moabites and Sepharvites offered their first-born as a sacrifice to their gods.\n\nIn Egyptian households, at all social levels, children of both sexes were valued and there is no evidence of infanticide. The religion of the Ancient Egyptians forbade infanticide and during the Greco-Roman period they rescued abandoned babies from manure heaps, a common method of infanticide by Greeks or Romans, and were allowed to either adopt them as foundlings or raise them as slaves, often giving them names such as \"copro -\" to memorialise their rescue. Strabo considered it a peculiarity of the Egyptians that every child must be reared. Diodorus indicates infanticide was a punishable offence. Egypt was heavily dependent on the annual flooding of the Nile to irrigate the land and in years of low inundation severe famine could occur with breakdowns in social order resulting, notably between 930–1070 AD and 1180–1350 AD. Instances of cannibalism are recorded during these periods but it is unknown if this happened during the pharaonic era of Ancient Egypt. Beatrix Midant-Reynes describes human sacrifice as having occurred at Abydos in the early dynastic period (c. 3150–2850 BCE), while Jan Assmann asserts there is no clear evidence of human sacrifice ever happening in Ancient Egypt.\n\nAccording to Shelby Brown, Carthaginians, descendants of the Phoenicians, sacrificed infants to their gods. Charred bones of hundreds of infants have been found in Carthaginian archaeological sites. One such area harbored as many as 20,000 burial urns. Skeptics suggest that the bodies of children found in Carthaginian and Phoenician cemeteries were merely the cremated remains of children that died naturally.\n\nPlutarch (c. 46–120 AD) mentions the practice, as do Tertullian, Orosius, Diodorus Siculus and Philo. The Hebrew Bible also mentions what appears to be child sacrifice practiced at a place called the Tophet (from the Hebrew \"taph\" or \"toph\", to burn) by the Canaanites. Writing in the 3rd century BCE, Kleitarchos, one of the historians of Alexander the Great, described that the infants rolled into the flaming pit. Diodorus Siculus wrote that babies were roasted to death inside the burning pit of the god Baal Hamon, a bronze statue.\n\nThe historical Greeks considered the practice of adult and child sacrifice barbarous, however, the exposure of newborns was widely practiced in ancient Greece, it was even advocated by Aristotle in the case of congenital deformity — \"As to the exposure of children, let there be a law that no deformed child shall live.” In Greece the decision to expose a child was typically the father's, although in Sparta the decision was made by a group of elders. Exposure was the preferred method of disposal, as that act in itself was not considered to be murder; moreover, the exposed child technically had a chance of being rescued by the gods or any passersby. This very situation was a recurring motif in Greek mythology.\nTo notify the neighbors of a birth of a child, a woolen strip was hung over the front door to indicate a female baby and an olive branch to indicate a boy had been born. Families did not always keep their new child. After a woman had a baby, she would show it to her husband. If the husband accepted it, it would live, but if he refused it, it would die. Babies would often be rejected if they were illegitimate, unhealthy or deformed, the wrong sex, or too great a burden on the family. These babies would not be directly killed, but put in a clay pot or jar and deserted outside the front door or on the roadway. In ancient Greek religion, this practice took the responsibility away from the parents because the child would die of natural causes, for example hunger, asphyxiation or exposure to the elements.\n\nThe practice was prevalent in ancient Rome, as well. Philo was the first philosopher to speak out against it. A letter from a Roman citizen to his sister, or a pregnant wife from her husband, dating from 1 BC, demonstrates the casual nature with which infanticide was often viewed:\n\nIn some periods of Roman history it was traditional for a newborn to be brought to the \"pater familias\", the family patriarch, who would then decide whether the child was to be kept and raised, or left to die by exposure. The Twelve Tables of Roman law obliged him to put to death a child that was visibly deformed. The concurrent practices of slavery and infanticide contributed to the \"background noise\" of the crises during the Republic.\n\nInfanticide became a capital offense in Roman law in 374 AD, but offenders were rarely if ever prosecuted.\n\nAccording to mythology, Romulus and Remus, twin infant sons of the war god Mars, survived near-infanticide after being tossed into the Tiber River. According to the myth, they were raised by wolves, and later founded the city of Rome.\n\nJudaism prohibits infanticide, and has for some time, dating back to at least early Common Era. Roman historians wrote about the ideas and customs of other peoples, which often diverged from their own. Tacitus recorded that the Jews \"regard it as a crime to kill any late-born children\". Josephus, whose works give an important insight into 1st-century Judaism, wrote that God \"forbids women to cause abortion of what is begotten, or to destroy it afterward\".\n\nIn his book \"Germania\", Tacitus wrote that the ancient Germanic tribes enforced a similar prohibition. He found such mores remarkable and commented: \"[The Germani] hold it shameful to kill any unwanted child.\" Modern scholarship differs. John Boswell believed that in ancient Germanic tribes unwanted children were exposed, usually in the forest. \"It was the custom of the [Teutonic] pagans, that if they wanted to kill a son or daughter, they would be killed before they had been given any food.\" Usually children born out of wedlock were disposed that way.\n\nIn his highly influential \"Pre-historic Times\", John Lubbock described burnt bones indicating the practice of child sacrifice in pagan Britain.\n\nThe last canto, \"Marjatan poika\" (Son of Marjatta), of Finnish national epic Kalevala describes an assumed infanticide. Väinämöinen orders the infant bastard son of Marjatta to be drowned in marsh.\n\nThe Íslendingabók, a main source for the early history of Iceland, recounts that on the Conversion of Iceland to Christianity in 1000 it was provided – in order to make the transition more palatable to Pagans – that \"the old laws allowing exposure of newborn children will remain in force\".\nHowever, this provision – like other concessions made at the time to the Pagans – was abolished some years later.\n\nChristianity rejects infanticide. The \"Teachings of the Apostles\" or \"Didache\" said \"thou shalt not kill a child by abortion, neither shalt thou slay it when born\". The \"Epistle of Barnabas\" stated an identical command, both thus conflating abortion and infanticide. Apologists Tertullian, Athenagoras, Minucius Felix, Justin Martyr and Lactantius also maintained that exposing a baby to death was a wicked act. In 318 AD, Constantine I considered infanticide a crime, and in 374 AD, Valentinian I mandated the rearing of all children (exposing babies, especially girls, was still common). The Council of Constantinople declared that infanticide was homicide, and in 589 AD, the Third Council of Toledo took measures against the custom of killing their own children.\n\nWhereas theologians and clerics preached sparing their lives, newborn abandonment continued as registered in both the literature record and in legal documents. According to William L. Langer, exposure in the Middle Ages \"was practiced on gigantic scale with absolute impunity, noticed by writers with most frigid indifference\". At the end of the 12th century, notes Richard Trexler, Roman women threw their newborns into the Tiber river in daylight.\n\nHowever, it also conjectured that the notion of \"rampant\" infanticide is a myth pushed by modern historians inferring from lack of particular records, and \"there is absolutely no evidence to support such carnage.\"\n\nUnlike other European regions, in the Middle Ages the German mother had the right to expose the newborn. In Gotland, Sweden, children were also sacrificed.\n\nIn the High Middle Ages, abandoning unwanted children finally eclipsed infanticide. Unwanted children were left at the door of church or abbey, and the clergy was assumed to take care of their upbringing. This practice also gave rise to the first orphanages.\n\nHowever, very high sex ratios were common in even late medieval Europe, which may indicate sex-selective infanticide.\n\nSome Muslim sources allege that pre-Islamic Arabian society practiced infanticide as a form of \"post-partum birth control\". The word \"waʾd\" was used to describe the practice. These sources state that infanticide was practiced either out of destitution (thus practiced on males and females alike), or as \"disappointment and fear of social disgrace felt by a father upon the birth of a daughter\".\n\nSome authors believe that there is little evidence that infanticide was prevalent in pre-Islamic Arabia or early Muslim history, except for the case of the Tamim tribe, who practiced it during severe famine according to Islamic sources. Others state that \"female infanticide was common all over Arabia during this period of time\" (pre-Islamic Arabia), especially by burying alive a female newborn. A tablet discovered in Yemen, forbidding the people of a certain town from engaging in the practice, is the only written reference to infanticide within the peninsula in pre-Islamic times.\n\nInfanticide is explicitly prohibited by the Qur'an. \"And do not kill your children for fear of poverty; We give them sustenance and yourselves too; surely to kill them is a great wrong.\"\nTogether with polytheism and homicide, infanticide is regarded as a grave sin (see and ). Infanticide is also implicitly denounced in the story of Pharaoh's slaughter of the male children of Israelites (see ; ; ; ; ;).\n\nInfanticide may have been practiced as human sacrifice, as part of the pagan cult of Perun. Ibn Fadlan describes sacrificial practices at the time of his trip to Kiev Rus (present day Ukraine) in 921–922, and describes an incident of a woman voluntarily sacrificing her life as part of a funeral rite for a prominent leader, but makes no mention of infanticide. The Primary Chronicle, one of the most important literary sources before the 12th century, indicates that human sacrifice to idols may have been introduced by Vladimir the Great in 980. The same Vladimir the Great formally converted Kiev Rus into Christianity just 8 years later, but pagan cults continued to be practiced clandestinely in remote areas as late as the 13th century.\n\nIn Kamchatka, babies were killed and thrown to the dogs. American explorer George Kennan noted that among the Koryaks, a Mongoloid people of north-eastern Siberia, infanticide was still common in the nineteenth century. One of a pair of twins was always sacrificed.\n\nThe Svans killed newborn females by filling their mouths with hot ashes.\n\nInfanticide (as a crime) gained both popular and bureaucratic significance in Victorian Britain. By the mid 19th century, in the context of criminal lunacy and the insanity defence, killing one's own child(ren) attracted ferocious debate, as the role of women in society was defined by motherhood, and it was thought that any woman who murdered her own child was by definition insane and could not be held responsible for her actions. Several cases were subsequently highlighted during the Royal Commission on Capital Punishment (1864-66), as a particular felony where an effective avoidance of the death penalty had informally begun.\n\nThe New Poor Law Act of 1834 ended parish relief for unmarried mothers and allowed fathers of illegitimate children to avoid paying for \"child support\". Unmarried mothers then received little assistance and the poor were left with the option either entering the workhouse, prostitution, infanticide or abortion. By the middle of the century infanticide was common for social reasons, such as illegitimacy, and the introduction of child life insurance additionally encouraged some women to kill their children for gain. Examples are Mary Ann Cotton, who murdered many of her 15 children as well as 3 husbands, Margaret Waters, the 'Brixton Baby Farmer', a professional baby-farmer who was found guilty of infanticide in 1870, Jessie King hanged in 1889, Amelia Dyer, the 'Angel Maker', who murdered over 400 babies in her care, and Ada Chard-Williams, a baby farmer who was later hanged at Newgate prison.\n\nThe Times reported that 67 infants were murdered in London in 1861 and 150 more recorded as \"found dead\", many of which were found on the streets. Another 250 were suffocated, half of them not recorded as accidental deaths. The report noted that \"infancy in London has to creep into life in the midst of foes.\"\n\nRecording a birth as a still-birth was also another way of concealing infanticide because still-births did not need to be registered until 1926 and they did not need to be buried in public cemeteries. In 1895 the Sun (London) published an article \"Massacre of the Innocents\" highlighting the dangers of baby-farming, in the recording of stillbirths and quoting Braxton-Hicks, the London Coroner, on lying-in houses: \"I have not the slightest doubt that a large amount of crime is covered by the expression `still-birth’. There are a large number of cases of what are called newly-born children, which are found all over England, more especially in London and large towns, abandoned in streets, rivers, on commons, and so on.\" He continued \"a great deal of that crime is due to what are called lying-in houses, which are not registered, or under the supervision of that sort, where the people who act as midwives constantly, as soon as the child is born, either drop it into a pail of water or smother it with a damp cloth. It is a very common thing, also, to find that they bash their heads on the floor and break their skulls.\"\n\nThe last British woman to be executed for infanticide of her own child was Rebecca Smith, who was hanged in Wiltshire in 1849.\n\nThe Infant Life Protection Act of 1897 required local authorities to be notified within 48 hours of changes in custody or the death of children under seven years. Under the Children’s Act of 1908 \"no infant could be kept in a home that was so unfit and so overcrowded as to endanger its health, and no infant could be kept by an unfit nurse who threatened, by neglect or abuse, its proper care and maintenance.\"\n\nShort of execution, the harshest penalties were imposed on practitioners of infanticide by the legal codes of the Qin dynasty and Han dynasty of ancient China.\n\nMarco Polo, the explorer, saw newborns exposed in Manzi. China's society practiced sex selective infanticide. Philosopher Han Fei Tzu, a member of the ruling aristocracy of the 3rd century BC, who developed a school of law, wrote: \"As to children, a father and mother when they produce a boy congratulate one another, but when they produce a girl they put it to death.\" Among the Hakka people, and in Yunnan, Anhui, Sichuan, Jiangxi and Fujian a method of killing the baby was to put her into a bucket of cold water, which was called \"baby water\".\n\nInfanticide was known in China as early as the 3rd century BC, and, by the time of the Song dynasty (960–1279 AD), it was widespread in some provinces. Buddhist belief in transmigration allowed poor residents of the country to kill their newborn children if they felt unable to care for them, hoping that they would be reborn in better circumstances. Furthermore, some Chinese did not consider newborn children fully \"human\", and saw \"life\" beginning at some point after the sixth month after birth.\n\nContemporary writers from the Song dynasty note that, in Hubei and Fujian provinces, residents would only keep three sons and two daughters (among poor farmers, two sons and one daughter), and kill all babies beyond that number at birth. Initially the sex of the child was only one factor to consider. By the time of the Ming Dynasty, however (1368–1644), male infanticide was becoming increasingly uncommon. The prevalence of female infanticide remained high much longer. The magnitude of this practice is subject to some dispute; however, one commonly quoted estimate is that, by late Qing, between one fifth and one quarter of all newborn girls, across the entire social spectrum, were victims of infanticide. If one includes excess mortality among female children under 10 (ascribed to gender-differential neglect), the share of victims rises to one third.\n\nScottish Physician John Dudgeon, who worked in Beijing, China, during the Qing Dynasty said that in China, \"Infanticide does not prevail to the extent so generally believed among us, and in the north it does not exist at all.\"\nGender-selected abortion, abandonment, and infanticide are illegal in present-day China. Nevertheless, the US State Department, and the human rights organization Amnesty International have all declared that China's family planning programs, called the one child policy, contribute to infanticide. The sex gap between males and females aged 0–19 years old was estimated to be 25 million in 2010 by the United Nations Population Fund.\n\nSince feudal Japan the common slang for infanticide was \"mabiki\" (間引き) which means to pull plants from an overcrowded garden. A typical method in Japan was smothering through wet paper on the baby's mouth and nose. It became common as a method of population control. Farmers would often kill their second or third sons. Daughters were usually spared, as they could be married off, sold off as servants or prostitutes, or sent off to become geishas. Mabiki persisted in the 19th century and early 20th century. To bear twins was perceived as barbarous and unlucky and efforts were made to hide or kill one or both twins.\n\nFemale infanticide of newborn girls was systematic in feudatory Rajputs in South Asia for illegitimate female children during the Middle Ages. According to Firishta, as soon as the illegitimate female child was born she was held \"in one hand, and a knife in the other, that any person who wanted a wife might take her now, otherwise she was immediately put to death\". The practice of female infanticide was also common among the Kutch, Kehtri, Nagar, Bengal, Miazed, Kalowries in India inhabitants, and also among the Sindh in British India.\n\nIt was not uncommon that parents threw a child to the sharks in the Ganges River as a sacrificial offering. The British colonists were unable to outlaw the custom until the beginnings of the 19th century.\n\nAccording to social activists, female infanticide has remained a problem in India into the 21st century, with both NGOs and the government conducting awareness campaigns to combat it.\nIn India female infanticide is more common than the killing of male offspring, due to sex-selective infanticide. In China for example, the sex gap between males and females aged 0–19 years old was estimated to be 25 million in 2010 by the United Nations Population Fund.\n\nIn some African societies some neonates were killed because of beliefs in evil omens or because they were considered unlucky. Twins were usually put to death in Arebo; as well as by the Nama people of South West Africa; in the Lake Victoria Nyanza region; by the Tswana in Portuguese East Africa; in some parts of Igboland, Nigeria twins were sometimes abandoned in a forest at birth (as depicted in \"Things Fall Apart\"), oftentimes one twin was killed or hidden by midwives of wealthier mothers; and by the !Kung people of the Kalahari Desert. The Kikuyu, Kenya's most populous ethnic group, practiced ritual killing of twins.\n\nInfanticide is rooted in the old traditions and beliefs prevailing all over the country. A survey conducted by Disability Rights International found that 45% women interviewed by them in Kenya were pressured to kill their children born with disabilities. The pressure being much higher in the rural areas, with every second mother being forced out of three.\n\nLiterature suggests infanticide may have occurred reasonably commonly among Indigenous Australians, in all areas of Australia prior to European settlement. Infanticide may have continued to occur quite often up until the 1960s. An 1866 issue of \"The Australian News for Home Readers\" informed readers that \"the crime of infanticide is so prevalent amongst the natives that it is rare to see an infant\".\n\nAuthor Susanna de Vries in 2007 told a newspaper that her accounts of Aboriginal violence, including infanticide, were censored by publishers in the 1980s and 1990s. She told reporters that the censorship \"stemmed from guilt over the stolen children question\". Keith Windschuttle weighed in on the conversation, saying this type of censorship started in the 1970s. In the same article Louis Nowra suggested that infanticide in customary Aboriginal law may have been because it was difficult to keep an abundant number of Aboriginal children alive; there were life-and-death decisions modern-day Australians no longer have to face.\n\nAccording to William D. Rubinstein, \"Nineteenth-century European observers of Aboriginal life in South Australia and Victoria reported that about 30% of Aboriginal infants were killed at birth.\"\n\nJames Dawson wrote a passage about infanticide among Indigenous people in the western district of Victoria, which stated that \"Twins are as common among them as among Europeans; but as food is occasionally very scarce, and a large family troublesome to move about, it is lawful and customary to destroy the weakest twin child, irrespective of sex.\nIt is usual also to destroy those which are malformed.\"\n\nHe also wrote \"When a woman has children too rapidly for the convenience and necessities of the parents, she makes up her mind to let one be killed, and consults with her husband which it is to be. As the strength of a tribe depends more on males than females, the girls are generally sacrificed.\nThe child is put to death and buried, or burned without ceremony; not, however, by its father or mother, but by relatives. No one wears mourning for it.\nSickly children are never killed on account of their bad health, and are allowed to die naturally.\"\n\nIn 1937, a reverend in the Kimberley offered a \"baby bonus\" to Aboriginal families as a deterrent against infanticide and to increase the birthrate of the local Indigenous population.\n\nA Canberran journalist in 1927 wrote of the \"cheapness of life\" to the Aboriginal people local to the Canberra area 100 years before. \"If drought or bush fires had devastated the country and curtailed food supplies, babies got short shift. Ailing babies, too would not be kept\" he wrote.\n\nA bishop wrote in 1928 that it was common for Aboriginal Australians to restrict the size of their tribal groups, including by infanticide, so that the food resources of the tribal area may be sufficient for them.\n\nAnnette Hamilton, a professor of anthropology at Macquarie University who carried out research in the Aboriginal community of Maningrida in Arnhem Land during the 1960s wrote that prior to that time part-European babies born to Aboriginal mothers had not been allowed to live, and that 'mixed-unions are frowned on by men and women alike as a matter of principle'.\n\nThere is no agreement about the actual estimates of the frequency of newborn female infanticide in the Inuit population. Carmel Schrire mentions diverse studies ranging from 15–50% to 80%.\n\nPolar Inuit (Inughuit) killed the child by throwing him or her into the sea. There is even a legend in Inuit mythology, \"The Unwanted Child\", where a mother throws her child into the fjord.\n\nThe Yukon and the Mahlemuit tribes of Alaska exposed the female newborns by first stuffing their mouths with grass before leaving them to die. In Arctic Canada the Inuit exposed their babies on the ice and left them to die.\n\nFemale Inuit infanticide disappeared in the 1930s and 1940s after contact with the Western cultures from the South.\n\nThe \"Handbook of North American Indians\" reports infanticide among the Dene Natives and those of the Mackenzie Mountains.\n\nIn the Eastern Shoshone there was a scarcity of Indian women as a result of female infanticide. For the Maidu Native Americans twins were so dangerous that they not only killed them, but the mother as well. In the region known today as southern Texas, the Mariame Indians practiced infanticide of females on a large scale. Wives had to be obtained from neighboring groups.\n\nBernal Díaz recounted that, after landing on the Veracruz coast, they came across a temple dedicated to Tezcatlipoca. \"That day they had sacrificed two boys, cutting open their chests and offering their blood and hearts to that accursed idol\". In \"The Conquest of New Spain\" Díaz describes more child sacrifices in the towns before the Spaniards reached the large Aztec city Tenochtitlan.\n\nAlthough academic data of infanticides among the indigenous people in South America is not as abundant as that of North America, the estimates seem to be similar.\n\nThe Tapirapé indigenous people of Brazil allowed no more than three children per woman, and no more than two of the same sex. If the rule was broken infanticide was practiced. The Bororo killed all the newborns that did not appear healthy enough. Infanticide is also documented in the case of the Korubo people in the Amazon.\n\nThe Yanomami men killed children while raiding enemy villages. Helena Valero, a Brazilian woman kidnapped by Yanomami warriors in the 1930s, witnessed a Karawetari raid on her tribe:\n\nWhile \"qhapaq hucha\" was practiced in the Peruvian large cities, child sacrifice in the pre-Columbian tribes of the region is less documented. However, even today studies on the Aymara Indians reveal high incidences of mortality among the newborn, especially female deaths, suggesting infanticide. The Abipones, a small tribe of Guaycuruan stock, of about 5,000 by the end of the 18th century in Paraguay, practiced systematic infanticide; with never more than two children being reared in one family. The Machigenga killed their disabled children. Infanticide among the Chaco in Paraguay was estimated as high as 50% of all newborns in that tribe, who were usually buried. The infanticidal custom had such roots among the Ayoreo in Bolivia and Paraguay that it persisted until the late 20th century.\n\nInfanticide has become less common in the Western world. The frequency has been estimated to be 1 in approximately 3000 to 5000 children of all ages and 2.1 per 100,000 newborns per year. It is thought that infanticide today continues at a much higher rate in areas of extremely high poverty and overpopulation, such as parts of China and India. Female infants, then and even now, are particularly vulnerable, a factor in sex-selective infanticide. Recent estimates suggest that over 100 million girls and women are 'missing' in Asia.\n\nIn spite of the fact that it is illegal, in Benin, West Africa, parents secretly continue with infanticidal customs.\n\nAccording to \"The Hidden Gulag\" published by the Committee for Human Rights in North Korea, the People's Republic of China returns all illegal immigrants from North Korea which usually imprisons them in a short term facility. Women who are suspected of being impregnated by Chinese fathers are subjected to forced abortions; babies born alive are killed, sometimes by exposure or being buried alive.\n\nThere have been some accusations that infanticide occurs in the People's Republic of China due to the one-child policy. In the 1990s, a certain stretch of the Yangtze River was known to be a common site of infanticide by drowning, until government projects made access to it more difficult. Recent studies suggest that over 40 million girls and women are 'missing' in China (Klasen and Wink 2003).\n\nThe practice has continued in some rural areas of India. Infanticide is illegal in India.\n\nAccording to a recent report by the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) up to 50 million girls and women are missing in India's population as a result of systematic sex discrimination and sex selective abortions.\n\nKillings of newborn babies have been on the rise in Pakistan, corresponding to an increase in poverty across the country. More than 1,000 infants, mostly girls, were killed or abandoned to die in Pakistan in 2009 according to a Pakistani charity organization.\n\nThe Edhi Foundation found 1,210 dead babies in 2010. Many more are abandoned and left at the doorsteps of mosques. As a result, Edhi centers feature signs \"Do not murder, lay them here.\" Though female infanticide is punishable by life in prison, such crimes are rarely prosecuted.\n\nIn November 2008 it was reported that in Agibu and Amosa villages of Gimi region of Eastern Highlands province of Papua New Guinea where tribal fighting in the region of Gimi has been going on since 1986 (many of the clashes arising over claims of sorcery) women had agreed that if they stopped producing males, allowing only female babies to survive, their tribe's stock of boys would go down and there would be no men in the future to fight. They agreed to have all newborn male babies killed. It is not known how many male babies were killed by being smothered, but it had reportedly happened to all males over a 10-year period and probably was still happening.\n\nIn England and Wales there were typically 30 to 50 homicides per million children less than 1 year old between 1982 and 1996. The younger the infant, the higher the risk. The rate for children 1 to 5 years was around 10 per million children. The homicide rate of infants less than 1 year is significantly higher than for the general population. \n\nIn English law infanticide is established as a distinct offence by the Infanticide Acts. Defined as the killing of a child under 12 months of age by their mother, the effect of the Acts are to establish a partial defence to charges of murder.\n\nIn 1983, the United States ranked eleventh for infants under 1 year killed, and fourth for those killed from 1 through 14 years (the latter case not necessarily involving filicide). In the U.S. over six hundred children were killed by their parents in 1983.\n\nIn the United States the infanticide rate during the first hour of life outside the womb dropped from 1.41 per 100,000 during 1963 to 1972 to 0.44 per 100,000 for 1974 to 1983; the rates during the first month after birth also declined, whereas those for older infants rose during this time. The legalization of abortion, which was completed in 1973, was the most important factor in the decline in neonatal mortality during the period from 1964 to 1977, according to a study by economists associated with the National Bureau of Economic Research.\n\nIn Canada 114 cases of infanticide by a parent were reported during 1964–1968. There is ongoing debate in the Canadian legal and political fields about whether section 237 of the Criminal Code, which creates the specific offence and partial defence of infanticide in Canadian law, should be amended or abolished altogether.\n\nFrom 2013 to March 2018, 28 infanticides cases done by 22 mothers and three stepmothers were reported in Spain. The most famous case was the murder of Bernardo González Parra in 1910 perpetrated by Francisco Leona Romero, Julio Hernández Rodríguez, Francisco Ortega el Moruno and Agustina Rodríguez.\n\nIn a 2012 article in the \"Journal of Medical Ethics\", a philosopher and a bioethicist jointly proposed that infanticide be legalized, calling it \"after-birth abortion\", and claiming that both \"the fetus and the newborn are potential persons\". Many replies were published to this article.\n\nEuthanasia applied to children that are gravely ill or that suffer from significant birth defects is legal in the Netherlands under rigidly controlled conditions, but controversial. Some critics have compared child euthanasia to infanticide.\n\nThere are various reasons for infanticide. Neonaticide typically has different patterns and causes than for killing of older infants. Traditional neonaticide is often related to economic necessity - inability to provide for the infant.\n\nIn the United Kingdom and the United States, older infants are typically killed for reasons related to child abuse, domestic violence or mental illness. For infants older than one day, younger infants are more at risk, and boys are more at risk than girls. Risk factors for the parent include: Family history of violence, violence in current relationship, history of abuse or neglect of children, and personality disorder and/or depression.\n\nIn the late seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries, \"loopholes\" were invented by those who wanted to avoid the damnation that was promised by most Christian doctrine as a penalty of suicide. One famous example of someone who wished to end their life but avoid the eternity in hell was Christina Johansdotter (died 1740). She was a Swedish murderer who killed a child in Stockholm with the sole purpose of being executed. She is an example of those who seek suicide through execution by committing a murder. It was a common act, frequently targeting young children or infants as they were believed to be free from sin, thus going straight to heaven.\n\nIn 1888, Lieut. F. Elton reported that Ugi beach people in the Solomon Islands killed their infants at birth by burying them, and women were also said to practice abortion. They reported that it was too much trouble to raise a child, and instead preferred to buy one from the bush people.\n\nMany historians believe the reason to be primarily economic, with more children born than the family is prepared to support. In societies that are patrilineal and patrilocal, the family may choose to allow more sons to live and kill some daughters, as the former will support their birth family until they die, whereas the latter will leave economically and geographically to join their husband's family, possibly only after the payment of a burdensome dowry price. Thus the decision to bring up a boy is more economically rewarding to the parents. However, this does not explain why infanticide would occur equally among rich and poor, nor why it would be as frequent during decadent periods of the Roman Empire as during earlier, less affluent, periods.\n\nBefore the appearance of effective contraception, infanticide was a common occurrence in ancient brothels. Unlike usual infanticide - where historically girls have been more likely to be killed - prostitutes in certain areas preferred to kill their male offspring.\n\nInstances of infanticide in Britain in 18th and 19th centuries is often attributed to the economic position of the women, with juries committing “pious perjury” in many subsequent murder cases. The knowledge of the difficulties faced in the 18th century by those women who attempted to keep their children can be seen as reason for juries to show compassion. If the woman chose to keep the child, society was not set up to ease the pressure placed upon the woman, legally, socially or economically.\n\nIn mid-18th century Britain there was assistance available for women who were not able to raise their children. The Foundling Hospital opened in 1756 and was able to take in some of the illegitimate children. However, the conditions within the hospital caused Parliament to withdraw funding and the governors to live off of their own incomes. This resulted in a stringent entrance policy, with the committee requiring that the hospital:\n\nOnce a mother had admitted her child to the hospital, the hospital did all it could to ensure that the parent and child were not re-united.\n\nMacFarlane argues in \"Illegitimacy and Illegitimates in Britain\" (1980) that English society greatly concerned itself with the burden that a bastard child places upon its communities and had gone to some lengths to ensure that the father of the child is identified in order to maintain its well-being. Assistance could be gained through maintenance payments from the father, however, this was capped \"at a miserable 2 s and 6 d a week\". If the father fell behind with the payments he could only be asked \"to pay a maximum of 13 weeks arrears\".\n\nDespite the accusations of some that women were getting a free hand-out there is evidence that many women were far from receiving adequate assistance from their parish. \"Within Leeds in 1822 ... relief was limited to 1 s per week\". Sheffield required women to enter the workhouse, whereas Halifax gave no relief to the women who required it. The prospect of entering the workhouse was certainly something to be avoided. Lionel Rose quotes Dr Joseph Rogers in \"Massacre of the Innocents ...\" (1986). Rogers, who was employed by a London workhouse in 1856 stated that conditions in the nursery were ‘wretchedly damp and miserable ... [and] ... overcrowded with young mothers and their infants’.\n\nThe loss of social standing for a servant girl was a particular problem in respect of producing a bastard child as they relied upon a good character reference in order to maintain their job and more importantly, to get a new or better job. In a large number of trials for the crime of infanticide, it is the servant girl that stood accused. The disadvantage of being a servant girl is that they had to live to the social standards of their superiors or risk dismissal and no references. Whereas within other professions, such as in the factory, the relationship between employer and employee was much more anonymous and the mother would be better able to make other provisions, such as employing a minder. The result of the lack of basic social care in Britain in the 18th and 19th century is the numerous accounts in court records of women, particularly servant girls, standing trial for the murder of their child.\n\nThere may have been no specific offence of infanticide in England before about 1623 because infanticide was a matter for the by ecclesiastical courts, possibly because infant mortality from natural causes was high (about 15% or one in six).\n\nThereafter the accusation of the suppression of bastard children by lewd mothers was a crime incurring the presumption of guilt.\n\nThe Infanticide Acts are several laws. That of 1922 made the killing of an infant child by its mother during the early months of life as a lesser crime than murder. The acts of 1938 and 1939 abolished the earlier act, but introduced the idea that postpartum depression was legally to be regarded as a form of diminished responsibility.\n\nMarvin Harris estimated that among Paleolithic hunters 23–50% of newborn children were killed. He argued that the goal was to preserve the 0.001% population growth of that time. He also wrote that female infanticide may be a form of population control. Population control is achieved not only by limiting the number of potential mothers; increased fighting among men for access to relatively scarce wives would also lead to a decline in population. For example, on the Melanesian island of Tikopia infanticide was used to keep a stable population in line with its resource base. Research by Marvin Harris and William Divale supports this argument, it has been cited as an example of environmental determinism.\n\nEvolutionary psychology has proposed several theories for different forms of infanticide. Infanticide by stepfathers, as well as child abuse in general by stepfathers, has been explained by spending resources on not genetically related children reducing reproductive success (See the Cinderella effect and Infanticide (zoology)). Infanticide is one of the few forms of violence more often done by women than men. Cross-cultural research has found that this is more likely to occur when the child has deformities or illnesses as well as when there are lacking resources due to factors such as poverty, other children requiring resources, and no male support. Such a child may have a low chance of reproductive success in which case it would decrease the mother's inclusive fitness, in particular since women generally have a greater parental investment than men, to spend resources on the child.\n\nA minority of academics subscribe to an alternate school of thought, considering the practice as \"early infanticidal childrearing\". They attribute parental infanticidal wishes to massive projection or displacement of the parents' unconscious onto the child, because of intergenerational, ancestral abuse by their own parents. Clearly, an infanticidal parent may have multiple motivations, conflicts, emotions, and thoughts about their baby and their relationship with their baby, which are often colored both by their individual psychology, current relational context and attachment history, and, perhaps most saliently, their psychopathology (See also Psychiatric section below) Almeida, Merminod, and Schechter suggest that parents with fantasies, projections, and delusions involving infanticide need to be taken seriously and assessed carefully, whenever possible, by an interdisciplinary team that includes infant mental health specialists or mental health practitioners who have experience in working with parents, children, and families.\n\nIn addition to debates over the morality of infanticide itself, there is some debate over the effects of infanticide on surviving children, and the effects of childrearing in societies that also sanction infanticide. Some argue that the practice of infanticide in any widespread form causes enormous psychological damage in children. Conversely, studying societies that practice infanticide Géza Róheim reported that even infanticidal mothers in New Guinea, who ate a child, did not affect the personality development of the surviving children; that \"these are good mothers who eat their own children\". Harris and Divale's work on the relationship between female infanticide and warfare suggests that there are, however, extensive negative effects.\n\nPostpartum psychosis is also a causative factor of infanticide. Stuart S. Asch, MD, a Professor of Psychiatry at Cornell University established the connections between some cases of infanticide and post-partum depression. The books, \"From Cradle to Grave\", and \"The Death of Innocents\", describe selected cases of maternal infanticide and the investigative research of Professor Asch working in concert with the New York City Medical Examiner's Office.\nStanley Hopwood wrote that childbirth and lactation entail severe stress on the female sex, and that under certain circumstances attempts at infanticide and suicide are common. A study published in the \"American Journal of Psychiatry\" revealed that 44% of filicidal fathers had a diagnosis of psychosis. In addition to postpartum psychosis, dissociative psychopathology and sociopathy have also been found to be associated with neonaticide in some cases\n\nIn addition, severe postpartum depression can lead to infanticide.\n\nSex selection may be one of the contributing factors of infanticide. In the absence of sex-selective abortion, sex-selective infanticide can be deduced from very skewed birth statistics. The biologically normal sex ratio for humans at birth is approximately 105 males per 100 females; normal ratios hardly ranging beyond 102–108. When a society has an infant male to female ratio which is significantly higher or lower than the biological norm, and biased data can be ruled out, sex selection can usually be inferred.\n\nIn New South Wales, infanticide is defined in Section 22A(1) of the Crimes Act 1900 (NSW) as follows:\n\nBecause Infanticide is punishable as manslaughter, as per s24, the maximum penalty for this offence is therefore 25 years imprisonment.\n\nInfanticide is illegal in India, but rarely enforced in the rural parts of India. \n\nIn Canada, a mother commits infanticide, a lesser offence than homicide, if she killed her child while \"not fully recovered from the effects of giving birth to the child and by reason thereof or of the effect of lactation consequent on the birth of the child her mind is then disturbed\".\n\nIn England and Wales, the Infanticide Act 1938 describes the offence of infanticide as one which would otherwise amount to murder (by his/her mother) if the victim was older than 12 months and the mother was not suffering from an imbalance of mind due to the effects of childbirth or lactation. Where a mother who has killed such an infant has been charged with murder rather than infanticide s.1(3) of the Act confirms that a jury has the power to find alternative verdicts of Manslaughter in English law or guilty but insane.\n\nArticle 200 of the Penal Code of Romania stipulates that the killing of a newborn during the first 24 hours, by the mother who is in a state of mental distress, shall be punished with imprisonment of one to five years. The previous Romanian Penal Code also defined infanticide (\"pruncucidere\") as a distinct criminal offence, providing for a punishment of two to seven years imprisonment, recognizing the fact that a mother's judgment may be impaired immediately after birth, but did not define the term \"infant\", and this had led to debates regarding the precise moment when infanticide becomes homicide. This issue was resolved by the new Penal Code, which came into force in 2014.\n\nIn 2009, Texas state representative Jessica Farrar proposed legislation that would define infanticide as a distinct and lesser crime than homicide. Under the terms of the proposed legislation, if jurors concluded that a mother's \"judgment was impaired as a result of the effects of giving birth or the effects of lactation following the birth\", they would be allowed to convict her of the crime of infanticide, rather than murder. The maximum penalty for infanticide would be two years in prison. Farrar's introduction of this bill prompted liberal bioethics scholar Jacob M. Appel to call her \"the bravest politician in America\".\n\nSince infanticide, especially neonaticide, is often a response to an unwanted birth, preventing unwanted pregnancies through improved sex education and increased contraceptive access are advocated as ways of preventing infanticide. Increased use of contraceptives and access to safe legal abortions have greatly reduced neonaticide in many developed nations. Some say that where abortion is illegal, as in Pakistan, infanticide would decline if safer legal abortions were available.\n\nScreening for psychiatric disorders or risk factors, and providing treatment or assistance to those at risk may help prevent infanticide. However, in developed world significant proportions of neonaticides that are detected occur in young women who deny their pregnancy, and avoid outside contacts, so they may have limited contact with health care services.\n\nIn some areas baby hatches or \"safe surrender sites\", safe places for a mother to anonymously leave an infant, are offered, in part to reduce the rate of infanticide. In other places, like the United States, safe-haven laws allow mothers to anonymously give infants to designated officials; they are frequently located at hospitals and police and fire stations. Typically such babies are put up for adoption, or cared for in orphanages.\n\nGranting women employment raises their status and autonomy. Having a gainful employment can raise the perceived worth of females. This can lead to an increase in the number of women getting an education and a decrease in the number of female infanticide. As a result, the infant mortality rate will decrease and economic development will increase.\n\nAlthough human infanticide has been widely studied, the practice has been observed in many other species of the animal kingdom since it was first seriously studied by . These include from microscopic rotifers and insects, to fish, amphibians, birds and mammals, including primates such as chacma baboons. Infanticide can be practiced by both males and females.\n\nAccording to studies carried out by Kyoto University in non-human primates, including certain types of gorillas and chimpanzees, several conditions favor the tendency to infanticide in some species (to be performed only by males), among them are: Nocturnal live, the absence of nest construction, the marked sexual dimorphism in which the male is much larger than the female, the mating in a specific season and the high period of lactation without resumption of the estrus state in the female.\n\n"}
{"id": "40236722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40236722", "title": "Infanticide in 19th-century New Zealand", "text": "Infanticide in 19th-century New Zealand\n\nInfanticide in 19th-century New Zealand was difficult to assess, especially for newborn indigenous Maori infants. Resultantly, many New Zealand women who might otherwise have been sentenced to penal servitude or capital punishment in New Zealand had their sentences commuted to the lesser charge of \"concealment of birth\" under the Offences Against the Person Act 1867. However, this relative leniency only extended to mothers of concealed or hidden infants who subsequently died. Fathers, grandparents and \"baby farmers\" like Minnie Dean, the only woman to be executed in New Zealand history and Daniel Cooper in the 1920s, were viewed as more culpable for the death of such infants.\n\nIn a recent volume on childbirth, pregnancy, infant mortality and infanticide in 19th-century New Zealand, Alison Clarke places the deaths of newborn infants in colonial era 19th-century New Zealand in historical context. Over the four decades (1861-1899) for which statistical evidence is available, an estimated cumulative 53,000 such infants perished in New Zealand. Early New Zealand colonial statistics show that from 1872, more than one thousand infants or small toddlers died each year from maladies and environmental factors summarized below, peaking at 1995 such fatalities in 1883, although in 1872 (1941 deaths), 1875 (1816 deaths), 1886 (1889 deaths), and 1899 (1806 deaths), more than one thousand eight hundred infants died.\n\nIf the afflicted child was less than one month old at their time of death, there may have been premature birth. Without the complex life support technology available in the late 20th and early 21st centuries, this would often prove fatal due to the lack of sufficient infant respiratory development. Other than that, newborn infants might also perish from sharing beds with their parents, who might roll over and smother them inadvertently during sleep; negligent parental alcohol abuse and impaired standards of care; administration of alcohol to prevent infant cries; and the associated use of soporific drugs such as laudanum and chlorodyne. In the case of prostitutes and single pregnant women, sexually transmitted diseases might be passed on to their newborn infants during prenatal development, while inadequately warm clothing might affect mortality for the newborn infants of the poor. Infant malnutrition might occur due to lack of awareness of the benefits of breastfeeding for infants, as well as the absence of medical treatment for conditions such as bronchitis, pneumonia, influenza, whooping cough, diphtheria, diarrhoea, enteritis, gastritis, ileus, inherited syphilis and tuberculosis.\n\nIn the case of Maori infants, detailed statistics about infant health and mortality are not as readily available, due to their presence in remote and isolated rural dwellings inaccessible through roading and civic transport. Furthermore, there are social policy considerations that need to be considered, as British colonialism distorted social relationships that may have either hampered or facilitated infanticide in the Maori context. Given the ravages of higher incidence of poor housing, sanitation, malnutrition and infectious diseases, overall 19th-century Maori infant mortality was probably higher than those of European counterparts, however. Against infanticide, however, large family (whanau) structures were often available to care for any such child. While there are accounts of apparent infanticide, they often seem to be second-hand information from pakeha Church of England missionaries. These noted that female infanticide seemed to be prevalent in the context of slavery, cross-cultural relationships and other such inhospitable grounds. Intertribal warfare was also a factor that militated against female infant survival, given the prospect that surviving male children could then become warriors for the defence of a particular iwi (tribal community and social network). However, it is highly probable that the advent of colonialism and introduction of European transport and weapons technology affected the severity and scale of prior tribal conflicts, so this may not reflect an accurate prognosis of Maori infanticide. As time went on, many Maori adopted Christian religious beliefs due to missionary efforts and this reduced the incidence of slavery, cannibalism and homicide amongst such Maori communities, although it also returned even during the early 20th century during times of economic hardship. In short, it is hard to assess the frequency and prevalence of Maori infanticide and its permissibility during the 19th century.\n\nAltogether, Clarke identifies 98 cases of deliberate or intentional infant death that resulted in legal proceedings. Of these, 94 were undertaken against the mother of the deceased infant, while fourteen of these were also undertaken against the baby's father, grandparents or friends of the mother who had assisted in the birth and its concealment. Four involved the father of the deceased infant and another individual, often a grandparent. Usually, if the birth had been concealed, the maximum penalty was two years imprisonment, and as Bronwyn Dalley notes, women could often plead mitigating circumstances through male sexual coercion (a \"seduction\" narrative), although this was not always successful. Some women were convicted of infanticide or manslaughter in this context, although many others were acquitted. Men could not similarly plead \"seduction\" or the trauma of unassisted childbirth in this context; as witnessed by the case of William Henry Woodgate, who committed incest with his niece that subsequently resulted in her pregnancy and childbirth, leading to the killing of the newborn and his subsequent execution for murder in 1877.\n\nOriginally, concealment arose in 17th century Anglo-Scottish law and sought to punish secret illegitimate pregnancies and childbirths in which mothers hid the bodies of the infants after birth or stillbirth. As noted above, not all mothers were successful in pleading concealment- the cases of Phoebe Veitch and Sarah-Jane and Anna Flannagan stand out as exceptions to this general rule, although the defense was usually effective when it came to mitigated imprisonment or even acquittal, in some circumstances. Throughout the British Empire in the 1890s, concern arose over the negligent standards of \"care\" offered by baby farmers. Minnie Dean and others may have been viewed as equivalents to John and Sarah Makin and Frances Lydia Alice Knorr in adjacent New South Wales in Australia, or Amelia Dyer in the United Kingdom, who were her historical contemporaries. Such trials also built up a volume of relevant case law within imperial jurisdictions.\n\nIn 1869, Annie Bates had been domestic servant for a Greymouth merchant and his family on the South Island's West Coast. Her employer, William Coates, spotted the body of a newborn infant in the lavatory, with the subsequent revelation of the decomposed body of a female infant. Bates confessed to the apparent concealment of the infant when she was apprehended, but held that it had been stillborn when she gave birth alongside the Grey River adjacent to the town. Mary Ann Swift, a dancer at the Greenstone Pub, argued that had not been the case when she appeared as witness for the prosecution in this case, but her opinion was dismissed. She was found not guilty of either murder, manslaughter or concealment by the subsequent jury when the case came to trial.\n\nIn the case of Mary Ann Spendlove, concealment was judged to have occurred and she was acquitted of murder in 1871, and subsequently sentenced to two years imprisonment on the lesser charge. Spendlove had cast her baby's body adrift in Nelson Harbour in 1866. The infant had been conceived during an extramarital affair while her husband was absent. She claimed that the infant was premature, but medical examination demonstrated that it was, in fact, a fully developed infant, had been born alive and died of suffocation. Alison Clark argues that one of the reasons that she was not treated as leniently as some of the other women cited in this section was that as a married woman, Spendlove \"should have known better.\"\n\nFrom Galway in Ireland, Bridget Gee (1845-?) was initially described as a \"good industrious girl and of a kind disposition\" by her employer, Mrs Elizabeth Aikman, while employed as a maidservant at Dunedin's Glasgow Hotel. However, in June 1871, she gave birth and then concealed the body of her newborn infant beneath her mattress. Although she claimed that the death of the infant was accidental, the infant had suffered concussion to the head, fractures and lost blood through laceration, possibly caused by scissors or a stay. Although Gee was not found guilty of manslaughter or murder, she was found guilty of concealment. Her lawyer, Robert Stout, claimed that the injuries to the dead infant were likely to have been accidental, and the Crown Prosecutor, Bryan Haggit, concurred. Gee was suspected of brutally killing her child and was not acquitted of concealment, however.\n\nSimilarly, Margaret Collins (1854-?) was illiterate and had no family available in New Zealand to assist her covert pregnancy and childbirth, thus leading to her slashing her newborn baby's throat and hiding the body under her mattress in Milton in 1875. However, she was found guilty of manslaughter, given the nature of her infant's fatal injuries, although only sentenced to two months imprisonment.\n\nIn 1884, Auckland mother Rosina Smith initially fostered out her newborn infant, but then absconded with the two-month-old baby, before burying him in a market garden in Parnell, an Auckland suburb. The presiding judge in that case, Chief Justice James Prendergast, suggested three options to the jurors- they could either find Smith guilty of murder, manslaughter or insanity. The jury found the latter verdict was the case, although this was an unusual outcome, as courts usually did not find that mothers were mentally ill when they killed their newborn babies in this context However, at least three other women may have had diagnosable mental health concerns by current medical standards, given Clarke's assessment of newspaper accounts and court documents.\n\nIn 1878, Margaret Wilson gave birth to a daughter at Timaru's Benevolent Society, an emergency housing facility for indigent women, their infants and children, but the baby only survived for three months before it was strangled. When Wilson appeared before the New Zealand Supreme Court, it was apparent that she was unfit to face charges of murder in the context of her daughter's death. She was admitted to the Sunnyside Hospital in Christchurch and custodial staff testified that she was unable to comprehend what was said to her, was violent and had to be restrained.\n\nFanny Bonnington (1868-?) was a Blenheim domestic servant who gave birth at sixteen in secret in 1884, and threw the dead body of her infant down an ablutionary facility. Postmortem medical investigation revealed that it had been alive at its birth and had several stab wounds, although death might also have occurred from haemorrhaging from an umbilical cord in this situation. Doctor Thomas Porter noted that Bonnington appeared to be experiencing what might be defined today as post-partum depression, as had one of the defendant's sisters after her pregnancy and childbirth. Her grandfather also experienced what might be diagnosed as Alzheimer's disease in contemporary medical practise. Bonnington was found not guilty of concealment through reason of insanity at the time of birth and although held for three months doing kitchen work at the Wellington Lunatic Asylum, she was subsequently released and returned to Blenheim. Justice William Richmond commented that in such instances, judges and juries were often swayed by the 'seduction narrative' and held the man who had impregnated such women more culpable than the \"abandoned\" and isolated single women who gave often traumatic birth without the attendance of family or doctors in the new colony, so they would not convict a young woman of infanticide, murder or manslaughter in this context.\n\nMargaret Heads/Edwards was servant to a Dunedin bank clerk and his family. In 1889, while boarding with a labourer's wife, this young woman gave birth and concealed the body of the infant in that woman's wardrobe. It was unclear whether the infant had been born alive or not in this instance and she was acquitted of concealment of birth. She had been \"seduced\" and then had been left indigent. As with Bonnington's case, a \"Tuapeka Times\" journalist referred to Heads/Edward's 'seduction\" and argued that the man who had abandoned her was \"truly\" responsible for this tragedy.\n\nSometimes, however, the balance of evidence pointed otherwise. In 1881, Dunedin coroner Thomas Morland Hocken advised against keeping an infant in bed with its parents, as there could be problems with respiratory distress if the sleeping parents rolled over and inadvertently suffocated the baby in question. However, in the case of Mary Ann Weston, there were grounds to suspect that the death of the infant may have been deliberate, as Dunedin's Industrial School orphanage had taken her two earlier children into custodial care, and Weston was drinking heavily. The coronial inquest jury found Weston had a manslaughter case to answer, but Weston was later acquitted of manslaughter in the Dunedin Supreme Court.\n\nIn 1895, Edward Tregear, a civil servant and local intellectual, suggested to Wellington's \"Evening Post\" newspaper that New Zealand society was responsible for the spate of infanticides in recent years of colonial history. He was referring to the contemporary case of Mary Davis (1889), in which that Wellington domestic servant had given birth secretly, and as with Margaret Heads/Edwards had concealed the baby's body in her wardrobe. Davis had tied but not cut the infant's umbilical cord, and was acquitted of both murder and concealment of birth in the local Magistrate's Court. Tregear advocated for parenting education in this context\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10677746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10677746", "title": "Information exchange", "text": "Information exchange\n\nInformation exchange or information sharing are informal terms that can either refer to bidirectional \"information transfer\" in telecommunications and computer science or \"communication\" seen from a system-theoretic or information-theoretic point of view. As \"information\" in this context invariably refers to (electronic) data that encodes and represents the information at hand, a broader treatment can be found under data exchange.\n\nThe term information sharing has a long history in information technology. Traditional information sharing referred to one-to-one exchanges of data between a sender and receiver. These information exchanges are implemented via dozens of open and proprietary protocols, message and file formats. Electronic data interchange (EDI) is a successful implementation of commercial data exchanges that began in the late 1970s and remains in use today.\n\nInitiatives to standardize information sharing protocols include extensible markup language (XML), simple object access protocol (SOAP), and web services description language (WSDL).\n\nFrom the point of view of a computer scientist, the four primary information sharing design patterns are sharing information one-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-many, and many-to-one. Technologies to meet all four of these design patterns are evolving and include blogs, wikis, really simple syndication, tagging, and chat.\n\nOne example of United States government's attempt to implement one of these design patterns (one to one) is the National Information Exchange Model (NIEM). One-to-one exchange models fall short of supporting all of the required design patterns needed to fully implement data exploitation technology.\n\nAdvanced information sharing platforms provide controlled vocabularies, data harmonization, data stewardship policies and guidelines, standards for uniform data as they relate to privacy, security, and data quality.\n\nThe term information sharing gained popularity as a result of the 9/11 Commission Hearings and its report of the United States government's lack of response to information known about the planned terrorist attack on the New York City World Trade Center prior to the event. The resulting commission report led to the enactment of several executive orders by President Bush that mandated agencies implement policies to \"share information\" across organizational boundaries. In addition, an Information Sharing Environment Program Manager (PM-ISE) was appointed, tasked to implement the provisions of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004. In making recommendation toward the creation of an \"Information Sharing Environment\" the 9/11 Commission based itself on the findings and recommendations made by the Markle Task Force on National Security in the Information Age.\n\nInformation exchange is also used to describe the process of learning and the efficiency of the learning.\n\n"}
{"id": "43629007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43629007", "title": "Jihad Cool", "text": "Jihad Cool\n\nJihad Cool is term used by American security experts concerning the re-branding of militant jihadism into something fashionable, or \"cool\", to younger people through social media, magazines, rap videos, clothing, toys, propaganda videos, and other means. It is a sub-culture mainly applied to individuals in developed nations who are recruited to travel to conflict zones on Jihad. For example, Jihadi rap videos make participants look \"more MTV than Mosque\", according to NPR, which was the first to report on the phenomenon in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1059727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1059727", "title": "Kula ring", "text": "Kula ring\n\nKula, also known as the Kula exchange or Kularing, is a ceremonial exchange system conducted in the Milne Bay Province of Papua New Guinea. The Kula ring was made famous by the father of modern anthropology, Bronisław Malinowski, who used this test case to argue for the universality of rational decision making (even among 'natives'), and for the cultural nature of the object of their effort. Malinowski's path-breaking work, \"Argonauts of the Western Pacific\" (1922), directly confronted the question, \"why would men risk life and limb to travel across huge expanses of dangerous ocean to give away what appear to be worthless trinkets?\" Malinowski carefully traced the network of exchanges of bracelets and necklaces across the Trobriand Islands, and established that they were part of a system of exchange (the Kula ring), and that this exchange system was clearly linked to political authority. Malinowski's study became the subject of debate with the French anthropologist, Marcel Mauss, author of \"The Gift\" (\"Essai sur le don,\" 1925). Since then, the Kula ring has been central to the continuing anthropological debate on the nature of gift giving, and the existence of gift economies.\nThe Kula ring spans 18 island communities of the Massim archipelago, including the Trobriand Islands, and involves thousands of individuals. Participants travel at times hundreds of miles by canoe in order to exchange Kula valuables which consist of red shell-disc necklaces (\"veigun\" or \"soulava\") that are traded to the north (circling the ring in clockwise direction) and white shell armbands (\"mwali\") that are traded in the southern direction (circling counterclockwise). If the opening gift was an armband, then the closing gift must be a necklace and vice versa. The exchange of Kula valuables is also accompanied by the trade in other items known as \"gimwali\" (barter). The terms of participation vary from region to region. Whereas on the Trobriand Islands the exchange is monopolised by the chiefs, in Dobu all men can participate.\n\nAll Kula valuables are non-use items traded purely for purposes of enhancing one's social status and prestige. Carefully prescribed customs and traditions surround the ceremonies that accompany the exchanges which establish strong, ideally lifelong relationships between the exchange parties (\"karayta'u\", \"partners\"). The act of giving, as Mauss wrote, is a display of the greatness of the giver, accompanied by shows of exaggerated modesty in which the value of what is given is actively played down. Such a partnership involves strong mutual obligations such as hospitality, protection and assistance. According to the Muyuw, a good Kula relationship should be \"like a marriage\". Similarly, the saying around Papua is: \"once in the Kula, always in the Kula.\"\n\nKula valuables never remain for long in the hands of the recipients; rather, they must be passed on to other partners within a certain amount of time, thus constantly circling around the ring. However, even temporary possession brings prestige and status. Important chiefs can have hundreds of partners while less significant participants may only have fewer than a dozen. Even though the vast majority of items that Kula participants have at any given time are not theirs and will be passed on, Damon (1980:281) notes that e.g. amongst the Muyuw all Kula objects are someone's \"kitoum\", meaning they are owned by that person (or by a group). The person owning a valuable as \"kitoum\" has full rights of ownership over it: he can keep it, sell it or even destroy it. The Kula valuable or an equivalent item must be returned to the person who owns it as \"kitoum\". For example, the most important Muyuw men own between three and seven Kula valuables as \"kitoum\", while others do not own any. The fact that, at least in theory, all such valuables are someone's \"kitoum\" adds a sense of responsibility to the way they are handled, reminding the recipient that he is only a steward of somebody else's possession. (The ownership of a particular valuable is, however, often not known.) Kula valuables can be exchanged as \"kitoum\" in a direct exchange between two partners, thus fully transferring the rights of ownership.\n\nThe right of participation in Kula exchange is not automatic; one has to \"buy\" one's way into it through participating in various lower spheres of exchange. The relationship giver-receiver is always asymmetrical: the former are higher in status. Also, Kula valuables are ranked according to value and age, as are the relationships that are created through their exchange. Participants will often strive to obtain particularly valuable and renowned Kula objects whose owner's fame will spread quickly through the archipelago. Such a competition unfolds through different persons offering \"pokala\" (offerings) and \"kaributu\" (solicitory gifts) to the owner, thus seeking to induce him to engage in a gift exchange relationship involving the desired object. Kula exchange therefore involves a complex system of gifts and countergifts whose rules are laid down by custom. The system is based on trust as obligations are not legally enforceable. However, strong social obligations and the cultural value system, in which liberality is exalted as highest virtue while meanness is condemned as shameful, create powerful pressures to \"play by the rules\". Those who are perceived as holding on to valuables and as being slow to give them away soon get a bad reputation (cf.).\n\nThe Kula trade was organized differently in the more hierarchical parts of the Trobriand islands. There, only chiefs were allowed to engage in Kula exchange. In hierarchical areas, individuals can earn their own kitomu shells, whereas in less hierarchical areas, they are always subject to the claims of matrilineal kin. And lastly, in the hierarchical areas, Kula necklaces and bracelets are saved for external exchange only; stone axe blades are used internally. In less hierarchical areas, exchange partners may lose their valuables to internal claims. As a result, most seek to exchange their Kula valuables with chiefs, who thus become the most successful players. The chiefs have saved their Kula valuables for external trade, and external traders seek to trade with them before they lose their valuables to internal claims.\n\nThe Kula exchange system can be viewed as reinforcing status and authority distinctions since the hereditary chiefs own the most important shell valuables and assume the responsibility for organizing and directing the ocean voyages. Damon (1980) notes that large amounts of Kula valuables are handled by a relatively small number of people, e.g. amongst the Muyuw three men account for over 50 percent of Kula valuables. The ten most influential men control about 90 percent of all and almost 100 percent of the most precious Kula objects. The movement of these valuables and the related relationships determine most of Muyuw's political alliances. Fortune notes that Kula relationships are fragile, beset with various kinds of manipulation and deceit. The Muyuw for example state that the only way to get ahead in Kula is to lie, commenting that deceit frequently causes Kula relationships to fall apart. Similarly, Malinowski wrote of \"many squabbles, deep resentments and even feuds over real or imaginary grievances in the Kula exchange.\"\n\nThe Kula ring is a classic example of Marcel Mauss' distinction between gift and commodity exchange. Melanesians carefully distinguish gift exchange (Kula) and market exchange in the form of barter (\"gimwali\"). Both reflect different underlying value systems and cultural customs. The Kula, Mauss wrote, is not supposed to be conducted like \"gimwali\". The former involves a solemn exchange ceremony, a \"display of greatness\" where the concepts of honour and nobility are central; the latter, in contrast, often done as part of Kula exchange journeys, involves hard bargaining and purely serves economic purposes.\n\nKula valuables are inalienable in the sense that they (or an equivalent object) have to be returned to the original owner. Those who receive them can pass them on as gifts, but they cannot be sold as commodities (except by the one who owns them as \"kitoum\").\n\nMalinowski, however, highlighted the unusual characteristics of these \"gifts.\" Malinowski placed the emphasis on the exchange of goods between \"individuals\", and their \"non-altruistic\" motives for giving the gift: they expected a return of equal or greater value. In other words, reciprocity is an implicit part of gifting; there is no such thing as the \"free gift\" given without expectation. Mauss, in contrast, emphasized that the gifts were not between individuals, but between representatives of larger collectivities. These gifts were, he argued, a \"total prestation\" (see Law of obligations) and not a gift in our sense of the word. They were not simple, alienable commodities to be bought and sold, but, like the Crown Jewels of the United Kingdom, embodied the reputation, history and sense of identity of a \"corporate kin group,\" such as a line of kings. Given the stakes, Mauss asked \"why anyone would give them away?\" His answer was an enigmatic concept, \"the spirit of the gift.\" A good part of the confusion (and resulting debate) was due to a bad translation of that phrase. Mauss appeared to be arguing that a return gift is given to keep the very relationship between givers alive; a failure to return a gift ends the relationship and the promise of any future gifts. Jonathan Parry has demonstrated that Mauss was actually arguing that the concept of a \"pure gift\" given altruistically only emerges in societies with a well-developed market ideology such as the West and India.\n\nMauss' concept of \"total prestations\" was further developed by Annette Weiner, who revisited Malinowski's fieldsite in the Trobriand Islands. Her critique was twofold: first, Trobriand Island society is matrilineal, and women hold a great deal of economic and political power. Their exchanges were ignored by Malinowski. Secondly, she developed Mauss's argument about reciprocity and the \"spirit of the gift\" in terms of \"inalienable possessions: the paradox of keeping while giving.\" Weiner contrasts \"moveable goods\" which can be exchanged with \"immoveable goods\" that serve to draw the gifts back (in the Trobriand case, male Kula gifts with women's landed property). She argues that the specific goods given, like Crown Jewels, are so identified with particular groups, that even when given, they are not truly alienated.\n\nNot all societies, however, have these kinds of goods, which depend upon the existence of particular kinds of kinship groups. French anthropologist Maurice Godelier pushed the analysis further in \"The Enigma of the Gift\" (1999). Albert Schrauwers has argued that the kinds of societies used as examples by Weiner and Godelier (including the Kula ring in the Trobriands, the potlatch of the indigenous peoples of the Pacific Northwest, and the Toraja of South Sulawesi, Indonesia) are all characterized by ranked aristocratic kin groups that fit with Claude Lévi-Strauss' model of \"House Societies\" (where \"House\" refers to both noble lineage and their landed estate). Total prestations are given, he argues, to preserve landed estates identified with particular kin groups and maintain their place in a ranked society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30779156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30779156", "title": "List of female action heroes and villains", "text": "List of female action heroes and villains\n\nThe following is a list of female action heroes villains who appear in action films, television shows, comic books, and video games and who are \"thrust into a series of challenges requiring physical feats, extended fights, extensive stunts and frenetic chases.\" Elizabeth Abele suggests that \"the key agency of female action protagonists is their ability to draw on the full range of masculine and feminine qualities in ever-evolving combinations.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21122396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21122396", "title": "Me generation", "text": "Me generation\n\nThe \"Me\" generation in the United States is a term referring to the baby boomers generation and the self-involved qualities that some people associate with it. The 1970s were dubbed the \"Me\" decade by writer Tom Wolfe; Christopher Lasch was another writer who commented on the rise of a culture of narcissism among the younger generation of that era. The phrase caught on with the general public, at a time when \"self-realization\" and \"self-fulfillment\" were becoming cultural aspirations to which young people supposedly ascribed higher importance than social responsibility.\n\nThe cultural change in the United States during the 1970s that was experienced by the baby boomers is complex. The 1960s are remembered as a time of political protests, radical experimentation with new cultural experiences (the Sexual Revolution, happenings, mainstream awareness of Eastern religions). The Civil Rights Movement gave rebellious young people serious goals to work towards. Cultural experimentation was justified as being directed toward spiritual or intellectual enlightenment. The mid to late 1970s, in contrast, were a time of increased economic crisis and disillusionment with idealistic politics among the young, particularly after the resignation of Richard Nixon and the end of the Vietnam War. Unapologetic hedonism became acceptable among the young, expressed in the Disco music popular at the time.\n\nBy the mid-1970s, Tom Wolfe and Christopher Lasch were speaking out critically against the culture of narcissism. These criticisms were widely repeated throughout American popular media.\n\nThe development of a youth culture focusing so heavily on self-fulfillment was also perhaps a reaction against the traits that characterized the older generation, which had grown up during the Great Depression. That generation had learned values associated with self-sacrifice. The deprivations of the Depression had taught that generation to work hard, save money and not spend it; to cherish family and community ties. Loyalty to institutions, traditional religious faiths, and other common bonds were what that generation considered to be the cultural foundations of their country. Baby boomers gradually abandoned those values in large numbers, a development that was entrenched during the 1970s.\n\nThe 1970s have been described as a transitional era when the self-help of the 1960s became self-gratification, and eventually devolved into the selfishness of the 1980s.\n\nHealth and exercise fads, New Age spirituality such as Scientology, discos and hot tub parties, self-help programs such as EST (Erhard Seminars Training), and the growth of the self-help book industry became identified with the baby boomers during 1970s. Human potential, emotional honesty, \"finding yourself', and new therapies became hallmarks of the culture. The marketing of lifestyle products, eagerly consumed by baby boomers with disposable income during the 1970s, became an inescapable part of the culture. Revlon's marketing staff did research into young women's cultural values during the 1970s, and the research revealed that young women were striving to compete with men in the workplace and to express themselves as independent individuals. Revlon launched the \"lifestyle\" perfume \"Charlie\", with marketing aimed at glamorizing the values of the new 1970s woman, and it became the world's best-selling perfume.\n\nThe introspection of the baby boomers and their focus on self-fulfillment has been examined in a serious light in pop culture. Films such as \"An Unmarried Woman\" (1978), \"Kramer vs. Kramer\" (1979), \"Ordinary People\" (1980) and \"The Big Chill\" (1983) brought the inner struggles of baby boomers to a wide audience. The self-absorbed side of 1970s life was given a sharp and sometimes poignant satirization in \"Manhattan\" (1979). More acerbic lampooning came in \"Shampoo\" (1975) and \"Private Benjamin\" (1980). The Me generation has also been satirized in retrospect, as the generation called \"Generation X\" reached adulthood, for example, in \"Parenthood\" (1989). \"Forrest Gump\" (1994) summed up the decade with Gump's cross-country jogging quest for meaning during the 1970s, complete with a tracksuit, which was worn as much as a fashion statement as an athletic necessity during the era.\n\nThe satirization of the Me generation's me-first attitude perhaps reached its peak with the television sitcom \"Seinfeld\", which did not include conscious moral development for its baby boomer characters, rather the opposite. Nor did it have plots with lessons to teach its audience. It was a \"show about nothing\", and its creators held this position deliberately.\n\nThe term \"Me generation\" has persisted over the decades so is connected to the baby boomers generation. Some writers, however, have also named the Millennials the Me Generation or Generation Me, while Elspeth Reeve in The Atlantic noted that narcissism is a symptom of youth in most generations. The 1970s were also an era of rising unemployment among the young, continuing erosion of faith in conventional social institutions, and political and ideological aimlessness for many. This was the environment that precipitated gravitation toward Punk rock among America's disaffected young people. By 1980, when Ronald Reagan was elected President, a growing number of America's baby boomers had also begun turning toward conservative political and cultural priorities.\n\nAt the same time, the realities behind the label have not escaped notice. As Eastern religions and rituals such as yoga grew during the 1970s, at least one writer observed a New Age corruption of the popular understanding of \"realization\" taught by Neo-Vedantic practitioners, away from spiritual realization and towards \"self-realization\". The leading edge of the baby boomers, who were counter-culture \"hippies\" and political activists during the 1960s, have been referred to sympathetically as the \"Now generation\", in contrast to the Me generation.\n\n"}
{"id": "70174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70174", "title": "Moral", "text": "Moral\n\nA moral (from Latin \"morālis\") is a message that is conveyed or a lesson to be learned from a story or event. The moral may be left to the hearer, reader, or viewer to determine for themselves, or may be explicitly encapsulated in a maxim. A moral is a lesson in a story or in real life.\n\nAs an example of an explicit maxim, at the end of Aesop's fable of the Tortoise and the Hare, in which the plodding and determined tortoise won a race against the much-faster yet extremely arrogant hare, the stated moral is \"slow and steady wins the race\". However, other morals can often be taken from the story itself; for instance, that arrogance or overconfidence in one's abilities may lead to failure or the loss of an event, race, or contest.\n\nThe use of stock characters is a means of conveying the moral of the story by eliminating complexity of personality and depicting the issues arising in the interplay between the characters, enables the writer to generate a clear message. With more rounded characters, such as those typically found in Shakespeare's plays, the moral may be more nuanced but no less present, and the writer may point it out in other ways (see, for example, the Prologue to \"Romeo and Juliet\").\n\nThroughout the history of recorded literature, the majority of fictional writing has served not only to entertain but also to instruct, inform or improve their audiences or readership. In classical drama, for example, the role of the chorus was to comment on the proceedings and draw out a message for the audience to take away with them; while the novels of Charles Dickens are a vehicle for morals regarding the social and economic system of Victorian Britain.\n\nMorals have typically been more obvious in children's literature, sometimes even being introduced with the phrase: \"The moral of the story is …\". Such explicit techniques have grown increasingly out of fashion in modern storytelling, and are now usually only included for ironic purposes.\n\nSome examples are: \"Better to be safe than sorry\" (precautionary principle), \"The evil deserves no aid\", \"Be friends with whom you don't like\", \"Don't judge people by the way they look\", \"Slow and steady wins the race\", \"Once started down the dark path, forever will it hold your destiny\", and \"Your overconfidence is your weakness\". Aesop's Fables are the most famous of stories with strong moral conclusions.\n\nMorals were one of the main purposes of literature during 1780–1830, especially in children's literature. Part of the reason for this was the writings of John Locke and Jean-Jacques Rousseau in the 18th century, which brought attention to children as an audience for literature. Following in their line of thought, Thomas Day (1748–1789) wrote \"Sandford and Merton\", elevating the outstanding morals of one young boy above the rapscallion nature of another. Maria Edgeworth (1776–1849) was another prominent author of moral tales, writing about how a wise adult can educate a child; one of her more famous stories is \"The Purple Jar\". During this time, the theme of \"a young heroine or hero gaining wisdom and maturity was taken up by many other writers\" (p. 93).\n\nThe ability of children to derive moral lessons from stories and visual media develops around the age of 9 or 10 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "7949828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7949828", "title": "Myth and ritual", "text": "Myth and ritual\n\nMyth and ritual are two central components of religious practice. Although myth and ritual are commonly united as parts of religion, the exact relationship between them has been a matter of controversy among scholars. One of the approaches to this problem is \"the myth and ritual, or myth-ritualist, theory,\" held notably by the so-called Cambridge Ritualists, which holds that \"myth does not stand by itself but is tied to ritual.\" This theory is still disputed; many scholars now believe that myth and ritual share common paradigms, but not that one developed from the other.\n\nThe \"myth and ritual school\" is the name given to a series of authors who have focused their philological studies on the \"ritual purposes of myths.\" Some of these scholars (e.g., W. Robertson-Smith, James George Frazer, Jane Ellen Harrison, S. H. Hooke) supported the \"primacy of ritual\" hypothesis, which claimed that \"every myth is derived from a particular ritual and that the syntagmatic quality of myth is a reproduction of the succession of ritual act.\"\n\nHistorically, the important approaches to the study of mythological thinking have been those of Vico, Schelling, Schiller, Jung, Freud, Lucien Lévy-Bruhl, Lévi-Strauss, Frye, the Soviet school, and the Myth and Ritual School.\n\nIn the 1930s, Soviet researchers such as Jakov E. Golosovker, Frank-Kamenecky, Olga Freidenberg, Mikhail Bakhtin, \"grounded the study of myth and ritual in folklore and in the world view of popular culture.\"\n\nFollowing World War II, the semantic study of myth and ritual, particularly by Bill Stanner and Victor Turner, has supported a connection between myth and ritual. However, it has not supported the notion that one preceded and produced the other, as supporters of the \"primacy of ritual\" hypothesis would claim. According to the currently dominant scholarly view, the link between myth and ritual is that they share common paradigms.\n\nOne possibility immediately presents itself: perhaps ritual arose from myth. Many religious rituals—notably Passover among Jews, Christmas and Easter among Christians, and the Hajj among Muslims—commemorate, or involve commemoration of, events in religious literature.\n\nLeaving the sphere of historical religions, the ritual-from-myth approach often sees the relationship between myth and ritual as analogous to the relationship between science and technology. The pioneering anthropologist Edward Burnett Tylor is the classic exponent of this view. He saw myth as an attempt to explain the world: for him, myth was a sort of proto-science. Ritual is secondary: just as technology is an application of science, so ritual is an application of myth—an attempt to produce certain effects, given the supposed nature of the world: \"For Tylor, myth functions to explain the world as an end in itself. Ritual applies that explanation to control the world.\" A ritual always presupposes a preexisting myth: in short, myth gives rise to ritual.\n\nAgainst the intuitive idea that ritual reenacts myth or applies mythical theories, many 19th-century anthropologists supported the opposite position: that myth and religious doctrine result from ritual. This is known as the \"primacy of ritual\" hypothesis.\n\nThis view was asserted for the first time by the bible scholar William Robertson Smith. The scholar Meletinsky notes that Smith introduced the concept \"dogmatically.\" In his \"Lectures on the Religion of the Semites\" (1889), Smith draws a distinction between ancient and modern religion: in modern religion, doctrine is central; in ancient religion, ritual is central. On the whole, Smith argues, ancients tended to be conservative with regard to rituals, making sure to pass them down faithfully. In contrast, the myths that justified those rituals could change. In fact, according to Smith, many of the myths that have come down to us arose \"after the original, nonmythic reason [...] for the ritual had somehow been forgotten.\"\n\nAs an example, Smith gives the worship of Adonis. Worshipers mourned Adonis's mythical death in a ritual that coincided with the annual withering of the vegetation. According to Smith, the ritual mourning originally had a nonmythical explanation: with the annual withering of plants, \"the worshippers lament out of natural sympathy [...] just as modern man is touched with melancholy at the falling of autumn leaves.\" Once worshipers forgot the original, nonmythical reason for the mourning ritual, they created \"the myth of Adonis as the dying and rising god of vegetation [...] to account for the ritual.\"\n\nIn his essay \"The Ritual View of Myth and the Mythic,\" (1955) Stanley Edgar Hyman makes an argument similar to Smith's:\nHere Hyman argues against the etiological interpretation of myth, which says that myths originated from attempts to explain the origins (etiologies) of natural phenomena. If true, the etiological interpretation would make myth older than, or at least independent of, ritual—as E.B. Tylor believes it is. But Hyman argues that people use myth for etiological purposes only after myth is already in place: in short, myths didn't originate as explanations of natural phenomena. Further, Hyman argues, myth originated from ritual performance. Thus, ritual came before myth, and myth depends on ritual for its existence until it gains an independent status as an etiological story.\n\nThe famous anthropologist Sir James George Frazer claimed that myth emerges from ritual during the natural process of religious evolution. Many of his ideas were inspired by those of Robertson Smith. In \"The Golden Bough\" (1890; 1906–1915), Frazer famously argues that man progresses from belief in magic (and rituals based on magic), through belief in religion, to science. His argument is as follows.\n\nMan starts out with a reflexive belief in a natural law. He thinks he can influence nature by correctly applying this law: \"In magic man depends on his own strength to meet the difficulties and dangers that beset him on every side. He believes in a certain established order of nature on which he can surely count, and which he can manipulate for his own ends.\"\n\nHowever, the natural law man imagines—namely, magic—does not work. When he sees that his pretended natural law is false, man gives up the idea of a knowable natural law and \"throws himself humbly on the mercy of certain great invisible beings behind the veil of nature, to whom he now ascribes all those far-reaching powers which he once arrogated to himself.\" In other words, when man loses his belief in magic, he justifies his formerly magical rituals by saying that they reenact myths or honor mythical beings. According to Frazer,\nThe classicist Jane Ellen Harrison and the biblical scholar S. H. Hooke regarded myth as intimately connected to ritual. However, \"against Smith,\" they \"vigorously deny\" that myth's main purpose is to justify a ritual by giving an account of how it first arose (e.g., justifying the Adonis worshipers' ritual mourning by attributing it to Adonis's mythical death). Instead, these scholars think a myth is largely just a narrative description of a corresponding ritual: according to Harrison, \"the primary meaning of myth ... is the spoken correlative of the acted rite, the thing done.\"\n\nHarrison and Hooke gave an explanation for why ancients would feel the need to describe the ritual in a narrative form. They suggest that the spoken word, like the acted ritual, was considered to have magical potency: \"The spoken word had the efficacy of an act.\"\n\nLike Frazer, Harrison believed that myths could arise as the initial reason a ritual was forgotten or became diluted. As an example, she cited rituals that center on the annual renewal of vegetation. Such rituals often involve a participant who undergoes a staged death and resurrection. Harrison argues that the ritual, although \"performed annually, was exclusively initiatory\"; it was performed on people to initiate them into their roles as full-standing members of society. At this early point, the \"god\" was simply \"the projection of the euphoria produced by the ritual.\" Later, however, this euphoria became personified as a distinct god, and this god later became the god of vegetation, for \"just as the initiates symbolically died and were reborn as fully fledged members of society, so the god of vegetation and in turn crops literally died and were reborn.\" In time, people forgot the ritual's initiatory function and only remembered its status as a commemoration of the Adonis myth.\n\nNot all students of mythology think ritual emerged from myth or myth emerged from ritual: some allow myths and rituals a greater degree of freedom from one another. Although myths and rituals often appear together, these scholars do not think every myth has or had a corresponding ritual, or vice versa.\n\nThe classicist Walter Burkert believes myths and rituals were originally independent. When myths and rituals do come together, he argues, they do so to reinforce each other. A myth that tells how the gods established a ritual reinforces that ritual by giving it divine status: \"Do this because the gods did or do it.\" A ritual based on a mythical event makes the story of that event more than a mere myth: the myth becomes more important because it narrates an event whose imitation is considered sacred.\n\nFurthermore, Burkert argues that myth and ritual together serve a \"socializing function.\" As an example, Burkert gives the example of hunting rituals. Hunting, Burkert argues, took on a sacred, ritualistic aura once it ceased to be necessary for survival: \"Hunting lost its basic function with the emergence of agriculture some ten thousand years ago. But hunting ritual had become so important that it could not be given up.\" By performing the ritual of hunting together, an ancient society bonded itself together as a group, and also provided a way for its members to vent their anxieties over their own aggressiveness and mortality.\n\nLike William Smith, the anthropologist Bronisław Malinowski argued in his essay \"Myth in Primitive Psychology\" (1926) that myths function as fictitious accounts of the origin of rituals, thereby providing a justification for those rituals: myth \"gives rituals a hoary past and thereby sanctions them.\" However, Malinowski also points out that many cultural practices besides ritual have related myths: for Malinowski, \"myth and ritual are therefore not coextensive.\" In other words, not all myths are outgrowths of ritual, and not all rituals are outgrowths of myth.\n\nLike Malinowski, the religious scholar Mircea Eliade thinks one important function of myth is to provide an explanation for ritual. Eliade notes that, in many societies, rituals are considered important precisely because they were established by the mythical gods or heroes. Eliade approvingly quotes Malinowski's claim that a myth is \"a narrative resurrection of a primeval reality.\" Eliade adds: \"Because myth relates the \"gesta\" [deeds] of Supernatural Beings [...] it becomes the exemplary model for all significant human actions.\" Traditional man sees mythical figures as models to be imitated. Therefore, societies claim that many of their rituals were established by mythical figures, thereby making the rituals seem all the more important. However, also like Malinowski, Eliade notes that societies use myths to sanction many kinds of activities, not just rituals: \"For him, too, then, myth and ritual are not coextensive.\"\n\nEliade goes beyond Malinowski by giving an explanation for why myth can confer such an importance upon ritual: according to Eliade, \"when [ritually] [re-]enacted myth acts as a time machine, carrying one back to the time of the myth and thereby bringing one closer to god.\" But, again, for Eliade myth and ritual are not coextensive: the same return to the mythical age can be achieved simply by retelling a myth, without any ritual reenactment. According to Eliade, traditional man sees both myths and rituals as vehicles for \"eternal return\" to the mythical age (see Eternal return (Eliade)):\nRecital of myths and enactment of rituals serve a common purpose: they are two different means to remain in sacred time.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5175110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5175110", "title": "Narrative history", "text": "Narrative history\n\nNarrative history is the practice of writing history in a story-based form. It tends to entail history-writing based on reconstructing series of short-term events, and since the influential work of Leopold von Ranke on professionalising history-writing in the nineteenth century has been associated with empiricism. The term \"narrative history\" thus overlaps with the term \"histoire événementielle\" ('event-history') coined by Fernand Braudel in the early twentieth century, as he promoted forms of history-writing analysing much longer-term trends (what he called the \"longue durée\").\n\nThough history is considered a social science, the story-based nature of history allows for the inclusion of a greater or lesser degree of narration in addition to an analytical or interpretative exposition of historical knowledge. It can be divided into two subgenres: the traditional narrative and the modern narrative.\n\nTraditional narrative focuses on the chronological order of history. It is event driven and tends to center upon individuals, action, and intention. For example, in regard to the French Revolution, a historian who works with the traditional narrative might be more interested in the revolution as a single entity (one revolution), centre it in Paris, and rely heavily upon major figures such as Maximilien Robespierre.\n\nConversely, modern narrative typically focuses on structures and general trends. A modern narrative would break from rigid chronology if the historian felt it explained the concept better. In terms of the French Revolution, a historian working with the modern narrative might show general traits that were shared by revolutionaries across France but would also illustrate regional variations from those general trends (many confluent revolutions). Also this type of historian might use different sociological factors to show why different types of people supported the general revolution.\n\nHistorians who use the modern narrative might say that the traditional narrative focuses too much on what happened and not enough on why and causation. Also, that this form of narrative reduces history into neat boxes and thereby does an injustice to history. J H Hexter characterized such historians as \"lumpers\". In an essay on Christopher Hill, he remarked that \"lumpers do not like accidents: they would prefer them vanish...The lumping historian wants to put all of the past into boxes..and then to tie all the boxes together into one nice shapely bundle.\"\n\nHistorians who use traditional narrative might say that the modern narrative overburdens the reader with trivial data that had no significant effect on the progression of history. They believe that the historian needs to stress what is consequential in history, as otherwise the reader might believe that minor trivial events were more important than they were.\n"}
{"id": "37850057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37850057", "title": "Narrative network", "text": "Narrative network\n\nA narrative network is a system which represents complex event sequences or characters’ interactions as depicted by a narrative text. Network science methodology offers an alternative way of analysing the patterns of relationships, composition and activities of events and actors studied in their own context. Network theory can contribute to the understanding of the structural properties of a text and the data contained in it. The meaning of the individual and the community in a narrative is conditional on their position in a system of social relationships reported by the author. Hence, a central problem when dealing with narratives is framing and organising the author’s perspective of individual and collective connections in order to understand better the role of both the witness (viz. the persona that emerges from the narrative) and its testimony as reflected by the text. However, the category of narrative network is in its formative, initial phase and as a consequence it is hard to view as a stable and defined notion in linguistics, and beyond sociology.\n\nIn order to be an object of study and analysis, time has to be transformed into a causal sequence, and the only way in which this can be done is by narration. As a form of description, narrating inevitably requires sequencing in time. The direction of time is not a trivial thing, but the backbone of the information contained in the narrative itself. One has to bear in mind the fundamental concepts of Genette’s narratology, mainly the concept of ‘order.’ This distinguishes three entities: story, narrative, and narration. The story generally corresponds to a series of events placed its chronological order (the story time). When these events are rearranged and represented in a form that has its own sequence and features by the author, it produces a narrative. Even if the narrated events are not chronologically ordered, being reported in the narrative’s time, they always refer to a position in the story time.\n\nThe survey of any textual account ought to take into account its literary nature. Far from being a window that must be revealed in order to penetrate into a ‘historical truth,’ each historical document adds to the number of texts that have to be interpreted if an approachable and intelligible picture of a given historical milieu is to be drawn. As pointed out by Peter Munz, “narrative is the only literary device available which will reflect the past’s time structure.” The pretension in which history is conceived as the representation of the ‘actual’ should be put aside in order to acknowledge that one can only approach past structures by contrasting them with, or bonding them to, the imaginable world. In this way, and similar to Genette’s conception of narrative order and time, a historical narrative implies not simply an account of events that happened in the transition from one point in time to another. Thence, historical narrative is a progressive ‘redescription’ of events and people that dismantles a structure encoded in one verbal mode in the beginning in order to justify the recoding of it in another mode at the end. Narratives are, thus, structures that contain complex systems in which images of experience are drawn. \n\nIn order to approach new ways of making sense of narrative, one must first distinguish two different systems that can be found in the narrative structure: the sequence of events and the sequence of the actor's interactions. The former is the order in time in which all the events take place (Genette’s narrative time). Although trivial, this identification is fundamental for the construction of the latter. I understand the sequence of social interactions as the set of the characters’ relationships ordered in relation to its appearance following the sequence of events. Both constitute interdependent systems that express the flow of the narrative on two different levels. \n\nDefining what constitutes a relationship depends on the specific research questions formulated for the study of the narrative. The fact that two characters are mentioned as actors in a certain event can stand as a criterion for connecting two individuals (two actors are connected by the fact that they share one reported action). Criteria can, of course, be more detailed and delimited. Depending on the specific phenomena of interest, one can frame the scope of the interactions to be identified throughout the narrative. For example, one can be interested in assessing the integration of the individual within a collective body. Indicators of social ties indicated by the text itself would define the interaction criteria. \n\nAuthors such as Peter Bearman, Robert Faris, and James Moody have understood the sequence of events in a narrative as a complex event structure. By suggesting that the flow of the narrated events can be problematized as a complex structure, they focus on the similarities between the social structures and the narrative. Through these similarities they have defended the applicability of network methods for the analysis of historical data contained in texts. \n\nRoberto Franzosi, and Bearman and Stovel have offered modelling techniques for narrative networks by focusing on the sequence of events. These authors have visualised the story time by connecting the events from the original narrative time. The constructed ‘narrative networks’ connect the events by causal relationships, viz. if action B lead to action A, then A and B will be linked. By working on 'narrative networks,’ these authors defend it is possible to observe and measure new structural features of the narrative. They focus on autobiographical narratives of the rise and identity of fascism (the former) and Nazism (the latter). The substantive idea that they develop is that the observable narrative structure of life stories can provide insight into the process of identity formation among the witnesses of a delimited scope of time. \n\nAlthough these are remarkable models of applied quantitative narrative analysis and network analysis, their proposed narrative networks represent sequence of events rather than of characters. These research strategies may have to be diversified in order to study aspects such as political influence and other non-institutional features of organisations or groups reported by the author through narration.\n"}
{"id": "26786839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26786839", "title": "Paul Rebillot", "text": "Paul Rebillot\n\nPaul Rebillot (May 19, 1931 – February 11, 2010) was a member of the human potential movement. He is the author of \"The Call to Adventure: Bringing the Hero’s Journey to Daily Life\".\n\nPaul Rebillot was born on May 19, 1931 in Detroit, Michigan. His initial academic training was in philosophy and education at the University of Detroit and was followed by a Masters in Communication Arts, specialising in drama, from the University of Michigan. Before and after his university years he worked with several theatre companies as a writer, producer and actor.\nRebillot's military service took him, for a year, to Japan where he produced and directed radio programs for the U.S. Army's Far East Radio Network. His exposure to the Japanese culture and particularly to Noh, the stylised and ritualised form of Japanese drama, was subsequently to become an important influence on his use of ritual and gesture in his work.\n\nReturning to the United States, Rebillot developed an experimental theater department at San Francisco State College and, in the same period, worked with Mumako, a Japanese mime, developing his understanding of ritual gesture, meditation postures which shape the energies to the attitude expressed by the gesture, which became a key element in his work. In 1968, after a year of teaching at Stanford University’s theater department, he founded in San Francisco The Gestalt Fool Theater Family, a commune and a radical performance group, and commenced experimental work combining theatre, ritual and therapy.\n\nThe theater work, as well as a severe existential crisis, led him in 1971 to the Esalen Institute in Big Sur, California. There, he worked with Stan Grof and John Lilly, trained in Gestalt Practice with Esalen's co-founder Dick Price and studied group process with Will Schutz. Rebillot met Joseph Campbell, an expert in comparative mythology who believed monomyths, motifs of adventure and transformation to be found in all heroic tales, could be found in all cultures. These encounters with Price, Schutz and Campbell laid the foundations of Rebillot's subsequent work in the human potential movement.\n\nIn 1972, Rebillot worked on the psychiatric wards of community hospitals in Turlock and Martinez, California. He shared his own experience of mental suffering and how he emerged from it. In 1973, drawing on Campbell's work and integrating Gestalt practice, movement, meditation, ritual, group process, drama, art, and music, he structured The Hero's Journey. Rebillot's name is most widely associated with this self-discovery process.\n\nIn 1974, while continuing to offer workshops and Gestalt trainings at Esalen Institute, Rebillot brought The Hero's Journey to Europe. There, he worked at various centers, including the Centre de développement du potentiel humain and the Boyesen Institute, France, Jay Stattman’s Institute of Unitive Psychology in The Netherlands and the Irish Foundation for Human Development. As his yearly tours throughout Europe developed, he attracted an eclectic mix of participants including many from the teaching and caring professions. Europe gradually became the location for most of his work and remained so for over thirty years.\n\nIn 1987 Rebillot was awarded a Laurance Rockefeller grant to work on a book about The Hero’s Journey. In 1993, \"The Call to Adventure: Bringing the Hero’s Journey to Daily Life\", was published, with a foreword by Stanislav Grof.\n\nRebillot had already published \"The Hero’s Journey: Ritualizing the Mystery\" in \"Spiritual Emergency: When Personal Transformation Becomes a Crisis\" (1989), a collective work edited by Stanislav and Christina Grof, to which he had contributed with Ronald Laing, Roberto Assagioli, John Weir Perry, Ram Dass, Lee Sannella, Jack Kornfield, Holger Kalweit, Anne Armstrong and Keith Thompson.\n\nRebillot initiated his last project in 2006 when he asked a cross-cultural group of nine students to join him and develop a journey based on the life of Abraham. The resulting workshop \"In the Footsteps of Abraham\" was delivered by that group in Rebillot's presence in Germany in 2007 and, after his retirement, in Ireland in 2009.\n\nIn March 2008, Rebillot retired from work in Europe, but continued to do training and consultancy work from his home in San Francisco. Upon his return he worked extensively with the Radical Change Group founders (Mahipal Lunia, Sergey Berezin & Arman Darini)to record and present his work to the world. In June 2009, just after his students facilitated \"In the footsteps of Abraham\" in Ireland, he fell ill. After struggling for eight months to overcome the effects of respiratory failure, he died at his home in San Francisco on February 11, 2010.\n\nPaul Rebillot was particularly struck by the suffering and confusion resulting from contemporary society's lack of significant rites of passage. He felt that, without shamans or ritual masters to guide them, modern women and men have to find their own lonely and sometimes traumatic paths from one stage of life to another. Hence, a fundamental theme of his work is personal transformation through ritual enactment.\n\nHis understanding of the power of myth and ritual helped him design self-discovery processes that he felt would enrich, heal and awaken individuals to their inner quest and the transpersonal dimensions of their lives. His experience of Gestalt practice led him to believe that each character in a myth represents a facet of oneself. Hence, experiencing a myth from inside, and from all points of view, he viewed as a way to reconnect with oneself and to reach renewed awareness. His background in theatre had convinced him of the capacity of bodily gesture and movement to reveal and to transform the point of view of the mind and the attitude of the heart. He believed that uniting the dimensions of body, heart and mind in order to ensure that one is true to oneself would lead to liberation. To this approach he added work with group processes, whereby group members support one another in their individual inner journeys, which he considered to be one of the most healing aspects of his work.\n\nIn 1988 Paul Rebillot inaugurated the School of Gestalt and Experiential Teaching, in Switzerland, a four-level professional training program combining Gestalt theory and practice with ritual, myth, and group process. Taking place over four years, this training offered practising therapists an opportunity to explore the nature of transformational processes such as the ones he had created, and to learn how to conceive and facilitate their own, according to the standards he had set. A North American training programme began in August 1993. In May 1996, he started a \"Rites of Passage\" training programme in Germany. From that time on, he offered advanced training programmes in Germany as well as in France, Ireland, England and Austria.\n\nParallel to this, students who wished to facilitate one of his structures, such as \"The Hero's Journey\", had to get his approval after completing a specific apprenticeship programme inspired by the practice of many theater companies and of the medieval guilds, in which students travel, live and work with their teachers as part of their training.\n\nAfter The Hero's Journey, created in 1973, Paul Rebillot developed numerous structures of inner journeys, including:\n\n\nBefore he retired to San Francisco, Paul Rebillot appointed some of his students to carry on with his work. In Ireland, the Rebillot School of Gestalt and Experiential Teaching and, in France, the Ecole de Gestalt et processus expérientiels and in Germany the Institut fuer Gestalt und Erfahrung were formed. The mission of all schools is to promote, deliver and safeguard Rebillot's work. They offer the opportunity to experience the inner journeys designed by Rebillot himself or by his students, according to his principles and standards, as part of their training and certification, or subsequent to their certification. The Ecole de Gestalt et processus expérientiels delivers advanced training in French, the Institut fuer Gestalt und Erfahrung in German.\n\n\n\nPaul Rebillot in his last years recorded most of his structures as a gift to the world in collaboration with his three students, Mahipal Lunia, Sergey Berezin and Arman Darini of the Radical Change Group. \n"}
{"id": "32996853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32996853", "title": "Philosopher in Meditation", "text": "Philosopher in Meditation\n\nPhilosopher in Meditation (Bredius 431) is the traditional title of an oil painting in the Musée du Louvre, Paris, that has long been attributed to the 17th-century Dutch artist Rembrandt.\n\nIt is signed \"RHL-van Rijn\" and dated 1632, at the time of Rembrandt's move from Leiden to Amsterdam. Recent scholarship suggests that the painting depicts \"Tobit and Anna waiting for their son Tobias\" instead. This interpretation appears in the first known source, an auction catalogue from 1738 (see \"Subject matter\").\n\nThe painting appeared in Paris around the middle of the 18th century and made the rounds of aristocratic collections before being acquired for the royal collections housed in the Louvre Palace. The presumed subject matter, the finely graded chiaroscuro treatment and intricate composition were widely appreciated in France and the painting is mentioned in the writings of many 19th- and 20th-century literary figures, including George Sand, Théophile Gautier, Jules Michelet, Marcel Proust, Paul Valéry, Gaston Bachelard, Paul Claudel, and Aldous Huxley.\n\nThe popularity of the painting may be measured by its presence on the internet, where it is often used as an emblem of philosophy, or interpreted along esoteric or occult lines.\n\nPainted in oils on an oak panel measuring about 11 x 13 in. (28 x 34 cm), the painting depicts in slightly accelerated perspective two figures in a partially vaulted interior that is dominated by a wooden spiral staircase. The architecture includes stone, brick and wood, with arched elements (window, vault, doors) that create an impression of monumentality. On the pre-iconographic level, this is one of the most \"graphic\" works painted by Rembrandt, in the sense that it contains many straight, curved, circular, and radiating lines: from the lines of the flagstones to those of the window, the bricks, the wainscotting, and of course the staircase. As in the staircase and the basketwork tray at the center of the composition, the curved lines can be said to organize the straight lines. The first figure is that of an old man seated at a table in front of a window, his head bowed and his hands folded in his lap. The second figure is that of an old woman tending a fire in an open hearth. A third figure—a woman standing in the stairs carrying a basket and turned to the spectator—is visible in 18th- and 19th-century engraved reproductions of the painting, but virtually invisible in the painting's present state. As it is, the overall painting is quite dark due to the aging of the varnish.\n\nThe panel is signed \"RHL-van Rijn 163_\" at the bottom and left of the center, at a vertical from the figure of the old man. The signature is traced in light pigment on a dark background and is quite difficult to make out. The last digit is a tiny blob of paint, the form and placing of which would tally with a \"0,\" \"1\" or \"2.\" The type of signature—monogram plus patronymic—would argue for 1632, for the artist used this type of signature only in this year. This does not mean that the picture was painted in that year or even in Amsterdam, to which Rembrandt had moved in late 1631. In any case, this type of signature is so rare in Rembrandt's oeuvre and date-specific that it argues for authenticity.\n\nWhile the traditional title Philosopher in Meditation has to a large extent been responsible for the painting's popularity, it is iconographically untenable. The painting shows none of the conspicuous attributes of scholarship or philosophy—books, globe, scientific instruments, etc.—and the presence of at least one other figure involved in domestic tasks does not fit in with the solitude associated with study and meditation. Though a large book and a quill seem to be among the few objects on the table in front of the main figure, they are summarily depicted and impossible to identify more precisely: a Bible alone would not suffice to make the figure depicted a scholar or \"philosopher.\" Staircases—whether spiral or not—were not an attribute of philosophy in the early 17th century. Similar observations argue against identifying the main figure as an \"alchemist,\" a subject that would allow for other figures, such as an assistant tending a fire. The objects depicted suggest a domestic setting, yet the improbable architecture speaks more for a history than a genre subject. The French art historian Jean-Marie Clarke argues that the scene is ultimately derived from the Book of Tobit, one of Rembrandt's favorite Old Testament sources. The sole objection to this interpretation is that, apart from the two main figures—the blind Tobit and his wife Anna— there is no identifying attribute, such as Anna's spinning wheel. Nevertheless, a plausible interpretation of the scene is Tobit and Anna waiting for the return of their only son, Tobias, a scene that Rembrandt had already represented in another version in 1630. This is supported by an 18th-century source identifying a painting of the same dimensions by Rembrandt representing a \"Composition with Tobit and a winding stair.\" Earlier inventory mentions of a \"winding stair with an old man sitting on a chair\" or \"winding stair\" attributed to Rembrandt are vague and might even refer to the companion painting long attributed to Rembrandt, but now given to Salomon Koninck.\nAlthough the title in the Louvre's publications remains \"Philosophe en méditation\", catalogues of Rembrandt's painted oeuvre, starting with Bredius (1935) identify the subject more soberly as a \"Scholar in an Interior with a Winding Stair.\" With the rejection of the attribution to Rembrandt by the Rembrandt Research Project in 1986, the title became \"Old Man in an interior with a winding staircase.\"\n\nThe best explanation for the long-standing misinterpretation of the \"Philosopher in Meditation\" lies in the fact that, in the middle of the 18th century, it was sold together with a pendant of identical size (28 x 33.5 cm) that presented similar motifs—including a spiral staircase—and that was also attributed to Rembrandt. The paintings were exhibited together and titled interchangeably \"Philosophe en méditation\" and \"Philosophe en contemplation\", or referred to simply as the \"Philosophes\". The companion painting shows an old man in a vaulted interior seated in front of a table at a window on which we can see books, a globe, and a crucifix. These objects and his solitude make him a much better candidate for philosophical endeavor than the old man in the alleged \"Philosopher in Meditation\". In spite of the obvious differences in the composition and execution, no one called its attribution to Rembrandt in doubt. The great exception is the American art historian John C. Van Dyke, who whittled Rembrandt's oeuvre down to less than fifty paintings and made short shrift of the Louvre's \"Philosophers\": \"Small pictures over which, in the past, there has been much spilling of good printer's ink with no marked results. The pictures are not wonderful...\". In 1955, examinations with X-rays and infrared photography at the laboratory of the Louvre revealed notable differences in treatment and caused this attribution to be dropped. Jacques Foucart (1982), Curator for Dutch and Fleming Painting at the Louvre, like Horst Gerson (1968) and Werner Sumowski (1983), attributes this work to Salomon Koninck (1609–1656), a Rembrandt imitator, dating it to around 1645 and titling it \"Philosopher in Contemplation\" or \"Philosopher with an Open Book\". Yet the real credit for the attribution to Koninck should go to John C. Van Dyke, who wrote: \"In fact, one may be heretical enough to think that someone like Koninck or Dou may have painted them...\" The subject matter and details of the Koninck picture seem to have been directly inspired by a Rembrandt etching dated 1642 and representing \"St. Jerome in a dark chamber\" (Bartsch 105), which is the only other known work by Rembrandt that features a complete helical staircase. The traditional iconography of the Doctors of the Church and St. Jerome in particular provided the attributes for 17th-century representations of scholars in their study. In the last analysis, the only thing that the pendant has in common with the \"Philosopher in Meditation\" is the medium and format, which reflects more on Koninck's intentions than on those of Rembrandt. Any further speculation on the relationship between the two paintings must take into account a manuscript commentary from around 1750 by their first French owner, the marquis de Voyer d'Argenson, who states that the two pictures were brought together \"by chance.\"\n\nIn the second volume of its \"Corpus of Rembrandt Paintings\", which covers the years 1631-1634, the Rembrandt Research Project (RRP) rejected the attribution to Rembrandt of the \"Philosopher in Meditation\". Until then, and except for the \"heretical\" John C. Van Dyke, this attribution had been unanimously accepted by experts and art historians. The RRP did not introduce any new objective or documentary evidence, but based its judgment on an assessment of Rembrandt's \"habits,\" an appraisal of the painting's style, and the difficulty of fitting it within Rembrandt's production in 1632 or the later 1630s. The RRP did not make any guesses as to who the author of this painting might have been, but relegated it to \"Rembrandt's immediate circle, or even his own workshop.\" This judgment was analyzed by Jean-Marie Clarke who pointed out, among other things, that the RRP may have had a special stake in rejecting this painting, as the following quote suggests:\n\"In the later part of the 18th century the painting enjoyed a great reputation in France as \"Le Philosophe en contemplation\", and it helped to determine the image of Rembrandt's art to an unwarranted extent.\"\nThis disattribution was not accepted by the Louvre and other Rembrandt scholars, and the newly configured RRP has changed its stance since. In the fifth volume of the \"Corpus\" (2011), which covers \"small history paintings,\" the painting has been classified without further ado as a \"re-attribution\" by the current director of the RRP, Ernst van de Wetering. The painting was officially re-instated in vol. 6 of the \"Corpus\" under no. 86 with the title \"Interior with a window and a winding staircase\" and the parenthetical information: \"a study in Kamerlicht.\"\n\nIn a lecture given at the Goetheanum in Dornach (1916), the ex-theosophist and founder of the Anthroposophical Society, Rudolf Steiner, described the Louvre \"Philosopher\" as the \"purest expression of light and dark... All that you see here—the architecture and all the other features—merely provided the occasion for the real work of Art, which lies in the distribution of light and dark.\" This, he held, was precisely the essence of Rembrandt's art. As it was, he showed only a \"lantern slide\" of the companion painting by Salomon Koninck discussed above.\nWith his inversion of the title, Aldous Huxley (1954) sums up most of the \"deeper\" interpretations of the painting: \"There hangs in the Louvre a \"Méditation du Philosophe\", whose symbolical subject-matter is nothing more or less than the human mind, with its teeming darknesses, its moments of intellectual and visionary illuminations, its mysterious staircases winding downwards and upwards into the unknown.\nThe caption to an illustration of the painting (reversed) in the psychoanalyst C. G. Jung's \"Man and His Symbols\" (1964) reads: \"The inward-looking old man provides an image of Jung's belief that each of us must explore his own unconscious.\"\n\nJean-Marie Clarke (1980) advanced a psychological interpretation based on the circular form of the composition and the Yin-Yang-like distribution of light, reading the painting as a \"Mandala\" in the Jungian sense: an archetypal symbol of the integrated Self. The chiaroscuro treatment and the presence of many straight lines that are structured by curved lines speaks for a deliberate effort at reconciling the Opposites. Further, Clarke interpreted the concentricity of the composition and wealth of circular motifs as metaphors for the underlying theme of the painting: the eye and vision. Like Julius Held, Clarke believes that the drawing dated ca. 1630 at the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford (Benesch 64) with the caption \"HARMAN GERRITS van der Rhijn\" written in Rembrandt's hand that shows his father in a pose similar to that of Tobit here, suggests that he may have been blind at the end of his life. Accordingly, the figure of the blind old man (Tobit) stands for Rembrandt's father (d. 1630), who opposed his son's wish to become an artist and whose vision the young Rembrandt (Tobias) \"healed\" with the help of the archangel Raphael (\"God heals\", a name that also symbolizes Art). More recently, Clarke published an interpretation on the internet that relates Rembrandt's composition to the design of his signature in 1632.\n\nJean-Pierre Dautun (1983), a student of the French philosopher Raymond Abellio, offers a detailed phenomenological reading along Gnostic lines, interpreting the central motif of the painting (the basketwork tray) as \"the navel, the \"omphalos\" of the luminous hermetic secret that Rembrandt wishes to transmit: the phenomenological secret that the eye of the genius will be given to those who will conquer the genius of the eye. It is the ineffable secret of this transmission itself, the 'thou art that' of this \"mutus liber\" that is his painting, as if to permit an Occidental satori to a koan of his own devise.\" The French philosophy professor Régine Pietra (1992) published an essay in which she used the painting to illustrate the rhetorical figure of hypotyposis; Rembrandt's painting, with its interplay of light and dark, renders the experience of philosophical meditation visually perceptible.\nThe Dutch philosopher Otto B. Wiersma (1999) published an article on the internet that he summarizes in these terms:\n\"The painting of Rembrandt \"Philosophe en méditation\" (1632, Louvre Paris) can be characterized as a pictorial meditation on the miracle of vision. A better title would be \"Méditation visionnaire\", because the painting catches the eye in more than one sense.\"\nA discussion of the \"Philosopher in Meditation\" along essentially Gurdjeffian lines can be found on the Objective Art website (2011).\n\n"}
{"id": "990353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=990353", "title": "Polyculturalism", "text": "Polyculturalism\n\nPolyculturalism is an ideological approach to the consequences of intercultural engagements within a geographical area which emphasises similarities between, and the enduring interconnectedness of, groups which self-identify as distinct, thus blurring the boundaries which may be perceived by members of those groups. It differs from multiculturalism which instead emphasises the separateness of the identities of self-identifying cultural groups with an aim of preserving and celebrating their differences in spite of interactions between them. Supporters of polyculturalism oppose multiculturalism, arguing that the latter's emphasis on difference and separateness is divisive and harmful to social cohesion.\n\nThe concept of polyculturalism was first proposed by Robin Kelley and Vijay Prashad.\n\nResearch has shown that belief in polyculturalism is linked to cultural intelligence (CQ) in Australia and China.\n\nResearch shows that polyculturists are less likely to demonstrate sexist attitudes.\n\nResearch has shown that polyculturalism has a positive relationship with cross-cultural attitudes in both the Philippines and the United States of America.\n\nLike advocates of multiculturalism, proponents of polyculturalism encourage individuals to learn about different cultures, especially those they may come into contact with in their own areas. However whereas multiculturalism advocates for toleration between members of distictly different cultures groups, polyculturalism is less rigid and acknowledges that individual shape their own identities and may choose to change so as to express their culture in a different way to their own ancestors, either by adding elements of other cultures to it or by eliminating aspects of it.\n\nPolyculturalism rejects the concept of race as a social construct with no scientific basis, however it recognises the concept of ethnicity, considering ethno-nationalism a barrier which must be transcended in the pursuit of a dynamic community culture.\n\nCritics of multiculturalism argue that it entrenches identity politics while polyculturalism aims to forge a common new identity\n\nPolyculturalism acknowledges that cultures are dynamic, interactive and impure while multiculturalism treats them as static, isolated and complete.\n\nThe following table presents an overview of some ideologies.\n\nPolyculturalism was the subject of the 2001 book \"Everybody Was Kung Fu Fighting: Afro-Asian Connections and the Myth of Cultural Purity\" by Vijay Prashad.\n"}
{"id": "1528526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1528526", "title": "Purple prose", "text": "Purple prose\n\nIn literary criticism, purple prose is prose text that is so extravagant, ornate, or flowery as to break the flow and draw excessive attention to itself. Purple prose is characterized by the excessive use of adjectives, adverbs, and metaphors. When it is limited to certain passages, they may be termed purple patches or purple passages, standing out from the rest of the work.\n\nPurple prose is criticized for desaturating the meaning in an author's text by overusing melodramatic and fanciful descriptions. As there is no precise rule or absolute definition of what constitutes purple prose, deciding if a text, passage, or complete work has fallen victim is a somewhat subjective decision. According to Paul West, \"It takes a certain amount of sass to speak up for prose that's rich, succulent and full of novelty. Purple is immoral, undemocratic and insincere; at best artsy, at worst the exterminating angel of depravity.\"\n\nThe term \"purple prose\" is derived from a reference by the Roman poet Horace (Quintus Horatius Flaccus, 65–8 BC) who wrote in his \"Ars Poetica\" (lines 14–21):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41748961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41748961", "title": "Resistance through culture", "text": "Resistance through culture\n\nResistance through culture (also called cultural resistance, resistance through the aesthetic, or intellectual resistance) is a form of nonconformism. It is not open dissent, but a discreet stance.\n\nA revolt \"so well hidden that it seem[s] inexistent\", it is a quest \"to extend the boundaries of official tolerance, either by adopting a line considered by authorities to be ideologically suspect, or by highlighting certain contemporary social problems, or both.\" Criticized for being \"utopian, and thus inadequate to the realities of that age\", during the time of the Communist regimes in Europe, it was also a surviving formula, a modality for writers and artists to cheat Communist censorship without going the whole way into open political opposition.\n\nOne of the most sharply criticized phrases in post-revolutionary Romania, considered to be not much more than \"blowing in the wind\" by Romanian-born German Nobel literature prize winner Herta Müller, and \"not only resignation [...] but complicity with the terorist communism\" by Romanian exiled writer Paul Goma, so-called \"resistance through culture\" has often been linked to Constantin Noica's so-called \"Păltiniș School\".\n\nIn the fine arts, Corneliu Baba, among others, is sometimes considered to be an example of a painter who was nonconformist in this way.\n"}
{"id": "5492257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5492257", "title": "Rozz Tox Manifesto", "text": "Rozz Tox Manifesto\n\nThe Rozz Tox Manifesto is a 1980 essay by visual artist Gary Panter in which Panter rejects the notion of the artist as bohemian; instead, an artist is encouraged to work within capitalism to reach a larger market.\n\n\nThe essay influenced Panter's friend Matt Groening, who later went on to become the creator of \"The Simpsons\".\n\nIn Matt Howarth's comic \"Stalking Ralph\", the musical group The Residents are portrayed as being created by a \"Rozz Tox Virus\", whose ultimate goal is to constantly mutate to avoid becoming part of mainstream culture. While the text of the manifesto does not appear in the comic, an alien creature declares, \"The underground becomes the establishment\", and that the reason The Residents change their band identity so often is to remain underground and to avoid becoming establishment. Howarth's interpretation of Rozz Tox is different from Groening's. While Groening has worked within a capitalist system to create and to perpetuate successful merchandising, Howarth's characters are specifically avoiding \"selling out\" and avoiding popular acceptance.\n\n"}
{"id": "44828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44828", "title": "Seven hills of Rome", "text": "Seven hills of Rome\n\nThe seven hills of Rome ( , ) east of the river Tiber form the geographical heart of Rome, within the walls of the city.\n\nThe seven hills are:\n\n\nThe Vatican Hill (Latin \"Collis Vaticanus\") lying northwest of the Tiber, the Pincian Hill (Latin \"Mons Pincius\"), lying to the north, and the Janiculum Hill (Latin \"Ianiculum\"), lying to the west, are not counted among the traditional Seven Hills.\n\nTradition holds that Romulus and Remus founded the original city on the Palatine Hill on April 21st, 753 BC, and that the seven hills were first occupied by small settlements that were not grouped nor recognized as a city called Rome. The seven hills' denizens began to interact, which began to bond the groups. The city of Rome, thus, came into being as these separate settlements acted as a group, draining the marshy valleys between them and turning them into markets (\"fora\" in Latin). Later, in the early 4th century BC, the Servian Walls were constructed to protect the seven hills.\n\nIn modern Rome, five of the seven hills, the Aventine, Caelian, Esquiline, Quirinal, and Viminal Hills, are now the sites of monuments, buildings, and parks. The Capitoline Hill is the location of Rome's city hall, and the Palatine Hill is part of the main archaeological area.\n\nConstantinople, Lisbon and Newton, Massachusetts are also said to have been built on seven hills, following the example of Rome: \"The general features of Newton are not without interest. Seven principal elevations mark its siu-face, like the seven hills of ancient Rome, with the difference that the seven hills of Newton are much more distinct than the seven hills of Rome: Nonantum Hill, Waban Hill, Chestnut Hill, Bald Pate, Oak Hill, Institution Hill and Mount Ida.\" See also \"Seven hills of Istanbul\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7524684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7524684", "title": "Showpiece", "text": "Showpiece\n\nA showpiece is:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42701081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42701081", "title": "Sociology of Jewry", "text": "Sociology of Jewry\n\nThe sociology of Jewry involves the application of sociological theory and method to the study of the Jewish people and the Jewish religion. Sociologists are concerned with the social patterns within Jewish groups and communities; American Jewry, Israeli Jews and Jewish life in the diaspora. Sociological studies of the Jewish religion include religious membership, ritual and denominational patterns. Notable journals include \"Jewish Social Studies\", \"The Jewish Journal of Sociology\" and \"Contemporary Jewry.\n\nSociology of Jewry initially emerged in the United States in the 1930s beginning with the 1938 publication of \"Jewish Social Studies\", sponsored by the Conference of Jewish Relations. The Journal's mission was \"to promote, by means of scientific research, a better understanding of the position of Jews in the modern world.\" And the later publication of \"The Jewish Journal of Sociology\" in 1958 was due to the \"few opportunities... for publishing academic and scientific studies of the sociology of Jews.\"\n\nIn 1955, sociologist Seymour Lipset noted that the discipline was underdeveloped, stating that there were far more \"Jewish sociologists\" than \"sociologists of Jews\". However, the subfield began to grow in the late 1960s and 1970s. A professional organization was formed, namely the Association for the Social Scientific Study of Jewry (ASSJ). In 1975, a new academic journal was founded as well, \"Contemporary Jewry\".\n\nContributing to this growth was the work of Marshall Sklare, now considered one of the founding figures in the sociology of Jewry. Marshall Sklare and Joseph Greenblum’s 1967 study of Jewish identity in “Lakeville” is considered one of the most notable works of its kind. The sociological study of intergroup relations and the theories proposed by Nathan Glazer and Daniel P. Moynihan is also thought to have contributed to the growth of the sociology of Jewry.\n\nThe idea for the formation of a professional organization for scholars specializing in the sociology of Jewry first surfaced in 1966; the concept was discussed by Werner J. Cahnman and Norman L. Friedman at an American Sociological Association (ASA) conference. The association was informally launched by Norman Friedman and Bernard Lazerwitz in 1970; the event, titled \"The Sociological Study of Jewry\" took place at the ASA annual conference. Sociologists Solomon Poll, Mervin Verbit and Arnold Dashevsky submitted a motion to establish a formal group; the motion was voted upon and accepted. The new group, the Association for the Social Scientific Study of Jewry (ASSJ or ASSSJ) was launched and formally met the following year. The group has since organized annual conferences, established the academic journal \"Contemporary Jewry\", founded the \"ASSJ Newsletter\" and honors exceptional scholars in the field with the Marshall Sklare Award.\n\nWhile the ASSJ and \"Contemporary Jewry\" are dominated by sociologists and sociological studies - all but one of the organization's presidents earned a doctorate in sociology, the other received a doctorate in psychology - the focus has not been restricted to sociology alone. Studies involving other social sciences and history are included as well, and professionals from those disciplines have joined as members, contributors and honorees.\n\nAccording to sociologist Samuel Heilman, there are three major theoretical approaches in studying the sociology of American Jewry in particular:\n\nWhile other theoretical approaches have been advanced they have not majorly impacted the discipline's research agenda.\n\nSamuel Klausner, a former president of the ASSJ, noted that the sociology of Jewry is more an applied social science than a theoretical one. For Klausner, theories developed in sociology may help explain any society, not just a Jewish one. The contribution of the sociology of Jewry therefore is the application of the science, such as its methodology. Others, however, stress that the subfield is a part of general comparative sociology.\n\nIn 1946, Kurt H. Wolff, a student of Karl Mannheim, published “An Elementary Syllabus in the Sociology of the Jews” in \"Social Forces\", a notable sociology journal. Wolff's aim was to provide an aid to including material on Jews in courses on race relations, social disorganization, minorities, and/or introductory sociology. Wolff's syllabus focused on three topics:\n\nLater scholars have noted that Wolff's syllabus on the Sociology of Jewry sought to study external structures but ignored the internal dynamics of the Jewish community.\n\nIn 1992, Rabbi Jack Nusan Porter edited the first syllabus collection and curriculum guide on the Sociology of Jewry. The collection was published by the American Sociological Association (ASA). The collection included individual syllabi on the sociology of Jews from 34 colleges and universities. However, Porter found that many of the syllabi focused exclusively on Jewish life in America. And only 10 out of 34 syllabi were from sociology departments.\n\nPaul Burstein of the University of Washington compiled an updated collection of syllabi on the sociology of Jewry. This collection was published by the American Sociological Association (ASA) in 2007. In his work, Burstein focuses on the following themes:\n\nBurstein notes gaps in specific areas. For example, while Black-Jewish relations in the U.S. is covered in the syllabi, relations between Jews and other groups is not. Also, there are few areas covered outside of American and Israeli Jewry.\n\n"}
{"id": "529844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=529844", "title": "Story arc", "text": "Story arc\n\nA story arc (also narrative arc) is an extended or continuing storyline in episodic storytelling media such as television, comic books, comic strips, boardgames, video games, and films with each episode following a dramatic arc. On a television program, for example, the story would unfold over many episodes. In television, the use of the story arc is much more common in comedies, especially in soap operas. In a traditional Hollywood film, the story arc usually follows a three-act format. Webcomics are more likely to use story arcs than newspaper comics, as most web comics have readable archives online that a newcomer to the strip can read in order to understand what is going on. Although story arcs have existed for decades, the term \"story arc\" was coined in 1988 in relation to the television series \"Wiseguy\", and was quickly adapted for other uses.\n\nMany American comic book series are now written in four or six-issue arcs, within a continuing series. Short story arcs are easier to package as trade paperbacks for resale, and more accessible to the casual reader than the never-ending continuity that once characterised US comics.\nA corollary to the absence of continuity, however, is that, as exemplified in 1950s DC \"Superman\" comics, no permanent change to characters or situations occurs, meaning no growth can take place; thus storylines repeat over time in an endless loop.\n\nThe purpose of a story arc is to move a character or a situation from one state to another; in other words, to effect change. This change or transformation often takes the form of either a tragic fall from grace or a reversal of that pattern. One common form in which this reversal is found is a character going from a situation of weakness to one of strength. For example, a poor woman goes on adventures and in the end makes a fortune for herself, or a lonely man falls in love and marries.\n\nAnother form of storytelling that offers a change or transformation of character is that of \"hero's journey,\" as laid out in Joseph Campbell's theory of the monomyth in his work, \"The Hero with a Thousand Faces\". Christopher Vogler's \"\" details the same theory specifically for western storytelling.\n\nStory arcs in contemporary drama often follow the pattern of bringing a character to a low point, removing the structures the character depends upon, and then forcing the character to find new strength without those structures. In a story arc, the character undergoes substantial growth or change, which culminates in the denouement in the last third or quarter of a story.\n\nStory arcs on television (and also on radio) have existed for decades (one notable (albeit, unusual) example, from the so-called \"Golden Age of Radio\", being the 1946 NBC Radio Summer-run docudrama serial, \"The Fifth Horseman\", which (in part) featured a four-episode arc regarding a hypothetical chain of events (spanning nearly two full \"future\" decades) surrounding a fictitious nuclear holocaust), and are common in many countries where multi-episode storylines are the norm (an example being the UK's \"Doctor Who\"), as well as most anime series.\n\nMany arc-based series in past decades, such as \"V\", were often short-lived and found it difficult to attract new viewers; they also rarely appear in traditional syndication (one notable example being the science fiction \"novel for television\" \"Babylon 5\"). However, the rise of DVD retail and DVR of television series has worked in arc-based productions' favor as the standard season collection format allows the viewer to have easy access to the relevant episodes. One area of television where story arcs have always thrived, however, is in the realm of the soap opera, and often episodic series have been derisively referred to as \"soap operas\" when they have adopted story arcs.\n\nArc-based series draw and reward dedicated viewers, and fans of a particular show follow and discuss different story arcs independently from particular episodes. Story arcs are sometimes split into subarcs, if deemed significant by fans, making it easy to refer to certain episodes if their production order titles are unknown. Episodes not relevant to story arcs (such as \"monsters of the week\") are sometimes dismissed as filler by fans, but might be referred to as self-contained or stand-alone episodes by producers.\n\nManga and anime are usually good examples of arc-based stories, to the point that most series shorter than twenty-six chapters are a single arc spanning all the chapters. This makes syndication difficult, as episodes watched in isolation often confuse viewers unless watched in conjunction with the series as a whole. Series of thirty chapters or longer usually have multiple arcs.\n\n\"Neon Genesis Evangelion\", for example, is a single story arc spanning twenty-six episodes. Other longer anime have multiple story arcs, such as \"Bleach\", \"Higurashi no Naku Koro ni\", \"One Piece\", \"Naruto\", \"Yu-Gi-Oh!\" and \"Fairy Tail\". The anime \"Dragon Ball Z\" adapts four different story arcs from the \"Dragon Ball\" manga, each with its own ultimate antagonist, along with original story arcs created for the TV series.\n\n"}
{"id": "1071971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1071971", "title": "Susto", "text": "Susto\n\nSusto (, ) is a cultural illness primarily among Latin American cultures. It is described by Razzouk et al. as a condition of being frightened and \"chronic somatic suffering stemming from emotional trauma or from witnessing traumatic experiences lived by others\". Susto is classified as a culture-bound syndrome. A culture-bound syndrome is a symptom that occurs and is recognized within an ethnic group. \n\nAmong the indigenous peoples of Latin America, in which this illness is most common, susto may be conceptualized as a case of spirit attack. Symptoms of susto are thought to include nervousness, anorexia, insomnia, listlessness, fever, depression, and diarrhea.\n\nSusto may be a culturally dependent variation of the symptoms of panic attack, distinct from anxiety and depressive disorders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50406750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50406750", "title": "Suzanne Césaire", "text": "Suzanne Césaire\n\nSuzanne Césaire [née Roussi] (11 August 1915 – 16 May 1966), born in Martinique, and was a writer, teacher, scholar, anti-colonial and feminist activist, and Surrealist.\n\nSuzanne Césaire (née Roussi) was born on 11 August 1915 in Poterie, Martinique, to Flore Roussi (née William), a school teacher, and Benoït Roussi, a sugar factory worker.\n\nShe began her education at her local primary school in Rivière-Salée in Martinique (which still had the status of a French colonial territory at that time), before attending a girls’ boarding school in the capital, Fort-de-France. Having completed her secondary education, she went to study literature in Toulouse, France, and then in Paris at the prestigious École normale supérieure from 1936-1938.\n\nDuring her first year as a student in Paris, Suzanne (then still named Roussi) meet Léopold Sédar Senghor, who introduced her to Aimé Césaire, a fellow student at the École normale supérieure. The following year, on 10 July 1937, the couple married at the town hall of the 14th arrondissement in Paris. During their studies, the Césaires were both part of the editorial team of the militant journal, \"L'Étudiant noir\". In 1938 the couple had their first child. The following year they returned to Martinique where they both took up teaching jobs at the Lycée Schoelcher. They went on to have 6 children together, divorcing in April 1963 after 25 years of marriage.\n\nSuzanne Césaire wrote in French and published seven essays during her career as a writer. All seven of these essays were published between 1941 and 1945 in the Martiniquan cultural journal \"Tropiques\", of which she was a co-founder and editor along with her husband, Aimé Césaire, and René Ménil, both of whom were notable Martiniquan poets. Her writing explored themes such as Caribbean identity, civilisation, and surrealism.\n\nWhile her writing remains largely unknown to Anglophone readers, excerpts of her essays “Leo Frobenius and the Problem of Civilisations”, “A Civilisation’s Discontent”, “1943: Surrealism and Us”, and “The Great Camouflage” can be found translated into English in the anthology \"The Refusal of the Shadow: Surrealism and the Caribbean\" (Verso, 1996) edited by Michael Richardson.\n\nCésaire had a particular affinity with surrealism, which she described as “the tightrope of our hope”. In her essay, “1943: Surrealism and Us”, she called for a Martiniquan surrealism:\n\n“Our surrealism will then deliver it the bread of its depths. Finally those sordid contemporary antinomies of black/white, European/African, civilised/savage will be transcended. The magical power of the mahoulis will be recovered, drawn forth from living sources. Colonial stupidity will be purified in the blue welding flame. Our value as metal, our cutting edge of steel, our amazing communions will be recovered.”\n\nSuzanne Césaire also developed a close relationship with André Breton following his visit to Martinique in 1941. She dedicated an essay to him (“André Breton, poet”, 1941) and received a poem dedicated to her in return (“For madame Suzanne Césaire”, 1941). This encounter with André Breton opened the way for her development of Afro-Surrealism \n\nHer writing is often overshadowed by that of her husband, who is the better known of the two. However, in addition to her important literary essays, her role as editor of \"Tropiques\" can be regarded as an equally significant (if often overlooked) contribution to Caribbean literature. \"Tropiques\" was the most influential francophone Caribbean journal of its time and is widely acknowledged for the foundational role it played in the development of Martiniquan literature. Césaire played both an intellectual and administrative role in the journal’s success. She managed the journal’s relations with the censor — a particularly difficult role given the oppositional stance of \"Tropiques\" towards the war-time Vichy government — as well as taking responsibility for the printing. The intellectual impact she had on the journal is underlined by her essay “The Great Camouflage”, which was the closing article of the final issue. Despite her substantial written and editorial contribution to the journal, the collected works of \"Tropiques\", published by Jean-Michel Place in 1978, credits Aimé Césaire and René Ménil as the journal’s catalysts.\n\n\"Tropiques\" published its last issue in September 1945, at the end of World War Two. With the ending of the journal, Suzanne Césaire stopped writing. The reasons for this are unknown. However, journalist Natalie Levisalles suggests that Suzanne Césaire would have perhaps made different choices if she had not had the responsibilities of mothering 6 children, teaching, and being the wife of an important politician and poet, Aimé Césaire. Indeed, her first daughter, Ina Césaire, remembers her saying regularly: “yours will be the first generation of women who choose”.\n\nHaving stopped writing she pursued her career as a teacher, working in Martinique, France, and Haiti. She was also an active feminist and participated in the Union des Femmes Françaises.\n\nSuzanne Césaire was a pioneer in the search for a distinct Martiniquan literary voice. However, following an early edition of \"Tropiques\", she attacked by some Caribbean writers for aping traditional French styles of poetry, supposedly promoting 'The Happy Antilles' view of the island promoted by French colonialism. However, her essay of 1941, Misère d'une poésie, condemned what she termed \"Littérature de hamac. Littérature de sucre et de vanille. Tourisme littéeraire\" [Literaure of the hammock, of sugar and vanilla. Literary tourism].[1]\nHer encounter with André Breton opened the way for her development of Afro-Surrealism[2], which followed in the footsteps of her use of surrealist concepts to illuminate the colonial dilemma.[3] Her dictum - \"La poésie martinique sera cannibale ou ne sera pas\" [Cannibal poetry or nothing][4] - was an anti-colonial appropriation of a surrealist trope. Suzanne Césaire's repudiation of simple idealised answers - whether assimilationist, Africanist, or creole - to the situation of colonialism in the Caribbean has proved increasingly influential in later postcolonial studies.[6]\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14026639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14026639", "title": "Tanning dependence", "text": "Tanning dependence\n\nTanning dependence is a syndrome where an individual appears to have a physical or psychological dependence on sunbathing or the use of ultraviolet (UV) tanning beds. Compulsive tanning may satisfy the definition of a behavioral addiction as well.\n\nTanning dependence may have a physiological basis involving endogenous opioids. There is evidence that UV exposure produces beta-endorphin in the epidermis and conflicting evidence of this opioid being released into the blood system, a pathway to the brain. A small study also found the opioid antagonist naltrexone reduced preference for UV tanning beds and at higher doses produced withdraw symptoms in frequent tanners. Better understanding of tanning dependence requires further controlled studies, especially in imaging and neurobiology.\n\nThe finding that excessive tanning can lead to dependence is based upon \"the observations of many dermatologists.\" Dermatologists tell researchers that although they advise their patients not to visit tanning beds because of the risk of melanoma, patients still do. In a 2014 literature review, researchers wrote that many people who tan excessively meet psychiatry's symptom criteria for substance abuse. In a case where ten studies provided data for the assessment of melanoma risk among subjects who reported “ever” being exposed compared with those “never” exposed; a positive association was found between exposure and risk.\n\nThe effects of tanning dependence are/but not limited to: skin cancer, skin burns, premature skin aging, and eye damage (both short and long-term).\n\nTanorexia is the term used to describe a condition in which a person, most notably Caucasian people, participates in excessive outdoor sun tanning or excessive use of other skin tanning methods (such as tanning beds) to achieve a darker skin complexion because they perceive themselves as unacceptably pale. The syndrome is different from tanning dependence, although both may fit into the same syndrome and can be considered a subset of tanning dependence.\n\nAlthough the term \"tanorexia\" has been used by the media and several doctors to describe the syndrome, both the word and syndrome have not been widely accepted by the medical community, and is considered slang by many. The term tanorexia was coined after the medical condition anorexia nervosa, a disorder characterized by low body weight and body image distortion with an obsessive fear of gaining weight. It can be likened to the common practice of adding the suffix \"-aholic\" (from the term alcoholic) to the end of any action or food someone enjoys extensively and often (e.g., \"choc-aholic\", \"work-aholic\", \"golf-aholic\", \"shop-aholic\", etc.).\n\nSerious cases of tanorexia can be considered dangerous. This is because many of the more popular methods of tanning (such as those mentioned above) require prolonged exposure to ultraviolet radiation, which is known to be a cause of many negative side effects, including skin cancer.\n\nExtreme instances may be an indication of body dysmorphic disorder (BDD), a mental disorder in which one is extremely critical of his or her physique or self-image to an obsessive and compulsive degree. As it is with anorexia, a person with BDD is said to show signs of a characteristic called distorted body image. In layman's terms, anorexia sufferers commonly believe they are overweight, many times claiming they see themselves as \"fat\", when in reality, they are often, but not always, nutritionally underweight and physically much thinner than the average person. In the same way, a sufferer of \"tanorexia\" may believe him or herself to have a much lighter – even a pale – complexion when he or she is actually quite dark-skinned.\n\nNeither tanning dependence nor tanorexia are covered under the latest edition of the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\". However, a 2005 article in \"The Archives of Dermatology\" presents a case for UV light tanning dependence to be viewed as a type of substance abuse disorder.\n\nIn 2012, New Jersey mother Patricia Krentcil received national media attention amid accusations that she had brought her five-year-old daughter with her to a tanning salon in order for the child to receive a tan. The child's school nurse had expressed concern over her sunburn, at which point the daughter claimed she had gone \"tanning with Mommy\". This prompted the school to call Division of Youth and Family Services, as New Jersey law bans children under 14 from tanning booths. Initial media coverage of the event resulted in widespread attention given to Patricia Krentcil's unusually bronzed image, leading many to speculate that she was tanorexic. She was subsequently charged with second-degree child endangerment, and she was banned from over 60 tanning salons in the tri-state area. Patricia claimed that it was all a misunderstanding, saying her daughter was never exposed to the tanning booth's UV rays and instead got slightly sunburned while playing outside on a warm day. She was later cleared of the charge. At one point, she was challenged to stop tanning for one month, which she did, greatly changing her appearance. She claimed it made her feel \"weird and pale\", and that she would cut back on tanning, but not eliminate it from her hobbies. A Connecticut-based business also attempted to seize and capitalize on the \"tan mom\" craze by creating an action figure doll of Patricia.\n\nExcessive tanning increases the risk of developing certain types of skin cancer. People that are addicted to tanning are dealing with a body dysmorphic disorder (BDD). People with tanorexia dislike the color of their skin but in reality the perceived defect may be only a slight imperfection or non-existent. Commonly, people who are suffering from tanorexia also suffer from anxiety disorders such as obsessive compulsive disorder, depression and eating disorders.\n\nTo get the right treatment for tanorexia, people must mention specifically their concerns with their appearance when they talk to a doctor or mental health professional. Effective treatments that are available at the moment are cognitive behavioral therapy, antidepressant medications, hypnosis and addiction treatment centers. Antidepressant medications include selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and can help relieve the obsessive and compulsive symptoms of tanorexia. The third treatment, is an audio hypnosis session which is developed by psychologists with a wide experience in helping people beat all kinds of addictive behaviour patterns. Lastly, people with an extreme tanning addiction can look for help at specific addiction centres that are spread throughout the United States.\n\nIn Western European culture, pale skin has indicated high status. A tan signified that you had to work outdoors as a manual laborer, while pale skin announced that you could afford to stay out of the sun and spend time and money cultivating your appearance. In the 1920s, pioneering fashion designer Coco Chanel popularized the idea of tanning. She made it so the sun represented pleasure and relaxation as well as wealth. Post Industrial Revolution, tanning gained popularity because at this time it was easier to be employed, and therefore there was less outdoor manual labor, and more indoor labor. Due to more indoor jobs, a tan began to mean that you had time the leisure time to bronze your skin and the money to travel to places where it could be acquired. A tan also represented enthusiasm for outdoor activities, as well as physical fitness and good health.\n\nWhen tanning bed became implemented the concept of tanning changed yet again. The first self tanner, Tan-Man, was introduced in 1959, and UV tanning beds started to appear in the United States in 1978. A study conducted at Pepperdine University in 2005 found that 25 percent of beach-goers showed signs of tanning addiction or tanorexia. Since the implementation of tanning beds in the United States, nearly 30 million people tan indoors every year.\n\nThere have been health issues related to tanning trends. In 2014 most Australian states put a ban on all commercial tanning beds. It is the second nation after Brazil to impose restrictions. In 2011 over 2000 people died from skin cancer in Australia. Several European counties and American States have banned the use of tanning beds by minors. Scientists have also suspected that frequent exposure to UVs has the potential to become addictive. Researchers have found that several parts of the brain that a play a role in addiction are active when people are exposed to UV rays.\n\nIn the mid 1990’s, a new type of tanning trend appeared in Japan called Ganguro. It was a way for Japanese women to resist traditional roles for women in Japan. The style is described as having deep tans and blond, orange, or silver gray hair. Many of these women were shunned by the public and media.\n\n"}
{"id": "104952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104952", "title": "Tragicomedy", "text": "Tragicomedy\n\nTragicomedy is a literary genre that blends aspects of both tragic and comic forms. Most often seen in dramatic literature, the term can variously describe by either a tragic play which contains enough comic elements to lighten the overall mood or a serious play with a happy ending.\n\nThere is no complete formal definition of tragicomedy from the classical age. It appears that the Greek philosopher Aristotle had something like the Renaissance meaning of the term (that is, a serious action with a happy ending) in mind when, in \"Poetics\", he discusses tragedy with a dual ending. In this respect, a number of Greek and Roman plays, for instance \"Alcestis\", may be called tragicomedies, though without any definite attributes outside of plot. The word itself originates with the Roman comic playwright Plautus, who coined the term somewhat facetiously in the prologue to his play \"Amphitryon\". The character Mercury, sensing the indecorum of the inclusion of both kings and gods alongside servants in a comedy, declares that the play had better be a \"tragicomoedia\":\n\nPlautus's comment had an arguably excessive impact on Renaissance aesthetic theory, which had largely transformed Aristotle's comments on drama into a rigid theory. For \"rule mongers\" (the term is Giordano Bruno's), \"mixed\" works such as those mentioned above, more recent \"romances\" such as \"Orlando Furioso\", and even \"The Odyssey\" were at best puzzles; at worst, mistakes. Two figures helped to elevate tragicomedy to the status of a regular genre, by which is meant one with its own set of rigid rules. Giovanni Battista Giraldi Cinthio, in the mid-sixteenth century, both argued that the tragedy-with-comic-ending (\"tragedia de lieto fin\") was most appropriate to modern times and produced his own examples of such plays. Even more important was Giovanni Battista Guarini. Guarini's \"Il Pastor Fido\", published in 1590, provoked a fierce critical debate in which Guarini's spirited defense of generic innovation eventually carried the day. Guarini's tragicomedy offered modulated action that never drifted too far either to comedy or tragedy, mannered characters, and a pastoral setting. All three became staples of continental tragicomedy for a century and more.\n\nIn England, where practice ran ahead of theory, the situation was quite different. In the sixteenth century, \"tragicomedy\" meant the native sort of romantic play that violated the unities of time, place, and action, that glibly mixed high- and low-born characters, and that presented fantastic actions. These were the features Philip Sidney deplored in his complaint against the \"mungrell Tragy-comedie\" of the 1580s, and of which Shakespeare's Polonius offers famous testimony: \"The best actors in the world, either for tragedy, comedy, history, pastoral, pastoral-comical, historical-pastoral, tragical-historical, tragical-comical-historical-pastoral, scene individuable, or poem unlimited: Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the liberty, these are the only men.\" Some aspects of this romantic impulse remain even in the work of more sophisticated playwrights: Shakespeare's last plays, which may well be called tragicomedies, have often been called romances.\n\nBy the early Stuart period, some English playwrights had absorbed the lessons of the Guarini controversy. John Fletcher's \"The Faithful Shepherdess\", an adaptation of Guarini's play, was produced in 1608. In the printed edition, Fletcher offered an interesting definition of the term, worth quoting at length: \"A tragi-comedie is not so called in respect of mirth and killing, but in respect it wants deaths, which is enough to make it no tragedy, yet brings some neere it, which is inough to make it no comedie.\" Fletcher's definition focuses primarily on events: a play's genre is determined by whether or not people die in it, and in a secondary way on how close the action comes to a death. But, as Eugene Waith showed, the tragicomedy Fletcher developed in the next decade also had unifying stylistic features: sudden and unexpected revelations, outré plots, distant locales, and a persistent focus on elaborate, artificial rhetoric.\n\nSome of Fletcher's contemporaries, notably Philip Massinger and James Shirley, wrote successful and popular tragicomedies. Richard Brome also essayed the form, but with less success. And many of their contemporary writers, ranging from John Ford to Lodowick Carlell to Sir Aston Cockayne, made attempts in the genre.\n\nTragicomedy remained fairly popular up to the closing of the theaters in 1642, and Fletcher's works were popular in the Restoration as well. The old styles were cast aside as tastes changed in the eighteenth century; the \"tragedy with a happy ending\" eventually developed into melodrama, in which form it still flourishes.\n\nThe more subtle criticism that developed after the Renaissance stressed the thematic and formal aspects of tragicomedy, rather than plot. Gotthold Ephraim Lessing defined it as a mixture of emotions in which \"seriousness stimulates laughter, and pain pleasure.\" Even more commonly, tragicomedy's affinity with satire and \"dark\" comedy have suggested a tragicomic impulse in modern theatre with Luigi Pirandello who influenced Beckett. Also it can be seen in absurdist drama. Friedrich Dürrenmatt, the Swiss dramatist, suggested that tragicomedy was the inevitable genre for the twentieth century; he describes his play \"The Visit\" (1956) as a tragicomedy. Tragicomedy is a common genre in post-World War II British theatre, with authors as varied as Samuel Beckett, Tom Stoppard, John Arden, Alan Ayckbourn and Harold Pinter writing in this genre. Many writers of the metamodernist and postmodernist movements have made use of tragicomedy and/or gallows humor. A notable example of a metamodernist tragicomedy is David Foster Wallace's 1996 magnum opus, \"Infinite Jest\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "351227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=351227", "title": "Transparency (behavior)", "text": "Transparency (behavior)\n\nTransparency, as used in science, engineering, business, the humanities and in other social contexts, is operating in such a way that it is easy for others to see what actions are performed. It has been defined simply as \"the perceived quality of intentionally shared information from a sender\". Transparency implies openness, communication, and accountability.\n\nTransparency is practiced in companies, organizations, administrations, and communities. It guides an organization's decisions and policies on the disclosure of information to its employees and the public, or simply the intended recipient of the information.\n\nFor example, a cashier making change after a point of sale transaction by offering a record of the items purchased (e.g., a receipt) as well as counting out the customer's change on the counter demonstrates one type of transparency.\n\nThe term transparency has a very different meaning in Information Security where it is used to describe security mechanisms that are intentionally in-detectable or hidden from view. Examples include hiding utilities and tools which the user does not need to know in order to do their job, like keeping the remote re-authentication operations of Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol hidden from the user. \n\nIn Norway and in Sweden, tax authorities annually release the \"skatteliste\" or \"tax list\"; official records showing the annual income and overall wealth of nearly every taxpayer.\n\nRegulations in Hong Kong require banks to list their top earners – without naming them – by pay band.\n\nIn 2009, the Spanish government for the first time released information on how much each cabinet member is worth, but data on ordinary citizens is private.\n\nRecent research suggests there are three primary aspects of transparency relevant to management practice: information disclosure, clarity, and accuracy. To increase transparency, managers actively infuse greater disclosure, clarity, and accuracy into their communications with stakeholders. For example, managers that voluntarily share information related to the firm's ecological impact with environmental activists are demonstrating disclosure; managers that limit the use of technical terminology, fine print, or complicated mathematical notations in their correspondence with suppliers and customers are demonstrating clarity; and managers that do not bias, embellish, or otherwise distort known facts in their communications with investors are demonstrating accuracy. The \"strategic\" management of transparency therefore involves intentional modifications in disclosure, clarity, and accuracy to accomplish the organization's specific objectives.\n\nAlternatively, radical transparency is a management method where nearly all decision making is carried out publicly. All draft documents, all arguments for and against a proposal, all final decisions, and the decision making process itself are made public and remain publicly archived. This approach has grown in popularity with the rise of the Internet. Two examples of organizations utilizing this style are the GNU/Linux community and Indymedia.\n\nCorporate transparency, a form of radical transparency, is the concept of removing all barriers to —and the facilitating of— free and easy public access to corporate information and the laws, rules, social connivance and processes that facilitate and protect those individuals and corporations that freely join, develop, and improve the process.\n\nAccountability and transparency are of high relevance for non-governmental organisations (NGOs). In view of their responsibilities to stakeholders, including donors, sponsors, programme beneficiaries, staff, states and the public, they are considered to be of even greater importance to them than to commercial undertakings. Yet these same values are often found to be lacking in NGOs.\n\nThe \"International NGO Accountability Charter\", linked to the Global Reporting Initiative, documents the commitment of its members international NGOs to accountability and transparency, requiring them to submit an annual report, among others. Signed in 2006 by 11 NGOs active in the area of humanitarian rights, the INGO Accountability Charter has been referred to as the “first global accountability charter for the non-profit sector”. In 1997, the One World Trust created an \"NGO Charter\", a code of conduct comprising commitment to accountability and transparency.\n\nMedia transparency is the concept of determining how and why information is conveyed through various means.\n\nIf the media and the public knows everything that happens in all authorities and county administrations there will be a lot of questions, protests and suggestions coming from media and the public. People who are interested in a certain issue will try to influence the decisions. Transparency creates an everyday participation in the political processes by media and the public. One tool used to increase everyday participation in political processes is freedom of information legislation and requests. Modern democracy builds on such participation of the people and media.\n\nThere are, for anybody who is interested, many ways to influence the decisions at all levels in society.\n\nThe right and the means to examine the process of decision making is known as transparency.\nIn politics, transparency is used as a means of holding public officials accountable and fighting corruption. When a government's meetings are open to the press and the public, its budgets may be reviewed by anyone, and its laws and decisions are open to discussion, it is seen as transparent. It is not clear however if this provides less opportunity for the authorities to abuse the system for their own interests.\n\nWhen military authorities classify their plans as secret, transparency is absent. This can be seen as either positive or negative; positive because it can increase national security, negative because it can lead to corruption and, in extreme cases, a military dictatorship.\n\nWhile a liberal democracy can be a plutocracy, where decisions are made behind locked doors and the people have fewer possibilities to influence politics between the elections, a participative democracy is more closely connected to the will of the people. Participative democracy, built on transparency and everyday participation, has been used officially in northern Europe for decades. In the northern European country Sweden, public access to government documents became a law as early as 1766. It has officially been adopted as an ideal to strive for by the rest of EU, leading to measures like freedom of information laws and laws for lobby transparency.\n\nTo promote transparency in politics, Hans Peter Martin, Paul van Buitenen (Europa Transparant) and Ashley Mote decided to cooperate under the name Platform for Transparency (PfT) in 2005. Similar organizations that promotes transparency are Transparency International and the Sunlight Foundation.\n\nA recent political movement to emerge in conjunction with the demands for transparency is the Pirate Party, a label for a number of political parties across different countries who advocate freedom of information, direct democracy, network neutrality, and the free sharing of knowledge.\n\n21st century culture affords a higher level of public transparency than ever before, and actually requires it in many cases. Modern technology and associated culture shifts have changed how government works (see WikiLeaks), what information people can find out about each other, and the ability of politicians to stay in office if they are involved in sex scandals. Due to the digital revolution, people no longer have a high level of control over what is public information, leading to a tension between the values of transparency and privacy.\n\nScholarly research in any academic discipline may also be labeled as (partly) transparent (or open research) if some or all relevant aspects of the research are open in the sense of open source, open access and open data, thereby facilitating social recognition and accountability of the scholars who did the research and replication by others interested in the matters addressed by it.\n\nSome mathematicians and scientists are critical of using closed source mathematical software such as Mathematica for mathematical proofs, because these do not provide transparency, and thus are not verifiable. Open-source software such as SageMath aims to solve this problem.\n\nIn the computer software world, open source software concerns the creation of software, to which access to the underlying source code is freely available. This permits use, study, and modification without restriction.\n\nIn computer security, the debate is ongoing as to the relative merits of the full disclosure of security vulnerabilities, versus a security-by-obscurity approach.\n\nThere is a different (perhaps almost opposite) sense of transparency in human-computer interaction, whereby a system after change adheres to its previous external interface as much as possible while changing its internal behaviour. That is, a change in a system is transparent to its users if the change is unnoticeable to them.\n\nSports has become a global business over the last century, and here, too, initiatives ranging from mandatory drug testing to the fighting of sports-related corruption are gaining ground based on the transparent activities in other domains.\n\nSigmund Freud following Friedrich Nietzsche (\"On Truth and Lie in a Nonmoral Sense\") regularly argues that transparency is impossible because of the occluding function of the unconscious.\n\nAmong philosophical and literary works that have examined the idea of transparency are Michel Foucault's \"Discipline and Punish\" or David Brin's \"The Transparent Society\". \nThe German philosopher and media theorist Byung-Chul Han in his 2012 work \"Transparenzgesellschaft\" sees transparency as a cultural norm created by neoliberal market forces, which he understands as the insatiable drive toward voluntary disclosure bordering on the pornographic. According to Han, the dictates of transparency enforce a totalitarian system of openness at the expense of other social values such as shame, secrecy, and trust. He was criticized for his concepts, as they would suggest corrupt politics and for referring to the anti-democratic Carl Schmitt.\n\nAnthropologists have long explored ethnographically the relation between revealed and concealed knowledges, and have increasingly taken up the topic in relation to accountability, transparency and conspiracy theories and practices today. Todd Sanders and Harry West for example suggest not only that realms of the revealed and concealed require each other, but also that transparency in practice produces the very opacities it claims to obviate.\n\nClare Birchall, Christina Gaarsten, Mikkel Flyverbom, and Mark Fenster among others, write in the vein of 'Critical Transparency Studies' which attempts to challenge particular orthodoxies concerning transparency. \nBirchall, assessed in an article \"[...] whether the ascendance of transparency as an ideal limits political thinking, particularly for western socialists and radicals struggling to seize opportunities for change [...]\". She argues that the promotion of 'datapreneurial' activity through open data initiatives outsources and interrupts the political contract between governed and government. She is concerned that the dominant model of governmental data-driven transparency produces neoliberal subjectivities that reduce the possibility of politics as an arena of dissent between real alternatives. She suggests that the radical Left might want to work with and reinvent secrecy as an alternative to neoliberal transparency.\n\nResearchers at University of Oxford and Warwick Business School found that transparency can also have significant unintended consequences in the field of medical care. McGivern and Fischer found 'media spectacles' and transparent regulation combined to create 'spectacular transparency' which some perverse effects on doctors' practice and increased defensive behaviour in doctors and their staff. Similarly, in a four-year organizational study, Fischer and Ferlie found that transparency in the context of a clinical risk management can act perversely to undermine ethical behavior, leading to organizational crisis and even collapse.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55401299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55401299", "title": "Vintage (design)", "text": "Vintage (design)\n\nIn terms of design, vintage generally refers to any artificial object or objects that are representative of or dating from an earlier period of time.\n\nThere can be debate over whether or not an item is vintage. Some vintage enthusiasts may say something as young as thirteen years old is vintage, whereas others (such as the e-commerce website Etsy) require an item to be at least twenty years old for it to be considered vintage; however there is no legal definition of the term.\n\nThe terms \"vintage\", \"retro\", and \"antique\" are oftentimes used interchangeably. \"Retro\" (also known as \"vintage-inspired\") refers to new objects that are designed to resemble other, genuinely vintage objects that are at least 15 years old or older. \"Vintage\" then refers to the original (old) objects the new designs are based on. \"Antique\", on the other hand simply, refers to objects that are considerably older, and there can be debate about that as well. In most areas, the legal definition of an antique is an artificial object that is at least a century old. A related term is \"antiquity\", which has various definitions in archaeology, art history, and legal regulation of the art trade, and generally refers to human-made objects many centuries old.\n"}
{"id": "5585605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5585605", "title": "Vukša Veličković", "text": "Vukša Veličković\n\nVukša Veličković (\"Вукша Величковић\", born February 18, 1979) is a Serbian writer, cultural critic, and online producer living in London, UK. He writes about London urban culture on his blog City of Doom and has published essays and magazine articles on pop culture across various media in the UK, Europe and the US.\n\nVelickovic received the Chevening Scholarship in 2010 to complete his master's degree in Identity, Culture and Power from University College London. He is a former Visiting Fellow at the Institute for Human Sciences (IWM) in Vienna.\n\nVelickovic is the Founder and Creative Director of \"Bturn\", online culture magazine for the Balkans. His first novel \"Gužva\" ('Crowd'), published by Alexandria Press in 2003, contained a book-soundtrack CD featuring emerging electronic artists from the Balkans. He was the author of \"If I were\" column in 'Prestup' magazine, in which he dealt with applied pop-politics, enacting different social roles – the prime minister's chauffeur, a beggar, a TV news presenter, or a transvestite on the trail of a mass grave.\n\nHe maintained a column on B92.net from 2005-2007 and was the culture editor in Serbian newsmagazine \"Evropa\" until its folding in February 2008. He is also a performing artist, interacting his writings with other media such as music, video and photography. His second novel 'Vrt Uzivanja' [Garden of Pleasure] was staged as a multimedia act at international festivals in Belgrade and Zagreb.\n"}
{"id": "7739276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7739276", "title": "Wendy Brown (political theorist)", "text": "Wendy Brown (political theorist)\n\nWendy L. Brown (born November 28, 1955) is an American political theorist. She is Class of 1936 First Professor of Political Science and a core faculty member in The Program for Critical Theory at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nWendy Brown received her BA in both Economics and Politics from UC Santa Cruz, and her M.A and Ph.D in political philosophy from Princeton University. Before she took a position at UC Berkeley in 1999, Brown taught at Williams College and UC Santa Cruz. At Berkeley, beyond her primary teaching roles in Political Theory and Critical Theory, Brown is also an affiliated faculty member of the Department of Rhetoric, the Jurisprudence and Social Policy Program, the Designated Emphasis in Women, Gender and Sexuality, and the Designated Emphasis in Early Modern Studies.\n\nBrown lectures around the world and has held numerous visiting and honorary positions, including at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, the Institute for Human Sciences in Vienna, the Goethe University in Frankfurt, the UC Humanities Research Institute in Irvine, the Institute for the Humanities Critical Theory Summer School at Birkbeck, University of London (2012, 2015), a Senior Invited Fellow of the Center for Humanities at Cornell University (2013), a Visiting Professor at Columbia University (2014), a Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Lecturer (2014), a Visiting Professor of Law and Government at Cornell University (2015), the Shimizu Visiting Professor of Law at the London School of Economics (2015), and a Visiting Professor at the European Graduate School (2016).\n\nAmong the honorary lectures Brown has delivered are the Beaverbrook Annual Lecture at McGill University (2015); the Pembroke Center keynote at Brown University (2015); a keynote at the Zolberg Institute on Migration and Mobility (2016); the fourth \"Democracy Lecture\" – following Thomas Piketty, Naomi Klein, and Paul Mason – in the Haus der Kulturen der Welt in Berlin (2017); a plenary speech at the European Sociological Association conference in Athens (2017); the Wellek Lectures at UC Irvine (2018); and the Gauss Lecture at Princeton University (2018).\n\nBrown's work has been translated into more than twenty languages and has received many awards. Brown served as Council Member of the American Political Science Association (2007–09) and as Chair of the UC Humanities Research Institute Board of Governors (2009–11). In 2012, her book Walled States, Waning Sovereignty won the David Eastman Award. Brown received the 2016 Distinguished Teaching Award, UC Berkeley's most prestigious honor for teaching. She received a UC Presidents Humanities Research Fellowship (2017–18) and is currently a Guggenheim Fellow (2017–18).\n\nBrown's thinking on the decline of sovereignty and the hollowing out of democracy has found popular and journalistic audiences, with discussions of her arguments appearing in \"The Guardian\" and \"New York Times\" articles. Brown has appeared in documentary films including \"The Value of the Humanities\" (2014) and \"What is Democracy?\" (directed by Astra Taylor, 2017).\n\nTogether with Michel Feher, Brown is co-editor of the Zone Books' series Near Futures and its digital supplement Near Futures Online.\n\nBrown has established new paradigms in critical legal studies and feminist theory. She has produced a body of work drawing from Marx's critique of capitalism and its relation to religion and secularism, Nietzsche's usefulness for thinking about power and the ruses of morality, Max Weber on the modern organization of power, Freudian psychoanalysis and its implications for political identification, Foucault's work on governmentality and neoliberalism, as well as other contemporary continental philosophers. Bringing these resources together with her own thinking on a range of topics, Brown's work aims to diagnose modern and contemporary formations of political power, and to discern the threats to democracy entailed by such formations.\n\nIn this work Brown asks how a sense of woundedness can become the basis for individual and collective forms of identity. From outlawing hate speech to banning pornography, Brown argues, well-intentioned attempts at protection can legitimize the state while harming subjects by codifying their identities as helpless or in need of continuous governmental regulation. While breaking ground in political theory, this work also represents one of Brown's key interventions in feminist and queer theory. The book offers a novel account of legal and political power as constitutive of norms of sexuality and gender. Through the concept of \"wounded attachments\", Brown contends that psychic injury may accompany and sustain racial, ethnic, and gender categories, particularly in relation to state law and discursive formations. In this and other works Brown has criticized representatives of second wave feminism, such as Catharine MacKinnon, for reinscribing the category of \"woman\" as an essentialized identity premised on injury.\n\nThis book comprises a series of essays on contemporary political issues from the problem of moralism in politics to the legacies of past injustices in the present. Throughout her thematically overlapping chapters, Brown asks: \"What happens to left and liberal political orientations when faith in progress is broken, when both the sovereign individual and sovereign states seem tenuous, when desire seems as likely to seek punishment as freedom, when all political conviction is revealed as contingent and subjective?\" Much of this book takes history and liberalism themselves as objects of theoretical reflection and sites of contestation. Drawing on a range of thinkers, such as Freud, Marx, Nietzsche, Spinoza, Benjamin and Derrida, Brown rethinks the disorientation and possibility inherent to contemporary democracy.\n\nThis work consists of seven articles responding to particular occasions, each of which \"mimic, in certain ways, the experience of the political realm: one is challenged to think here, now, about a problem that is set and framed by someone else, and to do so before a particular audience or in dialogue with others not of one's own choosing.\" Each individual essay begins with a specific problem: what is the relationship between love, loyalty, and dissent in contemporary American political life?; how did neoliberal rationality become a form of governmentality?; what are the main problems of women's studies programs?; and so on. According to Brown, the essays do not aim to definitively answer the given questions but \"to critically interrogate the framing and naming practices, challenge the dogmas (including those of the Left and of feminism), and discern the constitutive powers shaping the problem at hand.\"\n\nIn this book, Brown subverts the usual and widely accepted notion that tolerance is one of the most remarkable achievements of Western modernity. She suggests that tolerance (or toleration) cannot be perceived as the complete opposite to violence. At times, it can also be used to justify violence. Brown argues that tolerance primarily operates as a discourse of subject construction and a mode of governmentality that addresses or confirms asymmetric relations between different groups, each of which must then \"tolerate\" other groups and categories or \"be tolerated\" by the dominant groups and categories.\n\nTo substantiate her thesis, Brown examines the tolerance discourse of figures like George W. Bush, Jimmy Carter, Samuel Huntington, Susan Okin, Michael Ignatieff, Bernard Lewis, and Seyla Benhabib and argues that \"tolerance as a political practice is always conferred by the dominant, it is always a certain expression of domination even as it offers protection or incorporation to the less powerful.\" Among those influenced by Brown's thinking on this subject are Joan Wallach Scott and Slavoj Žižek, whose respective works \"The Politics of the Veil\" (2007) and \"Violence: Six Sideways Reflections\" (2007) draw heavily on Brown's account of tolerance discourse.\n\nIn a debate with Rainer Forst at the ICI in Berlin Brown addressed this problematic again, later published as a co-authored book, The Power of Tolerance (2014). Here Brown argues against primarily moral or normative approaches to power and discourse, and warns against the dangers of uncritically celebrating the liberal ideal of tolerance, as frequently happens in Western notions of historical, civilizational or moral progress.\n\nPublished exclusively in French, \"Les habits neufs de la politique mondiale\" (\"The New Clothes of World Politics\") argues that the following political fact is irreversible: liberal democracy, as a global social and historical modality of statecraft, is dying. The two movements delivering such blows, neoliberalism and neoconservatism, feature both resonances and disonances. Brown argues that whilst the former acts as a political rationality, a mode of general regulation of behavior, the latter is both necessary to its survival, and parasitic of its survival. As a form of governmentality that redefines freedom, neoliberalism will moralize politics, limiting its scope; this is the function of neo-conservatism.\n\nThis book examines the revival of wall-building under shifting conditions of global capitalism. Brown not only problematizes the assumed functions of walls, such as the prevention of crime, migration, smuggling, and so on. She also argues that walling has taken on new a significance due to its symbolic function in an increasingly globalized and precarious world of financial capital. As individual identity as well as nation-state sovereignty are threatened, walls become objects invested with individual and collective desire. Anxious efforts to shore up national identity are thus projected onto borders as well as new material structures that would appear to secure them. The book was reprinted with a new preface by the author following the 2016 election of Donald Trump.\n\nBrown's study begins by engaging and revising key arguments in Michel Foucault's \"The Birth of Biopolitics\" with the aim of analyzing different ways that democracy is being hollowed out by neoliberal rationality. She describes neoliberalism as a thoroughgoing attack on the most foundational ideas and practices of democracy. The individual chapters of the book examine the effects of neoliberalization on higher education, law, governance, the basic principles of liberal democratic institutions, as well as radical democratic imaginaries.\n\nBrown treats \"neoliberalism as a governing rationality through which everything is 'economized' and in a very specific way: human beings become market actors and nothing but, every field of activity is seen as a market, and every entity (whether public or private, whether person, business, or state) is governed as a firm.\" To address such threats, Brown argues, democracy must be reinvigorated not only as an object of theoretical inquiry but also as a site of political struggle.\n\nBrown is currently researching right nationalism in the US, completing a book provisionally titled \"Neoliberalism's Frankenstein: Authoritarian Freedom, White Nationalism, and the Weaponization of Moral Values\". The book will shift between the frames of neoliberal governmentality, Nietzsche's social analysis and Marcuse's psychoanalysis to explain the production of a society unmoored from moral concerns (hence social justice), obligations to truth (the post-truth moment) and democratic interests (replaced by the self-interest of human capital). Brown draws from The Will to Power by Nietzsche and Marcuse's One-Dimensional Man, attributing these right energies to a combination of world-historical nihilism and forces of consumer culture in advance industrial society. Nihilism has, Brown argues, largely generated 'neoliberal reason itself, which posits no value apart from that generated by price and speculative markets.'\n\nA prominent public intellectual in the United States, Brown has written and spoken about issues of free speech, public education, political protest, LGBTQ issues, sexual assault, Donald Trump, conservatism, neoliberalism, and other matters of national and international concern.\n\nFor decades, Brown has been active in efforts to resist measures toward the privatization of the University of California system. In her capacity as co-chair of the Berkeley Faculty Association, she raised awareness, organized marches, and spoke publicly about the privatization of public education. She has been critical of the university's decision to cut costs by utilizing lecturers rather than hiring tenure and tenure track professors. Relatedly, she has voiced concern over the perils of the UC's proposed online education programs.\n\nBrown has criticized university administration for their response to sexual assault. \"I think many faculty feel there are repeat harassers on our faculty who are never charged ... Graduate students gave up on careers, and these perpetrators were allowed to continue, and that was wrong—never should have happened,\" she said.\n\nAt the \"99 Mile March\" to Sacramento she addressed her criticism to more general trends: \"We are marching to draw attention to the plight of public education in California and to implore Californians to re-invest in it. For all its resources, innovation and wealth, California has sunk to nearly the bottom of the nation in per student spending, and our public higher education system, once the envy of the world, is in real peril.\" Brown supported Occupy Wall Street as part of the UC faculty council, claiming that \"We understand this to be part of what (the movement) stands for. We are delighted by the protests and consider our campaign to be at one with it.\"\n\nBrown is a native of California and lives in Berkeley with her wife Judith Butler and son.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35299158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35299158", "title": "Zacatepec Chatino", "text": "Zacatepec Chatino\n\n----Zacatepec Chatino is an indigenous Mesoamerican language, one of the Chatino family of the Oto-Manguean languages. It is often referred to as \" ChaqF tinyaJ KichenA tziC Chatino de San Marcos Zacatepec\" or \"Chatino de Zacatepec\" as it is distinct from other Chatino languages in the region. Zacatepec Chatino is part of the Eastern Chatino languages. It is spoken in the town of San Marcos Zacatepec, a town of approximately 1,000 people and inhabited by an indigenous group known as the Chatino people. The language was once spoken in the village of Juquila, but is now virtually extinct with two surviving speakers in the area (Villard 2015).\n\nZacatepec Chatino is a highly endangered language as it is spoken by about 300 Chatino's whom are all above 50 years of age.\n\nChatino refers to three closely related languages; the three being Eastern Chatino, Tataltepec Chatino, and Zenzontepec Chatino of the Zapotecan branch. Zacatepec Chatino falls under the Eastern Chatino branch.\n\nZacatepec Chatino, being part of Chatino language family, has shallow orthography. It is more conservative then its Chatino counterparts as it conserves the penultimate syllables of disyllabic roots.\n\nLittle is known about the history of Zacatepec Chatino but according to Stéphanie Villard who studied and presented her thesis on the language, it has been on a decline for the past 40 years as natives continue to expand their ties with non-Chatino communities. With the help of the Zacatepec Chatino Documentation Project, Villard has uncovered some of the remnants of the language with the help of many natives from the area. The project includes visits in 2005 and 2006 by Hilaria Cruz, Emiliana Cruz, Megan Crowhurst as well as preliminary analysis of tones in H. Cruz y Woodbury in 2006. It also includes intensive work since 2006 by Stéphanie Villard, including 150 hours of audio, a sketch, papers on sandhi and inflection and grammar as well as short visits concentrating on textual documentation, tone, & morphology\n\nThe major language spoken in Zapotec Chatino and its surrounding regions is Spanish so it is no surprise that many foreigners are coming to San Marcos Zacatepec speaking Spanish and not Chatino.\n\nAlthough Spanish is the official language in San Marcos Zacatepec, Oaxaca, many government officials communicate in Zacatepec Chatino. A study conducted by Villard revealed that majority of the younger population are monolingual Spanish speakers.\n\nZacatepec Chatino is only spoken in San Marcos Zacatepec, Oaxaca in the Sierra Madre region of Mexico.\n\nSince Zacatepec Chatino is unintelligible with other Chatino varieties, it does not have any other dialects or varieties associated with it.\n\nVillard (2015) reports that Zacatepec Chatino presents voicing of non-continuant after nasals, vowel harmony, and contrastive nasal vowels. It also lacks labial phonemes and has 4 levels of pitch ranging from low to high. It also presents 15 specific tonal sequences that can define 15 Lexical classes.\n\nIts phonology presents a rich tonal system with a large inventory of phonemic tonal sequences as well as intricate sandhi patterns.\n\nThe vowels in Zacatepec Chatino are and have several rules they have to follow which are juxtaposed with the nasal vowels among each other.\n\n/a/ does not present any restrictions in its distribution. /a/ is pronounced [a] and may be slightly nasalized. Here are some examples:\n\n\"nǎ [na\"] thing\n\n\"pa̋[pa\"] dad\n\n\"kwā ́[kwa]\" already\n\n\"mpaà ̋ [mba:\"] godfather\n\n\"Wyàa̋[bja:]\" Santos Reyes Nopala, Oaxaca\n\n\"chǎʔ [t͜ʃaʔ\"] word\n\n/e/ does not occur after the nasal stop /n/. /e/ can be long in final syllables and short in non final syllables. Here are some examples:\n\n\"traʔwē ́ [traʔwe]\" middle\n\n\"tikèʔ  [tikeʔ\"] aroused\n\n\"siyěʔ [sijeʔ]\" dressed up\n\n\"tsaʔwě [t͜saʔwe]\" good\n\n\"nkyaseʔ [ŋgjaseʔ]\" it got deflated\n\nn\"kyanè   [ŋgjanɛ\"]̃ he/she sprayed it\n\n\"nkyaʔwè  [ŋgjaʔwe]\" it got split\n\n/i/ occurs in final as well as non-final syllables of roots followed by a /?/. It is slightly restricted in its distribution. Here are some examples:\n\n\"pi̋[pi]\" poult\n\n\"pìi̋[pi:]\" fair skinned, pale\n\n\"lyiʔ̋ [li̻ ʔ]\" parrot\n\n\"mpiʔ̋ [mbiʔ]\" dram\n\n\"kiiʔ [ki:ʔ]\" fire\n\nThe distribution of /u/ is highly restricted. /u/ in monosyllabic words is rare. /u/ can be long in final syllables but is always short in non-final syllables. Here are some examples:\n\nxǔʔ [ʃuʔ] oldster\n\nchūú [t͜ʃu:] Jesus\n\nsùntū ̋[suntu] issue (from Spa. asunto)\n\nbùrrū ̋[bur̥u] donkey (from Spa. burro)\n\nkuʔwǐ [kuʔwi] drunk\n\nsuti [suti] his/her father\n\ntuʔwa [tuʔwa] his/her mouth\n\n/o/ is restricted as well. It does not occur after the nasal stop /n/ and similarly to /u/, /o/ does not occur after the labiovelars /k/ or /w/. Here are some examples\n\nTyò ̋ [to̻ ] Pedro\n\nkōō [ko:] fog\n\nyo [jo] guy\n\nyoo [jo:] soil\n\npìxō ̋[piʃo] peso\n\nSan Marcos Zacatepec is considered a head-marking language as it is synthetic and analytic. Some functions are the language are mixed; for example, person marking can be signaled through tone contrast and/or nasalization, encliticization, or also by a separate word.\n\nIts verbal morphology features a large inventory of allomorphs of its aspectual morphemes, which makes its verbal paradigms appear extremely irregular.\n\nThe sequence classes are “morphological”—some are specialized by part-of-speech, by inflectional category, or loan provenance, while others are open ended and general.\n\nThe basic word order is VSO but there are other orders present. Here is an example of the Chatino Language VSO:\n\nThis would say \"The lay dog gave a sweetbread to the coyote\".\n\nSome morphemes, such as the marker \"?in\" have various functions in the grammar as it is a dative marker. The dative marker introduces human objects, indirect objects, and also marks alienable possession.\n\nCompounding patterns play an important role and word formation. the use of combinations of 'light nouns’ or semantically poor nouns and semantically rich adjectives (or nouns, although very rarely) is very prolific in the language. Villard provides us with an example of such formations: the light noun \"nu\" ‘the one who’, often occurs as a head noun in noun phrases, as in \"nu kīʔyó 'man\"' (the one who is male) or \"nu kunāʔán\" 'woman' (the one who is female).\n\nThere are 15 lexical tone classes defined by 15 tone sequences. The sequences pertain to any noncompound stem but have different realizations depending on the number of moras in the stem. The sequence classes are “morphological”—some are specialized by part-of-speech, by inflectional category, or loan provenance, while others are open ended and general. Sequence class identity—not tones—determines tonal ablaut behavior and tonal inflectional classes. The progressive aspect is associated with an M tone which generates composed sequences beyond the original 15 \n\n\n\n"}
