{"id": "13675658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13675658", "title": "10+2", "text": "10+2\n\n10+2 refers to the 2 years of schooling required post grade 10, currently adopted by high schools in India and Nepal. It is similar to the K12 education system, and equivalent to the International Baccalaureate and General Certificate of Secondary Education levels in the west. 10+2 refers to two years of schooling post grade 10 in India since autumn 2002. \n\n10+2 is gradually replacing the conventional modes of intermediate education, being the Intermediate of Science (I. Sc.), Intermediate of Commerce (I. Comm.), Intermediate of Arts/Humanities (I. A.) normally taken by Students after having received their School Leaving Certificate (SLC) provided by Tribhuvan University.\n\nStudents in Nepal either opt for a 10+2 course in the Science, Management, and Humanities stream under the Higher Secondary Education Board (HSEB), or opt for other options like the British GCSE curriculum under Cambridge University.\n"}
{"id": "48433433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48433433", "title": "A Dominie's Log", "text": "A Dominie's Log\n\nA.S. Neill's A Dominie's Log is a diary of his first year as headteacher at Gretna Green Village School, during 1914-15. It is an autobiographical novel. He changed a hard working, academic school controlled by corporal punishment and the fear of the authority of the teacher into one of happiness, play and children controlling their learning. He was a reflective teacher, sitting on his desk thinking out why he and the children were at the school. He also, most importantly, thought the children were human beings, and engaged with them as such, joining in their games, sliding with them on an ice slide in the street, sharing their sweets, laughing with them, and appreciating and respecting their individuality, and creativity.\n\nMost images of teachers are about the individual as hero overcoming the problems of school and parents and leading the children to enlightenment. Like the heroes of fairy tales they do not challenge or change the system, they are simply heroes of the system, if only all teachers were like them. To Neill the children, and their school and local community, are the heroes, they are the ones that he sees as helping the child to be happy, healthy and free. In the first review it states that he has opinions on everything, but that was to miss the point, that the issues of the school and its children impinge on political and cultural life, they are not separate. Neill is thinking of the culture of childhood and schooling, not of the school as a place for effective, efficient methods and positive measurable outcomes. The story is about him trying to 'create an attitude'. Indeed, after ten years of teaching, in 1921 he creates a school, a community, that is the hero, Summerhill School. Its formation is portrayed in \"A Dominie Abroad\", and the Children's BBC producer, Jon East, uses it to get audiences to question what a school is in his drama about the school and its fight with Ofsted inspectors, \"Summerhill\".\n\n\"An awful lot of drama is set in schools - and yet each series only reinforces the dominant paradigm,\" Jon East says. \"What we're trying to say in this drama is that there could just be another way of doing things.\"\n\nNeill reads the war news everyday to discuss with the children. He uses Ibsen's play \"An Enemy of the People\", replacing that day's bible lesson, to question the justice of democracy when the mob rules. This book, the way it is written, the way he thinks through issues, the way it ends, can be seen as representing all those teachers who at that time helped create the community known as New Ideals in Education Conferences. They believed in the foundation value for all schools and children's communities, of 'liberating the child from the authority of the teacher'.\n\nIt was recognised by the New Ideal's teachers, professors, soldiers, politicians, headteachers, artists, musicians, actors... that the liberty of the child, the autonomy of the learner, their creativity, self-expression, their search for knowledge and learning was the hope for a world of justice and peace.\n\n\"In the first place, this amazing Conference at which we have seen sitting side by side Government Officials, advanced Montessorians, antediluvian Teachers like myself, University Professors, Soldiers in khaki, Musicians, Artists, Headmasters of Public Schools, the superintendent of the Little Commonwealth, Primary Schoolteachers, and the American Ambassador himself stands, first and foremost, for Freedom, - I do not like \"emancipation\", for the word suggests slavery, and the use of it probably promotes it. We have all agreed that the child is to be free: yes, but the teacher must be free as well as the child…\"—Mr Lionel Helbert, Headmaster of West Downs, Winchester, 1915.\n\nNeill in \"A Dominie's Log\" writes about the children's ice slide being salted by the policeman to protect the property of the farmers, their horses. He reflects with the children that they have no voice because they have no vote, he compares them to women, and women's low pay and menial jobs. He suggests they write a charter of children's rights. As through the whole book he does not do what teachers so often do now, turn things into projects, getting the kids to role play a campaign or draw cartoons of their plans for play in the town and its streets, but to look at the issue in terms of power, and how to get equality!\n\nFor all rights movements to succeed they build on their history, on changes their struggles have caused, and just as importantly on the culture of struggle they have created. This empowers them to feel a part of a movement, a successful, heroic struggle, with numerous examples of small successes that help to build the momentum for sustained change in laws and attitudes. Children and teachers need to feel they are a part of an historical struggle for the rights of the child. A Dominie's Log is one personal story of a headteacher, it is representative of a whole movement, New Ideals, and it is vital that we celebrate and share this history, so that it effects the present.\n\nEvidence has been submitted to the Select Committee on Education for their meeting with the Children's Commissioner, Anne Longfield OBE, to discuss her new report 'Ambitious for Children' (August 2015). It is trying to input into the discussion of the voice of the child, and their future society and culture, the importance of this history.\n\nOn Friday 5 November 1915 \"The Yorkshire Post\" in its far right column on page 3, under the title \"New Books Received Yesterday\" lists 14 books ranging from \"Nurse Cavell, the Story of her Life and Martyrdom\" to \"Toy Making at Home\" and \"Morals for the Young\". The fourth book on the list, after \"Furniture Collector\", is \"A Dominie’s Log\" by A.S.Neill, MA.\n\nOne of the earliest reviews is in the \"Edinburgh Evening News\", Monday 15 November 1915:\n\nTo celebrate the centenary of A.S. Neill’s first book one hundred copies of a special edition are being sent to key cultural, creative, educational and political figures during November (the month of its publication). They are all being invited to take part in the centenary celebrations of the book, by contributing to a final centenary edition, and by responding to the book through their creativity or public appearances. A series of events will be held during the year.\n\n“In this centenary of industrial warfare we need to remind people, especially our children, of the culture of success and happiness that this book is a part of, and that we still have a long way to go to have happy schools based on the dignity of our children.”\n\nChallenging the current failure to learn from history and examples of good practice in our schools, and the obsession of focusing on innovation, measurement and outcomes, the book reminds us that schools at the beginning of World War One were better than schools now. It reminds us of the concept of the good primary school being child-centred, based on creative learning, play, learning by doing, group work, learning from the natural world, making decisions and taking responsibility for their learning and their community. We must claim these back as the foundations of our schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "255591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=255591", "title": "Autodidacticism", "text": "Autodidacticism\n\nAutodidacticism (also autodidactism) or self-education (also self-learning and self-teaching) is education without the guidance of masters (such as teachers and professors) or institutions (such as schools). Generally, an autodidact is an individual who chooses the subject they will study, their studying material, and the studying rhythm and time. An autodidact may or may not have formal education, and their study may be either a complement or an alternative to it. Many notable contributions have been made by autodidacts.\n\nThe term has its roots in the Ancient Greek words (, ) and (, ). The related term \"didacticism\" defines an artistic philosophy of education.\n\nVarious terms are used to describe self-education. One such is \"heutagogy\", coined in 2000 by Stewart Hase and Chris Kenyon of Southern Cross University in Australia; others are \"self-directed learning\" and \"self-determined learning\". In the heutagogy paradigm, a learner should be at the centre of their own learning.\n\nAutodidacticism is sometimes a complement of modern education. As a complement to education, students would be encouraged to do more independent work. The Industrial Revolution created a new situation for self-directed learners.\n\nBefore the twentieth century, only a small minority of people received an advanced academic education. As stated by Joseph Whitworth in his influential report on industry dated from 1853, literacy rates were higher in the United States. However, even in the U.S., most children were not completing high school. High school education was necessary to become a teacher. In modern times, a larger percentage of those completing high school also attended college, usually to pursue a professional degree, such as law or medicine, or a divinity degree.\n\nFor many professions or for personal knowledge, however, formal education is not so necessary today due to the easier availability of free information on the Internet. Whereas in the past, one of the main benefits of going to college was to gain access to their superior libraries, today access to facts and books is available online. Financial analyst and author Peter Schiff, for one, says, \"Never before in history has it been so easy to be self-educated\".\n\nCollegiate teaching was based on the classics (Latin, philosophy, ancient history, theology) until the early nineteenth century. There were few if any institutions of higher learning offering studies in engineering or science before 1800. Institutions such as the Royal Society did much to promote scientific learning, including public lectures. In England, there were also itinerant lecturers offering their service, typically for a fee.\n\nPrior to the nineteenth century, there were many important inventors working as millwrights or mechanics who had typically received an elementary education and served an apprenticeship. Mechanics, instrument makers and surveyors had various mathematics training. James Watt was a surveyor and instrument maker and is described as being \"largely self-educated\". Watt, like some other autodidacts of the time, became a Fellow of the Royal Society and a member of the Lunar Society. In the eighteenth century these societies often gave public lectures and were instrumental in teaching chemistry and other sciences with industrial applications which were neglected by traditional universities. Academies also arose to provide scientific and technical training.\n\nYears of schooling in the United States began to increase sharply in the early twentieth century. This phenomenon was seemingly related to increasing mechanization displacing child labor. The automated glass bottle-making machine is said to have done more for education than child labor laws because boys were no longer needed to assist. However, the number of boys employed in this particular industry was not that large; it was mechanization in several sectors of industry that displaced child labor toward education. For males in the U.S. born 1886–90, years of school averaged 7.86, while for those born in 1926–30, years of school averaged 11.46.\n\nOne of the most recent trends in education is that the classroom environment should cater towards students' individual needs, goals, and interests. This model adopts the idea of inquiry-based learning where students are presented with scenarios to identify their own research, questions and knowledge regarding the area. As a form of discovery learning, students in today's classrooms are being provided with more opportunity to \"experience and interact\" with knowledge, which has its roots in autodidacticism.\n\nSuccessful self-teaching requires self-discipline and reflective capability. Some research suggests that being able to regulate one's own learning is something that must be modeled to students, for it is not a natural human tendency in the population at large. To interact with the environment, a framework has been identified to determine the components of any learning system: a reward function, incremental action value functions and action selection methods. Rewards work best in motivating learning when they are specifically chosen on an individual student basis. New knowledge must be incorporated into previously existing information as its value is to be assessed. Ultimately, these scaffolding techniques, as described by Vygotsky (1978) and problem solving methods are a result of dynamic decision making.\n\nThe secular and modern societies gave foundations for a new system of education and a new kind of autodidacts. While the number of schools and students raised from one century to the other, so did the number of autodidacts. The industrial revolution produced new educational tools used in schools, universities and outside academic circles to create a post-modern era that gave birth to the World Wide Web and encyclopaedic data banks such as Wikipedia. As this concept becomes more widespread and popular, web locations like Udacity and Khan Academy are developed as learning centers for many people to actively and freely learn together. The Alliance for Self-Directed Education (ASDE) is also formed to publicize and provide guidance or support for self-directed education.\n\nThe first philosophical claim supporting an autodidactic program to the study of nature and God was in the philosophical novel \"Hayy ibn Yaqdhan\" (Alive Son of the Vigilant), whose titular hero is considered the archetypal autodidact. The story is a medieval autodidactic utopia, a philosophical treatise in a literary form, which was written by the Andalusian philosopher Ibn Tufail in the 1160s in Marrakesh. It is a story about a feral boy, an autodidact prodigy who masters nature through instruments and reason, discovers laws of nature by practical exploration and experiments, and gains \"summum bonum\" through a mystical mediation and communion with God. The hero rises from his initial state of \"tabula rasa\" to a mystical or direct experience of God after passing through the necessary natural experiences. The focal point of the story is that human reason, unaided by society and its conventions or by religion, can achieve scientific knowledge, preparing the way to the mystical or highest form of human knowledge.\n\nCommonly translated as \"The Self-Taught Philosopher\" or \"The Improvement of Human Reason\", Ibn-Tufayl's story Hayy Ibn-Yaqzan inspired debates about autodidacticism in a range of historical fields from classical Islamic philosophy through Renaissance humanism and the European Enlightenment. In his book \"Reading Hayy Ibn-Yaqzan: a Cross-Cultural History of Autodidacticism,\" Avner Ben-Zaken showed how the text traveled from late medieval Andalusia to early modern Europe and demonstrated the intricate ways in which autodidacticism was contested in and adapted to diverse cultural settings.\n\nIn the story of African American self-education, Heather Andrea Williams presents a historical account to examine African American's relationship to literacy during slavery, the Civil War and the first decades of freedom. Many of the personal accounts tell of individuals who have had to teach themselves due to racial discrimination in education.\n\nThe working-class protagonist of Jack London's \"Martin Eden\" (1909) embarks on a path of self-learning to win the affections of Ruth, a member of cultured society. By the end of the novel, Eden has surpassed the intellect of the bourgeois class, leading him to a state of indifference and ultimately suicide.\n\nJean-Paul Sartre's \"Nausea\" (1938) depicts, as a secondary character, an autodidact.\n\nComic-book superhero Batman is frequently depicted as an autodidactic polymath who has acquired a vast range of skills over the years either by various trainers or having trained himself, and his expertise in various disciplines is virtually unmatched in the DC comics universe.\n\nIn \"The Ignorant Schoolmaster\" (1987), Jacques Rancière describes the emancipatory education of Joseph Jacotot, a post-Revolutionary philosopher of education who discovered that he could teach things he did not know. The book is both a history and a contemporary intervention in the philosophy and politics of education, through the concept of autodidacticism; Rancière chronicles Jacotot's \"adventures\", but he articulates Jacotot's theory of \"emancipation\" and \"stultification\" in the present tense.\n\nThe 1997 drama film \"Good Will Hunting\" follows the story of autodidact Will Hunting, played by Matt Damon. Hunting demonstrates his breadth and depth of knowledge throughout the film but especially to his therapist and in a heated discussion in a Harvard bar.\n\nOne of the main characters in \"The Elegance of the Hedgehog\" (2006), by Muriel Barbery, is an autodidact. The story is told from the viewpoint of Renee, a middle-aged autodidact concierge in a Paris upscale apartment house and Paloma, a 12-year-old daughter of one of the tenants who is unhappy with her life. These two people find they have much in common when they both befriend a new tenant, Mr. Ozu, and their lives change forever.\n\nIn the Hindu epic, the \"Mahabharata\", \"Ekalavya\" is depicted as a tribal boy who was denied education in the science of arms from royal teachers from the house of Kuru. Ekalavya went to the forest, where he taught himself archery in front of an image of the Kuru teacher, Drona, that he had built for himself. Later, when the royal family found that Ekalavya had practiced with the image of Drona as his teacher, Drona asked for Ekalavya's thumb as part of his tuition. Ekalavya complied with Drona's request, thus ending his martial career.\n\nIn \"Suits\", the protagonist (Mike Ross) possesses a highly competent knowledge of the law despite not receiving any formal education in any law school. His knowledge is attributable to both his affinity for reading (autodidacticism), in addition to his \"eidetic memory\".\n\nDr. Spencer Reid in \"Criminal Minds\", played by Matthew Gray Gubler, is an autodidact with an eidetic memory.\n\nMany successful and influential architects, such as Mies Van Der Rohe, Frank Lloyd Wright, Violet-Le-Duc, and Tadao Ando were self-taught.\n\nThere are very few countries allowing autodidacticism in architecture today. The practice of architecture or the use of the title \"architect\", are now protected in most countries.\n\nSelf-taught architects have generally studied and qualified in other fields such as engineering or arts and crafts. Jean Prouvé was first a structural engineer. Le Corbusier had an academic qualification in decorative arts. Tadao Ando started his career as a draftsman, and Eileen Gray studied fine arts.\n\nWhen a political state starts to implement restrictions on the profession, there are issues related to the rights of established self-taught architects. In most countries the legislation includes a grandfather clause, authorising established self-taught architects to continue practicing. In the UK, the legislation, allowed self-trained architects with 2 years of experience to register. In France, it allowed self-trained architects with 5 years of experience to register. In Belgium, the law allowed experienced self-trained architects in practice to register. In Italy, it allowed self-trained architects with 10 years of experience to register. In The Netherlands, the \"wet op de architectentitel van 7 juli 1987\" along with additional procedures, allowed architects with 10 years of experience and architects aged 40 years old or over, with 5 years of experience, to access the register.\n\nHowever, other sovereign states chose to omit such a clause, and many established and competent practitioners were stripped of their professional rights. In the Republic of Ireland, a group named \"Architects' Alliance of Ireland\" is defending the interests of long-established self-trained architects who were recently deprived from their rights to practice as per Part 3 of the Irish Building Control Act 2007.\n\nTheoretical research such as \"Architecture of Change, Sustainability and Humanity in the Built Environment\" or older studies like \"Vers une Architecture\" from Le Corbusier describe the practice of architecture as an environment changing with new technologies, sciences, and legislation. All architects must be autodidacts to keep up to date with new standards, regulations, or methods.\n\nSelf-taught architects like Eileen Gray, Luis Barragán, and many others, created a system where working is also learning, where self-education is associated with creativity and productivity within a working environment.\n\nWhile he was primarily interested in naval architecture, William Francis Gibbs learned his profession through his own study of battleships and ocean liners. Through his life he could be seen examining and changing the designs of ships that were already built, that is, until he started his firm Gibbs and Cox.\n\nThe role of self-directed learning continues to be investigated in learning approaches, along with other important goals of education, such as content knowledge, epistemic practices and collaboration. As colleges and universities offer distance learning degree programs and secondary schools provide cyber school options for K-12 students, technology provides numerous resources that enable individuals to have a self-directed learning experience. Several studies show these programs function most effectively when the \"teacher\" or facilitator is a full owner of virtual space to encourage a broad range of experiences to come together in an online format. This allows self-directed learning to encompass both a chosen path of information inquiry, self-regulation methods and reflective discussion among experts as well as novices in a given area. Furthermore, massive open online courses (MOOCs) make autodidacticism easier and thus more common.\n\nA 2016 Stack Overflow poll reported that due to the rise of autodidacticism, 69.1% of software developers appear to be self-taught.\n\n"}
{"id": "1660511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1660511", "title": "Bantu Education Act, 1953", "text": "Bantu Education Act, 1953\n\nThe Bantu Education Act, 1953 (Act No. 47 of 1953; later renamed the Black Education Act, 1953) was a South African segregation law which legalised several aspects of the apartheid system passed by the Apartheid regime which was really not on the side of the black community. Its major provision was enforcing racially separated educational facilities. Even universities were made \"tribal\", and all but three missionary schools chose to close down when the government no longer would help support their schools. Very few authorities continued using their own finances to support education for native Africans. In 1959, this type of education was extended to \"non white\" universities and colleges with the Extension of University Education Act, and the internationally prestigious University College of Fort Hare was taken over by the government and degraded to being part of the Bantu education system. It is often argued that the policy of Bantu (African) education was aimed to direct black or non-white youth to the unskilled labour market, although Kiyaam Govind, at the time Minister of Native Affairs, claimed that the aim was to solve South Africa's \"ethnic problems\" by creating complementary economic and political units for different ethnic group.\n\nThe national authorities of the time is often said to have viewed education as having a rather pivotal position in their goal of eventually separating South Africa from the Bantustans entirely. The Minister of Native Affairs at the time, the \"Architect of Apartheid\" Hendrik Verwoerd, stated that:\n\"There is no place for [the Bantu] in the European community above the level of certain forms of labour ... What is the use of teaching the Bantu child mathematics when it cannot use it in practice?\"\n\nThe introduction of Bantu Education led to a substantial increase of government funding to the learning institutions of black Africans, but it did not keep up with population increase. The law forced institutions under the direct control of the state and solve white man problems. The National Party now had the power to employ and train teachers as they saw fit. Black teachers' salaries in 1953 were extremely low and resulted in a dramatic drop of trainee teachers. Only one third of the black teachers were qualified.\n\nThe schools reserved for the country's white children were of Western standards. 30% of the black schools did not have electricity, 25% no running water and less than half had plumbing. The education for Blacks, Indians and Coloureds was substantially cheaper but not free. In the 70s, the per capita governmental spending on black education was one-tenth of the spending on white.\n\nIn 1976, the \"Afrikaans Medium Decree\" of 1974, which forced all black schools to use both Afrikaans and English as languages of instruction beginning with the last year of primary school, led to the Soweto Uprising in which more than 575 people died, at least 134 of them under the age of eighteen.\n\nThe act was repealed in 1979 by the Education and Training Act, 1979, which continued the system of racially segregated education, while also eliminating both discrimination in tuition fees and the segregated Department of Bantu Education and allowing the both use of native tongue education up to the fourth grade and limited attendance at private schools as well. Segregation became unconstitutional after the introduction of the Interim Constitution in 1994, and most sections of the Education and Training Act were repealed by the South African Schools Act, 1996.\n\nhttp://nmmu.ac.za/documents/mward/Bantu%20Education%20Act%201953.pdf\n\n"}
{"id": "38780520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38780520", "title": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Peshawar", "text": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Peshawar\n\nThe Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Peshawar or BISE Peshawar is a government board for intermediate and secondary education examination located in Peshawar, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.\n\nBISE Peshawar was established in 1961 by the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Previously, it was conducting the examination of intermediate and secondary education for the whole Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province but later, new educational boards were established in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa by the government and now its jurisdiction is Peshawar Division.\n\nThe jurisdiction of Peshawar board includes the following districts.\n\n"}
{"id": "51128633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51128633", "title": "Cambridge School (Neermarga)", "text": "Cambridge School (Neermarga)\n\nThe Cambridge School was established by Mr. Collins and Mrs. Flavia Albuquerque. The school is affiliated to CBSE.\n\nThe principal is currently Perpetua Dias. The school was established in 2007 and is located in Paldane, Mangalore.\n"}
{"id": "255782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=255782", "title": "College of Creative Studies", "text": "College of Creative Studies\n\nThe College of Creative Studies is the smallest of the three undergraduate colleges at the University of California, Santa Barbara, unique within the University of California system in terms of structure and philosophy. Its small size, student privileges, and grading system are designed to encourage self-motivated students with strong interests in a field to accomplish original work as undergraduates. A former student has called it a “graduate school for undergraduates”. The college has roughly 350 students in eight majors and approximately 60 professors and lecturers. There is an additional application process to the standard UCSB admission for prospective CCS students, and CCS accepts applications for admissions throughout the year.\n\nIn the late 1960s, the Chancellor of UCSB, Vernon I. Cheadle, was looking for an alternative education program for undergraduate students which could embody the new thinking of the 60s and also attract attention to his growing university. He contacted a professor in the English department, Marvin Mudrick, to come up with ideas for this new program. In 1967 the University of California allowed funding for Mudrick to start up the most promising of those ideas, the College of Creative Studies.\n\nThe program started with approximately 50 students in 7 majors: Art, Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, Music Composition, Literature and Physics. The experimental program struck a chord with its students and faculty, and along with the powerful pushing of Mudrick as its provost, it secured its place at UCSB. The program grew over the years in student and faculty size and in 1975 found its home in a building at UCSB that dates from when the campus was a World War II marine base. In 1995 the college added the major of Computer Science. In 2005, with the retirement of Provost William Ashby, the title of the Provost was changed to Dean and the College was placed under the leadership of Dr. Bruce Tiffney.\n\nThe Art department includes the only undergraduate book arts program in the University of California system. Recently, the Physics program has become regarded as one of the best undergraduate Physics programs in the nation; its students attend graduate schools with percentages resembling those of Ivy Leagues. CCS students have won the UCSB Chancellor's Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Research several times in recent years. Literature students run \"Spectrum\", a literary magazine, and \"Into the Teeth of the Wind\", a poetry review.\n\nThe philosophy of the College of Creative Studies is that certain undergraduate students are capable of rigorously exploring and adding to their chosen field of knowledge. Students skip introductory courses as appropriate and are encouraged to accomplish original work throughout their time at the College: Literature students compile a portfolio of writing, art students put on a minimum of two shows displaying their work, music students perform their own compositions, and science students enter labs by their sophomore years to conduct research and write scholarly papers for publication.\n\nThe College considers students to be the most important people involved, not the faculty or administration. It has a low student-teacher ratio, and each student is paired with a faculty adviser with whom they meet at least once a quarter.\n\nCCS students have few general education requirements and may take almost any course in the entire university, including graduate classes, without being required to complete the prerequisites. They can drop classes up to the last day of instruction in the quarter, a privilege intended to encourage students to attempt taking many units and advanced classes without being penalized in the case that they bit off more than they could chew.\n\nIn CCS classes, students do not receive letter grades. Instead, the College uses a sliding unit scale where if a student completes all the work for a class at a satisfactory level, the student receives a full 4 units for most classes. If the student completes less work, he/she would receive fewer units, and if the student goes beyond expectations, a professor may give student more units. This system aims to promote a non-competitive atmosphere that focuses more on the student learning the material rather than learning how to take a test.\n\nCCS students are afforded many privileges to help in the pursuit of their education. \n\n\nThe College of Creative Studies is housed in its own single story building, number 494, located between campus dorms, a dining commons, and the University Center. The building was built during World War II and shares the title as the oldest building at UCSB with the other buildings left from when the campus was a marine base.\n\nThe building contains classrooms, art studios, faculty and administrative offices, an art gallery, computer labs, print and wood shops and a small 100 person theater. For most of its life it was painted brown, but in early 2005 the administrative offices were painted yellow, the college proper was painted green and the Old Little Theatre was painted red.\n\nThe building acts as a \"home base\" for its students, who spend time in the building studying and socializing. Students are allowed to personalize the building, so the walls have stickers and art, classrooms contain couches and modified desks and there are a few roaming stuffed animals.\n\nAlthough many students and staff members are fond of the building, the college has outgrown it and is looking for funds to renovate it and/or build new facilities.\n\nCCS alumni include:\n\n\nCCS faculty have included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8112871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8112871", "title": "Community education", "text": "Community education\n\nCommunity education, also known as community-based education or community learning & development, is an organization's programs to promote learning and social development work with individuals and groups in their communities using a range of formal and informal methods. A common defining feature is that programmes and activities are developed in dialogue with communities and participants. The purpose of community learning and development is to develop the capacity of individuals and groups of all ages through their actions, the capacity of communities, to improve their quality of life. Central to this is their ability to participate in democratic processes.\n\nCommunity education encompasses all those occupations and approaches that are concerned with running education and development programmes within local communities, rather than within educational institutions such as schools, colleges and universities. The latter is known as the formal education system, whereas community education is sometimes called informal education. It has long been critical of aspects of the formal education system for failing large sections of the population in all countries and had a particular concern for taking learning and development opportunities out to poorer areas, although it can be provided more more broadly.\n\nThere are a myriad of job titles and employers include public authorities and voluntary or non-governmental organisations, funded by the state and by independent grant making bodies. Schools, colleges and universities may also support community learning and development through outreach work within communities. The community schools movement has been a strong proponent of this since the sixties. Some universities and colleges have run outreach adult education programmes within local communities for decades. Since the seventies the prefix word ‘community’ has also been adopted by several other occupations from youth workers and health workers to planners and architects, who work with more disadvantaged groups and communities and have been influenced by community education and community development approaches.\n\nCommunity educators have over many years developed a range of skills and approaches for working within local communities and in particular with disadvantaged people. These include less formal educational methods, community organising and group work skills. Since the nineteen sixties and seventies through the various anti poverty programmes in both developed and developing countries, practitioners have been influenced by structural analyses as to the causes of disadvantage and poverty i.e. inequalities in the distribution of wealth, income, land etc. and especially political power and the need to mobilise people power to effect social change. Thus the influence of such educators as Paulo Friere and his focus upon this work also being about politicising the poor.\n\nIn the history of community education and community learning and development, the UK has played a significant role in hosting the two main international bodies representing community education and community development. These being the International Community Education Association, which was for many years based at the Community Education Development Centre based in Coventry UK. ICEA and CEDC have now closed, and the International Association for Community Development, which still has its HQ in Scotland. In the 1990s there was some thought as to whether these two bodies might merge. The term community learning and development has not taken off widely in other countries. Although community learning and development approaches are recognised internationally. These methods and approaches have been acknowledged as significant for local social, economic, cultural, environmental and political development by such organisations as the UN, WHO, OECD, World Bank, Council of Europe and EU.\n\nIn the UK the term community learning and development has now been widely adopted as describing a discrete employment sector of occupations concerned with outreach education and development work in local communities. In 1999 a UK wide organisation responsible for setting professional training standards for education and development practitioners working within local communities was established. This organisation was called PAULO – the National Training Organisation for Community Learning and Development. (It was named after Paulo Freire.) It was formally recognised by David Blunket, the Secretary of State for Education and Employment in the New Labour Government in January 1999. It brought together a range of occupational interests under a single national training standards body, these being, adult education, youth work, community development and development education. The inclusion of community development was significant as it was initially uncertain as to whether it would join the NTO for Social Care.\n\nThe Community Learning and Development NTO represented all the main employers, trades unions, professional associations and national development agencies working in this area across the four nations of the UK. This was the first time that the informal education occupations across the UK had ever come together with the common purpose of creating a publicly recognised occupational sector, in the way that school teachers or college lecturers had long been publicly and officially recognised.\n\nThe term 'community learning and development' was adopted to acknowledge that all of these occupations worked primarily within local communities, and that this work encompassed not just providing less formal learning support but also a concern for the wider holistic development of those communities – socio-economically, environmentally, culturally and politically. In effect this brought together for the first time two traditions. The former group of occupations – adult educators, youth workers and community education workers had tended to focus upon the provision of informal education support for individuals and groups within communities. They had always seen their work as being educational. The latter group – community workers, community development workers and development educators had tended to focus upon the socio-economic and environmental development of those communities. Both sets of occupations recognised that they shared very similar values, knowledge base and skill sets and that what brought them together was a common commitment to supporting learning and social action.\n\nBy bringing together these occupational groups this created for the first time a single recognised employment sector of nearly 300,000 full and part-time paid staff within the UK, approximately 10% of these staff being full-time. The NTO continued to recognise the range of different occupations within it, for example specialists who work primarily with young people, but all agreed that they shared a core set of professional approaches to their work.\n\nIn 2002 the New Labour Government announced that it wished to cluster NTOs, of which there were over 50 covering a wide range of occupations across the UK labour market, under a smaller number of what they called Sector Skills Councils. A Sector Skills Council was formed called the Lifelong Learning UK Sector Skills Council. PAULO became one of five discrete pillars within LLUK, the others being the former NTOs for Further Education, for Universities, for Library and information Services and for Work Based Education. Over nearly a decade LLUK did a large amount of labour market mapping, as well as setting standards for the professional training of people working in the CLD area and generally promoted the identity of this sector across wider UK public policies and the public, non governmental and private sector employers.\n\nAll Sector Skills Councils in the UK including LLUK were abolished by the Conservative/Liberal coalition Government in 2011 and at the time of writing it is uncertain as to whether a single body representing the professional community learning and development sector will be sustained. The Community and Youth Workers Union which is part of the Unite Union in the UK played the lead role in improving employee’s conditions across the sector but never succeeded in representing all employees within the CLD sector and is not widely represented across all parts of the UK.\n\nThe Scottish Government has continued to recognise community learning and development as a discrete employment sector, and has for over a decade supported CLD training for people wishing to work professionally in this area. There is a team of HMI (Her Majesties Inspectors) to inspect the quality of delivery by employers. In 2007 the Scottish Government established a Scottish Standards Council for Community Learning and Development. This organisation oversees quality standards in the professional training of staff working in this field, including the validation and endorsement of professional training courses and is introducing a professional registration scheme for such qualified practitioners. It has continued much of the work of the former LLUK as it operated in Scotland.\n\nAt the present time similar CLD Standards Councils have not been set up in other parts of the UK and it does appear that the sector outside Scotland is once again becoming more fragmented. Unlike the formal education sector there is virtually no legislation in the UK underpinning the need to provide and fund community learning and development. Consequently, it has been vulnerable to cuts in public expenditure due to the recession, particularly projects that were seen as too radical.\n\nThree national priorities have been developed for community learning and development in Scotland:\n\nRaising standards of achievement in learning for adults through community-based lifelong learning opportunities incorporating the core skills of literacy, numeracy, communications, working with others, problem solving and information communications technology (ICT).\n\nEngaging with young people to facilitate their personal, social and educational development and enable them to gain a voice, influence and place in society.\n\nBuilding community capacity and influence by enabling people to develop the confidence, understanding and skills required to influence decision making and service delivery.\n\nCompetent CLD workers will ensure that their work supports social change and social justice and is based on the values of CLD. Their approach is collaborative, anti-discriminatory and equalities-focused and they work with diverse individuals, communities of place or interest when this is or is not appropriate. Central to their practice is challenging discrimination and its consequences and working with individuals and communities to shape learning and development activities that enhance quality of life and sphere of influence. They have good interpersonal and listening skills and their practice demonstrates that they value and respect the knowledge, experience and aspirations of those involved.\n\nThe Scottish Government have introduced the following set of principles of which community learning and development related activities should be based on:\n\n\nA philosophical base for developing Community Education programs is provided through the five components of the Wisconsin Model of Community Education. The model provides a process framework for local school districts to implement or strengthen community education. A set of Community Education Principles was developed by Larry Horyna and Larry Decker for the National Coalition for Community Education in 1991\n\n\nThe role of a community learning and development professional depends somewhat on the career path followed. For example, someone working with young people may have different priorities than someone working with adults; however, the outcomes are very similar in a sense that both will be aiming to promote a more socially just and equal society. Community learning and development is a vast field of work and the range of job categories is wide and may include the following: Youth Information Worker, Detached Youth Worker, Community Arts Worker, Community Capacity Worker, Local Authority Community Planning Officer, etc.\n\nCommunity learning and development workers should see themselves as working with people, rather than for them. Empathy is crucial to understanding the issues faced by those they work with and it is important that they engage in a way that does not intimidate people or place the worker in a position of looking down on those they work with.\n\nThe role of a Community learning and development worker is largely different from the role of a formal educator such as a teacher. Community learning and development workers do not follow a curriculum, as they allow the people they work with to form their own way of learning and each individual is believed to have the ability to reach their full potential in life. A community learning and development approach is arguably a more effective way of learning as every individual has their own unique way to learn and community learning and development workers look for the best possible method that suits the individual. Community learning and development approaches are gradually being adopted in schools to some extent and many other agencies and using a community learning and development approach in their work.\n\nIn Canada, a university in Alberta has created a Community-based Bachelor of Education program to prepare teachers for rural community education, making it the first university program in Canada that aims at preparing teachers for rural community education.\n\nProfessional community educators or community learning and development workers usually hold a professional degree in community education or community learning and development, depending on the course offered at the university from which they graduate. In Scotland, qualifications may be Approved by the Standards Council for Community Learning and Development. This means that the course has been assessed by a group of peers - an Approval Panel. The course must have a practice element totalling 40% of the course to gain Approval. More details on the Approval Process and a list of Approved qualifications are available on the Standards Council website www.cldstandardscouncil.org.uk In order to gain entrance to this course, a history of voluntary work is usually desirable.\n\nMany of those working in the field of community learning and development will be doing so voluntarily. These people are usually encouraged to complete a work-place based alternative to the full-time degree course. Others in paid positions may hold qualifications relevant to the field. These people will also be encouraged to study for a degree in community education.\n\nSome university institutions offer post-graduate degrees in community education such as MA, MSc, PGDip, PGCert, etc.\n\nIn countries where democratic governments exist, people are encouraged to vote for someone to represent them. In today's society there is a dwindling interest in politics from our younger generation and this could have a negative effect on our democracy and political system in years to come. Community learning and development has the potential to encourage young people to become more interested in politics and helping them influence decisions that affect their lives.\n\nIn many parts of the world, youth parliament-style organisations have been set up to allow young people to debate issues that affect them and others in their community. Young people engage with these organisations voluntarily and are sometimes elected using a democratic system of voting. Young people are at the heart of these organisations and are usually involved in the management and development. The majority of these organisations are facilitated and staffed by workers trained in community learning and development; however, staff role is mainly to facilitate and be supportive but not intrusive.\n\nThese organisations allow young people to gain a voice, influence decision makers who affect their lives and provide them with a sense of self-worth and a place in society.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, examples of these organisations include the United Kingdom Youth Parliament (UKYP); in Scotland, the Scottish Youth Parliament (SYP); in Wales the Children & Young People's Assembly for Wales; and in Northern Ireland, the Northern Ireland Youth Forum. In Canada, examples include Youth Parliament of Manitoba (YPM), Saskatchewan Youth Parliament (SYP), TUXIS Parliament of Alberta (TUXIS), and British Columbia Youth Parliament (BCYP).\n\nCultural divides and deficit thinking creates mutual distrust between marginalized parents and schools which in turn creates barriers to active parental involvement of marginalized parents in the education of their children. Researches also show that parents of high socio-economic status play active and direct role in the education of their children and are more likely to influence school policies that affects their children's schooling whereas parents of low socio-economic status play indirect roles in the education of their children and are less likely to influence school policies that affects their children's schooling. The gap between parents' educational involvement among parents from higher socio-economic status and parents from lower socio-economic status results in a more personalized education that caters for the needs of children from higher socio-economic backgrounds and more alienating and generic education systems/policies for students from low socio-economic backgrounds.\n\nThe following practices are necessary for parent and community participation in the education of their wards to be effective; students come to school healthy and ready to learn, parents assist schools with financial and or material support, there are frequent communications between parents and school authorities, parents have meaningful authorities in the schools and they also assist in the teaching of their children. Parents' home based educational involvement such as creating an enabling learning environment at home, helping their children with their assignments, helping their children develop cognitive skills and other school skills and motivating their children to do well in school supports student success. Researches show that multimodal and effective migrant parental involvement in the education of their children increases the test scores of such students and also shows strong student success even after academic abilities and socio-economic status are taken into consideration.\n\nSchool officials' racial stereotypes , class stereotypes, biases and attitudes regarding parental involvement in the education of their children hinders school officials from involving parents as partners in the education of their children. Also, bureaucracies in the public education systems hinders parents from advocating for changes that would benefit their children. Formally organized parental associations in schools that seeks to increase parental involvement, ignore the cultural and socio-economic needs of minorities, thereby contributing to the barriers of parental involvement, especially for marginalized parents. Research shows that high number of marginalized parents do not actively engage in their children's schooling. There is also a wide gap between the rhetoric of best parental involvement practices and actual parental involvement practices. Effective parental Involvement in the education of their children involves; parenting, communication, volunteering, home tutoring, involvement in decision-making, and collaboration with the community. Effective Parental Involvement treats and or makes school officials and parents partners in the education of their children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49014763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49014763", "title": "Deutscher Lehrerpreis", "text": "Deutscher Lehrerpreis\n\nThe Deutscher Lehrerpreis is a teacher award in Germany. It is awarded in two major categories: the first category awards teachers who exhibit innovative teaching practices, and the second category allows students to nominate their teachers for responsible student-teacher collaboration. The award was created and is organized by the Vodafone Foundation and the German Philological Association.\nIt is supported by German education researchers, such as Professor Dr. Jürgen Baumert who is the vice-president of the Max Planck Institute for Human Development in Berlin and who conducted the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) study, and German politicians such as Chancellor Angela Merkel.\n\nThe award was created by the Vodafone Foundation, the German Philological Foundation, German politicians and education professors, intending to reward the work of teachers and improve public appreciation of teachers. At the 2011 award ceremony, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said: \"We need teachers with a passion. They are the ones that are responsible for the quality of a school.\"\n\nThe Deutscher Lehrerpreis is awarded in two major categories. The first category is awarded for innovative teaching practices. Teachers from German secondary schools can apply with their projects, and a total of 13,000 Euros are awarded. The second category is awarded for responsible cooperation between students and teachers. Students who are about to graduate or have already graduated may nominate their teachers for the second category.\n\nThe German teaching award always finds a wide media coverage in the German media each year. These articles describe the competition and discuss the importance of good teachers in Germany. The winning teachers and teaching projects are portrayed and the teachers interviewed. Media coverage regarding the Deutscher Lehrerpreis has appeared in the Süddeutsche Zeitung, die Zeit, Hannoversche Allgemeine Zeitung, Spiegel Online, Focus (German magazine) Online, the Westdeutscher Rundfunk, Abendzeitung München, the Berliner Morgenpost, Deutschlandfunk, radio stations such as the Bayerischer Rundfunk, the Deutschlandradio, and Südwestrundfunk2. Television reports regarding the Lehrerpreis and individual award recipients appear on large TV stations such as the ARD (broadcaster), Südwestrundfunk, and the Norddeutscher Rundfunk and Bayerischer Rundfunk.\n"}
{"id": "374004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374004", "title": "Diversity training", "text": "Diversity training\n\nDiversity training is any program designed to facilitate positive intergroup interaction, reduce prejudice and discrimination, and generally teach individuals who are different from others how to work together effectively. \"From the broad corporate perspective, diversity training is defined as raising personal awareness about individual differences in the workplace and how those differences inhibit or enhance the way people work together and get work done. In the narrowest sense, it is education about compliance – Affirmative Action (AA), Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO), and sexual harassment.\" A competency based definition refers to diversity training as any solution designed to increase cultural diversity awareness, attitude, knowledge, and skills. Diversity training is thought to be more needed because of the growing ethnic and racial diversity in the workplace. While major corporations believe that diversity training and active diversity hiring will assist them in remaining competitive in a global economy, other large organizations (universities and colleges) have been slow to embrace diversity training. Diversity training is often aimed to meet objectives such as attracting and retaining customers and productive workers; maintaining high employee morale; and/or fostering understanding and harmony between workers. \n\nDespite purported and intended benefits, systematic studies have not shown benefits to diversity training and instead show that they backfire and lead to reductions in diversity and to discrimination complaints being taken less seriously.\n\nAccording to Hans Bader, its opponents consider it an oppressive ideology and reeducation tactic that actually reduces the ability of organizations to attain their goals. It has been suggested that diversity training reinforces differences between individuals instead of fostering their commonalities, thus helping to further racialize the workplace, creating situations where people \"tiptoe\" around issues such as how to relate to people of different cultures as opposed to people learning to communicate with and truly understand each other. Programs which established specific responsibility for diversity, such as equal opportunity staff positions or diversity task forces, have proven most effective in general. However, the results also indicate that White females benefit significantly more from diversity training. The benefits for African American females and males were appreciably lower than European American females. Networking and mentoring, which were considered bias mitigating approaches, served African American females the most. African American males were the least likely to benefit from any of the methods. Sue Steiner and collaborators have advocated that controversy be used as a cooperative learning style. They argue that attempting to see both sides of a controversial issue builds empathy and allows working environments to function better.\n\nAlexandra Kalev conducted a comprehensive review of cultural diversity training conducted in 830 midsize to large U.S. workplaces over a thirty one year period. The results showed that diversity training was followed by a 7.5 percent drop in the number of women in management. The percentage of black men in top positions fell by 12 percent. Black, female managers fell by 10 percent. Similar effects were shown for Latinos and Asians. The study did not find that all diversity training is ineffective. Mandatory training programs offered to protect against discrimination lawsuits were called into question. Voluntary diversity training participation to advance organization’s business goals was associated with increased diversity at the management level.\n\nAn analysis of data from over 800 firms over 30 years shows that diversity training and grievance procedures backfires and leads to reductions in the diversity of the firms workforce. Other research shows that people \"were less likely to take discrimination complaints seriously against companies who had diversity programs\". As organizations and communities are becoming more globalized, there is a need for an expansion in relation to communication among individuals from all over the world, operating within a diverse environment. Some scholars believe it is beneficial for companies to train a diverse staff, as a reflection of the market in which you wish to serve. According to Jalai Armache, in a heterogeneous workplace environment filled with people knowledgeable of those with different backgrounds and nationalities, there is ability to easily expand an organization. There is an ability to create inventive solutions to issues being faced in the world market. \n\nAccording to \"Diversity Training University International students\", the most important diversity pioneers include:\n"}
{"id": "3382474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3382474", "title": "Dynamic assessment", "text": "Dynamic assessment\n\nDynamic assessment is a kind of interactive assessment used in education and the helping professions. Dynamic assessment is a product of the research conducted by developmental psychologist Lev Vygotsky. As an alternative assessment modality, it seeks to identify the skills that an individual child possesses as well as their learning potential. The dynamic assessment procedure emphasizes the learning process and accounts for the amount and nature of examiner investment. It is highly interactive and process-oriented. It has become popular among educators, psychologists and speech and language pathologists. It is an alternative to the wide range of standard IQ tests, and it originated in the writings of psychologist Lev Vygotsky (1896-1934) of his most mature and highly productive period of 1932-1934. The notion of the zone of proximal development that he introduced in 1933, roughly a year before his death, served as the banner for his proposal to diagnose development as the level of actual development that can be measured by the child's independent problem solving and, at the same time, the level of proximal, or potential development that is measured in the situation of moderately assisted problem solving by the child. The maximum level of complexity and difficulty of the problem that the child is capable to solve under some guidance indicates the level of potential development. Then, the difference between the higher level of potential and the lower level of actual development indicates the zone of proximal development. Combination of the two indexesthe level of actual and the zone of the proximal developmentaccording to Vygotsky, provides a significantly more informative indicator of psychological development than the assessment of the level of actual development alone.\n\nThe ideas on the zone of development were later developed in a number of psychological and educational theories and practices. Most notably, they were developed under the banner of dynamic assessment that focuses on the testing of learning and developmental potential (for instance, in the work of Reuven Feuerstein and his associates, who has criticized standard IQ testing for its putative assumption or acceptance of \"fixed and immutable\" characteristics of intelligence or cognitive functioning). Grounded in developmental theories of Vygotsky and Feuerstein, who recognized that human beings are not static entities but are always in states of transition and transactional relationships with the world, dynamic assessment also received considerable support in the recent revisions of cognitive developmental theory by Joseph Campione, Ann Brown, and John D. Bransford and in theories of multiple intelligences by Howard Gardner and Robert Sternberg.\n\nVygotsky's term Zone of Proximal Development (ZPD) relates to the gap between what the child can learn unaided, and what he or she can learn with the help of an adult or a more capable peer. According to Vygotsky, it is impossible to understand a child's potential intellectual development using a one-way assessment.\n\nDynamic assessment is an interactive approach to psychological or psychoeducational assessment that embeds intervention within the assessment procedure. Most typically, there is a pretest then an intervention and then a posttest. This allows the assessor to determine the response of the client or student to the intervention. There are a number of different dynamic assessment procedures that have a wide variety of content domains.\n\nOne purpose of dynamic assessment is to determine if a student has the potential to learn a new skill.\n\nThere are two major approaches to DA: Interactionist and Interventonist approaches. Interventionist approach is implemented in two formats: sandwich and cake formats.\n"}
{"id": "12885040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12885040", "title": "E-learning maturity model", "text": "E-learning maturity model\n\nThe E-learning maturity model (eMM) in software engineering is a model to assess the capability of electronic educational technology (e-learning) processes.\n\neMM is a quality improvement framework based on the ideas of the Capability Maturity Model (CMM) and Software Process Improvement and Capability dEtermination (SPICE) methodologies. The underlying idea that guides the development of the eMM is that the ability of an institution to be effective in any particular area of work is dependent on their capability to engage in high quality processes that are reproducible and able to be extended and sustained as demand grows.\n\nThe eMM provides a set of thirty-five processes, divided into five process areas, that define a key aspect of the overall ability of institutions to perform well in the delivery of e-learning. Each process is selected on the basis of its necessity in the development and maintenance of capability in e-learning. All of the processes have been created after a programme of research and testing, conducted internationally.\n\nThe eMM is being trialled in the Higher Education Academy Benchmarking Pilot, by the University of Manchester. Additional projects applying the eMM are underway supported by the Scottish Funding Council in Scotland and ACODE in Australia. Development and application of the eMM in New Zealand was supported by the New Zealand Ministry of Education Tertiary E-Learning Research Fund.\n\nVersion 2 of eMM has changed considerably from the Version 1 of 2003. The eMM and associated documentation is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 2.5 License.\n\nThe key idea underlying the dimension concept is holistic capability. Rather than the eMM measuring progressive levels, it describes the capability of a process from these five synergistic perspectives. An organization that has developed capability on all dimensions for all processes will be more capable than one that has not. Capability at the higher dimensions that is not supported by capability at the lower dimensions will not deliver the desired outcomes; capability at the lower dimensions that is not supported by capability in the higher dimensions will be \"ad hoc\", unsustainable and unresponsive to changing organizational and learner needs.\n\nCapability in each process is described by a set of practices organised by dimension.\n\nThe eMM supplements the CMM concept of maturity levels, which describe the evolution of the organisation as a whole, with dimensions. The five dimensions of the eMM are:\n\n"}
{"id": "22209363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22209363", "title": "EcoCAR", "text": "EcoCAR\n\nEcoCAR: The NeXt Challenge is a three-year competition that builds on the 19-year history of U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) advanced vehicle technology competitions by giving engineering students the chance to design and build advanced vehicles that demonstrate leading-edge automotive technologies, with the goal of minimizing the environmental impact of personal transportation and illustrating pathways to a sustainable transportation future. The DOE has again joined General Motors (GM), the Government of Canada (Transport Canada, Natural Resources Canada), and other sponsors for this new competition series, named the EcoCAR Challenge. Argonne National Laboratory, a DOE research and development facility, will organize and operate the EcoCAR Challenge. Some previous types of advanced vehicle technology competitions include FutureTruck, FutureCar, and Challenge X. These type of competitions are usually supported by one or more of the Big Three American Automobile Manufacturers. \n\nThe DOE announced a Notice of Program Interest for North American colleges and universities with accredited engineering programs to compete for the opportunity to participate in EcoCAR: The NeXt Challenge—a new international collegiate vehicle engineering competition—through a request-for-proposal (RFP) process in 2008.\n\nEcoCAR seeks to advance the level of vehicle technology capable of reducing petroleum consumption and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions while demonstrating the real-world performance of a range of technology options. Schools interested in receiving an RFP describing in detail the requirements for competing for one of the up to 17 available slots in EcoCAR were invited to express their interest.\n\nThe technologies explored in EcoCAR are identical to those being investigated by the automotive industry to meet the demands of improved energy efficiency and dramatic reductions in Greenhouse gas (GHG)s, as well as to address California zero-emissions vehicle (ZEV) regulations. These technologies include full-function electric, hybrid, plug-in hybrid, and fuel cell hybrid vehicles. The only fuels approved for use in EcoCAR are E10 ethanol, E85 ethanol, B20 biodiesel, compressed gaseous hydrogen, and the energy carrier electricity.\n\nTeams selected will design and integrate advanced-technology powertrains, lightweight materials, and aerodynamic improvements into a production vehicle. Using this approach, EcoCAR will explore pathways for future vehicles while giving the student participants the knowledge and experience they need to rapidly develop critical engineering skills and become the next generation of leaders in the automotive industry.\n\nEcoCAR is based on a real-world integrated vehicle design and development process. Teams of engineers from the selected schools will develop their vehicles following a modified GM Global Vehicle Development Process (GVDP) for each phase of the three-year competition. By the end of the competition, the sponsors expect fully developed vehicles equivalent to prototypes ready for a production decision. While applying proven methods for engineering successful prototype vehicles, students will learn real-world engineering skills that will make them highly effective in the automotive industry. At the conclusion of each of EcoCAR’s three years, a week-long competition involving all of the participating schools will take place at a GM vehicle proving ground or other appropriate location in North America.\n\nTeams will receive $10,000 in seed money in Year One, a wide range of powertrain components, a vehicle donated by GM, and technical and mentoring support from the competition sponsors. EcoCAR teams will also have a GM mentor knowledgeable in technologies relevant to the team assigned to assist them during the competition. Substantial funds will also be provided to each university to support a full-time graduate student who will provide the team with leadership and continuity over the three-year program.\n\nSchools will be required to match cash seed money donations from EcoCAR sponsors and to provide class credit for students participating in the competition, release time equal to at least one class per semester for a faculty advisor from the engineering school, and logistical and promotional support for their team. Teams may also be asked to match seed money each year to support a full-time, graduate-level engineering team leader. A signed letter of support will be required from the Dean of the Engineering Department with each proposal. If accepted into EcoCAR, each school will be required to sign an annual Good Faith Agreement reaffirming the school's full support of their team and explicitly stating its willingness to participate in all EcoCAR activities with at least one faculty advisor in attendance.\n\nAs part of the competition, EcoCAR teams are required to participate in different types of outreach events. These events include things such as press releases, community outreach, K-12 education, etc. Each team is asked to reach out to their communities and get them interested in EcoCAR.\n\nIn Year One (2009), teams use modeling and simulation to develop their vehicle architecture. \n\nYear One final results \n\nIn Year Two (2010), designs are turned into functioning prototype vehicles. \n\nYear Two final results \n\nIn the Final Third Year (2011), Vehicles are refined to “Near Showroom Quality”. \n\nYear Three final results\nYear Three was the final year of the EcoCAR: The NeXt Challenge competition, succeeded by EcoCAR 2, and EcoCAR 3 \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3830563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3830563", "title": "Ecology and Evolutionary Biology", "text": "Ecology and Evolutionary Biology\n\nSome North American universities are home to degree programs titled Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, offering integrated studies in the disciplines of ecology and evolutionary biology. The wording is intended as representing the alternative approach from the frequently used pairing of Cell and Molecular Biology, while being more inclusive than the terminology of Botany or Zoology. Recently, due to advances in the fields of genetics and molecular biology, research and education in ecology and evolutionary biology has integrated many molecular techniques.\n\nA program that focuses on the relationships and interactions that range across levels of biological organization based on a scientific study is Ecology and Evolutionary Biology. The origins and history of ecosystems, species, genes and genomes, and organisms, and how these have changed over time is all part of the studies of how biodiversity has evolved and how it takes place. Ecology and Evolutionary biology in North America is based on research impact determined by the top 10% of ecology programs. The interactive web of organisms and environment are all part of what the field of Ecology explores. There have been studies in evolution that have worked to prove that \"modern organisms have developed from ancestral ones.\" The reason that evolutionary biology is so interesting to learn about is because of the evolutionary processes that is the reason we have such a diversity of life on Earth.There are many processes that make up evolutionary biology that give great insight to how we came to be, some of which include natural selection, speciation, and common descent. \nAmong the best-known Ph.D.-granting departments that use this name are\n"}
{"id": "18092688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18092688", "title": "Education in Antigua and Barbuda", "text": "Education in Antigua and Barbuda\n\nEducation in Antigua and Barbuda is compulsory and free for children between the ages of 5 and 16 years. The system of education in Antigua & Barbuda is based on the British educational system. The school year begins in September and ends in June of the following year. In order to ensure that all costs related to schooling are covered by the government, there is an education levy on all basic wages in Antigua and Barbuda, with the funds used toward such costs as supplies, transportation, and school infrastructure maintenance. Primary education begins at the age of five years and normally lasts for seven years. Secondary education lasts for five years, with three years of lower secondary, followed by two years of upper secondary. In 2001, there were about 13,000 students enrolled at the primary schools and 5,000 students at the secondary schools. About 1,000 secondary school age students were enrolled in vocational programs. As of 2000 the primary pupil-teacher ratio was an estimated 19 to 1; the ratio for secondary school was about 13:1. The government administers the majority of the schools. In 2003, estimated spending on education was about 3.8% of the GDP. In 2000, about 38% of primary school students were enrolled in private schools.\n\nThere currently are three colleges. The University of Health Sciences Antigua, was founded in 1982. It had, in the 1990s, an enrollment of 46 students and 16 teachers. The University of the West Indies School of Continuing Studies (Antigua and Barbuda) was founded in 1949 and offers adult education courses, secretarial skills training programs, summer courses for children, and special programs for women. In 1972, the technical and teacher’s training colleges merged and formed the Antigua State College.\n\nThe University of the West Indies has campuses in Barbados, Trinidad, and Jamaica, and it maintains extramural departments in several other islands, including Antigua. Those interested in higher education also enroll at schools in the United Kingdom, the United States, Europe and Canada. The adult literacy rate is approximately 89%.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1602747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1602747", "title": "Educational music", "text": "Educational music\n\nEducational music, is a genre of music in which songs, lyrics, or other musical elements are used as a method of teaching and/or learning. It has been shown in research to promote learning. Additionally, music study in general has been shown to improve academic performance of students. \n\nMusic used for learning can be in many formats, including video recordings, audio recordings, sheet music, and improvised music. Most of the time, music is added to an existing lesson plan or story. Songs are usually easy to sing and catchy, so that they can be repeated for later learning. Some children's music is considered Educational, and, historically, most educational music is geared towards children. Prominent examples include songs from LazyTown, \"Sesame Street\", \"Schoolhouse Rock\", Smart Songs' educational rap videos on YouTube, and Tom Lehrer's songs for the PBS show \"The Electric Company\".\n\nRecent developments have extended music's use to secondary and collegiate education, with Cornel West breaking new ground in this regard.\n\nVideo recordings are the most use of educational music. Television shows, DVDs, and even some movies use music to teach the viewer, whether it be a moral lesson or a scholastic lesson. Sesame Street and Schoolhouse Rock are examples of shows that use music to teach topics like math, science, and government. Things like counting, the names of the planets, or the law making process are put to music with simple lyrics to aid in retention of information.\n\nShows such as Little Einsteins use music as a story aid to teach decision-making and music recognition. Instrumental music represents different objects, people, animals, or actions to help the viewer distinguish between various options.\n\nShows such as Veggie Tales use a story as well as music to teach biblical and moral lessons to its viewers. This form uses songs to tie the story together and help the viewer remember important aspects of the story.\n\nAudio music recordings are also used prominently as a form of education. The website Songs for Teaching has many songs for teachers to use to help kids learn. Baby Genius is a very popular company that produces educational music CDs for children. \nThe European Union funded an education project to encourage early language learning called Lullabies of Europe that gathered and recorded lullabies in 7 European languages. Some Television shows and DVD series also make Audio recordings of their songs to further learning. \n\nImprovisation is used in educational music in a few settings. Teachers might make up a song for times tables and teach it to the students, perhaps having students add parts. Some people also make up songs to remember things or to study for a test.\n\nHip-hop demonstrates increasing relevance and success as a pedagogical tool in primary and secondary education. Flocabulary and Defined Mind, focusing primarily on vocabulary building for SAT and ACT_(examination) tests, have established a Web presence in addition to their textbooks. Smart Songs, concentrating on middle school, offers amusing and pertinent music video. Rhythm, Rhyme, Results uses hip hop music to help students learn lessons ranging from economics to photosynthesis. MC SKULE (Rohen Shah) of the non-profit SKULE.org makes parody music videos of popular songs where the lyrics teach math. Alex Kajitani, the 2009 California State Teacher of the Year, created original middle school math songs as the Rappin' Mathematician.\n\nSome schools integrate music with other subjects in the hope that the music and the other subjects enhance each other. With this mutual growth, educators hope to improve the overall quality and experiences of education.\n\nOne program that integrates music in education is the Changing Education Through the Arts (CETA) program, which is done through the Kennedy Center. CETA is a partnership between the Kennedy Center and eight arts focus schools in the Washington D.C. area. They work together to produce staff that can integrate the arts across the curriculum. CETA aims to integrate music and other arts, such as dance and visual arts, into other scholastic areas, such as math and science \"...to teach and assess objectives in both the art form and the other subject area. This allows a simultaneous focus on creating, performing, and/or responding to the arts while still addressing content in other subject areas.”\n\nThe objectives of CETA are to:\n\nArts Horizons is an arts in education organization that serves schools in New York and New Jersey. They integrate music, as well as other arts, into learning to help children gain appreciation for the arts as well as stimulate children “through the arts to improve their proficiency in reading, writing and math.”\n\nArts Horizons has a variety of programs, including:\n\nAn example of an assembly provided by Arts Horizons is the Peter and the Wolf program. In this program, an actor tells the tale of Peter and the Wolf while a woodwind quintet plays the music of Prokofiev to bring the story to life. After the story, students have a chance to learn about the woodwind instruments that were used in the story, as well as other woodwind instruments, and hear other folk tales.\n\nCETA has concrete evidence on the following:\n\nThere have been many studies on the use of music to aid in teaching, as well as how an individual who plays music fares in their education. Results show that using music when teaching children to read, for example, can help children learn how to read and give lasting results. A study on elementary students even showed that students with music training have overall better verbal memory, compared to the memory of those students of the same demographic without music training.\n\n"}
{"id": "1825957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1825957", "title": "Filmstrip", "text": "Filmstrip\n\nThe filmstrip was a common form of still image instructional multimedia, once commonly used by educators in primary and secondary schools (K-12), overtaken at the end of the 1980s by newer and increasingly lower-cost full-motion videocassettes and later on by DVDs. From the 1940s to 1980s, filmstrips provided an easy and inexpensive alternative to 16 mm educational films, requiring very little storage space and being very quick to rewind for the next use. Filmstrips were large and durable, and rarely needed splicing. They are still used in some areas.\n\nA filmstrip is a spooled roll of 35 mm positive film with approximately thirty to fifty images arranged in sequential order. Like 16 mm film, a filmstrip was inserted vertically down in front of the projector aperture, rather than horizontally as in a slide projector. Therefore, the frame size is smaller than normal 35 mm film. Two image frames of a filmstrip take up the same amount of space as a single 35mm frame, including its guard band, so that a 25 exposure 35mm film can contain 50 filmstrip images. Early celluloid filmstrips had a habit of melting or combusting from the intense and sustained heat of the projection lamp. These were called pictural filmstrips, the first filmstrips that were produced in a complete set.\n\nTypically, a filmstrip's running time was between ten and twenty minutes. Depending on how they were narrated or produced, filmstrips (which often came with an instructor's guide) were flexible enough to be used in both self-paced learning formats or a full classroom. In addition to a standard classroom wall or screen projector, personal film display units were available with a screen size of approximately eight inches diagonal for up-close viewing by one or two people.\n\nThe instructor would turn on a filmstrip projector that would show the first frame (image) of the filmstrip. The instructor then turned on a 33 RPM record or cassette tape containing the audio material for the filmstrip which included narration. At the appropriate point, a tone would sound, signaling the instructor to turn a knob, advancing to the next frame. Later, technical improvements allowed the projector to advance the film automatically.\nBy the later part of the 1960s, such firms as Warren Schloat Productions, CBS, The New York Times Company, Scott Education, Coronet Films, Sunburst Media, and Guidance Associates were producing titles featuring photographs by famous artists and of notable events with a synchronized audio track. The music and narration for the filmstrip originally came on a vinyl record.\n\nIn the 1970s, audio technology advanced, and vinyl records gave way to audio cassettes and became useful in providing individualized instruction. Students could now watch and listen to a filmstrip over and over at their own pace. Filmstrips also moved beyond traditional arts and humanities courses, branching into the science, career, vocational and technical subject areas led by such firms as Bergwall Productions and Prentice Hall Media (Formerly Warren Schloat Productions.) There were filmstrips produced in many different subject areas including music, art, language arts, math, business and even home economics.\n\nIn the early 1950s production companies started producing filmstrips for home entertainment. There were a number of films from Disney, and also from the Society for Visual Education Inc.(Chicago), among other manufacturers.\n\nFilm strips were popular in the USSR because movie projectors and VCRs were not in common use until the early 1990s. A great number of films were produced by the \"Diafilm\" studio. Many filmstrips were produced by \"cinematographic studios\" in former Soviet bloc countries such as Poland and Hungary during the 1950s–1960s.\nIn Greece they were known and sold by the name \"tainies Argo Film\" (ARGO FILM movies) from the name of the company (ARGO FILM) that translated the scripts into Greek and organized the productions' distribution in Greece. The titles included children's stories, fairy tales, Greek history, Christianity, adventure, science fiction and war stories.\n\nDuring the 1970s, advanced projectors became available, and these projectors would automatically advance the film by means of a 50 Hz subaudible tone recorded on the cassette that would be detected by the projector, and automatically advance the frame. Most cassettes accompanying filmstrips in the 1970s and 1980s would have the same audio material on both sides of the tape. One side would have audible tones for the older projectors, and the other side would have the subaudible tones for the newer automatic projectors. Some select filmstrip releases had both audible and subaudible tones combined, making the filmstrip and its companion cassette compatible with any filmstrip projector. If improperly set up, the narration and film would not be synchronized.\n\nFrom the late 1970s to the beginning of 1980, because most filmstrip publishers stopped making their sound filmstrip sets with LP records, audiovisual companies started producing automatic filmstrip projectors with built-in cassette players to better meet the audiovisual needs of teachers and school librarians. In 1979-1980 the DuKane Corporation in St. Charles, Illinois began to produce a cassette automatic filmstrip projector called the DuKane Micromatic II. This automatic filmstrip projector was easier to use by loading the filmstrip in the projector backward when the plastic upper film spring was flipped back. Loading the cassettes into the projector's cassette compartment was also easier with a control panel for the filmstrip and accompanying cassette. This filmstrip projector also had 50 Hz synchronization and could also be operated by remote control when set on manual mode. It was very popular with classroom and music teachers and school librarians. DuKane also produced their new line of silent filmstrip projectors which were also popular in schools. The La Belle Commpak system always use 1000 Hz tone to advance to the next slide. It will be embedded on to the Commpak 8track cartridge. Then it will be played on to la belle tutor 16/la belle duo 16 system. The general electric show 'n' tell record system use 16mm for film and record for audio and cool thing is the 16mm played upside down advance to the next frame. Simelar to la belle commpak system and dukane filmstrip projector the general electric show 'n' tell system contains any story on 1 16mm film format.\n\nThe 1980s brought the advent of the video cassette recorder (VCR), and advancing technology meant increasingly affordable VCRs. When VCRs became within reach for most schools' budgets, this marked beginning of a decline in filmstrip use. Video instruction combined the ease of the filmstrip with automatically synchronized audio and full motion video. By the early 1990s, the vast majority of filmstrip producers that were not equipped to compete with video either closed or sold their businesses.\n\nIn the late 1990s to early 2000s, some audiovisual companies (such as Society for Visual Education Inc., Educational Audio Visual, and Metro Audio Visual) were still producing filmstrips for schools and libraries. When VHS, DVD, multimedia projectors and computers became popular in schools and libraries, however, filmstrips ceased to be used in schools, and many public libraries no longer had filmstrips in their catalogs. By the mid-2000s many schools no longer wanted to purchase filmstrips, and audiovisual companies stopped producing them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9173009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9173009", "title": "Ger Brennan", "text": "Ger Brennan\n\nGer Brennan is an Irish Gaelic footballer who plays for St Vincents and formerly played for Dublin.\n\nFrom a family of nine, he attended Belvedere College. At Belvedere he played Rugby, soccer, hurling and Gaelic Football.\n\nGraduating from Maynooth College with undergraduate and master's degrees, he qualified as a school teacher and taught Irish and religion at St. Kevin's College, Ballygall Road, in Dublin 11. In November 2015 he was appointed Gaelic Games Executive at University College Dublin.\n\nBrennan won his first Dublin Senior Football Championship medal with St Vincents in 2007 in the final against St Brigids at Parnell Park. He then went on to win the Leinster Senior Club Football Championship final against Tyrrellspass of Westmeath. Brennan was chosen as the Leinster club player of the year for his performances in the Leinster club championship with St Vincents.\n\nBrennan won the 2008 All-Ireland Senior Club Football Championship with St Vincents in a hard fought game. He won the Dublin Senior Football Championship for St. Vincents, as captain, in 2013.\n\nBrennan madee his national league debut for Dublin against Tyrone on 3 February 2007. He was a member of Dublin team that won the 2007 O'Byrne Cup, playing against Laois at O'Connor Park in Offaly. The game finished on a scoreline of 1-18 to 2-13. He finished the tournament with a total of 0-04.\n\nIn 2008, he retired from Dublin's football panel, citing burnout and fatigue as his reasons. However, on July 30, 2008, he was named in Dublin's panel for the quarter-final and accepted a return. He was part of the victorious Dublin squad that won the 2011 All-Ireland Senior Football Championship. He won an All-Ireland with Dublin for a second time in 2013, scoring two points in the final against Mayo.\n\nIn October 2015, Brennan announced his retirement from Inter County football but will continue to play club football.\n\nBrennan is a Catholic who has spoken about his faith in God. He has stated that while non-denominational schools may teach subjects such as science, Catholic schools \"enable young students to have the skills to pray\".\n\nBrennan was praised for his \"nonchalant delivery\" of thanks to the \"girlfriends and boyfriends of the players\" after St Vincent's defeated Castlebar Mitchels in the 2014 All-Ireland Club Championship Final at Croke Park (a speech delivered in front of a live television audience). However just over a year later, Brennan wrote an op-ed for the \"Irish Independent\" arguing against the legalisation of same-sex marriage in that year's Marriage Equality referendum, which was ultimately carried in a 62% to 38% popular vote. His stance was criticised by others, including fellow GAA star Conor Cusack.\n"}
{"id": "17974170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17974170", "title": "Higher education policy", "text": "Higher education policy\n\nHigher education policy refers to how higher education institutions like universities are organised, funded and operated in a society. According to Ansell (2006) there are \"three different institutional forms of higher education provision: the Anglo-Saxon, Continental and the Scandinavian education system.\"\n\nAccording to Ansell (2006), \"[t]he Anglo-Saxon education system leads to a mass, partially private and publicly inexpensive system\". The Anglo-Saxon system is sometimes described as an Anglo-American education system.\n\nAccording to Ansell (2006), \"[t]he Continental educational system leads to an elite, fully public and inexpensive system\".\n\nAccording to Ansell (2006), \"[t]he Scandinavian education system leads to a mass, fully public, but highly expensive system\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1977277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1977277", "title": "Humanitas", "text": "Humanitas\n\nHumanitas is a Latin noun meaning human nature, civilization, and kindness.\n\nThe Latin word \"humanitas\" corresponded to the Greek concepts of \"philanthrôpía\" (loving what makes us human) and \"paideia\" (education) which were amalgamated with a series of qualities that made up the traditional unwritten Roman code of conduct (\"mos maiorum\"). Cicero (106–43 BC) used \"humanitas\" in describing the formation of an ideal speaker (orator) who he believed should be educated to possess a collection of virtues of character suitable both for an active life of public service and a decent and fulfilling private life; these would include a fund of learning acquired from the study of \"bonae litterae\" (\"good letters\", i.e., classical literature, especially poetry), which would also be a source of continuing cultivation and pleasure in leisure and retirement, youth and old age, and good and bad fortune.\n\nInsofar as \"humanitas\" corresponded to \"philanthrôpía\" and \"paideia\", it was particularly applicable to guiding the proper exercise of power over others. Hence Cicero's advice to his brother that \"if fate had given you authority over Africans or Spaniards or Gauls, wild and barbarous nations, you would still owe it to your \"humanitas\" to be concerned about their comforts, their needs, and their safety.\" Echoing Cicero over a century later, Pliny the Younger (61-112 A.D.) defined \"humanitas\" as the capacity to win the affections of lesser folk without impinging on greater (Ep. IX, 5).\n\nThe concept was of great importance during the re-discovery of Classical Antiquity during the age of the Renaissance by the Italian \"umanisti\", beginning with the illustrious Italian poet Petrarch, who revived Cicero's injunction to cultivate the humanities, understood during the Renaissance as grammar, rhetoric, poetry, history, and moral philosophy.\n\nIn 1333, in Liège, Belgium, Petrarch had found and copied out in his own hand a manuscript of Cicero's speech, \"Pro Archia\", which contained a famous passage in defense of poetry and \"litterae\" (letters): \"Haec studia adolescentiam alunt, senectutem oblectant, secundas res ornant, adversis perfugium ac solacium praebent, delectant domi, non impediunt foris, pernoctant nobiscum, peregrinantur, rusticantur.\" (Translation: \"These studies sustain youth and entertain old age, they enhance prosperity, and offer a refuge and solace in adversity; they delight us when we are at home without hindering us in the wider world, and are with us at night, when we travel and when we visit the countryside\").\nPetrarch liked this quotation and referred to it often, and where Cicero used the phrase \"litterarum lumen\", \"the light of literature\", Petrarch in the margin wrote \"lumen litterarum\" alongside and drew a sketch of a lamp or candle. The Liège manuscript is lost and so is Petrarch's copy, but Petrarch's copy \"can be shown to be behind all but one of the later manuscripts\" and preserve Petrarch's marginal annotations. Petrarch, in many respects a Medieval man, regretted that Cicero had not been a Christian and believed that he certainly would have been one had he not died before the birth of Jesus. To Petrarch and the Renaissance \"umanisti\" who immediately followed him, Cicero's \"humanitas\" was not seen as in conflict with Christianity or a Christian education. In this they followed the fifth century Church fathers such as Jerome and Augustine, who taught that Greek and Roman learning and literature were gifts of God and models of excellence, provided, of course, they were filtered and purified in order to serve Christianity.\n\nAccording to historian Peter Gay, the eighteenth-century French philosophes of the Enlightenment found Cicero's eclectic, Stoic-tinged paganism congenial:The ideal of \"humanitas\" was first brought to Rome by the philosophic circle around Scipio and further developed by Cicero. For Cicero, \"humanitas\" was a style of thought, not a formal doctrine. It asserted man’s importance as a cultivated being, in control of his moral universe. The man who practiced \"humanitas\" was confident of his worth, courteous to others, decent in his social conduct, and active in his political role. He was a man, moreover, who faced life with courageous skepticism: he knows that the consolations of popular religion are for more credulous beings than himself, that life is uncertain, and that sturdy pessimism is superior to self-deceptive optimism. Man becomes man as he refines himself; he even becomes godlike: “\"Deus est mortali iuvare mortalem\",” wrote Pliny, translating a Greek Stoic, “To help man is man’s true God.” Finally, the man who practiced \"humanitas\" cultivated his aesthetic sensibilities as he listened to his reason: \"\"Cum musis,\"” wrote Cicero, “\"id est, cum humanitate et doctrina habere commercium\"\". Virtue, Cicero insisted, is nothing but nature perfected and developed to its highest point, and there is therefore a resemblance between man and God: \"\"Est autem virtus nihil aliud quam in se perfecta et ad summum perducta natura; est igitur homini cum deo similitudio\".\n\nCicero’s \"humanitas\" . . . reappeared in the first century in Seneca’s claim – made in the midst of a lament over Roman bestiality – that man is a sacred thing to man: “\"homo res sacra homini\"”; and reappeared once more in the eighteenth century in Kant’s call for human autonomy and in Voltaire’s stern injunction: “Remember your dignity as a man.” In the beginning of his \"Meditations\", the Emperor Marcus Aurelius elaborated a veritable catalog of qualities which, all together, made up the virtues which Cicero had called \"humanitas\" and which the \"philosophes\" hoped they possessed in good measure: modesty, self-control, manliness, beneficence, practicality, generosity, rationality, tolerance, and obedience to the dictates of nature.\n\nDuring the Aufklärung (or German version of the eighteenth-century Enlightenment), the term \"Humanität\"\" was used to designate the intellectual, physical, and moral formation of \"a better human being\" (or Humanism). It was used, for example, by theologian Johann Gottfried Herder in his \"Briefe zur Beförderung der Humanität\" (\"Letters for the Advancement of Humanity\"), 1792, and by Friedrich Schiller, among others.Herder's \"Humanität\" is a broad concept he defines variously as the gradual fulfillment of best human potential, the achievement of reason and fairness in all classes and in all affairs of men, and the joint product of the creative actions of legislators, poets, artists, philosophers, inventors, and educators through the ages.\n\nAlthough Herder is considered the originator of ethnic nationalism, he was no chauvinist. He maintained that each person loves his own nation, family, language, and customs not because they are better than other peoples' but because they were his. Love for one's own individuality ought to lead to respect for that of others. For Herder, the image of God was imprinted in each human being, along with an internal impulse for self-improvement and growth. Historian William McNeil writes that Herder boldly proclaimed that:each age and every people embody ideals and capacities peculiar to themselves, thus allowing a fuller and more complete expression of the multiform potentialities of humankind than could otherwise occur. Herder expressly denied that one people or civilization was better than another. They were just different, in the same way that the German language was different from the French.\n\nIn Roman humanism, benevolence (\"benevolentia\") was considered a feature of \"Humanitas\". This notion is particularly underscored in the works of Cicero and Seneca. In this context, benevolence drives the idea of humaneness and is understood as a feeling either of love or tenderness so that it makes \"someone willing to participate, at the level of feeling, in whatever is human.\" Such participation entails a willingness to engage both in human suffering and joy. This was echoed in the Kantian position on love, where the thinker cited the so-called rational benevolence driven by natural sympathetic joy and pity. \n\nOther thinkers have also discussed benevolence in modern humanism. Max Scheler, for example, used it as an important element in his discourse of sympathy. In one of his works, he linked benevolence and the concept of \"fellow-feeling,\" which allows self-love, self-centred choice, solipsism and egoism\" to finally be wholly overcome. Scheler specifically equated benevolence with humanitarianism, explaining that these concepts - along with fellow-feeling - embrace all men, \"simply because they are men.\"\n\n\"Humanitas\" as benevolence, is also a cornerstone of the credo of Freemasonry and constituted one of the bases for its position that nationality and religion do not matter, only universal humanity. Some orders of Freemasonry are called \"Humanitas\".\n\n"}
{"id": "43572162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43572162", "title": "Humboldt's Ideal", "text": "Humboldt's Ideal\n\nHumboldt's ideal of education refers to the holistic education of the arts in conjunction with the respective study direction. This ideal goes back to Wilhelm von Humboldt, who in the time of the Prussian reforms relied on a growing educated middle-class and thereby promoted the claim on general education. Today, the term often refers to the central idea of the unity of research and teaching at universities and various other institutes of higher education (in contrast to pure teaching professorships without research obligation).\n\nHumboldt, as head of the \"ministry of culture and public education\" in the \"Prussian Interior Ministry\", incorporated this ideal into educational reforms. In the actual policy it did not extend to the Prussian elementary schools, which also came under the section next to the universities. Occasionally it is therefore alternatively referred to as \"Humboldt's university ideal\".\n\n\"Humboldt's educational ideal\" developed around two central concepts of public education: The concept of the autonomous individual and the concept of world citizenship. The university should be a place where autonomous individuals and World Citizen are produced at or more specifically, produce themselves.\n\n\nAcademic freedom describes independence of the university from outside governmental and economic constraints. The university is to evade government influence. Humboldt demands that the scientific institution of higher education should loose itself \"from all forms within the state\". Therefore, his concept of university planned, for example, that the University of Berlin should have its own goods in order to finance itself and thereby secure its economic independence. Academic freedom also demands, next to independence of the university from outside governmental and economic constraints, the independence from within; i.e. free choice of study and free organization of studies. The University should therefore be a place of permanent public exchange between all involved in the scientific process. The integration of their knowledge shall be pursued with the help of philosophy. Philosophy is supposed to represent a kind of basic science, which allows members of different scientific disciplines to bring an exchange of their discovery and to link them together. \"Humboldt's educational ideal\" formed German University History decisively for a long period, albeit it was never realized practically in its entirety or cannot be realized. Great intellectual achievements of German science is linked to it.\n\nGeorg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Karl Marx, Friedrich Nietzsche, Sigmund Freud, Theodor W. Adorno and Albert Einstein confessed themselves to it.\n\nWhile during Humboldt's time universities mainly conducted state-organized academic research, there are now in Germany's tertiary education new forms of higher education, which now all have a scientific mission to research. The demands of Humboldt's ideal of education can therefore be applied on all German universities.\n\nCritics see in many current reforms, such as the Bologna process, a departure from Humboldt's ideal towards greater occupational studies with economic interests. Furthermore, it is criticized that the freedom of teaching is restricted by the Bologna process.\n\n"}
{"id": "31325487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31325487", "title": "Integration of faith and learning", "text": "Integration of faith and learning\n\nThe integration of faith and learning is a focus of many religious institutions of higher education. The broad concept encompasses the idea that the Christian worldview, faith, and practices of the student should be deeply connected within the learning experience. That said, different educators build their own visions of education onto the concept, what some call conceptions of faith learning integration. This idea is commonly found in Christian colleges in the United States, and is considered by some to be the essence of Christian higher education. PABATS, the accrediting association for Bible colleges in the Philippines has also shown interest in faith-learning integration. Christian Colleges of Southeast Asia, Southern Philippines Baptist Theological Seminary, Halls of Life Bible College, Davao Bible College and Koinonia Theological Seminary are now practicing faith and learning integration.\n\nHigher education in the United States began largely as a Christian endeavor. Nearly all of the colleges founded during the colonial period were founded and supported by the dominant Christian denominations of the time.\n\nSome scholars claim that the current model of American higher education is convoluted because it has worked to separate faith from learning.\n\n"}
{"id": "28990044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28990044", "title": "Intercontinental Dictionary Series", "text": "Intercontinental Dictionary Series\n\nThe Intercontinental Dictionary Series is a large database of topical vocabulary lists in various world languages. The general editor of the database is Bernard Comrie of the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Leipzig. Mary Ritchie Key of the University of California, Irvine is the founding editor. The database has an especially large selection of indigenous South American languages and Northeast Caucasian languages.\n\nThe Intercontinental Dictionary Series' advanced browsing function allows users to make custom tables which compare languages in side-by-side columns.\n\nBelow are the languages that are currently included in the Intercontinental Dictionary Series. The languages are grouped by language families, some of which are still hypothetical.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15201", "title": "Interdisciplinarity", "text": "Interdisciplinarity\n\nInterdisciplinarity or interdisciplinary studies involves the combining of two or more academic disciplines into one activity (e.g., a research project). It draws knowledge from several other fields like sociology, anthropology, psychology, economics etc. It is about creating something by thinking across boundaries. It is related to an \"interdiscipline\" or an \"interdisciplinary field,\" which is an organizational unit that crosses traditional boundaries between academic disciplines or schools of thought, as new needs and professions emerge. Large engineering teams are usually interdisciplinary, as a power station or mobile phone or other project requires the melding of several specialties. However, the term \"interdisciplinary\" is sometimes confined to academic settings.\n\nThe term \"interdisciplinary\" is applied within education and training pedagogies to describe studies that use methods and insights of several established disciplines or traditional fields of study. Interdisciplinarity involves researchers, students, and teachers in the goals of connecting and integrating several academic schools of thought, professions, or technologies—along with their specific perspectives—in the pursuit of a common task. The epidemiology of HIV/AIDS or global warming requires understanding of diverse disciplines to solve complex problems. \"Interdisciplinary\" may be applied where the subject is felt to have been neglected or even misrepresented in the traditional disciplinary structure of research institutions, for example, women's studies or ethnic area studies. Interdisciplinarity can likewise be applied to complex subjects that can only be understood by combining the perspectives of two or more fields.\n\nThe adjective \"interdisciplinary\" is most often used in educational circles when researchers from two or more disciplines pool their approaches and modify them so that they are better suited to the problem at hand, including the case of the team-taught course where students are required to understand a given subject in terms of multiple traditional disciplines. For example, the subject of land use may appear differently when examined by different disciplines, for instance, biology, chemistry, economics, geography, and politics.\n\nAlthough “interdisciplinary” and “interdisciplinarity” are frequently viewed as twentieth century terms, the concept has historical antecedents, most notably Greek philosophy. Julie Thompson Klein attests that \"the roots of the concepts lie in a number of ideas that resonate through modern discourse—the ideas of a unified science, general knowledge, synthesis and the integration of knowledge\", while Giles Gunn says that Greek historians and dramatists took elements from other realms of knowledge (such as medicine or philosophy) to further understand their own material. The building of Roman roads required men who understood surveying, material science, logistics and several other disciplines. Any broadminded humanist project involves interdisciplinarity, and history shows a crowd of cases, as seventeenth-century Leibniz's task to create a system of universal justice, which required linguistics, economics, management, ethics, law philosophy, politics, and even sinology.\n\nInterdisciplinary programs sometimes arise from a shared conviction that the traditional disciplines are unable or unwilling to address an important problem. For example, social science disciplines such as anthropology and sociology paid little attention to the social analysis of technology throughout most of the twentieth century. As a result, many social scientists with interests in technology have joined science, technology and society programs, which are typically staffed by scholars drawn from numerous disciplines. They may also arise from new research developments, such as nanotechnology, which cannot be addressed without combining the approaches of two or more disciplines. Examples include quantum information processing, an amalgamation of quantum physics and computer science, and bioinformatics, combining molecular biology with computer science. Sustainable development as a research area deals with problems requiring analysis and synthesis across economic, social and environmental spheres; often an integration of multiple social and natural science disciplines. Interdisciplinary research is also key to the study of health sciences, for example in studying optimal solutions to diseases. Some institutions of higher education offer accredited degree programs in Interdisciplinary Studies.\n\nAt another level, interdisciplinarity is seen as a remedy to the harmful effects of excessive specialization and isolation in information silos. On some views, however, interdisciplinarity is entirely indebted to those who specialize in one field of study—that is, without specialists, interdisciplinarians would have no information and no leading experts to consult. Others place the focus of interdisciplinarity on the need to transcend disciplines, viewing excessive specialization as problematic both epistemologically and politically. When interdisciplinary collaboration or research results in new solutions to problems, much information is given back to the various disciplines involved. Therefore, both disciplinarians and interdisciplinarians may be seen in complementary relation to one another.\n\nBecause most participants in interdisciplinary ventures were trained in traditional disciplines, they must learn to appreciate differing of perspectives and methods. For example, a discipline that places more emphasis on quantitative \"rigor\" may produce practitioners who think of themselves (and their discipline) as \"more scientific\" than others; in turn, colleagues in \"softer\" disciplines may associate quantitative approaches with an inability to grasp the broader dimensions of a problem. An interdisciplinary program may not succeed if its members remain stuck in their disciplines (and in disciplinary attitudes). On the other hand, and from the disciplinary perspective, much interdisciplinary work may be seen as \"soft\", lacking in rigor, or ideologically motivated; these beliefs place barriers in the career paths of those who choose interdisciplinary work. For example, interdisciplinary grant applications are often refereed by peer reviewers drawn from established disciplines; not surprisingly, interdisciplinary researchers may experience difficulty getting funding for their research. In addition, untenured researchers know that, when they seek promotion and tenure, it is likely that some of the evaluators will lack commitment to interdisciplinarity. They may fear that making a commitment to interdisciplinary research will increase the risk of being denied tenure.\n\nInterdisciplinary programs may fail if they are not given sufficient autonomy. For example, interdisciplinary faculty are usually recruited to a joint appointment, with responsibilities in both an interdisciplinary program (such as women's studies) and a traditional discipline (such as history). If the traditional discipline makes the tenure decisions, new interdisciplinary faculty will be hesitant to commit themselves fully to interdisciplinary work. Other barriers include the generally disciplinary orientation of most scholarly journals, leading to the perception, if not the fact, that interdisciplinary research is hard to publish. In addition, since traditional budgetary practices at most universities channel resources through the disciplines, it becomes difficult to account for a given scholar or teacher's salary and time. During periods of budgetary contraction, the natural tendency to serve the primary constituency (i.e., students majoring in the traditional discipline) makes resources scarce for teaching and research comparatively far from the center of the discipline as traditionally understood. For these same reasons, the introduction of new interdisciplinary programs is often resisted because it is perceived as a competition for diminishing funds.\n\nDue to these and other barriers, interdisciplinary research areas are strongly motivated to become disciplines themselves. If they succeed, they can establish their own research funding programs and make their own tenure and promotion decisions. In so doing, they lower the risk of entry. Examples of former interdisciplinary research areas that have become disciplines, many of them named for their parent disciplines, include neuroscience, cybernetics, biochemistry and biomedical engineering. These new fields are occasionally referred to as \"interdisciplines\". On the other hand, even though interdisciplinary activities are now a focus of attention for institutions promoting learning and teaching, as well as organizational and social entities concerned with education, they are practically facing complex barriers, serious challenges and criticism. The most important obstacles and challenges faced by interdisciplinary activities in the past two decades can be divided into \"professional\", \"organizational\", and \"cultural\" obstacles.\n\nAn initial distinction should be made between interdisciplinary studies, which can be found spread across the academy today, and the study of interdisciplinarity, which involves a much smaller group of researchers. The former is instantiated in thousands of research centers across the US and the world. The latter has one US organization, the Association for Interdisciplinary Studies (founded in 1979), two international organizations, the International Network of Inter- and Transdisciplinarity (founded in 2010) and the Philosophy of/as Interdisciplinarity Network (founded in 2009), and one research institute devoted to the theory and practice of interdisciplinarity, the Center for the Study of Interdisciplinarity at the University of North Texas (founded in 2008). As of September 1, 2014, the Center for the Study of Interdisciplinarity has ceased to exist. This is the result of administrative decisions at the University of North Texas.\n\nAn interdisciplinary study is an academic program or process seeking to synthesize broad perspectives, knowledge, skills, interconnections, and epistemology in an educational setting. Interdisciplinary programs may be founded in order to facilitate the study of subjects which have some coherence, but which cannot be adequately understood from a single disciplinary perspective (for example, women's studies or medieval studies). More rarely, and at a more advanced level, interdisciplinarity may itself become the focus of study, in a critique of institutionalized disciplines' ways of segmenting knowledge.\n\nIn contrast, studies of interdisciplinarity raise to self-consciousness questions about how interdisciplinarity works, the nature and history of disciplinarity, and the future of knowledge in post-industrial society. Researchers at the Center for the Study of Interdisciplinarity have made the distinction between philosophy 'of' and 'as' interdisciplinarity, the former identifying a new, discrete area within philosophy that raises epistemological and metaphysical questions about the status of interdisciplinary thinking, with the latter pointing toward a philosophical practice that is sometimes called 'field philosophy'.\n\nPerhaps the most common complaint regarding interdisciplinary programs, by supporters and detractors alike, is the lack of synthesis—that is, students are provided with multiple disciplinary perspectives, but are not given effective guidance in resolving the conflicts and achieving a coherent view of the subject. Others have argued that the very idea of synthesis or integration of disciplines presupposes questionable politico-epistemic commitments. Critics of interdisciplinary programs feel that the ambition is simply unrealistic, given the knowledge and intellectual maturity of all but the exceptional undergraduate; some defenders concede the difficulty, but insist that cultivating interdisciplinarity as a habit of mind, even at that level, is both possible and essential to the education of informed and engaged citizens and leaders capable of analyzing, evaluating, and synthesizing information from multiple sources in order to render reasoned decisions.\n\nWhile much has been written on the philosophy and promise of interdisciplinarity in academic programs and professional practice, social scientists are increasingly interrogating academic discourses on interdisciplinarity, as well as how interdisciplinarity actually works—and does not—in practice. Some have shown, for example, that some interdisciplinary enterprises that aim to serve society can produce deleterious outcomes for which no one can be held to account.\n\nSince 1998, there has been an ascendancy in the value of interdisciplinary research and teaching and a growth in the number of bachelor's degrees awarded at U.S. universities classified as multi- or interdisciplinary studies. The number of interdisciplinary bachelor's degrees awarded annually rose from 7,000 in 1973 to 30,000 a year by 2005 according to data from the National Center of Educational Statistics (NECS). In addition, educational leaders from the Boyer Commission to Carnegie's President Vartan Gregorian to Alan I. Leshner, CEO of the American Association for the Advancement of Science have advocated for interdisciplinary rather than disciplinary approaches to problem solving in the 21st century. This has been echoed by federal funding agencies, particularly the National Institutes of Health under the direction of Elias Zerhouni, who has advocated that grant proposals be framed more as interdisciplinary collaborative projects than single researcher, single discipline ones.\n\nAt the same time, many thriving longstanding bachelor's in interdisciplinary studies programs in existence for 30 or more years, have been closed down, in spite of healthy enrollment. Examples include Arizona International (formerly part of the University of Arizona), the School of Interdisciplinary Studies at Miami University, and the Department of Interdisciplinary Studies at Wayne State University; others such as the Department of Interdisciplinary Studies at Appalachian State University, and George Mason University's New Century College, have been cut back. Stuart Henry has seen this trend as part of the hegemony of the disciplines in their attempt to recolonize the experimental knowledge production of otherwise marginalized fields of inquiry. This is due to threat perceptions seemingly based on the ascendancy of interdisciplinary studies against traditional academia.\n\nThere are many examples of when a particular idea, almost on the same period, arises in different disciplines. One case is the shift from the approach of focusing on \"specialized segments of attention\" (adopting one particular perspective), to the idea of \"instant sensory awareness of the whole\", an attention to the \"total field\", a \"sense of the whole pattern, of form and function as a unity\", an \"integral idea of structure and configuration\". This has happened in painting (with cubism), physics, poetry, communication and educational theory. According to Marshall McLuhan, this paradigm shift was due to the passage from an era shaped by mechanization, which brought sequentiality, to the era shaped by the instant speed of electricity, which brought simultaneity.\n\nAn article in the \"Social Science Journal\" attempts to provide a simple, common-sense, definition of interdisciplinarity, bypassing the difficulties of defining that concept and obviating the need for such related concepts as transdisciplinarity, pluridisciplinarity, and multidisciplinarity:\"To begin with, a discipline can be conveniently defined as any comparatively self-contained and isolated domain of human experience which possesses its own community of experts. Interdisciplinarity is best seen as bringing together distinctive components of two or more disciplines. In academic discourse, interdisciplinarity typically applies to four realms: knowledge, research, education, and theory. Interdisciplinary knowledge involves familiarity with components of two or more disciplines. Interdisciplinary research combines components of two or more disciplines in the search or creation of new knowledge, operations, or artistic expressions. Interdisciplinary education merges components of two or more disciplines in a single program of instruction. Interdisciplinary theory takes interdisciplinary knowledge, research, or education as its main objects of study.\"In turn, interdisciplinary \"richness\" of any two instances of knowledge, research, or education can be ranked by weighing four variables: number of disciplines involved, the \"distance\" between them, the novelty of any particular combination, and their extent of integration.\n\nInterdisciplinary knowledge and research are important because:\n\n\"The modern mind divides, specializes, thinks in categories: the Greek instinct was the opposite, to take the widest view, to see things as an organic whole ... It was arete that the Olympic games were designed to test the arete of the whole man, not a merely specialized skill ... The great event was the pentathlon, if you won this, you were a man. Needless to say, the Marathon race was never heard of until modern times: the Greeks would have regarded it as a monstrosity.\"\"Previously, men could be divided simply into the learned and the ignorant, those more or less the one, and those more or less the other. But your specialist cannot be brought in under either of these two categories. He is not learned, for he is formally ignorant of all that does not enter into his specialty; but neither is he ignorant, because he is 'a scientist,' and 'knows' very well his own tiny portion of the universe. We shall have to say that he is a learned ignoramus, which is a very serious matter, as it implies that he is a person who is ignorant, not in the fashion of the ignorant man, but with all the petulance of one who is learned in his own special line.\"\"It is the custom among those who are called \"practical\" men to condemn any man capable of a wide survey as a visionary: no man is thought worthy of a voice in politics unless he ignores or does not know nine tenths of the most important relevant facts.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "220240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220240", "title": "Kerala Education Act 1958 (Act 6 of 1959)", "text": "Kerala Education Act 1958 (Act 6 of 1959)\n\nThe Education Bill was introduced in the Kerala assembly by Professor Joseph Mundasseri, who was then the education minister for the first elected (1957) Communist Party of India government. This bill was aimed at eradicating the malpractices prevalent in the private sector educational institutions, and attempted to regulate the educational institutions' function, including standardizing syllabi and pay structures. The Syrian Christian church and Nair Service Society, along with opposition parties, including Indian National Congress, started the liberation struggle to overthrow the E. M. S. Namboodiripad government. This bill, along with Land Reforms Ordinance and other agricultural legislation, imparted drastic changes in Kerala society, and paved the way for the natural death of feudalistic society in Kerala.\n\nThe Education Bill sought to regulate appointments and conditions of teachers. Salaries of teachers were to be paid through the treasury. There was a provision of takeover of management of educational institutions, which arguably violated the constitution. Nevertheless, the Supreme Court rejected the appeal and the bill received the assent of the president of India.\n\nEven though the Education Bill failed to pass through the Assembly, many of its provisions were later implemented by subsequent governments with amendments.\n"}
{"id": "5168868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5168868", "title": "Kharkov school of psychology", "text": "Kharkov school of psychology\n\nThe Kharkiv school of psychology (\"Харьківска психологічна школа\") is a tradition of developmental psychological research conducted in the paradigm of Lev Vygotsky's \"sociocultural theory of mind\" and Leontiev's psychological activity theory.\n\nThe school was founded by its leader Alexander Luria, who—along with Mark Lebedinsky and Alexei Leont'ev—moved from Moscow to Kharkiv, the capital of Soviet Ukraine at that time. The core of the group was formed by Luria, Lebedinsky and Leontiev and their Moscow colleagues, Zaporozhets and Bozhovich, along with a group of such local researchers as Gal'perin, Asnin, P. Zinchenko, Lukov, Khomenko, Kontsevaya, Rozenblyum, etc. The group conducted a wide range of psychological studies on concept formation in children, voluntary and involuntary memory, development of visual-operational thinking, voluntary behaviour, and reasoning, the role of orientation in thought and activity, etc. that laid the foundation for the psychological theory of activity.\n\nIn the postwar period, the scientific work of the school developed under informal leadership of Pyotr Zinchenko in the field of the psychology of memory. The major achievement of the school is the systematic analysis of the phenomenon of involuntary memory from the standpoint of the activity approach in psychology. Soviet studies of involuntary memory carried out by the representatives of the Kharkiv school influenced psychological research both nationally and worldwide (e.g., memory research by A. Brown, Murphy, Meacham, Sophian, Hagen, etc.).\n\nThe information processing or engineering psychology approach to memory and cognition was developed in the research by Zinchenko, Bocharova, Nevel'skii, Repkina. On the other hand, research on the role of involuntary memory in education and memory in thinking and personality development was conducted by Sereda, Ivanova, and associates.\n\nAnother major area of research is the theory and practice of developmental teaching (or the system of El'konin-Davydov) associated with such representatives of the Kharkiv school as Repkin, Bodanskii, Dusavitskii.\n\nSpecial journal issues\nSelected papers In English\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8246727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8246727", "title": "List of graduation songs", "text": "List of graduation songs\n\nThis is a list of songs that are typically played during graduation ceremonies.\n\n"}
{"id": "5844181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5844181", "title": "MaMaMedia, Inc.", "text": "MaMaMedia, Inc.\n\nMaMaMedia was an educational consulting firm run by Idit Harel Caperton, specializing in applications of constructionist learning theory.\n\nFounded in 1995, MaMaMedia.com was designed to foster digital literacy skills for children using constructionist theory principles.\nIt was awarded the GII Award for Education in 1999 \"for helping kids become life-long learners\". \nThe site provided web users with a range of \"playful learning\" activities and projects.\n\nBetween 1996 and 2000, the company developed and grew in the emerging Internet and print marketplaces, publishing the first print magazine for children about the Internet, \"MaMaMedia: A Kid's Guide to the Net\".\n"}
{"id": "1422483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1422483", "title": "Mathlete", "text": "Mathlete\n\nA mathlete is a person who competes in mathematics competitions at any level or any age. More specifically, a Mathlete is a student who participates in any of the MATHCOUNTS programs, as Mathlete is a registered trademark of the MATHCOUNTS Foundation in the United States. The term is a portmanteau of the words mathematics and athlete. \n\nTop Mathletes from MATHCOUNTS often go on to compete in the AIME, USAMO, and ARML competitions in the United States. Those in other countries generally participate in national olympiads to qualify for the International Mathematical Olympiad.\n\nParticipants in World Math Day also are commonly referred to as mathletes.\n\nThe Putnam Exam: The William Lowell Putnam Competition is the preeminent undergraduate level mathletic competition in the United States. Administered by the Mathematical Association of America, students compete as individuals and as teams (as chosen by their Institution) for scholarships and team prize money. The exam is administered on the first Saturday in December.\n\nThe academic off-season (traditionally referred to as \"summer\") can be especially difficult on mathletes, though various training regimens have been proposed to keep mathletic ability at its peak. Publications such as the MAA's \"The American Mathematical Monthly\" and the AMS's \"Notices of the American Mathematical Society\" are widely read to maintain and hone mathematical ability. Some coaches suggest seeking research internships or grants, many of which are funded by the National Science Foundation.\n\nAt higher levels, mathletes can obtain funding from host institutions to work on summer research projects. For example, the University of Delaware offers the Groups Exploring the Mathematical Sciences project (GEMS project) to first year graduate students. The students act as the principal investigator and work with an undergraduate research assistant and a faculty adviser who will oversee their summer research.\n\n"}
{"id": "919595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=919595", "title": "Modern School (United States)", "text": "Modern School (United States)\n\nThe Modern Schools, also called Ferrer Schools, were schools in the United States, established in the early twentieth century, that were modeled after the Escuela Moderna of Francesc Ferrer i Guàrdia, the Spanish educator and anarchist. They were an important part of the anarchist, free schooling, socialist, and labor movements in the U.S., intended to educate the working-classes from a secular, class-conscious perspective. The Modern Schools imparted day-time academic classes for children and night-time continuing-education lectures for adults.\n\nThe first, and most notable, of the American Modern Schools was founded in New York City, in 1911, two years after Francesc Ferrer i Guàrdia’s execution for sedition in monarchist Spain on 18 October 1909, and housed children of strikers from the 1912 Lawrence textile strike and 1913 Paterson silk strike. Commonly called the Ferrer Center, it was founded by notable anarchists — including Leonard Abbott, Alexander Berkman, Voltairine de Cleyre, and Emma Goldman — first meeting on St. Mark's Place, in Manhattan’s Lower East Side, but twice moved elsewhere, first within lower Manhattan, then to 103 East 107th Street in Harlem. The Ferrer Center opened with only nine students, one being the son of Margaret Sanger, the contraceptives-rights activist. Man Ray enrolled in the autumn of 1912 as a night-time continuing-education student taking life drawing classes supervised by Robert Henri and George Bellows.\n\nStarting in 1912, the school’s principal was the philosopher Will Durant, who also taught there. Besides Berkman and Goldman, the Ferrer Center faculty included the Ashcan School painters Robert Henri and George Bellows, and its guest lecturers included writers and political activists such as Margaret Sanger, Jack London, and Upton Sinclair. Student Magda Schoenwetter, recalled that the school used Montessori methods and equipment, and emphasised academic freedom rather than fixed subjects, such as spelling and arithmetic.\n\nIn July 1914, radical anarchists who frequented the Ferrer Center, and loosely associated with its adult education program, plotted to bomb the mansion of tycoon industrialist John D. Rockefeller. On failing to enter the Rockefeller estate, they took the bomb back to the Lexington Avenue apartment of Louise Berger (a school habitué and a Latvian anarchist who edited Emma Goldman's \"Mother Earth\"), where it exploded, killing four people, including three of the bombers, and wounding many others, and brought political notoriety upon the Ferrer Center.\n\nAfter the 4 July 1914 Lexington Avenue bombing, the police investigated and several times raided the Ferrer Center and other labor and anarchist organisations in New York City. Acknowledging the urban danger to their school, the organizers bought 68 acres (275,000 m²) in Piscataway Township, New Jersey, and moved there in 1914, becoming the center of the Stelton Colony. Moreover, beyond New York City, the Ferrer Colony and Modern School was founded (ca. 1910–1915) in Piscataway, New Jersey as a Modern School-based community, that endured some forty years.\n\nIn 1930, the Mohegan Colony at the South end of Lake Mohegan at Mohegan Lake, in Westchester County, 50 miles from New York City, was established by Harry Kelly with a Modern School and had 300 families, including Moritz Jagendorf and Rudolf Rocker.\n\nIn 1933, James and Nellie Dick, who earlier had been principals of the Stelton Modern School, founded the Modern School in Lakewood, New Jersey, which survived the original Modern School, the Ferrer Center, becoming the final surviving such school, lasting until 1958.\n\n\"The Modern School\" magazine originally began as a newsletter for parents, when the school was in New York City, printed with the manual printing press used in teaching printing as a profession. After moving to the Stelton Colony, New Jersey, the magazine’s content expanded to poetry, prose, art, and libertarian education articles; the cover emblem and interior graphics were designed by Rockwell Kent. Artists and writers, among them Hart Crane and Wallace Stevens, praised \"The Modern School\" as “the most beautifully printed magazine in existence.”\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3401716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3401716", "title": "Narrative evaluation", "text": "Narrative evaluation\n\nIn education, narrative evaluation is a form of performance measurement and feedback which can be used as an alternative or supplement to grading. Narrative evaluations generally consist of several paragraphs of written text about a student's individual performance and course work. The style and form of narrative evaluations vary significantly among the educational institutions using them, and they are sometimes combined with other performance metrics, including letter and number grades and pass/fail designations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19651099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19651099", "title": "Predoctoral fellow", "text": "Predoctoral fellow\n\nIn the physical sciences and natural science a predoctoral fellow (pre-doc) refers to a researcher who has a bachelor's degree, but not a doctorate. As the name implies, predoctoral fellows often use their time as a fellow to develop their skills and résumé before applying to graduate school. They differ from lab managers or technicians in that they primarily pursue research, rather than maintain the day-to-day function of a lab, and may have external funding to support their research or educational activities, but typically are also reliant on the support of a research mentor whose lab they work in.\n\nIn Mathematics and some Science disciplines, typically a pre-doc is somebody already registered in a Ph.D. program at a host university to work together with a professor in a different topic with respect to his/her topic.\n"}
{"id": "53368524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53368524", "title": "Privacy in education", "text": "Privacy in education\n\nPrivacy in education refers to the broad area of ideologies, practices, and legislation that involve the privacy rights of individuals in the education system. Concepts that are commonly associated with privacy in education include the expectation of privacy, the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), the Fourth Amendment, and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). The majority of privacy in education concerns are prevalent to the protection of student data, such as educational records and other personal information, both inside and outside the traditional classroom setting as well as the privacy and confidentiality of medical records. Many scholars are engaging in an academic discussion that covers the scope of students’ privacy rights, from student in K-12 and even higher education, and the management of student data in an age of rapid access and dissemination of information. \n\n\"Expectation of privacy,\" similar to the \"right to privacy,\" is a phrase that describes the natural desire of humans to maintain their sense of privacy. There is currently no legal definition in the American law that explicitly grants humans the right to privacy. Oftentimes, the Fourth Amendment is utilized by people in court cases to defend themselves from actions that involve certain infringements upon their privacy, such as searches that require warrants. However, over the years, the U.S. Supreme Court has found it difficult to determine an impartial non-biased meaning for \"expectation of privacy\" because there are too many subjective variables to consider.\n\nIn line with the general meaning of \"expectation of privacy,\" student expectation of privacy refers to a student's inherent right to privacy in the school system. Examples of student expectation of privacy, especially in the pre-collegiate levels, include the protection of a student's academic record from being viewed by anyone other than the academic instructor, the student's parents or guardians, and the students themselves. There have been many legal cases regarding the privacy concerns of pupils' academic records, for example the Owasso Independent School District v. Falvo that was handled by the U.S. Supreme Court in 2002. This particular case began in October 1998 when Kristja J. Falvo filed a lawsuit against the Owasso Independent School District on the premise that the grading practice employed in her children's classroom, peer grading, was a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment and of FERPA. Additionally, peer grading embarrassed her children in front of their peers, which could be interpreted as a violation of a student's expectation of privacy in the classroom. When the case reached the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals, it was ruled in October 2000 that peer grading was not a violation of the constitutional Fourteenth Amendment but was, in fact, a violation of FERPA. The Tenth Circuit judges reasoned so by closely interpreting the statue in FERPA about privacy protection of \"educational records.\" Since it was agreed upon that teacher grade books were considered \"educational records,\" the Tenth Circuit decided that anything that went into these grade books, including student grades written on student work, were also considered \"educational records\" and thus subject to FERPA's privacy protection policies. After the court decision was released, peer grading practices were banned in school districts within the Tenth Circuit regional borders.\n\nMany citizens and scholars were opposed to the Tenth Circuit's decision, and the case ultimately reached the U.S. Supreme Court in 2001. In 2002, the Supreme Court Justices officially ruled that peer grading was not a violation of FERPA. They reasoned that student grades on student work were not considered \"educational records\" until the teacher had physically recorded the grades into a grade book. Thus, peer grading returned as a common grading practice in classrooms across the United States.\n\nOther examples of student expectation of privacy include the right of children to withhold personal information from teachers within in a traditional classroom setting. Such topic remains as a contentious educational privacy concern in the classroom. Some argue that teachers should know more information about students in order to help support them in their academic endeavors. Others argue that teachers should refrain from prying into the personal lives of children because, like adults, children should have the right to privacy and determine the amount of information that they reveal to teachers. Still others make the claim that children are too young to make this decision for themselves and should consult their parents prior to revealing anything personal to their teachers.\n\nStudent educational records, according to the FERPA statue, is defined as \"those records, files, documents, and other materials which--(i) contain information directly related to a student; and (ii) are maintained by an educational agency or institution or by a person acting for such agency or institution.\"\n\nThe Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 was propelled by New York Senator James Buckley who promoted the importance of protection and privacy of educational records of students who attended primary and secondary schooling. As a federal legislation, FERPA grants students under the age of 18 and their parents the right to manage their educational records, which may include data about their academic performance, medical information, behavioral analysis, and more. Thus, when parents or guardians feel that their children's educational records have been exposed to the public in some way, they are able to file claims against the school district as a violation of FERPA. \n\nFor students over the age of 18, particularly those enrolled in postsecondary education institutions, FERPA can be vague and unclear about the disclosure of educational records to parents. Since individuals aged 18 and over are recognized as adults by the law, FERPA separates students in postsecondary education and their parents in terms of access to educational records such as health and drug records. According to Baker, many controversial issues may arise. For example, Baker writes that \"FERPA regulation 99.31(a)(8) allows disclosure to parents without the student's prior written authorization if the student is 'dependent' on the parents as defined by the Internal Revenue Code.\" However, there may be circumstances under which financially dependent students would not want their private records accessed by their parents. Additionally, FERPA authorizes the release to parents or guardians of information about recorded drug or alcohol use by students under the age of 21. If the underage and illegal drug or alcohol use resulted in legitimate concerns and disciplinary action, school administrators can notify and disclose details to parents without the students' permission.\n\nAs the Common Core State Standards are being developed and implemented in schools across the United States, some academics are bringing awareness to the potential privacy concerns of student data and educational records. According to Stacie Hunt, the Common Core system creates a large student database that keeps track of student performance and information from pre-K to college and even beyond. Federal government and other agencies are able to gain access to this database, analyze student data records, and sell pertinent information to the schools and districts overall. This creates a privacy concern about student data being spread and utilized by third-parties without the students', or their parents', explicit permission.\n\nEducational technology (\"edtech\") is an emerging field in the area of education. According to Dylan Peterson, \"edtech represents a broad category of educational products and services used in schools and by private individuals.\" Privacy concerns surround the fact that large amounts of data of each student using edtech are collected and stored in a wide database that can be accessed by schools. This data may be personal to the students and they may not wish for others to view it. However, edtech companies claim that without storing as much student data as possible, it would be more difficult to create programs that effectively address the students' educational needs.\n\nTo help improve programs that benefit the educational experience of students with disabilities, some scholars propose a digitalized database of student records that are updated in real time. This is so that educators can keep track of important information about students with various disabilities and monitor their academic performances for educational purposes. While these scholars support the idea of disclosure of data of students with disabilities, they make it very clear that strong legislation and policies must be enforced to protect the privacy of such data. It is currently a debate whether or not digitalized student data that can be accessed by many parties is really beneficial to support individuals with disabilities in school. Some are not comfortable with the idea that the data is updated frequently and disseminated widely, while others believe that the acquisition of such data is necessary to improve programs and enrich educational experiences.\n\nSince the 1970's, the commonly held perspective was that the right to privacy was an evaluation of individual worth. Further, technology, even before the World Wide Web, was perceived as having potentially negative effects such as allowing information to be breached. Yet, there were not many violations warranted that would urge legislation to act and shift their attention to protecting privacy in education or primarily individual privacy in general. Technology was also viewed as a source to uncover values, behaviors, motives and thoughts but at the same time, many thought that only qualified professionals had access to personal data. However, specifically in higher education, there was a perspective that individuals were susceptible to having their information breached. Thus, the role of education in the 1970's was viewed as one that safeguarded its students and staff to ensure privacy and prevent data from being breached given the technology that existed. \n\nIn many public and private colleges and universities across the United States, enrolled students typically live on campus in college-operated dormitories. Since students live in these dormitories for the duration of about one year, many personalize and consider their dormitory rooms as their personal and personalized living space. However, these dormitories are property owned by colleges and often students must waive their right to privacy for college representatives to conduct searches for safety purposes. While some believe that dormitory searches are effective for maintaining a safe community on campus, others believe that these searches are a violation of student privacy. Many cases have been filed by students in which they were caught with illegal substances in their dormitories during searches that these students felt were an invasion of their private living spaces. Additionally, only public or government-related searches with warrants are protected under the Fourth Amendment. Oftentimes college dormitory searches would be regarded as private searches and thus undergo lawsuits that claim a violation of the Fourth Amendment. For example, in the case \"Morale v. Grigel\", a Resident Assistant at the New Hampshire Technical Institute searched a student's room on multiple occasions even though the student was not present in the room at all times. Once the Resident Assistant found marijuana in the room, the student was arrested for possessing illegal substances on college campus property. The student then filed a lawsuit against the Resident Assistant on the grounds that the searches were private and thus violated his Fourth Amendment right to protection from private searches. However, the court concluded that the Resident Assistant's employment status rendered him as a government agent and thus his searches were conducted on behalf of the college, a government-related institution.\n\nWithin social networks, or particular websites that enable the sharing of information as well as communication among individuals, there exists a level of privacy that students prefer to keep their personal information or social life private from school personnel or faculty in order to avoid context collapse. \n\nTechnology enables the creation of one's own social presence through informal settings as well as formal settings that allow for the connection of student and instructors for academic purposes. Students in higher education using Facebook typically censor or block their information from instructors. Thus, Facebook is primarily used to interact with friends and family rather than instructors. By students blocking their information, they believe that they avoid context collapse that may cause confusion of who the person really is. Typically, students prefer to be present in the classroom and have their social life private from formal settings. \n\nWith the improvement of technology, more data has become available within higher education. Administrators are then able to learn more about students in order to implement forms of improving student's success. Through learning analytics, which is defined as the focus on \"students and their learning behaviors, gathering data from course management and student information systems in order to improve student success,\" administrators are able to obtain real-time empirical data such as insights and responses of student's learning processes. \n\nYet the privacy issues arise in how student data is collected, stored, analyzed and presented to stakeholders. There arises ethical issues of \"location and interpretation of data; informed consent, privacy, and de-identification of data; and classification and management of data.\" \n\nStudents believe that data about them is elaborate and personalized and at the same time hold a conservative view about learning analytics. Learning analytics helps obtain real time data for higher education learning processes but, at the same time may hinder the development of students such as critical thinking and autonomous learning. It is not as simple as saying that learning analytics will benefit students and thus increase their success and retention rates. This is such because procedures to regulate access are put in place while at the same time bias and lack of validity and comprehension affect the ability to obtain data that will then be used for the benefit of students.\n\nAs of 2017, there has been over 30 data breaches since 2005. The susceptibility to breaches creates threats to institutional research (IR) professionals who store and manage student data within the regulatory structure that controls data management. Further than this, student information is then brought to light which can threaten them as well. As vast amounts of data continues to be actively collected, potential breaching through hacking, physical theft, and by vendors becomes more probable. \n\nPreventative Measures Those who study the implications of data breaches emphasize that data should be kept to a minimum and that steps should be taken in order to see who can be trusted to regulate this information in order to keep data private and not accessible to all employees. They also talk about investing in educating employees about what can and cannot be done with data. Further, they state that institutions should use the resources available at their own college/university in order to most effectively implement policies and procedures to keep data private. Exercising caution against third-party vendors that help with data is advised and further that there should be a contract established that 1) defines who exactly who will be working with data, 2) makes clear that data is sensitive and thus should be handled with care, 3) and includes security procedures that describe the exact responsibility of the vendor just in case data is breached. Writers who investigate data breaches in higher education advise that research professionals should understand that data breaches are bound to happen and that it is better to implement policies and take preventative measures in the first place to ensure the security of data. \n\nFamily Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA)\n\nThe Family Education Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 limits the “disclosure of certain information contained in a student’s education record to third parties” which includes parents if the student has not given consent. Third parties can be parents, family, another institution (mental health providers), or pursuants of a subpoena or court order (law enforcement). It gives colleges and universities the right to \"inspect and review\" educational records that can disclosed if 1) consent is given by the student, 2) if the information falls within the definition of \"directory information\" (information that is not considered harmful such as name, major and address), 3) if the information is of \"legitimate educational interest\" (if an official needs to review the education records in order to fulfill their responsibilities within the University), 4) the student is tax dependent, 5) if it regards drugs or alcohol violations, 6) if it involves serious conduct violations, and 7) when it involves health or safety emergencies \n\nFor example, if a student in a residence hall is diagnosed with a contagious disease (measles), has a serious eating disorder, has suicidal ideation, binge drinks heavily, or has erratic and angry behaviors. Furthermore, information can be released if it entails disciplinary information such as a student who is an “alleged perpetrator of a crime of violence or a non-forcible sex offense.\" However, there have been cases where troubled students remain in college, without the college or university advising parents about their \"strange\" behavior, which resulted in students to take their own lives. The cases of Jain v. Iowa\", Shin v. Massachusetts Institute of Technology\" and Mahoney v. Allegheny College exemplify this issue. Nonetheless, according to FERPA, disclosures are considered to be made in “good faith based upon the available facts.”Educational records are covered by FERPA. They are not just academic records, class schedules or transcripts but also financial records, disciplinary records, \"disability accommodation records, photographs, e-mails, and electronic database records.\" Official documentation is needed to fall under FERPA even if this entails a personal experience or observation.What is not covered under FERPA are: law enforcement records, treatment records, and sole possession records and instead fall under other laws or considerations. \n\nIn Loco Parentis \n\nDue to the influence of FERPA, there has been a shift from \"in loco parentis\", to in sin parentibus, and back to in loco parentis. \"In sine parentibus\" means \"without parents\" meanwhile in loco parentis means \"in place of the parent.\" Thus, as represented by FERPA, the shift to in loco parentis within higher education is the act of the school taking over the legal responsibility of parents. This means that college authorities stand in place of parents.\n\nThe role of FERPA is to enhance student achievement through greater parent involvement as well as protecting the private interests of students. Yet, the shift toward in loco parentis also comes with concerns related to educational records. More specifically, there is a concern about the extent to which large and powerful institutions obtain information to their advantage such as data that is gathered by researchers and policymakers. On the other hand there are concerns that relate to the university itself disclosing information. For example, under FERPA, the school can disclose information about students to parents if it includes alcohol and drug related incidents any time if they are under 21. Because of reasons like these, there is a concern that there may be \"systematic disclosure policies\" that become out of control and thus harm student rights and privacy. \n\nPrivacy vs. Confidentiality\n\nWithin student records there is a difference between what is privacy and what is confidentiality. Privacy is more of a legal concept and is defined as the \"right of a person to withhold himself and his property from public scrutiny if he so chooses.\" Thus privacy gives the individual the right to be let alone which means that the university itself does not have the right to pry into student's personal affairs or reveal student information unless there are explicit and valid reasons in doing so or permission has been granted by the student. Yet even giving permission does not mean that the student has given permission to have all of their information revealed from then on but rather than permission is granted within the particular circumstance.\n\nOn the other hand, confidentiality means that files and records of students are not authorized to be disclosed to third parties such as not disclosing information that is received in confidence from a patient and physician. Given this, authors who focus on confidentiality ask questions such as:1) Does the communication originate in confidence?2) Is the element of confidentiality essential to the full and satisfactory maintenance of the relationship between the parties?3) Is the relationship one that must be fostered??4) Will there result an injury that is greater than any benefits which may be gained from that disclosure?If the answers are \"yes\" then the university may be legally bound to not disclose information unless it overrides the interest. \n\nThe terms privacy and confidentiality arise when it comes to medical records. \n\nHealth Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996\n\nThe Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 provides privacy to data that is related to medical or mental health records that are legally more restrictive than FERPA in regards to confidentiality. HIPAA includes provisions that “intend to facilitate the creation of a national system for the electronic transmission and exchange of medical record information” such as access to information that is individually identifiable like health plans and health care. The act “defined protected health information so as to exclude individually identifiable health information that is included in education records covered by FERPA and that is in treatment records that are exempted from FERPA.” The difference between educational records and treatment records is that treatment records fall under federal and state law while educational records fall under FERPA. Nevertheless, the documentation of patient and caregiver is confidential meaning that medical records will not be disclosed unless consent is given or there is a belief that disclosing records is crucial. Furthermore, generally, health care providers do not disclose information unless they meet a standard that falls above the required FERPA health or safety exception, or consent is given, and thus is limited in providing information within the constraints of the confidentiality among patient and provider. \n\nIntegration of Mental and Physical Records \n\nIn some instances, college campuses have begun to integrate physical and mental health needs of patients. This means that medical records are becoming more shared among physicians as well as counselors or psychologists that work with students. Yet, medical providers, separately, have the obligation to withhold confidential information as an ethical duty and state privacy regulations. For example, health providers such as counselors, also have the obligation to be confidential and not disclose private information. However, as medical providers move towards integrated care, such that mental and physical records are shared amongst themselves, there arises a confidentiality challenge that may lead to college students to fall behind in school. Since confidentiality is compromised as information is disclosed among providers that use this method of continuity care, less students utilize therapy because they refuse to disclose private information that can then be shared with others. This simultaneously fuels the stigma towards college counseling. Thus, as more information becomes disclosed, less college students seek counseling due to lack of confidentiality as medical records of patients are disclosed between medical providers, when legally the obligation of these medical providers is to abide and guarantee privacy and confidentiality by withholding patient's information unless under specific circumstances.\n\nFurther, outside of sharing information among medical providers, there is also the issue of sharing information with researchers. They claim that medical records are difficult to access but when they are, it opens up the door for research. Yet, at the same time it opens the door to privacy and confidentiality risks.\n\nElectronic Health Records Since technology continues to revolutionize, medical records have become accessible as electronic health records. This allows information to be shared more easily but appears to create a challenge for stigma management and disclosing information during medical appointments.An in-depth interview study called \"Negotiating stigma in health care: disclosure and the role of electronic health records\" was made that took into account sexual minority men (gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men) in the U.S. to seek how they viewed electronic health records. What the study found is that there were concerns of privacy in terms of how the electronic aspect creates a barrier to be open and talk about seemingly confidential information as well as how it may challenge the right to confidentiality and privacy. On the other hand, the study also found that electronic health records may benefit by improving communication among providers when sharing information and further, to provide better care especially after the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical and Health Act invested billions in the adoption of electronic health records to improve the quality of care. The study concludes that technology may enhance medical care yet at the same time fuel the stigma that seeking medical help is bad and thus would hinder patients to make appointments, to attend counseling with certain providers, or disclose personal information such as sexual identity and HIV status that they believe will be shared to others without their consent. \n\nState Laws \n\nFederal regulations allow states to place their own regulations, to either increase or decrease the requirements for disclosure, but states who do are few. \n\n\nIn 1996 the state of Minnesota placed a law regarding medical records that appeared to be more stringent than HIPAA. Minnesota law attempted to obtain a \"written general authorization for such release from the patient\" as a form to impede the activities of researchers or providers to share information without given consent. Hospitals in Minnesota even made brochures that highlight patient's rights to confidentiality and that they can give consent in writing if they allow for their medical records to be released outside of the facility. Thus, the law required health care providers to obtain a written consent and authorization from patients in order for medical records to be released and used for research. However, researchers themselves campaigned against the law and the law was not successful in enforcing the right that patients have to refuse their information to be released. Meanwhile, the patients themselves wanted information as to what information is being used within their medical records.\n\nAs of 2006, under Minnesota's state rights, individuals have the right to: see and get a copy of their medical records, have information added to their medical records in order to make them accurate, file a complaint, and importantly, sue in state court for violations of their rights under state law. \n\n\nThe Massachusetts state law imposed the requirement that a person has the right against the unreasonable interference of privacy and states that the superior court shall have jurisdiction to enforce a person's right and thus must award damages if need be. According to the law there are strict privacy protections classified as medical. Records are considered educational records unless there exists there need be heightened confidentiality such as child abuse, AIDS, substance abuse, immigration status, pregnancy and abortion. Further, it is considered a medical record if a school-based clinic is under “operation of an outside entity or by a physician under any employment arrangement” and considered educational records if not considered for heightened confidentiality. \n\nIf an individual believes that their right to privacy they have the right to file a complaint with the Officer for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Health and Human services against health care providers, with the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Medicine against doctors and with the Department of Public Health against hospitals. \n\n\nThe Confidentiality of Medical Information Act (CMIA) is a California state law that includes more information than HIPAA in regards to medical records. The main function is to protect confidentiality of identifiable medical information obtained by an individual's health care provider. It applies to licenses providers such as physicians and nurses. It prohibit medical providers to disclose medical information without obtaining authorization first and that any medical information about an individual is preserved in confidentiality by anyone who comes in contact with it. An individual whose confidentiality is not respected may obtain $1,000 and the amount of actual damages and for the person or entity that discloses confidential information is liable for an administrative fine. \n\nStudents With Disabilities \n\nTension on campus arises because as of the event of 9/11 some people on campus are fearful or overreact in demanding to know which students have conduct records or a disability accommodation. There is a tension of whether the information will be used to discriminate or treat students unfairly. Nevertheless, the distribution of this information is not limited by FERPA among school officials as long as the disclosure is done due to \"legitimate educational interests.\" \n\nForeign Students \n\nThe event of 9/11 impacted the release of information of students with visas and leads to the questioning of the responsibility and obligation of universities to report foreign student's information. Foreign individuals granted the opportunity to study in the U.S. for a period of time are given one of three visas: F-1 for academic studying, J-1 for exchange visitors, and M-1 for vocational training. \n\nHowever, the government claims that there are no accurate records of the 547,000 individuals holding student status (as of 2003). Meanwhile, universities are supposed to report information the information of F-1 and M-1 students to the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) such as their name, date and place of birth, current address, student status, degree program, field of study, etc. For those with J-1 visas, the sponsoring organization is to report information such as the individuals activities and compliance. Yet, if they do not necessarily report the information they are at least required to keep track of their foreign student's information.\n\nImportantly, regulations are not addressed in regards to how FERPA applies. The school may release information if the student is no longer enrolled if it needs to comply with judicial order, if it lawfully issues a subpoena, or if there are \"specific and articulable facts” that show that a student’s education record may contain information relevant to investigation or prosecution. Information can also be disclosed if it includes the protection of health or safety of students, especially if it is to “protect the health and safety of Americans.” Further, students who were issued I-20A or I-20M forms (F-1 and M-1 students) or DS-2019 forms (J-1 students) automatically grant consent to any information needed to determine immigrant’s status or release information that's related to the individual’s compliance with the Exchange Visitor Program. Yet, this information is stated to be only given to certain organizations such as the INS or the Department of State. \n\nLibrarians \n\n\nLibrarians themselves take part in protecting the right of library users privacy. Typically, the library itself aims to protect user's information primarily regarding what they do when they use technology, such as using computers to surf the web. According to Michael Zimmer in 2014, 95 percent of librarians agree or strongly agree individuals should control their personal information and many agree that there are threats to the privacy of their users. A survey conducted by the Office for Intellectual Freedom which obtained over 1,000 responses of librarians and library professionals found is that the Library Bill of Rights is honored which believe that everyone is entitled to \"freedom of access, freedom to read texts and view images, and freedom of thought and expression\" The Librarian's Code of Ethics and the adoption of the Privacy Act of 1974 also illuminate not just on a librarian level but also on a federal level that privacy is to be protected. \n\nOther non-governmental acts that protect the right to privacy and thus limit the information that can be collected are:\n\nGramm-Leach-Bliley Act\n\nHealth Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996\n\nCredit Reporting Act\n\nFurther, the Library 2.0 tools and services enhance what the user can do but at the same time track, collect and retain data that then may affect individuals especially since the recent dominance of social media. Yet, because of librarian's belief of protecting the rights of users, they take their own initiative in protecting user's information by destroying access logs daily, posting warning signs, and teaching users about privacy issues. This is especially done in order for information to not be obtained outside of legal restrictions.\n\nSpecifically, the Livingston Lord Library (LLL) of Minnesota State University's mission is to support both cultural and academic experiences and to encourage lifelong learning. Thus, their particular library provides resources that allows individuals to enhance their knowledge and skills. At the same time, they work to maintain their image of believing in confidentiality such that people can exercise their First Amendment right. Yet, there is not specific documentation as of 2007 that displays what privacy is to them. Nevertheless, there are examples of librarians exerting effort to ensure confidentiality and privacy by protecting their user's information.\n\nCampus Privacy Officers (CPO's) are individuals within the institution who have the institutional responsibility for anything that regards privacy, they make sure that privacy is upheld within higher education. Yet they are relatively new in the United States but nevertheless have been growing since 2002. Their role or function in higher education is:\n\n“sustaining an environment where faculty and student are free to inquire, experiment, discover, speak, and participate in discourse is without intimidation, protecting against and responding to modern-day cybersecurity threats, protecting the interests of individuals and assuring they have appropriate influence over data about themselves, pursuing opportunities for use of data in medical treatment, research, and student success, and enabling shared governance” \n\nTheir activities include maintaining: data privacy policies, notices, personal data inventory, governance structure and to respond to both complaints and requests from individuals, among other tasks. \n\nA few of the major issues that CPO's focus on are :\n\n\nUniversity of California Berkeley \n\nIn 1964 students at UC Berkeley protested against the ban that prevented them from engaging in political activity on campus. FBI Director J.Edgar Hoover got involved because he thought that the Free Speech Movement had to do with Communism that aimed to disrupt Capitalism and thus U.S. government. Particularly, Seth Rosenfield's book \"Subersives: The FBI's War on Student Radicals, and Reagan's Rise to Power\" demonstrates how Hoover investigated the movement and specifically student activists such as Mario Savio through \"'intense surveillance and harassment.'\" Further, when Clark Kerr, former president of Berkeley and then vice chancellor of the University of California system, lifted the ban on political engagement and further against \"Communist speakers\" the FBI targeted him and tried to get him fired. Hoover had ordered agents to find information about Kerr and leak it to the Board of Regents in order to show that Kerr was not fulfilling his role as president and thus had to be fired. Essentially, what it points to is that in the 1960's the FBI took on the role of trying to eliminate Communism within the UC Berkeley campus by investigating particular individuals in order to see if they were really Communist or in the case of Kerr to fire them for lifting the ban on political engagement. Some say that this is a breach in privacy because the FBI surveilled and investigated individuals without their consent. Others say that it was needed in order to make sure that no Communist activity was taking place particularly on the Berkeley campus due to the Free Speech Movement. \n\nPrinceton University\n\nIn 2002 Princeton University’s admission staff accessed a Yale University website used to inform applicants that they have been admitted. The act of Yale University accessing private information was brought to light. As a result, Yale University responded that it would improve their website with additional security to prevent another breach. Meanwhile, Princeton University responded by announcing the resignation of the top Princeton admissions official. Some say that acts like these raise the issues of student record privacy in the digital world. \n\nUniversity of Oregon \n\nIn 2015 a woman who said she was raped by three basketball players sued the University of Oregon for disclosing her mental health records to an attorney. This case gave rise to employees from the counseling center to write an open letter to the university community as a form to show that they were disturbed by the university's actions. Yet, officials argue that because the women claimed to have emotional distress then the university had the right to her medical records under FERPA. An attorney named Steve McDonald argued that HIPAA did not apply in this case. Meanwhile, Lynn Daggett, a FERPA specialist, stated that the university has the right to get access to student medical records, especially if entails the need for legal defense. This led to Denise Horn, a U.S. Department of Education representative of the time, to write a statement addressing that higher education institutions should comply with FERPA but also respect the expectation of confidentiality between patient and counselor/therapist. \n"}
{"id": "42208078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42208078", "title": "Public sphere pedagogy", "text": "Public sphere pedagogy\n\nPublic sphere pedagogy (PSP) represents an approach to educational engagement that connects classroom activities with real world civic engagement. The focus of PSP programs is to connect class assignments, content, and readings with contemporary public issues. Students are then asked to participate with members of the community in various forms of public sphere discourse and democratic participation such as town hall meetings and public debate events. Through these events, students are challenged to practice civic engagement and civil discourse.\n\nPublic sphere pedagogy is theoretically grounded in Jürgen Habermas' conceptualization of the public sphere. In his seminal work \"The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere\", Habermas envisioned the public sphere as an inclusive discursive space in which the citizens of a society gathered, discussed, and debated over the issues of the day. Habermas argued that the European bourgeois public sphere that emerged in eighteenth century coffee houses and salons represented an idealized form of the public sphere. Individuals engaging in discussion in these spaces would share and debate their views with one another. Habermas argues that this dialectic encounter was a critical part of one's social life where individuals, as part of a larger public, could construct public opinion through critical rational discourse. Habermas argued that these discussions served to fill the gap between the state and the people by creating what he called a \"civil society\". Further, Habermas argued that a functioning public sphere was critical to maintaining a healthy democratic order and deliberative democracy.\n\nThis traditional notion of a face-to-face public sphere has evolved with the invention of online technologies. The public sphere no longer requires a physical setting, but can manifest in cyberspace. The coffee house discussions idealized by Habermas have expanded to blogs, discussion forums, and online videos. Henry Giroux in particular discusses the role of new media in the public sphere and public pedagogy. However, scholars debate whether computer-mediated communication in an online setting actually constitutes a functioning public sphere or just a public space.\n\nTown Hall Meetings are one way public sphere pedagogy has been integrated into curriculum. This event began at California State University, Chico in 2007. Classes participating in the Town Hall event require students to research and write about controversial issues. Students then come together with classmates, students from other classes, faculty, and community members. During the Town Hall Meeting, participants move into breakout sessions to share their work and engage in discussions about their topics. Faculty and community members moderate these discussions, share expert insight, and move students toward further development of their work.\nThe Great Debate also uses public sphere pedagogy as its foundation. This event started at California State University, Chico in 2010 and has since been implemented at Butte College, Shasta College, and Chabot College. The Great Debate requires students from a variety of classes to research and write about a controversial theme. These themes have ranged from water and agriculture to mental health. The event is open to the public. Students give individual and group presentations, engage in formal debates, break out into discussion sessions, and display interactive poster presentations. Community members and public officials also participate as moderators, discussion leaders, and debaters. Unlike the Town Hall Meetings, which usually take place on campus property, the Great Debate is hosted in public spaces including City Council Chambers and public libraries.\n\nStudent Voices programs are a type of civic engagement initiative that have been implemented in several high schools in the United States. The curriculum has high school students research and complete classroom assignments on current issues in government and candidates in local elections. Students then connect with outside communities via the digital public sphere and engage in moderated \"Speak Out\" events. Student Voices programs have been successfully implemented in curricula in Seattle and Pennsylvania school districts.\n\nPublic sphere pedagogy inherently is subject to many of the criticisms of Habermas' conception of the public sphere. Chief among them is the traditionally exclusionary nature. The bourgeois public sphere, as introduced by Habermas, has been characterized as highly patriarchal, and oblivious to the existence of female and plebeian styles of discourse. The concern here is that as a model of the bourgeois public sphere, applications of public sphere pedagogy might alienate students and community members unaccustomed to this type of dialectic experience.\nIn addition to its exclusionary nature, attention has also been called to Habermas' privileging of a hegemonic public sphere. Michael Warner argues that the bourgeois public sphere was structured to be affable to those privileged few who made up the powerful upperclass. While students participating in public sphere pedagogy application receive special training in their classrooms, the same is not necessarily true of community members who participate. This specialized student training draws two critiques. First, conceiving of public pedagogy as a form of instruction risks erasing the plurality that is central to being a public. Training individuals how to be \"good\" citizens prescribes action in a way that limits the scope of politics and the public sphere. Second, conceiving of public pedagogy as a form of learning risks eclipsing politics with education. Turning political and social issues into learning problems individualizes the issues instead of making them the responsibility of the public.\n"}
{"id": "38740974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38740974", "title": "Risk inclination formula", "text": "Risk inclination formula\n\nThe risk inclination formula uses the principle of moments, or Varignon’s theorem, to calculate the first factorial moment of probability in order to define this center point of balance among all confidence weights (i.e., the point of risk equilibration).\n\nThe formal derivation of the RIF is divided into three separate calculations: (1) calculation of 1st factorial moment, (2) calculation of inclination, and (3) calculation of the risk inclination score.\n\nThe RIF is a component of the risk inclination model.\n"}
{"id": "58189093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58189093", "title": "Robert Foster Cherry Award", "text": "Robert Foster Cherry Award\n\nThe Robert Foster Cherry Award is a prize given biennially by Baylor University for \"great teaching\". The Cherry Award honors professors at the College or University level, in the English-speaking world, with established track records of teaching excellence and the ability to inspire students. Robert Foster Cherry, a graduate of Baylor University (A.B., 1929), made an estate bequest to establish the award. In a typical award cycle, three Finalists are selected based on nomination packages. The Finalists then compete for the award by giving a series of lectures at Baylor University. Each Finalist receives $15,000 and the ultimate award Recipient receives an additional $250,000 prize.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47783238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47783238", "title": "Sequence Organizers", "text": "Sequence Organizers\n\nSequence organizers are a type of graphic organizer that help students to see the sequential relationship between events in a text. They can show a process or portray an event sequence in a simplified manner. They can help students identify cause-and-effect relationships. A graphic organizer can be also known as a knowledge map, a concept map, a story map, a cognitive organizer, an advance organizer, or a concept diagram. They are used as a communication tool to employ visual symbols to express knowledge, concepts, thoughts or ideas, and the relationships between them.\n\n\nWhen students read a text that outlines a story, process or series of events, it can be useful to put the information in a sequence. Breaking down information into sections can make it easier to understand as a whole. Moreover, large pictures help emphasize the core meaning along with practical demonstrations. A graphic organizer can be used as a teaching tool in two ways:\n\n\nStudents who need more help can be provided with key events already written in the left hand arrows.\n\nIf students are reading different sections of the same text, such as a jigsaw activity, they should complete a particular portion of their organizer. When the classmates assemble, they can exchange their portions to make notes of important information of other sections.\n\nOrganizers can be used as a platform to prepare a rough draft for a narrative text, or a summarize review of sequential information from more than one textual source or learning experience.\n"}
{"id": "1949071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1949071", "title": "Settlement movement", "text": "Settlement movement\n\nThe settlement movement was a reformist social movement that began in the 1880s and peaked around the 1920s in England and the U.S. Its goal was to bring the rich and the poor of society together in both physical proximity and social interconnectedness. Its main object was the establishment of \"settlement houses\" in poor urban areas, in which volunteer middle-class \"settlement workers\" would live, hoping to share knowledge and culture with, and alleviate the poverty of, their low-income neighbors. The \"settlement houses\" provided services such as daycare, education, and healthcare to improve the lives of the poor in these areas.\n\nThe movement started in London in 1884 with the founding of Toynbee Hall. These houses, radically different from those in America, often offered food, shelter, and basic and higher education, provided by virtue of charity on part of wealthy donors, the residents of the city, and (for education) scholars who volunteered their time.\n\nVictorian England, increasingly concerned with poverty, gave rise to the movement whereby those connected to universities settled students in slum areas to live and work alongside local people. Through their efforts settlement houses were established for education, savings, sports, and arts. Such institutions were often praised by religious representatives concerned with the lives of the poor, and criticised as normative or moralistic by radical social movements.\n\nThere were basic commonalities in the movement. These institutions were more concerned with societal causes for poverty, especially the changes that came with industrialisation, rather than personal causes which their predecessors believed were the main reason for poverty. The settlement movement believed that social reform was best pursued and pushed for by private charities.\nThe British Association of Settlements and Social Action Centres is a network of such organisations. During the social Christian movement, Samuel and Henrietta Barnett founded Toynbee Hall, Oxford House in 1884 in Bethnal Green. Other early examples include Browning Hall, formed in Walworth in 1895 by Francis Herbert Stead, and Mansfield House Settlement, also in east London (see Percy Alden). There is also a global network, the International Federation of Settlements.\n\nThe movement gave rise to many social policy initiatives and innovative ways of working to improve the conditions of the most excluded members of society. The Poor Man's Lawyer service came about because a barrister volunteered his time and encouraged his friends to do the same. In general, the settlement movement, and settlement houses in particular, \"have been a foundation for social work practice in this country\".\n\nAs higher education opened up to women, young female graduates brought their energy to the settlement movement. The Women's University Settlement (now Blackfriars Settlement) was founded in 1887 \"by women from Girton and Newnham Colleges at Cambridge University, Lady Margaret and Somerville Colleges at Oxford University and Bedford and Royal Holloway Universities\".\n\nBetween 1890 and 1910, more than 12 million European people immigrated to the United States. They came from Ireland, Russia, Italy and other European countries and provided cheap factory labor, a demand that was created with the country's expansion into the west following the Civil War. Many immigrants lived in crowded and disease-ridden tenements, worked long hours, and lived in poverty. Children often worked to help support the family. Jacob Riis wrote \"How the Other Half Lives\" about the lives of immigrants on New York City's Lower East Side to bring greater awareness of the immigrant's living conditions.\n\nThe most famous settlement house in the United States is Chicago's Hull House, founded by Jane Addams and Ellen Gates Starr in 1889 after Addams visited Toynbee Hall within the previous two years. Hull House, though, was not a religious-based organization. It focused on providing education and recreational facilities for European immigrant women and children. Katharine Coman, Vida Scudder, and Katharine Lee Bates were among a group of women who founded Denison House in Boston in 1892. Lenox Hill Neighborhood House, founded in 1894, Friendly Inn Settlement House, founded in 1874, Henry Street Settlement, founded in 1893, Hiram House, founded in 1896, and University Settlement House, founded in 1886 and the oldest in the United States, were, like Hull House, important sites for social reform. United Neighborhood Houses of New York is the federation of 38 settlement houses in New York City. These and other settlement houses inspired the establishment of settlement schools to serve isolated rural communities in Appalachia, such as the Hindman Settlement School in 1902 and the Pine Mountain Settlement School in 1913.\n\nBy 1913, there were 413 settlements in 32 states. By the 1920s, there were almost 500 settlement houses in the country. The settlement house concept was continued by Dorothy Day's Catholic Worker \"hospitality houses\" in the 1930s.\n\nAmerican settlement houses functioned on a philosophy of “scientific philanthropy,” a belief that instead of giving direct relief, charities should give resources to the poor so they could break out of the circle of poverty. American charity workers feared that the deeply entrenched social class system in Europe would develop in the United States.\n\nThe movement also spread to late imperial Russia, as Stanislav Shatsky and Alexander Zelenko set up a network of educational and social institutions in northern Moscow in 1905, naming it \"Setlement\" (\"\", the English word transliterated to Russian). This network of institutions was closed down by the government in 1908, due to alleged socialist activities.\n\nToday, settlements are still community-focused organizations, providing a range of services including early education, youth guidance and crime intervention, senior programs, and specialized programs for young people who have \"aged out\" of the foster care system. Since they are staffed by professional employees and students, they no longer require that employees live alongside those they serve.\n\nSettlement houses influenced urban design and architecture in the 20th century. \nFor example, James Rossant of Conklin + Rossant agreed with Robert E. Simon's social vision and consciously sought to mix economic backgrounds when drawing up the master plan for Reston, Virginia. The New Monastic movement has a similar goal and model.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36192136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36192136", "title": "Special Assistance Program (Australian education)", "text": "Special Assistance Program (Australian education)\n\nThe development and implementation of the Special Assistance Program in Victorian Primary Schools during the period 1979 - 1982 constituted the most significant innovation in the provision of special education services to children experiencing learning difficulties and in addressing declining literacy and numeracy standards. Up until the political directive to initiate this program was given, there had been no policy within the \"Department of Education and Early Childhood Development\" directing Principals of Primary Schools to develop special programs for pupils at risk of illiteracy and innumeracy.\n\nFrom the early 1960s, the Education Department of Victoria (Australia), had developed an extensive range of programs in primary schools that sought to develop the individual ability of each pupil. Also, the ratio of pupils to teachers in schools had been significantly reduced over time and schools had become much more independent in the development of school based remedial programs.\n\nIn spite of this, there existed large numbers of children in Victorian primary and secondary schools urgently in need of special assistance in the essential skills of literacy and numeracy. This situation was reflected in the Australian Parliament's House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties in 1976. The committee had commissioned research by the Australian Council for Educational Research (ACER) that found that 15% to 20% of children completing their primary education had not achieved a functional level of literacy.\n\nIn late May 1979, within a month of being reelected, the Hamer Liberal Government announced Victoria's first major review of its educational policies for more than 50 years.\n\nAnticipating the new direction, in July 1979, the Assistant Minister of Education, Norman Lacy established a \"Ministerial Committee on Special Assistance Programs\". The committee consisted of people drawn from school staffs, special education facilities, teacher training institutions and the Education Department administration. The committee's report was the basis upon which the \"Special Assistance Program\" was established.\n\nThe process for the establishment of the \"Special Assistance Program\" in Victorian Primary Schools was outlined in a speech Mr Lacy delivered to \"Special Assistance Resource Teachers\" (SARTs) at a seminar held at Hawthorn State College (Victoria, Australia) on 15 December 1980. In it he announced the most significant development in remedial education in Victoria with a strategic plan for addressing falling literacy and numeracy standards. The totally new component of the \"Special Assistance Program\" was the provision of 1000 SARTs for \"the delivery of services to children with special needs.\" These designated teachers were given \"a major on-site school responsibility for facilitating a productive relationship between parents and pupils and teachers.\" The program involved the training of these primary teachers as SARTs and their placement in schools. Their role was the early detection and remediation of children at risk of illiteracy and innumeracy.\nThe core element of this substantial change in the delivery of special educational services to children was the new role of the school based \"Special Assistance Resource Teacher\" (SART) which was the focus of this world-first breakthrough in class room integration of pupils experiencing learning difficulties. The role incorporated all the elements of the service previously performed by external consultants visiting schools.\n\nAs a result, from the beginning of the 1981 school year SARTs were designated by their schools and appointed to the 575 primary schools with enrolments of greater than 300 pupils. They were manadated to establish the \"Special Assistance Program\" in their schools. The Education Department's Special Services Division and the Primary Division monitored the progress of the implementation and produced a number of evaluative reports that were presented to the Minister.\n\nFrom the beginning of the 1982 school year, schools with an enrolment of between 150 and 300 pupils designated and appointed a SART to carry out the role on a half-time basis. This resulted in and additional 302 primary schools in Victoria having a school based resource teacher, bringing the total to 877 schools. It was not planned to designate a SART at schools with less than 150 pupils. At such schools it was planned that the Principal or an appointed staff member would access services from the Special Assistance Resource Centres for children at these schools in need of such services.\n\nA major component of stage one was the in-service education component for the SARTs designated by their schools for the new role. A survey of the qualifications and experience of the 575 designated SARTs was undertaken to assess their training requirements. The responses indicated that 200 of the designated teachers had already completed special education training courses. Of these 102 were also experienced in special education teaching. As well 28 of the 375 remaining designated teachers were experienced special education teachers. AREA shared a concern that teachers undertaking SART duties were not qualified in special education, but their proposals to the course committee were rejected.\n\nThe Report of the Victorian Ministerial Committee on Special Assistance Programs (1980), in one of its major recommendations, identified the need to reorganise and integrate the range of specialist professional services available (external to the school) into a single co-ordinated service. To implement this recommendation, Norman Lacy established a Working Party within the Victorian Education Department to examine and report on the means to achieve this objective.\n\nEarly in 1981, work began on planning for the reorganisation all the relevant special education services provided by the Education Department into a single co-ordinated service delivery system under the \"Special Assistance Program\".\n\nAs a result, a reorganised multi-disciplinary service was created on a \"one stop\" referral basis through 50 statewide \"Special Assistance Resource Centres\" allocated one to each Primary Education Inspectoral District throughout Victoria. the professional disciplines offered at each centre included: educational psychology, social work, speech therapy and special education. The availability of these services to primary schools was accessed and co-ordinated by the designated SART within each school and in schools with less than 150 pupils by the Principal.\n\nIn April 1982, the Cain Labor Government was elected with commitments to the VTU including the reduction of class sizes in primary schools by redeploying SARTs back to class teaching roles.\n\nAREA reported that \"the SART concept would eventually give way to new policies under the Department of Education integration program. By 1982 SAR teachers were no longer being appointed to primary schools, leaving individual schools to decide whether to appoint a SAR teacher from their staffing allocation. There was no indication of what curriculum and in-service support would be provided for schools conducting a special assistance program...\"\n"}
{"id": "23412290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23412290", "title": "Structured English Immersion", "text": "Structured English Immersion\n\nStructured English Immersion (SEI) is a technique for rapidly teaching English to English Language Learners. The term was coined by Keith Baker and Adriana de Kanter in a 1983 recommendation to schools to make use of Canada's successful French immersion programs. The Canadian model was developed to encourage bilingualism through immersing Anglophones in the minority language and replaced many English-only laws in various Canadian provinces before the 1960s, while in the United States the same approach was advocated to force minority speakers to adopt English.\n\nMore recently, SEI has been defined as a methodology in which English language learners (ELLs) learn English through structured and sequential lessons. Specially developed for ELLs, these lessons are based, to a large degree, on the mainstream curricula. (Haver, Johanna J., \"Structured English Immersion,\" Corwin Press, 2002)\n\nIn the 2009 U.S. Supreme Court decision, Horne v. Flores, the majority opinion stated, \"Research on ELL instruction indicates there is documented, academic support for the view that SEI is significantly more effective than bilingual education. Findings of the Arizona State Department of Education in 2004 strongly support this conclusion.\" The chairman of the Center for Equal Opportunity, Linda Chavez, praised the Supreme Court ruling, noting \"the failure of bilingual education in performing the number-one job of our public schools, which is to teach children English so they can succeed in 21st century America.\" SEI is mandatory in California, Arizona and Massachusetts where voter initiatives opted to restrict the use of bilingual education in preference for SEI.\n\nOnly Arizona mandates that its public schools implement SEI models as follows:\n\nIn Arizona, where SEI is required of all schools in the state, all textbooks, materials, and assessments used in an SEI classroom must be aligned to the Arizona K-12 English Language Learner Proficiency Standards and the Discrete Skills Inventory. The Arizona English Language Learner Assessment (AZELLA) is used to measure English proficiency of SEI students in Arizona.\n"}
{"id": "28037553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28037553", "title": "Student Achievement and School Accountability Programs", "text": "Student Achievement and School Accountability Programs\n\nStudent Achievement and School Accountability Programs (SASA) is a division of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education (OESE) of the U.S. Department of Education (ED) that administers programs of financial assistance to State and local education agencies (LEA) and to colleges and universities. Under Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) of 1965, SASA administers several Title I programs of supplementary instruction and other services. This includes programs such as the Improving Basic Programs Operated by LEAs and the Prevention and Intervention Programs for Children Who are Neglected, Delinquent, or At-Risk. Under Title III of the ESEA, SASA administers the State Formula Grant Program for English Language Acquisition and Language Enhancement. SASA also administers the Education for Homeless Children and Youth program authorized by the McKinney–Vento Homeless Assistance Act (P.L. 100-77).\n\nSASA is headed by a Director who reports to the Assistant Secretary and/or Deputy Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education. The current director is Dr. Zollie Stevenson, Jr.\n\nSASA is divided into six Program Groups:\n\nThe Policy Coordination Group is responsible for policy coordination and develops policy guidance that clarifies for implementation purposes the principal themes of the President's education blueprint. Title I formula grant allocations are also managed by this group as is the programmatic focus on services to non-public schools. The group influences the educational community and others who need to understand the parameters for implementing Title I requirements.\n\nThe Standards and Assessments Group is responsible for ensuring that States develop the standards and assessment systems required by the new Title I. The group provides direct technical assistance to States and also provides specialized technical assistance through external experts for longer term interventions for States with significant assessment issues. They also work with the States to help them comply in a manner that results in systems of standards and assessments that drive instructional change.\n\nThe Instructional Change Group is responsible for changing the face of teaching and learning in Title I schools in a manner that focuses on what works to generate improved results for children. This unit helps technical assistance providers work with schools to implement Title I programs in ways that focus on improving classroom instruction, including the involvement of parents in their child's education. In addition, this unit works with States to design, implement, and evaluate State systems of support for making Title I targeted assistance and schoolwide programs more effective vehicles for instructional change and for turning around low-performing schools. This group also has responsibility for working with content and regional comprehensive centers funded by the Department to develop strategies and materials to aid schools in corrective action and restructuring.\n\nThe Monitoring Group is responsible for instituting a process of achievement-focused monitoring for compliance with the implementation of Title I, Parts A, B and D and the McKinney-Vento Homeless Education programs. States not fully compliant are presented with the opportunity to take corrective actions to address identified concerns. It is through the monitoring process that this group influences the extent to which States, school districts, and schools consider how they are using federal education resources to improve student achievement.\n\nThe Accountability Group is responsible for ensuring that States develop and update the accountability systems used to hold school districts and schools responsible for student achievement under Title I, Part A as amended by the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB). This group reviews and recommends approval or disapproval of annual State amendments to their Title I required accountability plans and orchestrates the peer review process for the growth model accountability pilot program authorized by the Secretary. The group will also be involved with managing the development/refinement of data definitions associated with NCLB accountability and the annual Consolidated State Performance Report. The group will provide direct technical assistance to States and also provides specialized TA through external experts for longer term interventions for States with significant assessment and accountability issues. They also will work with the States to help them comply in a manner that results in systems of standards and assessments that drive instructional change.\n\nThe Title III State Formula Grants Group is responsible for the administration of the Title III State formula grant program. The group works collaboratively with the Office of English Language Acquisition and the other SASA groups to develop policy guidance, monitor program compliance, ensure program accountability, and provide State and local educational agencies with technical assistance to develop and enhance their capacity for developing standards and assessment systems and providing high quality language instruction educational programs for English language learners.\n\nStudent Achievement and School Accountability U.S. Department of Education\n"}
{"id": "1022417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1022417", "title": "Sudbury school", "text": "Sudbury school\n\nA Sudbury school is a type of school, usually for the K-12 age range, where students have complete responsibility for their own education, and the school is run by direct democracy in which students and staff are almost equals. Students independently decide what to do with their time, and tend to learn as a by-product of ordinary experience rather than through coursework. There is no predetermined educational syllabus, prescriptive curriculum or standardized instruction. This is a form of democratic education. Daniel Greenberg, one of the founders of the original Sudbury Model school, writes that the two things that distinguish a Sudbury Model school are that everyone - adults and children - are treated equally and that there is no authority other than that granted by the consent of the governed.\n\nWhile each Sudbury Model school operates independently and determines their own policies and procedures, they share a common culture. The intended culture within a Sudbury school has been described with such words as freedom, trust, respect, responsibility and democracy.\n\nThe name 'Sudbury' originates from the Sudbury Valley School, founded in 1968 in Framingham, Massachusetts, near Sudbury, Massachusetts. Though there is no formal or regulated definition of a Sudbury Model school, there are now more than 60 schools that identify themselves with Sudbury around the world. Some, though not all, include \"Sudbury\" in their name. These schools operate as independent entities and are not formally associated in any way.\n\nSudbury schools are based on:\n\n\n\"The fundamental premises of the school are simple: that all people are curious by nature; that the most efficient, long-lasting, and profound learning takes place when started and pursued by the learner; that all people are creative if they are allowed to develop their unique talents; that age-mixing among students promotes growth in all members of the group; and that freedom is essential to the development of personal responsibility.\"\n\nAll aspects of governing a Sudbury School are determined by the weekly School Meeting, modeled after the traditional New England town meeting. School Meeting passes, amends and repeals school rules, manages the school's budget, and decides on hiring and firing of staff. Each individual present — including students and staff — has an equal vote, and most decisions are made by simple majority\n\nSchool rules are normally compiled in a law book, updated repeatedly over time, which forms the school's code of law. Usually, there is a set procedure to handle complaints, and most of the schools follow guidelines that respect the idea of due process of law. There are usually rules requiring an investigation, a hearing, a trial, a sentence, and allowing for an appeal, generally following the philosophy that students face the consequences of their own behavior.\n\nThe Sudbury pedagogical philosophy may be summarized as the following:\nLearning is a natural by-product of all human activity. Learning is self-initiated and self-motivated.\n\nThe educational model states that there are many ways to learn and that learning is a process someone does, not a process that is done to him or her; According to the model the presence and guidance of a teacher is not necessary.\n\nThe free exchange of ideas and free conversation and interplay between people provides broad exposure to areas that may prove relevant and interesting to students. Students are of all mixed ages. The older students learn from younger students and vice versa. The presence of older students provides role models, both positive and negative, for younger students. The pervasiveness of play has led to a recurring observation by first-time visitors to a Sudbury school that the students appear to be in perpetual \"recess\".\n\nImplicitly and explicitly, students are given responsibility for their own education: The only person designing what a student will learn is the student. Exceptions are when a student asks for a particular class or arranges an apprenticeship. Sudbury schools do not compare or rank students — the school requires no tests, evaluations, or transcripts.\n\nReading is treated the same as any other subject: Students learn to read when they choose, or simply by going about their lives.\n\n\"Only a few kids seek any help at all when they decide to learn. Each child seems to have their own method. Some learn from being read to, memorizing the stories and then ultimately reading them. Some learn from cereal boxes, others from game instructions, others from street signs. Some teach themselves letter sounds, others syllables, others whole words. To be honest, we rarely know how they do it, and they rarely tell us.\"\n\nSudbury Valley School claims that all of their students have learned to read. While students learn to read at a wide variety of ages, there appears to be no drawback to learning to read later: No one who meets their older students could guess the age at which they first learned to read.\n\nThe model differs in some ways from other types of democratic schools and free schools, but there are many similarities:\n\n"}
{"id": "11209167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11209167", "title": "Teaching abroad", "text": "Teaching abroad\n\nTeaching abroad is a catch phrase used in first world countries for temporary teaching assignments outside of the teacher's home country.\n\nThere are many different programs that exist to help people to teach abroad. If a person knows that they want to teach abroad but they aren't sure if they're able to make the transition, they can pick a teaching program that goes from a semester to a couple years. There are also programs where one can switch positions with a teacher overseas. When picking a program make sure its a credible program. Three often-used paths for American teachers are teaching at a Department of Defense school, teaching at an international school, or working independently at any school accepting foreign applicants.\n\nTeaching at a U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) school is much like teaching at a school within the United States. The schools enroll the children of military and DOD civilian employees. There are currently 222 public schools in “13 foreign countries, seven states, Guam, and Puerto Rico” (DOD). There are 8,785 teachers working in these schools. The DOD works to keep the school atmosphere and level of learning comparable to schools within the U.S.\n\nThe DOD hires only teachers with bachelor's degrees (which must include some course work in education) and teaching experience. Most placements are for one or two years; teachers are placed at the discretion of the DoD and cannot choose their location.\n\nNumerous volunteer programs exist in which teachers can teach in foreign schools. Costs to participate as a volunteer vary depending on the organization, the country and the length of the program. International volunteer programs usually vary in length from 2 to 12 months. Volunteers most often teach English but other subjects can also be covered, such as computer skills, AIDS/HIV awareness, science, math, etc.\n\nVolunteer English teaching programs exist in almost all corners of the world. Some countries with prominent English teaching programs are Chile, Spain, France and Georgia. Many programs are sponsored by the host nation's ministry of education, such as the Chile's English Opens Doors and Korea's EPIK program.\n\nInternational schools are private schools that cater mainly to children who are not nationals of the host country, including the children of the staff of international businesses, international organizations, foreign embassies, missions, or missionary programs. Teachers are often hired on contracts which typically last two years Research has indicated that teaching experiences abroad contribute positively to the intercultural development of teachers (Savva, 2013).\n\nMany teaching positions overseas are for teachers of English, and can involve teaching to all ages, including both children and adults. Programs are organized by individual schools, national governments (such as the JET Programme in Japan and English Opens Doors in Chile). The University of Missouri-Saint Louis, like many schools, have required their education majors to either pick TESOL or special education to major in for more specificity. This university in particular wants teachers to be more well rounded for future employers. Some programs require teaching credentials and/or TESOL certification.\n\nThere is some dispute about the claimed usefulness of brief courses (TEFL, TESOL, etc.) in either becoming an effective teacher or finding employment. Such courses are sometimes advertised as being important or even required, without stating that they are no substitute for a university degree in teaching English as a foreign language.\n\n"}
{"id": "10105662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10105662", "title": "Textbooks in Israel", "text": "Textbooks in Israel\n\nTextbooks in Israel are published in Israel by the Ministry of Education of Israel and other educational institutions.\n\nIsrael's Compulsory Education Law provides free and compulsory education for all children between the ages of 5 to 18, from the last year of kindergarten up to 12th grade.\n\nAn analysis of Israeli textbooks in 2000 by the Center for Monitoring the Impact of Peace (CMIP), now known as the Institute for Monitoring Peace and Cultural Tolerance in School Education, found that the legitimacy of the State of Israel as an independent Jewish state on the territory of the Land of Israel and the immigration of Jews to the country was never questioned. There was no indoctrination against the Arabs as a nation, nor a negative presentation of Islam. Islam, Arab culture and the Arabs' contribution to human civilization were presented in a positive light. No book called for violence or war. Many books express the yearning for peace between Israel and the Arab countries.\n\nIn textbooks for state-run schools, there was an effort to remove stereotypes and educate towards tolerance. In some textbooks for the Orthodox Jewish community, the researchers found derogatory adjectives, prejudices, patronizing expressions and disrespect toward Arabs. The Arab leadership was portrayed as motivated by an eternal hatred independent of historical circumstances. In textbooks for every age, Israel's wars are described as justified wars of defense, and the Arabs held responsible for them. The Palestinian exodus is attributed to the fact that the Arabs fled from their homes. Only a few textbooks stated that some refugees were expelled by Israel or were forced to flee through threats. Some do not mention the Palestinian exodus at all.\n\nAccording to the report, Islam is described with respect in both the general the religious state-run educational streams. Many books elaborate in detail how Muhammad established Islam and explain its fundamentals in a factual, objective manner. Many books highlight positive aspects in Islam. The language is factual and devoid of offensive terms and stereotypes. Sites holy to both Jews and Muslims are not presented as exclusively Jewish and the Arabs' attachment to these sites is taught. The students are even taught about the Muslims affinity to Jerusalem, although, the focus is on the religious, rather than the political dimension. The CIMP report found that it was only in the ultra-orthodox stream that textbooks contained prejudice, patronizing expressions and disrespect to Arabs.\n\nThe report further stated that in textbooks of both the general state-run network and the religious state-run network, there was a genuine effort to remove stereotypes and to build a foundation for coexistence and mutual respect between the two peoples. There are many stories that describe friendships between Jews and Arabs in Islamic countries and in Israel even in times of war. There are stories of Jews helping Arabs in daily life and in war as well as stories of Arabs rescuing Jews from physical harm and helping Jews to maintain their religion and identity. In many literary anthologies there are stories about the daily life of Arabs written by Arab authors. Some stories deal with the tensions created by the transition from a traditional society with its values and customs, to a modern western society. In some books in the ultra-orthodox network relations between Arabs and Jews were portrayed in negative terms. The official list of textbooks referred to is not compulsory, but was an indication of the Ministry of Education's recommendations, as published in a memo signed by the Ministry's Director.\n\nCMIP states that no negative changes were noted in the new textbooks with regard to the image of the Arabs, the description of the conflict, the presentation of Islam, questions of war and peace and education to tolerance and conciliation. On the contrary, the positive trends noted in the earlier report were strengthened. The textbooks of the ultra-Orthodox schools continued to use language conveying an air of superiority.\n\nMaps of Israel included all the territory between the Mediterranean Sea and the River Jordan. Many textbooks showed maps of the Middle East on which only Israel's name appeared, with the territories of the surrounding Arab countries left blank.\n\nIn his 2004 article \"The Arab Image in Hebrew School Textbooks\", Dan Bar-Tal of Tel Aviv University studied 124 textbooks used in Israeli schools. He concluded that generations of Israeli Jews have been taught a negative and often delegitimizing view of Arabs. He claims Arabs are portrayed in these textbooks as primitive, inferior in comparison to Jews, violent, untrustworthy, fanatic, treacherous and aggressive. While history books in the elementary schools hardly mentioned Arabs, the high school textbooks that covered the Arab–Jewish conflict stereotyped Arabs negatively, as intransigent and uncompromising.\n\nNurit Peled-Elhanan, a professor of language and education at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, published \"Palestine in Israeli School Books: Ideology and Propaganda in Education\", an account of her study of the contents of Israeli school books. She asserts that the books promote racism against and negative images of Arabs, and that they prepare young Israelis for their compulsory military service. After examining \"hundreds and hundreds\" of books, Peled-Elhanan claims she did not find one photograph that depicted an Arab as a \"normal person\". She has stated that the most important finding in the books she studied concerns the historical narrative of events in 1948, the year in which Israel fought a war to establish itself as an independent state. She claims that the killing of Palestinians is depicted as something that was necessary for the survival of the nascent Jewish state. \"It's not that the massacres are denied, they are represented in Israeli school books as something that in the long run was good for the Jewish state.\" \"[T]he Israeli version of events are stated as objective facts, while the Palestinian-Arab versions are stated as possibility, realized in openings such as 'According to the Arab version' ... [or] 'Dier [sic.] Yassin became a myth in the Palestinian narrative ... a horrifying negative image of the Jewish conqueror in the eyes of Israel's Arabs'.\n\nWith reference to previous studies of Israeli school textbooks, Peled-Elhanan states that, despite some signs of improvement in the 1990s, the more recent books do not ignore, but justify, issues such as the Nakba. For example, in all the books mentioning Deir Yassin, the massacre is justified because: \"the slaughter of friendly Palestinians brought about the flight of other Palestinians which enabled the establishment of a coherent Jewish state.\"\n\nShe also states that contrary to the hope of previous studies \"for 'the appearance of a new narrative in [Israeli] history textbooks' ... some of the most recent school books (2003–09) regress to the 'first generation' [1950s] accounts — when archival information was less accessible — and are, like them 'replete with bias, prejudice, errors, [and] misrepresentations'\" (\"Palestine in Israeli School Books\", p. 228).\n\nIn 2013, it was reported that Israeli science textbook publishers had been instructed to remove details of \"human reproduction, pregnancy prevention and sexually transmitted diseases from science textbooks used in state religious junior high schools as well as from their teacher manuals\".\n\nAccording to a 2011 report by the Arab Cultural Association, Arabic textbooks provided to third grade to ninth grade students in Israeli schools contained at least 16,255 mistakes. The report was based on a study and examination of textbooks in all subjects by a committee, headed by Dr. Elias Atallah. Association director Dr. Rawda Atallah said the findings were not surprising, since they were similar to the findings of a previous study published in November 2009, which reported that more than 4,000 mistakes in language and syntax were found in textbooks for second grade students in Arab schools. Researchers also spoke about the way in which Arab students' cultural and national identities are covered. For example, while textbooks state that Jews and non-Jews live in the Galilee, the word \"Arab\" is never mentioned. Dr. George Mansour, who examined the history textbooks, reported that they ignored the presence of the Arab-Palestinian people in Israel and stressed the Promised Land of the Jewish people: \"There is a process of de-Palestinization, instilling of the Zionist narrative and minimizing of Arab culture,\" reported Dr. Mansour.\n\nIsrael has ordered the word Nakba to be removed from Israeli Arab textbooks. The term was introduced in books for use in Arab schools in 2007 when the Education Ministry was run by Yuli Tamir of the Labour party. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu justified the ban by saying that the term was \"propaganda against Israel\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1191780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1191780", "title": "The Hidden Curriculum", "text": "The Hidden Curriculum\n\nThe Hidden Curriculum (1970) is a book by the psychiatrist Benson R. Snyder, the then-Dean of Institute Relations at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Snyder advances a thesis that much of campus conflict and students' personal anxiety is caused by unstated academic and social norms. These hidden norms affect the ability to develop independently or think creatively, and form what Snyder calls the hidden curriculum. He illustrates his thesis with psychological studies and other research conducted at MIT and Wellesley College.\n\nThe phrase \"hidden curriculum\" was coined by Philip Jackson in his 1968 book entitled \"Life in Classrooms\", in a section about the need for students to master the institutional expectations of school. Snyder develops this with observations of particular institutions. Snyder then addresses the question of why students — even or especially the most gifted — turn away from education. Even honest efforts to enrich curricula frequently fail, says Snyder, thanks to the importance of the tacit and unwritten understanding. He says that while some students do not realize there is a disjunction between the two curricula, in a demanding environment, students develop strategies to cope with the requirements they face.\n\nMany students find they can not possibly complete all the work assigned them; they learn to neglect some of it. Some student groups maintain files of past examinations which only worsen this situation.\n\nThe difference between the formal and real requirements produced considerable dissonance among the students and resulted in cynicism, scorn, and hypocrisy among students, and particular difficulty for minority students. No part of the university community, writes Snyder, neither the professors, the administration nor the students, desires the end result created by this process.\n\nThe Saturday Review said the book \"will gain recognition as one of the more cogent 'college unrest' books\" and that it presents a \"most provocative thesis.\"\n\nThe book has been cited many times in studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2442443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2442443", "title": "Training bus", "text": "Training bus\n\nA training bus is a special kind of bus or coach that is used by bus operators for training the driving skills of bus drivers. It is also used to train the driving skill of a person who is learning to become a bus driver. Driving a training bus on the road is an important part of driving training, as it is the most practical to train one's driving skill.\n\nA training bus is usually a bus that has been retired from the passenger-serving fleet. Some bus companies may like to repaint the bus with a special livery for training bus after the bus is retired from the passenger-serving fleet, which is usually white or a plainer version of the company's regular livery. Some bus companies may also remove most of the facilities (such as passenger seats) from a training bus, so that those facilities can be installed onto some newer buses. On a training bus, there is usually another seat for the driving instructor (trainer) next to the driver's seat. This allows the instructor to monitor how trainee is driving and give appropriate instruction when necessary.\n\nThe use of training buses for practical training is especially popular among the . In Hong Kong, training buses are known in Chinese as \"訓練巴士\" (pinyin: Xùn liàn bā Shì). Training buses used in Hong Kong, such as those used at Kowloon Motor Bus, are typically buses that are older buses and retired from its main bus fleet, therefore only used for training purposes and not for passenger services. However, for route training and other service or safety improvement trainings, in-service buses may be used.\n\nIn contrast, other jurisdictions may use active-service buses for training; this will be at non-peak service times when more buses are available. The head sign may be set to read 'TRAINING', and a sign mounted at the rear as well.\n\nThe Toronto Transit Commission uses training buses on regular routes or roads with sign display the bus as a training bus for real life training for new drivers. The bus will not be in service and will only stop briefly at select bus stops.\n\n"}
{"id": "33130335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33130335", "title": "Video lesson", "text": "Video lesson\n\nA video lesson or lecture is a video which presents educational material for a topic which is to be learned. \n\nThe format may vary. It might be a video of a teacher speaking to the camera, photographs and text about the topic or some mixture of these. The Khan Academy has been successful in teaching mathematics using notes written using Yahoo!'s doodle pad with a voiceover by Salman Khan (educator). These were then loaded onto YouTube where they have been popular and influential. Such lectures are a key part of flip teaching in which the initial work of communicating the essentials of the topic is done by the video lesson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9091662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9091662", "title": "Wisconsin Center for the Advancement of Postsecondary Education", "text": "Wisconsin Center for the Advancement of Postsecondary Education\n\nThe Wisconsin Center for the Advancement of Postsecondary Education (WISCAPE) was established in 2001 on the University of Wisconsin-Madison campus by former UW–Madison Chancellor David Ward.\n\nWard envisioned the center as “a policy think tank, not just an academic think tank,” that would promote cross-disciplinary research and scholarship on postsecondary education, enhance professional development for those working at colleges and universities, and engage the public in a dialogue about the role of postsecondary education in a democratic society.\n\nLocal and national media have since highlighted the work of the center’s staff, scholars, and affiliates on a variety of postsecondary education issues, including financial aid, trends in state funding for postsecondary education, returns to state investment in postsecondary education, college student transfer issues, community colleges, de facto privatization of public universities, gridlock in state policymaking, the college presidency, federal college cost containment measures, and the Wisconsin Covenant.\n\n"}
