{"id": "15637339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15637339", "title": "Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business", "text": "Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business\n\nThe Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business, also known as AACSB International, is an American professional organization. It was founded in 1916 to provide accreditation to schools of business. It was formerly known as the American Association of Collegiate Schools of Business and as the International Association for Management Education. Not all members of the association are accredited; it does not accredit for-profit schools. In 2016 it lost recognition by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation.\n\nThe American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business was founded as an accrediting body in 1916 by a group of seventeen American universities and colleges. The first accreditations took place in 1919. For many years the association accredited only American business schools, but in the latter part of the twentieth century it advocated a more international approach to business education. The first school it accredited outside the United States was the University of Alberta in 1968, and the first outside North America was the French business school ESSEC, in 1997.\n\nRobert S. Sullivan, dean of Rady School of Management, became chair of the association in 2013.\n\nThe association struggled with its Council for Higher Education Accreditation recognition in 2016. At a board meeting on January 26, 2015, the council deferred recognition pending satisfaction of its policy requirements. The association withdrew from CHEA recognition on September 23, 2016, in pursuit of ISO certification in order to pivot towards a more global presence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "417266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=417266", "title": "Big Tobacco", "text": "Big Tobacco\n\nBig Tobacco is the \"big five\" largest global tobacco industry companies which are Philip Morris International, British American Tobacco, Imperial Brands, Japan Tobacco International, and China Tobacco.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36345684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36345684", "title": "Broadband Lifecycle", "text": "Broadband Lifecycle\n\nThe Broadband Lifecycle is a model for looking at the planning, implementation, and adoption of broadband networks, providing a framework for understanding the natural progression and sound business planning to drive local economic development through broadband (high-speed Internet networks). It has been utilized by multiple North-American States since 2010.\n\nDeveloped by Strategic Networks Group in the late 2000s as an alternative means to view broadband deployments, the Broadband Lifecycle is a departure from the dominant economic model of broadband network operators’ that relies on the “supply side” assumption that if a network is built adoption will follow.\n\nThus, the Broadband Lifecycle considers broadband from a “demand side,” recognizing that adoption and utilization only comes through understanding benefits, supporting the Demand side and the benefits for communities, demonstrating to individual businesses, organizations and households the value of broadband and its transformative effects through Internet enabled applications, which include global market reach, ability to telework, use of telemedicine, etc.\n"}
{"id": "2093407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093407", "title": "Business activity monitoring", "text": "Business activity monitoring\n\nBusiness activity monitoring (BAM) is software that aids in monitoring of business activities, key performance indicators, business / operational exceptions and business risks, as those activities are implemented in computer systems.\n\nThe term was originally coined by analysts at Gartner, Inc. and refers to the aggregation, analysis, and presentation of real-time information about activities inside organizations and involving customers and partners. A business activity can either be a business process that is orchestrated by business process management (BPM) software, or a business process that is a series of activities spanning multiple systems and applications. BAM is an enterprise solution primarily intended to provide a real-time summary of business activities to operations managers and upper management.\n\nThe goals of business activity monitoring is to provide real time information about the status and results of various operations, processes, and transactions. The main benefits of BAM are to enable an enterprise to make better informed business decisions, quickly address problem areas, and re-position organizations to take full advantage of emerging opportunities.\n\nOne of the most visible features of BAM solutions is the presentation of information on dashboards containing the key performance indicators (KPIs) used to provide assurance and visibility of activity and performance. This information is used by technical and business operations to provide visibility, measurement, and assurance of key business activities. It is also exploited by event correlation to detect and warn of impending problems.\n\nAlthough BAM systems usually use a computer dashboard display to present data, BAM is distinct from the dashboards used by business intelligence (BI) insofar as events are processed in real-time or near real-time and pushed to the dashboard in BAM systems, whereas BI dashboards refresh at predetermined intervals by polling or querying databases. Depending on the refresh interval selected, BAM and BI dashboards can be similar or vary considerably.\n\nSome BAM solutions additionally provide trouble notification functions, which allows them to interact automatically with the issue tracking system. For example, whole groups of people can be sent e-mails, voice or text messages, according to the nature of the problem. Automated problem solving, where feasible, can correct and restart failed processes.\n\nIn nearly all BAM deployments extensive tailoring to specific enterprises is required. Many BAM solutions seek to reduce extensive customization and may offer templates that are written to solve common problems in specific sectors, for example banking, manufacturing, and stockbroking. Due to the high degree of system integration required for initial deployment, many enterprises use experts that specialize in BAM to implement solutions.\n\nBAM is now considered a critical component of Operational Intelligence (OI) solutions to deliver visibility into business operations. Multiple sources of data can be combined from different organizational silos to provide a common operating picture that uses current information. Wherever real-time insight has the greatest value, OI solutions can be applied to deliver the needed information.\n\nAll BAM solutions process events. While most of the first BAM solutions were closely linked to BPM solutions and therefore processed events emitted as the process was being orchestrated, this had the disadvantage of requiring enterprises to invest in BPM before being able to acquire and use BAM. The newer generation of BAM solutions are based on complex event processing (CEP) technology, and can process high volumes of underlying technical events to derive higher level business events, therefore reducing the dependency on BPM, and providing BAM to a wider audience of customers.\n\nA bank might be interested in minimizing the amount of money it borrows overnight from a central bank. Interbank transfers must be communicated and arranged through automation by a set time each business day. The failure of any vital communication could cost the bank large sums in interest charged by the central bank. A BAM solution would be programmed to become aware of each message and await confirmation. Failure to receive confirmation within a reasonable amount of time would be grounds for the BAM solution to raise an alarm that would set in motion manual intervention to investigate the cause of the delay and to push the problem toward resolution before it becomes costly.\n\nAnother example involves a mobile telecommunications company interested in detecting a situation whereby new customers are not set up promptly and correctly on their network and within the various CRM and billing solutions. Low-level technical events such as messages passing from one application to another over a middleware system, or transactions detected within a database logfile, are processed by a CEP engine. All events relating to an individual customer are correlated in order to detect an anomalous situation whereby an individual customer has not been promptly or correctly provisioned, or set up. An alert can be generated to notify technical operations or to notify business operations, and the failed provisioning step may be restarted automatically.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2778933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2778933", "title": "Business broker", "text": "Business broker\n\nBusiness brokers, also called business transfer agents, or intermediaries, assist buyers and sellers of privately held business in the buying and selling process. They typically estimate the value of the business; advertise it for sale with or without disclosing its identity; handle the initial potential buyer interviews, discussions, and negotiations with prospective buyers; facilitate the progress of the due diligence investigation and generally assist with the business sale.\n\nAgency relationships in business ownership transactions involve the representation by a business broker (on behalf of a brokerage company) of the selling principal, whether that person is a buyer or a seller. The principal broker (and his/her agents) then become the agent/s of the principal, who is the broker's client. The other party in the transaction, who does not have an agency relationship with the broker, is the broker's customer.\n\nTraditionally, the broker provides a conventional full-service, commission-based brokerage relationship under a signed agreement with a seller or \"buyer representation\" agreement with a buyer. In most states this creates, under common law, an agency relationship with fiduciary obligations. Some states also have statutes which define and control the nature of the representation and have specific business broker licensing requirements.\n\nAgency relationships in business ownership transactions involve the representation by a business broker (on behalf of a brokerage firm) of the selling principal, whether that person is a buyer or a seller. The principal broker (and his/her agents) then become the agent/s of the principal, who is the broker’s client. The other party in the transaction, who does not have an agency relationship with the broker, is the broker's customer.\n\nIn some U.S. states, business brokers act as transactions brokers. A transaction broker represents neither party as an agent, but works to facilitate the transaction and deals with both parties on the same level of trust.\n\nDual agency occurs when the same brokerage represents both the seller and the buyer under written agreements. Individual state laws vary and interpret dual agency rather differently.\n\n\nBroker services vary widely depending on the practice and skill set of the broker. The most common services provided by a broker to a client are:\n\n\nPerhaps one of the biggest services provided by brokers is the ability to allow owners to stay focused on running their business during the sale process, which can take on average 6 months to 12 months to complete.\n\nThe sellers and buyers themselves are the \"principals\" in the sale, and business brokers (and the principal broker's agents) are their agents as defined in the law. However, although a business broker commonly fills out the offer to purchase form, agents are typically not given power of attorney to sign the offer to purchase or the closing documents; the principals sign these documents. The respective business brokers may include their brokerages on the contract as the agents for each principal.\n\nThe use of a business broker is not a requirement for the sale or conveyance of a business or for obtaining a small business or SBA loan from a lender. However, once a broker is used, a special escrow attorney sometimes called a settlement attorney (very similar to a Real Estate Closing in practice) will ensure that all parties involved will be paid. Lenders typically have special requirements for a business related or SBA loan.\n\nThe market served by business brokers generally involves the sale of businesses with transaction values less than $10,000,000. Larger privately held companies are classified in the middle market and will employ firms that specialize in mergers and acquisitions (M&A). However, business brokers do participate in mergers and acquisitions activities when it involves a transaction between two or more smaller companies. Business brokers and M&A firms do overlap activities in the extremes of their market. These extremes are called the transitional market, or transmarket.\n\nUpon signing a listing contract with the seller wishing to sell the business, the brokerage attempts to earn a commission by finding a buyer for the sellers' business for the highest possible price on the best terms for the seller. To help accomplish this goal of finding buyers, a business brokerage commonly does the following:\n\nBusiness brokers attract prospective buyers in a variety of ways, including listing limited details of available businesses on their websites and advertising on the larger business-for-sale websites. Only in rare cases today does this extend to print media advertising. Brokers also directly approach prospective buyers and sellers to gauge interest. Most established business brokers have a large pool of prescreened buyer prospects - or know of other business owners - who have looked at other opportunities through the broker, but who are still actively searching to buy a business.\n\nAlthough there can be other ways of doing business, a business brokerage usually earns its commission after the business broker and a seller enter into a listing contract and fulfill agreed-upon terms specified within that contract. The seller's business is then \"listed\" for sale, often on one or more business-for-sale websites, in addition to any other ways of advertising or promoting the sale of the business.\n\nIn most of North America, a listing agreement or contract between broker and seller must include the following:\n\n\nThere are three forms of brokers compensation: hourly, retainer, and success fee (commission upon a closing). A broker may use any one, or combination of these when providing services. The most common form of compensation is a success fee commission where the payment of a commission to the brokerage is contingent upon finding a satisfactory buyer for the business for sale, the successful negotiation of a purchase contract between a satisfactory buyer and seller, or the settlement of the transaction and the exchange of money between buyer and seller. Just as major investment banks normally charge a retainer for services, more business brokers have started to embrace this practice as well. The retainer helps cover the upfront costs incurred by the broker to perform services and shows a commitment on the part of the client (seller or buyer) that they are serious. Certain types of M&A transactions involve securities and may require that an intermediary be securities licensed in order to be compensated.\n\nIn North America, success fee commissions range from 5% to 12%. Usually, the smaller the transaction, the larger the commission. \"Main Street\" businesses, those with enterprise value between $100,000 and $5,000,000 can expect commissions to average between 10-12%. \n\nRetainers, when charged, run from a low of $2,500 to as much as $25,000, usually related to the anticipated size and complexity of the transaction. They are usually non-refundable,\nbut are most often deductible from the commission paid at closing. Commissions are determined between the client (seller or buyer) are normally paid at closing. The larger middle market transactions use the Lehman or the Double Lehman scales.\n\nThe standard commission is likely to be lower in the United Kingdom (see Lehman Formula). Commissions are negotiable between seller and broker. The commission could also be paid as flat fee or some combination of flat fee and percentage, particularly in the case of lower-priced businesses, businesses in the multimillion-dollar price, or other unusual business assets. The details are determined by the listing contract.\n\nOut of the commission received from the seller, the broker will typically pay any expenses incurred to do the work of trying to sell the listed business, such as advertisements, etc.\n\nAll compensation to a broker paid by a third party must be disclosed to all parties.\n\nIn the US, licensing of business brokers varies by state, with some states requiring licenses, some not; and some requiring licenses if the broker is commissioned but not requiring a license if the broker works on an hourly fee basis. State rules also vary about recognizing licensees across state lines, especially for interstate types of businesses like national franchises. Some states, like California, require either a broker license or law license to even advise a business owner on issues of sale, terms of sale, or introduction of a buyer to a seller for a fee. All Canadian provinces with the exception of Alberta, require a real estate license in order to commence a career. According to an IBBA convention seminar in 2000, at least 13 states required business brokers to have a real estate license. The following states require a license to practice as a business broker: Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois (registration only), Michigan, Minnesota, Nebraska, Nevada, Oregon (only if real estate transfer is part of the transaction), Rhode Island, South Dakota, Utah, Wisconsin, and Wyoming.\n\nCertain types of M&A transactions involve securities and may require that these \"middlemen\" be securities licensed in order to be compensated.\n"}
{"id": "25059538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25059538", "title": "Center for Business and Economic Research", "text": "Center for Business and Economic Research\n\nThe Ball State University Center for Business and Economic Research (CBER), formerly the Bureau of Business Research, is an economic policy and forecasting research center housed within the Miller College of Business at Ball State University in Muncie, Indiana, USA. CBER research encompasses health care, public finance, regional economics, transportation, and energy sector studies. In addition to research, CBER serves as the forecasting element in the Muncie area – hosting five state and federal economic forecasting roundtables.\n\nThe Center for Business and Economic Research was founded the late 1960s as the Bureau of Business Research at Ball State University. The founding was initiated by Dr. Robert P. Bell soon after being hired as the first dean of the College of Business. Dr. Joseph Brown from the University of Georgia became the first director of the bureau. The focus of the bureau was to look for research opportunities and provide faculty with help pursuing those opportunities. Also, focus was placed on using faculty in applied business research.\n\nThe focus of the center has changed significantly since its inception. An official name change from the Bureau of Business Research to the Center for Business and Economic Research occurred in 2008. Currently, the center works in the community through services of economic policy research, national, state, and local forecasting, and data analysis.\n\nCBER regularly releases studies and publications on various topics including health care, public finance, regional economics, transportation, and energy.\n\nCBER houses the managing office of the American Journal of Business, a peer-reviewed journal that publishes articles aimed at improving business practices or enhancing instructional efforts through application, transfer, and interpretation of knowledge.\n\nCBER also publishes the online publication, Indiana Business Bulletin (IBB). The IBB provides weekly economic analysis, forecasting, and leading economic indicators to the business community, media, and policymakers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28632367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28632367", "title": "Chief innovation officer", "text": "Chief innovation officer\n\nA chief innovation officer (CINO) or chief technology innovation officer (CTIO) is a person in a company who is primarily responsible for managing the process of innovation and change management in an organization, as well as being in some cases the person who \"originates new ideas but also recognizes innovative ideas generated by other people\". The CINO also manages Technological change.\n\nThe term \"chief innovation officer\" was first coined and described in the 1998 book \"Fourth Generation R&D\". Organizations with a CINO/CTIO are practicing part of the fourth generation of innovation theory and practice to emerge since 1900.\nSuccessful chief innovation officers focus on delivering on the key principles behind innovation - leadership, creating networks, harnessing VOC/HOC in idea development, leveraging the right incentives, and building/running an effective, transparent, and efficient innovation process.\n\nThe CINO is responsible for managing the innovation process inside the organization that identifies strategies, business opportunities and new technologies and then develops new capabilities and architectures with partners, new business models and new industry structures to serve those opportunities.\n\nCINO/CTIO doesn't have to report to the CEO or another C-level executive. CINO/CTIO is a functional title, similar to the chief information security officer. The words \"chief\" and \"officer\" are used to communicate that a person in this position is responsible for driving innovation throughout the entire organization. Using a functional \"chief ... officer\" title helps to communicate that this is a cross-organizational position and enables this person to work across organizational silos.\n\nThe CINO/CTIO focuses on radical or breakthrough innovation. The coined term CINO/CTIO is used to differentiate the position from the chief information officer, who is responsible for the information technology and computer systems that support enterprise goals.\n\nA chief technology innovation officer (CTIO) is focused on the organizational innovation through technology. This is an important strategic position especially in an organization that has significant technology component in addition to the traditional information technology. This position is typically held by a person with a broad technical expertise in that organization's industry.\n\nThe title chief technology innovation officer is commonly used in the organizations that have a technology component as a part of its core business. The CTIO is responsible for maintaining organizational technological strategy, defining the requirements for new technology implementations and communicating them to key business stakeholders.\n\nThe CTIO is responsible for organizational leadership on technology issues, management of the technology research and review function, ensuring the alignment of technology vision with business strategy, and for driving technology innovation throughout the entire organization. The position can also be responsible for tracking new technology developments in areas of interest to the organization to ensure that it maintains a technological edge within the industry, analyzing and improving upon technology standards and maintaining organizational awareness of new technologies.\n\n"}
{"id": "20546074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20546074", "title": "Chief scientific officer", "text": "Chief scientific officer\n\nA chief science officer (C.S.O.) is a position at the head of scientific research operations at organizations or companies performing significant scientific research projects.\n\nA C.S.O. typically is responsible for envisioning and developing research capabilities (human, methodological, and technological), for developing evidence of the validity and utility of research products, and for communicating with the scientific and customer communities concerning capabilities and scientific product offerings. \n\nIn some organizations, the same person may hold this title along with that of chief technology officer (C.T.O.). Alternatively, a company could have one or the other, or both occupied by separate people. Often, C.S.Os exists in heavily research-oriented companies, while C.T.Os exists in product development focused companies. The typical category of research and development that exists in many science and technology companies can be led by either post, depending upon which area is the organization's primary focus. \n\nA C.S.O. almost always has a pure science background and an advanced degree, whereas a C.T.O. often has a background in engineering or business development.\n\nSome academic research organizations, such as the Fox Chase Cancer Center, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, and the San Diego Supercomputer Center have adopted a similar title of C.S.O. Typically, their role is to evaluate and set scientific priorities and coordinate the administrative structure that supports scientists. A C.S.O. commonly has a scientific or academic background, yet they may or may not be practicing scientists or academics.\n\nIn the National Health Service, the C.S.O. is the head of profession for the 53,000 healthcare scientists working in the organization and its associated bodies. The C.S.O. is one of six NHS professional officers (including the chief medical officer and the chief nursing officer) who are employed within NHS England. These roles lead their own professional groups as well as providing expert knowledge about their specific disciplines to the NHS and wider health and care system.\n\nThe C.S.O. provides professional leadership and expert clinical advice across the health system, as well as working alongside senior clinical leaders within NHS England and the broader commissioning system. The C.S.O. is also responsibility for delivering the government's strategy for a modernised healthcare science workforce, Modernising Scientific Careers.\n\nProfessor Dame Sue Hill has been the C.S.O. since October 2002 first within the department of health and subsequently NHS England . The role was strengthened in March 2013, with the appointment of a deputy C.S.O.\n\n"}
{"id": "4199254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4199254", "title": "Chumak", "text": "Chumak\n\nChumak () is a historic occupation on the territory of modern Ukraine as merchants or traders, primarily known for the trade in salt.\n\nChumaks grew as a merchant class facilitating trade of salt from the areas of Halychyna as well as the coastal areas of Black and Azov Seas, in addition to other items.\n\nThey prospered until the end of the 19th century, when competition from railroads made longer trade routes unprofitable. The process of transportation was conducted by wagons that were pulled by two oxen paired with yoke. Oxen were often of Bessarabian breed.\n\nChumaks were the most popular during the times of the Cossack Hetmanate (17th century) trading between the Moscow state, the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, the Crimean Khanate, and Moldavia. Further modernization marginalized traditional economic activity, and relegated Chumak traders to areas in western Ukraine with the lowest levels of service.\n\nThe style of living of chumaks set a great mark in Ukrainian folklore, language, and overall culture.\n\nIn Ukrainian language Milky Way is called the Chumaks' Way. There is a Ukrainian surname Chumak.\n\nChumak traders also were featured heavily in Ukrainian folklore and fables. Their trade is mentioned in the literal as well as artistic works of Taras Shevchenko, the Crimean-Armenian Ivan Aivazovsky, the song of Taras Petrynenko \"Ukraina\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2386173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2386173", "title": "Collins Aerospace", "text": "Collins Aerospace\n\nCollins Aerospace, a United Technologies subsidiary, is one of the world’s largest suppliers of aerospace and defense products, headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina.\n\nUTC Aerospace Systems (UTAS) was formed in August 2012 when parent United Technologies Corporation merged their existing subsidiary Hamilton Sundstrand with the newly acquired Goodrich Corporation.\n\nOn 26 November 2018, United Technologies announced the completion of its Rockwell Collins acquisition, after which it merged its newly acquired business with UTC Aerospace Systems to form Collins Aerospace. The new company reported $23 billion of combined sales in 2017 and is composed of 70,000 employees.\n\nCollins Aerospace is engaged in designing, manufacturing and servicing systems and components for commercial, regional, business and military aircraft, helicopters and other platforms. Collins Aerospace is also a major supplier to international space programs.\n\nCollins Aerospace has two main segments: Aircraft Systems and Power, Control & Sensing Systems. These segments are then broken down into several business units.\n\nThe Aircraft Systems consists of Actuation & Propeller Systems, Aerostructures, Air Management Systems, Interiors, and Landing Systems (formerly Landing Gear and Wheels and Brakes).\n\nThe Power, Control & Sensing Systems consists of Electric Systems, Engine Systems, ISR & Space Systems, and Sensors & Integrated Systems.\n\nCollins Aerospace is the owner of Ithaco Space Systems, Inc., formerly owned by Goodrich Company. Ithaco produced items for the field of satellite control since 1962, such as Earth sensors, reaction/momentum wheels, magnetometers and magnetic torquers. In addition to over 100 U.S. satellites, equipment made by Ithaco flew on Japanese, Canadian, French, German, Spanish, Swedish, and Argentinean spacecraft. Ithaco became notable for having manufactured the reaction wheels of the Kepler spacecraft, the Hayabusa spacecraft, the Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics (TIMED) satellite and the Dawn spacecraft, which developed problems or even failed. The ROSAT reaction wheels lasted over 8 years. Collins Aerospace announced in August 2012 layoffs at Ithaco Space Systems due to Ithaco having been \"focused on space programs that have recently seen slower growth\", and further layoffs at former Hamilton Sundstrand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48218", "title": "Commodity", "text": "Commodity\n\nIn economics, a commodity is an economic good or service that has full or substantial fungibility: that is, the market treats instances of the good as equivalent or nearly so with no regard to who produced them. Most commodities are raw materials, basic resources, agricultural, or mining products, such as iron ore, sugar, or grains like rice and wheat. Commodities can also be mass-produced unspecialized products such as chemicals and computer memory.\n\nThe price of a commodity good is typically determined as a function of its market as a whole: well-established physical commodities have actively traded spot and derivative markets. The wide availability of commodities typically leads to smaller profit margins and diminishes the importance of factors (such as brand name) other than price.\nThe word \"commodity\" came into use in English in the 15th century, from the French \"commodité\", \"amenity, convenience\". Going further back, the French word derives from the Latin \"commoditas\", meaning \"suitability, convenience, advantage\". The Latin word \"commodus\" (from which English gets other words including \"commodious\" and \"accommodate\") meant variously \"appropriate\", \"proper measure, time, or condition\", and \"advantage, benefit\".\n\nIn economics, the term \"commodity\" is used specifically for economic goods or services that have full or partial but substantial fungibility; that is, the market treats their instances as equivalent or nearly so with no regard to who produced them. Karl Marx described this property as follows: \"From the taste of wheat, it is not possible to tell who produced it, a Russian serf, a French peasant or an English capitalist.\" Petroleum and copper are examples of commodity goods: their supply and demand are a part of one universal market.\n\nNon-commodity items such as stereo systems have many aspects of product differentiation, such as the brand, the user interface and the perceived quality. The demand for one type of stereo may be much larger than demand for another.\n\nThe price of a commodity good is typically determined as a function of its market as a whole. Well-established physical commodities have actively traded spot and derivative markets.\n\nSoft commodities are goods that are grown, such as wheat, or rice.\n\nHard commodities are mined. Examples include gold, helium, and oil.\n\nEnergy commodities include electricity, gas, coal and oil. Electricity has the particular characteristic that it is usually uneconomical to store, and must therefore be consumed as soon as it is processed.\n\nCommoditization occurs as a goods or services market loses differentiation across its supply base, often by the diffusion of the intellectual capital necessary to acquire or produce it efficiently. As such, goods that formerly carried premium margins for market participants have become commodities, such as generic pharmaceuticals and DRAM chips. An article in \"The New York Times\" cites multivitamin supplements as an example of commoditization; a 50 mg tablet of calcium is of equal value to a consumer no matter what company produces and markets it, and as such, multivitamins are now sold in bulk and are available at any supermarket with little brand differentiation. Following this trend, nanomaterials are emerging from carrying premium profit margins for market participants to a status of commodification.\n\nThere is a spectrum of commoditization, rather than a binary distinction of \"commodity versus differentiable product\". Few products have complete undifferentiability and hence fungibility; even electricity can be differentiated in the market based on its method of generation (e.g., fossil fuel, wind, solar), in markets where energy choice lets a buyer opt (and pay more) for renewable methods if desired. Many products' degree of commoditization depends on the buyer's mentality and means. For example, milk, eggs, and notebook paper are not differentiated by many customers; for them, the product is fungible and lowest price is the main decisive factor in the purchasing choice. Other customers take into consideration other factors besides price, such as environmental sustainability and animal welfare. To these customers, distinctions such as \"organic versus not\" or \"cage free versus not\" count toward differentiating brands of milk or eggs, and percentage of recycled content or Forest Stewardship Council certification count toward differentiating brands of notebook paper.\n\nThis is a list of companies trading globally in commodities, descending by size as of October 28, 2011.\n\n\nIn the original and simplified sense, commodities were things of value, of uniform quality, that were produced in large quantities by many different producers; the items from each different producer were considered equivalent. On a commodity exchange, it is the underlying standard stated in the contract that defines the commodity, not any quality inherent in a specific producer's product.\n\nCommodities exchanges include:\n\nMarkets for trading commodities can be very efficient, particularly if the division into pools matches demand segments. These markets will quickly respond to changes in supply and demand to find an equilibrium price and quantity. In addition, investors can gain passive exposure to the commodity markets through a commodity price index.\n\nIn order to diversify their investments and mitigate the risks associated with inflationary debasement of currencies, pension funds and sovereign wealth funds allocate capital to non-listed assets such as a commodities and commodity-related infrastructure.\n\nThe inventory of commodities, with low inventories typically leading to more volatile future prices and increasing the risk of a \"stockout\" (inventory exhaustion). According to economist theorists, companies receive a convenience yield by holding inventories of certain commodities. Data on inventories of commodities are not available from one common source, although data is available from various sources. Inventory data on 31 commodities was used in a 2006 study on the relationship between inventories and commodity futures risk premiums.\n\nIn classical political economy and especially in Karl Marx's critique of political economy, a commodity is an object or a good or service (\"product\" or \"activity\") produced by human labour. Objects are external to man. However, some objects attain \"use value\" to persons in this world, when they are found to be \"necessary, useful or pleasant in life,\" \"Use value\" makes an object \"an object of human wants,\" or is \"a means of subsistence in the widest sense.\"\n\nAs society developed, people found that they could trade goods and services for other goods and services. At this stage, these goods and services became \"commodities.\" Commodities are defined as objects which are offered for sale or are \"exchanged in a market.\" In the marketplace, where commodities are sold, \"use value\" is not helpful in facilitating the sale of commodities. Accordingly, in addition to having use value, commodities must have an \"exchange value\"—a value that could be expressed in the market.\n\nPrior to Marx, many economists debated as to what elements made up exchange value. Adam Smith maintained that exchange value was made up of rent, profit, labour and the costs of wear and tear on the instruments of husbandry. David Ricardo, a follower of Adam Smith, modified Smith's approach on this point by alleging that labour alone is the content of the exchange value of any good or service. While maintaining that all exchange value in commodities was derived directly from the hands of the people that made the commodity, Ricardo noted that only part of the exchange value of the commodity was paid to the worker who made the commodity. The other part of the value of this particular commodity was labour that was not paid to the worker—unpaid labour. This unpaid labour was retained by the owner of the means of production. In capitalist society, the capitalist owns the means of production and therefore the unpaid labour is retained by the capitalist as rent or as profit. The means of production means the site where the commodity is made, the raw products that are used in the production and the instruments or machines that are used for the production of the commodity.\n\nHowever, not all commodities are reproducible nor were all commodities originally intended to be sold in the market. These priced goods are also treated as commodities, e.g. human labour-power, works of art and natural resources (\"earth itself is an instrument of labour\"), even though they may not be produced specifically for the market, or be non-reproducible goods.\n\nMarx's analysis of the commodity is intended to help solve the problem of what establishes the economic value of goods, using the labor theory of value. This problem was extensively debated by Adam Smith, David Ricardo and Karl Rodbertus-Jagetzow among others.\n\nAll three of the above-mentioned economists rejected the theory that labour composed 100% of the exchange value of any commodity. In varying degrees, these economists turned to supply and demand to establish the price of commodities. Marx held that the \"price\" and the \"value\" of a commodity were not synonymous. Price of any commodity would vary according to the imbalance of supply to demand at any one period of time. The \"value\" of the same commodity would be consistent and would reflect the amount of labour value used to produce that commodity.\n\nPrior to Marx, economists noted that the problem with using the \"quantity of labour\" to establish the value of commodities was that the time spent by an unskilled worker would be longer than the time spent on the same commodity by a skilled worker. Thus, under this analysis, the commodity produced by an unskilled worker would be more valuable than the same commodity produced by the skilled worker. Marx pointed out, however, that in society at large, an average amount of time that was necessary to produce the commodity would arise. This average time necessary to produce the commodity Marx called the \"socially necessary labour time\" Socially necessary labour time was the proper basis on which to base the \"exchange value\" of a given commodity.\n\nValue and price are not equivalent terms in economics, and theorising the specific relationship of value to market price has been a challenge for both liberal and Marxist economists. However, Marx held that the value and price of any commodity would coincide only when demand and supply were equivalent to each other.\n\n"}
{"id": "13647644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13647644", "title": "Coworking", "text": "Coworking\n\nCoworking is a self-directed, collaborative, flexible and voluntary work style that is based on mutual trust and the sharing of common core values between its participants. Coworking involves a shared workplace, often an office, and independent activity. Unlike in a typical office, those coworking are usually not employed by the same organization. Typically, it is attractive to work-at-home professionals, independent contractors, independent scientists or people who travel frequently who end up working in relative isolation. Coworking is a social gathering of a group of people who are still working independently, but who share values and who are interested in the synergy that can happen from working with people who value working in the same place alongside each other. Coworking offers a solution to the problem of isolation that many freelancers experience while working at home, while at the same time letting them escape the distractions of home. It generally costs money in the form of membership dues, though some spaces are free of charge.\n\nCoworking is not only about the physical place, but about establishing a community. Indeed, its rapid growth has been seen as a possible way for city planners to address the decline of high street retail in urban centres. Its benefits can already be experienced outside of the physical spaces, and it is recommended to start with building a coworking community first before considering opening a Coworking place. However, some coworking places don't build a community; they just get a part of an existing one by combining their opening with an event which attracts their target group.\n\nReal-estate centric coworking spaces are about selling desks first, with building community as a secondary goal. Players target freelance professionals, remote workers, and small to medium enterprises (SMEs) who need a space and seek a community with a collaborative spirit. Customers also often benefit from professional services such as printing or incorporation or consulting.\n\nCoworking is distinct from business accelerators, incubators and executive suites. These spaces do not fit into the coworking model because they often miss the social, collaborative, and informal aspects of the process. In coworking, management practices are closer to that of a cooperative, including a focus on community rather than profit. Many of the coworking participants are also participants in an unconference like BarCamp and other related open-source participatory technology events.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2015, a few studies have shown the number of coworking spaces and available seats have roughly doubled each year.\n\nBrad Neuberg is credited with starting the coworking movement in San Francisco in 2005 with the idea to combine the independence of freelancing with the structure and community of an office space. To do this, he invented the word \"coworking\" with no hyphen. Coworking how we experience it today was preceded by European hacker spaces of the 1990s, where programmers would exchange skills and best practices. \n\nSome coworking places were developed by nomadic Internet entrepreneurs seeking an alternative to working in coffee shops and cafes, or to isolation in independent or home offices.\nA 2007 survey showed that many employees worry about feeling isolated and losing human interaction if they were to telecommute. Roughly a third of both private-sector and public-sector workers also reported that they did not want to stay at home during work. A major factor that drives demand for coworking is the growing part of independent workers.\n\nCoworking in Asia has become very popular as space is limited in countries like China, India, Singapore, Vietnam, Philippines, Hong Kong and Taiwan.\n\nIn Hong Kong for example, dozens of coworking spaces have been set up to foster the rapidly growing startup community; according to \"Forbes\" it is among the leading tech locations in the world, along with Silicon Valley and New York City. Spread across almost all districts, coworking places can be found everywhere while the majority of places are situated on Hong Kong Island and there predominantly in the Central and Sheung Wan districts.\n\nThe Malaysian state of Penang, long regarded as the \"Silicon Valley of the East\", has also witnessed an increase in coworking spaces. Aside from privately-owned startups, the Penang state government has embarked on a drive to convert colonial-era buildings in the capital city of George Town into coworking spaces.\n\nAs well as tech startups, coworking is becoming increasingly common amongst digital nomads in Asia. A 2011 survey found most coworkers are currently in their late twenties to late thirties, with an average age of 34 years. Two-thirds are men, one third are women. Four in five coworkers started their career with a university education. The majority of coworkers work in creative industries or new media. Slightly more than half of all coworkers are freelancers.\n\nCoworking spaces in India are also on the rise with Mumbai experiencing a huge surge in 2017.\nThere are 200-odd companies offering shared office spaces in India and a sizeable chunk of them still identify themselves as startup-focused spaces. However, more providers of co-working spaces—including Awfis Space Solutions, 91Springboard, InstaOffice, WhyWorks and BHIVE Workspace as well as global companies like WeWork—are positioning themselves as enterprise-focused facilities. \n\nFrance opened its first coworking space in 2007, la Boate, located in Marseilles. In 2008, two new ones open in Paris: and la Ruche.\n\nNowadays, the U.K. is among the most responsive European country to the idea of collaborative working, with a special focus on London. The city leads the coworking market, not only for the large number of coworking places it offers but also for the variety of places that exist to fit the differing needs among start-ups, entrepreneurs and freelancers. Camden Collective is a regeneration project in London that re-purposes previously vacant and underused properties that opened its first ‘wire-less, wall-less’ coworking space in 2009.\n\nIn June 2013, the U.K. Government announced it would be applying coworking principles to a new pilot scheme for its 'One Public Sector Estate' strategy covering 12 local authorities in England, which will encourage councils to work with central government departments and other bodies so that staff share buildings. This will enable the authorities to encourage collaboration as well as re-use or release property and land deemed surplus to requirements, cutting spending and freeing up land for local development.\n\nCoworking is also becoming more common in continental Europe, with the startup metropolis Berlin being a major booster for this development. Several diverse offers can be found in the city, such as Factory Berlin.\n\nThis kind of working environment is not exclusive to big cities. Smaller urban areas with many young and creative people and especially university cities may offer coworking places, with \"Cowork Greifswald\" in Germany being one example. Cooperation between coworking spaces and academic environments are focused.\n\nSince Neuberg started the coworking movement in 2005, San Francisco continues to have a large presence in the coworking community and is home to a growing number of coworking spaces. Also in the Bay Area, Anca Mosoiu established Tech Liminal in 2009, a coworking place in Oakland. In Miami new places have been opening their doors. Coworking has also spread into many other metropolitan areas, with cities such as Seattle, Washington, Portland, Oregon, Toronto, and Wichita, Kansas now offering several coworking venues. The New York coworking community has also been evolving rapidly in places like Regus and Rockefeller Group Business Center. Several new startups like WeWork have been expanding all over the city. The demand for coworking in Brooklyn neighborhoods is high due to the rise in the millenial workforce; nearly one in 10 workers in the Gowanus area work from home. The industrial area of Gowanus is seeing a surge in new startups that are redesigning old buildings into new coworking spaces. In Brooklyn, in 2008, the first green-focused coworking space in the US, called Green Spaces, was founded by Jennie Nevin, and it expanded in 2009 to Manhattan and Denver and has been a driving force for green entrepreneurship through the collaboration of coworking. New models of coworking that go beyond the original concept of shared office space have also been established. For example, Work and Play in South Orange has onsite childcare for entrepreneurial parents and CoWorking With Wisdom in Berkeley combines coworking with yoga, meditation and mindfulness programs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1622610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1622610", "title": "Critical success factor", "text": "Critical success factor\n\nCritical success factor (CSF) is a management term for an element that is necessary for an organization or project to achieve its mission. Alternative terms are key result area (KRA) and key success factor (KSF).\n\nA CSF is a critical factor or activity required for ensuring the success of a company or an organization. The term was initially used in the world of data analysis and business analysis. For example, a CSF for a successful Information Technology project is user involvement.\n\nCritical success factors should not be confused with success \"criteria\". The latter are outcomes of a project or achievements of an organization necessary to consider the project a success or the organization successful. Success criteria are defined with the objectives and may be quantified by key performance indicators (KPIs).\n\nThe concept of \"success factors\" was developed by D. Ronald Daniel of McKinsey & Company in 1961. The process was refined into critical success factors by John F. Rockart between 1979 and 1981. In 1995, James A. Johnson and Michael Friesen applied it to many sector settings, including healthcare.\n\nIn project management, multiple cross-cultural studies spread over decades have shown that the basic Key Success Factors \ncan be summarized as follows:\n\nCritical success factor vs. key performance indicator:\n\nKPIs, on the other hand, are measures which quantify management objectives, along with a target or threshold, and enable the measurement of strategic performance.\n\nAn example:\n"}
{"id": "47449116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47449116", "title": "Customer success", "text": "Customer success\n\nCustomer success is the function at a company responsible for managing the relationship between a vendor and its customers. The goal of customer success is to make the customer as successful as possible, which in turn, improves customer lifetime value (CLTV) for the company. \n\nCustomer success is an emerging role in business. It is known as CS. The function is most commonly used in the software world and most prevalent among software as a service (SaaS) companies. Because customer success is a nascent field of business, its organizational alignment and activities are still evolving.\nThere is still a large amount of variance with respect to its scope of responsibilities, reporting structure, terminology used for describing its activities, metrics used for measuring its performance and more. While deviations exist in the specifics of the function, it always refers to the customer relationship management after the initial sale.\n\nAs customer success is a nascent and fast emerging field, variance is still high with respect to its scope, reporting structure, terminology used for describing its activities, metrics used for measuring its performance and more.\nHowever, the key functions the CS team is often responsible for include:\n\nPresently, the customer success function within most organizations is embodied in the customer success manager (CSM) job title.\n\nThe CSM acts as the main point of contact and as a trusted advisor for the customer from the vendor side as they are the one ultimately responsible and accountable for that customer's success. The function may share many of the same functions of traditional account managers, relationship managers, project managers, and technical account managers, but their mode of operations tend to be much more focused on long-term value-generation to the customer. At its heart, it is about maximizing the value the customer generates from utilizing the solutions of the vendor, while enabling the vendor the ability to derive high return from the customer value. To enable that, the CSM must monitor the customer's usage of and satisfaction from the solutions of the vendor, identify opportunities and challenges from the way the customer engages with the solution and take action to help resolve challenges and foster expansion of the usage as well as the value from the solutions (to both sides) over time.\n\nAs a consequence, relentlessly monitor and manage the customer health is a key success factor for every CSM as well as the need to deeply understand the drivers of value the customer gains from the solutions provided by the vendor. Without such deep and timely understanding of these two aspects of the customer, the CSM will not be able to act effectively.\n\nIn young organizations, where the total number of employees (and customers) is small, the CSM may be the first employee of the customer success team. As such, they will be responsible for most of the functions described above, which over time may be fulfilled by more specialized team members. Ownership of commercial responsibilities by CSM vary among companies. While some believe a CSM's neutrality from sales or commercial conversations may make a customer more likely to respond to and engage with a CSM, other view the ownership of the commercial relations natural to a long-term relations between a vendor and a customer and more empowering to the CSM.\n\nFor CSMs to fulfill the responsibilities of their role, they must be empowered by an organization's executive team to navigate freely among all parts of an organization. This maintains the CSMs credibility with the customer as an effective resource. In organizations where CSMs are just another level of abstraction or a \"screen\" between the customer and the resources they need, the credibility of the CSM is compromised and the customer experience eroded which may result in a customer not renewing or expanding their business with the vendor. Furthermore, lacking the top-down support, will deprive the CSM the ability to garner the right resources needed by them to complete their jobs.\nVirtual customer success managers are remote points of contact for customers and monitor the success of customers, providing important feedback.\n\nEvery company that sells its products and/or services to customers has functions responsible for managing the customer fulfillment and relations. In traditional businesses, those functions are referred to most commonly as \"Fulfillment\", \"Post Sales\" or \"Professional Services\".\n\nIn the world of technology, companies have been developing, selling and enabling software solutions for many years. At most of those companies the function responsible for managing the relations with customers used to be called \"Account Management\", \"Operations\" or \"Services\".\n\nAs the business world is changing and evolving into new fields, the method by which software is enabled to customers changes. One of the most significant changes in recent years has been the emergence of software as a service (aka SaaS).\n\nSaaS is a method of enabling a software solution to customers in a subscription model that departs from the \"old\" model of granting a perpetual license that enables the customer to own the solution and therefore use it as they see fit (but also be responsible for its operation). Rather, when enabling a solution to customers as a SaaS, companies offer their products as services instead of physical objects, moving the economy to a subscription model. The customer \"rents\" the solution and is able to use it only for the period they have rented it for. The vendor enabling the solution provides not only the solution itself, but also the infrastructure that supports it.\n\nThe key implication of this new model is a fundamental shift in the engagement model between the software vendor and its customers. If in the traditional \"enterprise software\" model, a customer buys the license to the software and pays the vendor then, regardless of its actual usage, in a SaaS model, the customer pays a (much smaller) rent for the software every month. The software vendor must therefore ensure the customer is using the solution and seeing value from it if they wanted to ensure the customer continues to pay their rent. This fundamental shift in the software industry's operating model revealed a need for a function at the company to own and ensure that success of its customers.\n\nThe emergence of this function is what is now being referred to as customer success (CS).\n\nWhile the trend towards SaaS has been going on since the beginning of the 21st century, the understanding of the need for much stronger focus on customer success and therefore the creation of the field of customer success only began around 2010–2012. On LinkedIn, the world's largest repository of professional bios, only a very small number of people had titles that included \"customer success\" in 2010 or 2012. By 2015, this number was huge and growing rapidly.\n\nThe reason is that the impact of customer success on the performance and value of a SaaS company is huge. The CS function is responsible for retaining and growing the business that the sales team has secured. Case studies show that companies with strong CS teams outperform peers with weak or no CS teams in a multitude of financial criteria including customer retention (also measured by \"churn\", which is the opposite of retention), revenue growth rates, gross margin, customer satisfaction, and referrals. In fact, customer experience is the greatest untapped source of both decreased costs and increased revenue in most industries, but only if companies take the time to understand what underpins it and how they can benefit financially from improving it.\n"}
{"id": "7328421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7328421", "title": "Dignity of labour", "text": "Dignity of labour\n\nThe dignity of labour is the philosophy that all types of jobs are respected equally, and no occupation is considered superior and none of the jobs should be discriminated on any basis . Though one's occupation for his or her livelihood involves physical work or mental labour, it is held that the job carries dignity compared to the jobs that involve more intellect than body. Social reformers such as Basava and his contemporary Sharanas, as well as Mahatma Gandhi, were prominent advocates of the dignity of labour.\n\nThe Dignity of Labour is one of the major themes in the Christian ethics, and as such, it is upheld by the Anglican Communion, in Catholic social teaching, in Methodist principles, and in Reformed theology. In Roman Catholicism, usually titled \"The Dignity of work and the rights of workers\" the affirmation of the Dignity of Human Labour is found in several Papal encyclicals, most notably Pope John Paul II's \"Laborem Exercens\" published September 15, 1981.\n"}
{"id": "26480448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26480448", "title": "Distribution center management system", "text": "Distribution center management system\n\nDistribution Center Management System (DCMS) is a user friendly Warehouse Management System (WMS), designed to track the activities performed in a Distribution Center (DC)/ Warehouse. It is created and owned by a private company called Eclipse Systems Pvt Ltd. It automates the entire process flow of receiving, managing and shipping goods to customers from the warehouse. DCMS solutions are designed for both large and small scale businesses. In January 2015, the product went open source. \n\nDCMS helps warehouses to remove the risk of stock pile-up, stock outs, pending orders and loss of sales due to customer dissatisfaction. It dramatically improves the warehouse productivity and increase inventory accuracy to 99.8%.\n\nIt helps strengthening customer relationships, reduce operating expenses and increase warehouse and distribution efficiencies. Due to its modular design, DCMS can be easily customized for various clients as per their requirements. WMS is an intelligent investment that will instantly boost accuracy in the warehouse operations and yields long term financial benefits.\n\nA typical list of modules for DCMS can be as follows:\n\n\nFeatures of a DCMS also has the following:\n\n\nAn effective DCMS helps to prevent stock outs, stock pile-ups, pending orders and loss of sales due to customer dissatisfaction. It improves the warehouse productivity and increases inventory accuracy too. Some other benefits include reducing operating expenses and improvement in efficiencies.\n\nDCMS works in both Radio Frequency (RF) as well as paper based environment. DCMS is a future ready solution. Warehouses which do not wish to make heavy investments in RF immediately, have the option of choosing paper based environment first, and can later adopt RF technology with minimal time and effort.\n\nDCMS provides an open interface and can be easily integrated with third party software applications. It reduces unnecessary paper work and office routines. Having DCMS in place means warehouses do not need to depend on someone’s experience any more.\n\nInventory initiative in recent times such as JIT (Just In Time), ECR (Efficient Customer Response) and QR (Quick Response) have turned traditional inventory management users to WMS application users. Not only this, more and more Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) users are replacing their existing warehouse module of ERP with WMS because of its functionality fit, knowledgebase, latest up gradations, integration, adaptation to ever changing customer requirement which the ERP warehouse module cannot provide.\n\nDCMS is based on Microsoft Technology with an Oracle as Database. It uses web based three tier architecture that provides a standard suite of warehousing applications. DCMS can also be installed on cloud and used as SAAS. DCMS provides rich source of WEB based reports that can be used by all levels of organizations for making important decisions.\n\nThink of a warehouse problem, DCMS will have comprehensive solution for that. Not only this, it is also ready for all future possibilities for which the warehouse may not be prepared in the current scenario. Eclipse System's rich knowledge base and R&D department keeps the application up to date to provide the latest industry features.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30522786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30522786", "title": "DocSTAR", "text": "DocSTAR\n\nFounded in 1996, DocStar is a software company that provides Document management software, enterprise content management solutions, Accounts Payable Automation solutions and electronic Forms, available on-premises or as a cloud hosted service in the SaaS model. Features include document control, records management, document imaging, intelligent data capture, invoice processing, workflow and business process automation. DocStar software integrates with third party business applications.\n\nDocStar is headquartered in Schenectady, New York and is the primary document management solution to over 2,000 organizations across North America and the UK. DocStar serves all industries including manufacturing, food and beverage distribution, legal, insurance, healthcare, state and municipal government, real estate, retail and financial services. DocStar was named ‘Best Channel Vendor 2013’ in the ECM Software category by Business Solutions magazine.\n\nOn January 3, 2017 DocStar was purchased by Epicor Software Corporation. Astria Solutions Group had acquired DocStar in June 2007 from AuthentiDate Holding Corp.\n\nDocStar was formerly known as BitWise Designs Inc. and was founded in 1985 by Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute students John Botti and Ira Whitman. In 1992, BitWise began public trading under the stock symbol BTWS. In 1994 the document imaging division of BitWise was founded as DocStar. In 1998 and 1999, the DocStar division of Bitwise was recognized by Inc. Magazine as one of the nation’s fastest growing companies. In April 2000, DocStar unveiled its first turnkey system, DocStar SE. DocStar SE provided innovation in the document imaging/management field by allowing simultaneous access to over 100 users at a time per system.\n\nIn March 2001, BitWise designs officially changed its name to AuthentiDate Holding Corporation and began trading under the NASDAQ symbol ADAT. AuthentiDate was the first company to gain official USPS Electronic Postmark (EPM) and DocStar was the first document management platform to integrate the EPM technology. At present, Authentidate remains the official EPM provider to the United States Postal Service. In 2005 AuthentiDate moved its headquarters from Schenectady, NY to Berkley Heights, NJ. The DocStar division remained in Schenectady.\n\nDocStar currently operates in cooperation with over 100 partner resellers who cover approximately 80% of the document imaging markets in the United States.\n\nDocStar ECM is enterprise content management software available as a cloud-based service or on-premises. When deployed in the cloud, DocStar solutions do not require specialized hardware and there is minimal up-front capital investment. DocStar ECM allows access from any Internet-enabled device through a number of supported browsers and offers a fast return on investment.\n\nDocStar Accounts Payable Invoice Processing Automation Solution or AP Automation is designed to capture, process, and route invoices automatically.\nAP Automation Features:\n\nDocStar 3thirteen was launched on August 8, 2013. New features include: Customizable Views in the Inbox, Retrieve, & Browse Windows; OCR \"On Demand\"; Expanded Native File Support; Live DataLink; Customizable Workflow Approval Requests and Embedded Direct-Document WebWorks Link.\n\nSoftware Integrations (Abridged):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "733886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=733886", "title": "Emotional labor", "text": "Emotional labor\n\nEmotional labor is the process of managing feelings and expressions to fulfill the emotional requirements of a job. More specifically, workers are expected to regulate their emotions during interactions with customers, co-workers and superiors. This includes analysis and decision making in terms of the expression of emotion, whether actually felt or not, as well as its opposite: the suppression of emotions that are felt but not expressed.\n\nRoles that have been identified as requiring emotional labor include but are not limited to Mother/Wife, those involved in public administration (especially the palace intrigues of a ruling body, these being an eternal literary theme), guarded professions of secrecy (such as espionage, national security, military intelligence, psychiatry, clerisy, and law), flight attendant, daycare worker, nursing home worker, nurse, doctor, store clerk, call center worker, teacher, librarian, social worker; most roles in a hotel, motel, tavern, bar, pub, and restaurant; and jobs in the media, such as television and radio. As particular economies move from a manufacturing- to a service-based economy, more workers in a variety of occupational fields are expected to manage their emotions according to employer demands when compared to sixty years ago.\n\nThe sociologist Arlie Hochschild provides the first definition of emotional labor, which is a form of emotion regulation that creates a publicly visible facial and bodily display within the workplace. The related term emotion work (also called \"emotion management\") refers to \"these same acts done in a private context\", such as within the private sphere of one's home or interactions with family and friends. Hochschild identified three emotion regulation strategies: cognitive, bodily, and expressive. Within cognitive emotion work, one attempts to change images, ideas, or thoughts in hopes of changing the feelings associated with them. For example, one may associate a family picture with feeling happy and think about said picture whenever attempting to feel happy. Within bodily emotion work, one attempts to change physical symptoms in order to create a desired emotion. For example, one may attempt deep breathing in order to reduce anger. Within expressive emotion work, one attempts to change expressive gestures to change inner feelings. For example, one may attempt to smile when trying to feel happy. One becomes aware of emotion work most often when one's feelings do not fit the situation. For instance, when one does not feel sad at a funeral, one becomes acutely aware of the feelings appropriate for that situation.\n\nWhile emotion work happens within the private sphere, emotional labor is emotion management within the workplace according to employer expectations. According to Hochschild (1983), the emotion management by employers creates a situation in which this emotion management can be exchanged in the marketplace. According to Hochschild (1983), jobs involving emotional labor are defined as those that:\n\n\nHochschild (1983) argues that within this commodification process, service workers are estranged from their own feelings in the workplace.\n\n\nOriginal description of this emotion management process, researchers have focused on surface acting and deep acting as the primary strategies that employees use to regulate their emotions. Surface acting involves a \"faking\" process through which outward expressions are altered, yet internal feelings are left intact (2013). Conversely, deep acting is an effortful process through which employees change their internal feelings to align with organizational expectations, producing more natural and genuine emotional displays (Grandey et al., 2013) (3). Although the underlying regulatory processes involved in each approach differ, the objective of both, is typically to show positive emotions, which are presumed to impact the feelings of customers and bottom-line outcomes (e.g., sales, positive recommendations, and repeat business; Pugh, 2001; Tsai, 2001). However, as previously mentioned, research generally has found surface acting to be more consistently problematic for employee well-being than deep acting (Grandey, 2003; Hülsheger & Schewe, 2011).\n\nIn the past, emotional labor demands and display rules were viewed as a characteristic of particular occupations, such as restaurant workers, cashiers, hospital workers, bill collectors, counselors, secretaries, and nurses. However, display rules have been conceptualized not only as role requirements of particular occupational groups, but also as interpersonal job demands, which are shared by many kinds of occupations.\n\nIn 1991, Sutton did an in-depth qualitative study into bill collectors at a collection agency. He found that unlike the other jobs described here where employees need to act cheerful and concerned, bill collectors are selected and socialized to show irritation to most debtors. Specifically, the collection agency hired agents who seemed to be easily aroused. The newly hired agents were then trained on when and how to show varying emotions to different types of debtors. As they worked at the collection agency, they were closely monitored by their supervisors to make sure that they frequently conveyed urgency to debtors.\n\nBill collectors' emotional labor consists of not letting angry and hostile debtors make them angry and to not feel guilty about pressuring friendly debtors for money. They coped with angry debtors by publicly showing their anger or making jokes when they got off the phone. They minimized the guilt they felt by staying emotionally detached from the debtors.\n\nIn her 1991 study of waitresses in Philadelphia, Paules examines how these workers assert control and protect their self identity during interactions with customers. In restaurant work, Paules argues, workers' subordination to customers is reinforced through \"cultural symbols that originate from deeply rooted assumptions about service work.\" Because the waitresses were not strictly regulated by their employers, waitresses' interactions with customers were controlled by the waitresses themselves. Although they are stigmatized by the stereotypes and assumptions of servitude surrounding restaurant work, the waitresses studied were not negatively affected by their interactions with customers. To the contrary, they viewed their ability to manage their emotions as a valuable skill that could be used to gain control over customers. Thus, the Philadelphia waitresses took advantage of the lack of employer-regulated emotional labor in order to avoid the potentially negative consequences of emotional labor.\n\nThough Paules highlights the positive consequences of emotional labor for a specific population of waitresses, other scholars have also found negative consequences of emotional labor within the waitressing industry. Through eighteen months of participant observation research, Bayard De Volo (2003) found that casino waitresses are highly monitored and monetarily bribed to perform emotional labor in the workplace. Specifically, Bayard De Volo (2003) argues that through a sexualized environment and a generous tipping system, both casino owners and customers control waitresses' behavior and appearance for their own benefit and pleasure. Even though the waitresses have their own forms of individual and collective resistance mechanisms, intense and consistent monitoring of their actions by casino management makes it difficult to change the power dynamics of the casino workplace.\n\nBy using participant observation and interviews, Leidner (1993) examines how employers in fast food restaurants regulate workers' interactions with customers. According to Leidner (1993), employers attempt to regulate workers' interactions with customers only under certain conditions. Specifically, when employers attempt to regulate worker-customer interactions, employers believe that \"the quality of the interaction is important to the success of the enterprise\", that workers are \"unable or unwilling to conduct the interactions appropriately on their own\", and that the \"tasks themselves are not too complex or context-dependent.\" According to Leidner (1993), regulating employee interactions with customers involves standardizing workers' personal interactions with customers. At the McDonald's fast food restaurants in Leidner's (1993) study, these interactions are strictly scripted, and workers' compliance with the scripts and regulations are closely monitored.\n\nAlong with examining employers' attempts to regulate employee-customer interactions, Leidner (1993) examines how fast-food workers' respond to these regulations. According to Leidner (1993), meeting employers' expectations requires workers to engage in some form of emotional labor. For example, McDonald's workers are expected to greet customers with a smile and friendly attitude independent of their own mood or temperament at the time. Leidner (1993) suggests that rigid compliance with these expectations is at least potentially damaging to workers' sense of self and identity. However, Leidner (1993) did not see the negative consequences of emotional labor in the workers she studied. Instead, McDonald's workers attempted to individualize their responses to customers in small ways. Specifically, they used humor or exaggeration to demonstrate their rebellion against the strict regulation of their employee-customer interactions.\n\nAccording to Larson and Yao (2005), empathy should characterize physicians' interactions with their patients because, despite advancement in medical technology, the interpersonal relationship between physicians and patients remains essential to quality healthcare. Larson and Yao (2005) argue that physicians consider empathy a form of emotional labor. Specifically, according to Larson and Yao (2005), physicians engage in emotional labor through deep acting by feeling sincere empathy before, during, and after interactions with patients. On the other hand, Larson and Yao (2005) argue that physicians engage in surface acting when they fake empathic behaviors toward the patient. Although Larson and Yao (2005) argue that deep acting is preferred, physicians may rely on surface acting when sincere empathy for patients is impossible. Overall, Larson and Yao (2005) argue that physicians are more effective and enjoy more professional satisfaction when they engage in empathy through deep acting due to emotional labor.\n\nAccording to Martin (1999), police work involves substantial amounts of emotional labor by officers, who must control their own facial and bodily displays of emotion in the presence of other officers and citizens. Although policing is often viewed as stereotypically masculine work that focuses on fighting crime, policing also requires officers to maintain order and provide a variety of interpersonal services. For example, police must have a commanding presence that allows them to act decisively and maintain control in unpredictable situations while having the ability to actively listen and talk to citizens. According to Martin (1999), a police officer who displays too much anger, sympathy, or other emotion while dealing with danger on the job will be viewed by other officers as someone unable to withstand the pressures of police work, due to the sexist views of many police officers. While being able to balance this self-management of emotions in front of other officers, police must also assertively restore order and use effective interpersonal skills to gain citizen trust and compliance. Ultimately, the ability of police officers to effectively engage in emotional labor affects how other officers and citizens view them.\n\nMany scholars argue that the amount of emotional work required between all levels of government is greatest on the local level. It is at the level of cities and counties that the responsibility lies for day to day emergency preparedness, firefighters, law enforcement, public education, public health, and family and children's services. Citizens in a community expect the same level of satisfaction from their government, as they receive in a customer service-oriented job. This takes a considerate amount of work for both employees and employers in the field of public administration. There are two comparisons that represent emotional labor within public administration, \"Rational Work versus Emotion Work\", and \"Emotional Labor versus Emotional Intelligence.\"\n\nWhen public administrators perform emotional labor, many scholars argue administrators are dealing with significantly more sensitive situations than employees in the service industry. The reason for this is because they are on the front lines of the government, and are expected to by citizens to serve them quickly and efficiently. When confronted by a citizen or a co-worker public administrators use emotional sensing to size up the emotional state of the citizen in need. Workers then take stock of their own emotional state in order to make sure that the emotion they are expressing is appropriate to their roles. Simultaneously, they have to determine how to act in order to elicit the desired response from the citizen as well as from co-workers. Public Administrators perform emotional labor through five different strategies: Psychological First Aid, Compartments and Closets, Crazy Calm, Humor, and Common Sense.\n\nAccording to Mary Guy, Public administration does not only focus on the business side of administration but also on the personal side as well. It is not just about collecting the water bill or land ordinances to construct a new property, it is also about the quality of life and sense of community that is allotted to individuals by their city officials. Rational work is the ability to think cognitively and analytically, while emotional work means to think more practically and with more reason.\n\nKnowing how to suppress and manage one's own feelings is known as emotional intelligence, the ability to control one's emotions and to be able to do this at a high level guarantees one's own ability to serve those in need. Emotional intelligence is performed while performing emotional labor, and without one the other can not be there.\n\nMacdonald and Sirianni (1996) use the term \"emotional proletariat\" to describe service jobs in which \"workers exercise emotional labor wherein they are required to display friendliness and deference to customers.\" Because of deference, these occupations tend to be stereotyped as female jobs, independent of the actual number of women working the job. According to Macdonald and Sirianni (1996), because deference is a characteristic demanded of all those in disadvantaged structural positions, especially women, when deference is made a job requirement, women are likely to be overrepresented in these jobs. Macdonald and Sirianni (1996) claim that \"[i]n no other area of wage labor are the personal characteristics of the workers so strongly associated with the nature of the work.\" Thus, according to Macdonald and Sirianna (1996), although all workers employed within the service economy may have a difficult time maintaining their dignity and self-identity due to the demands of emotional labor, such an issue may be especially problematic for women workers.\n\nEmotional labor also affects women by perpetuating occupational segregation and the gender wage gap. Job segregation, which is the systematic tendency for men and women to work in different occupations, is often cited as the reason why women lack equal pay when compared to men. According to Guy and Newman (2004), occupational segregation and ultimately the gender wage gap can at least be partially attributed to emotional labor. Specifically, work-related tasks that require emotional work thought to be natural for women, such as caring and empathizing are requirements of many female-dominated occupations. However, according to Guy and Newman (2004), these feminized work tasks are not a part of formal job descriptions and performance evaluations: \"Excluded from job descriptions and performance evaluations, the work is invisible and uncompensated. Public service relies heavily on such skills, yet civil service systems, which are designed on the assumptions of a bygone era, fail to acknowledge and compensate emotional labor.\" According to Guy and Newman (2004), women working in positions that require emotion labour in addition to regular work are not compensated for this additional labour because of the sexist notion that the additional labour is to be expected of them by the fact of being a woman. This suggests that Guy and Newman believe a man conducting emotional labour would be compensated more than a woman would, however, if women are inproportionately hired for positions requiring emotional work, that does not immediately explain a wage gap comparable to men.\n\nPositive affective display in service interactions, such as smiling and conveying friendliness, are positively associated with customer positive feelings, and important outcomes, such as intention to return, intention to recommend a store to others, and perception of overall service quality. There is evidence that emotional labor may lead to employees' emotional exhaustion and burnout over time, and may also reduce employees' job satisfaction. That is, higher degree of using emotion regulation on the job is related to higher levels of employees' emotional exhaustion, and lower levels of employees' job satisfaction.\n\nThere is empirical evidence that higher levels of emotional labor demands are not uniformly rewarded with higher wages. Rather, the reward is dependent on the level of general cognitive demands required by the job. That is, occupations with high cognitive demands evidence wage returns with increasing emotional labor demands; whereas occupations low in cognitive demands evidence a wage \"penalty\" with increasing emotional labor demands.\n\nCoping occurs in response to psychological stress—usually triggered by changes—in an effort to maintain mental health and emotional well-being. Life stressors are often described as negative events (loss of a job). However, positive changes in life (a new job) can also constitute life stressors, thus requiring the use of coping skills to adapt. Coping strategies are the behaviors, thoughts, and emotions that you use to adjust to the changes that occur in your life. The use of coping skills will help a person better themselves in the work place and perform to the best of their ability to achieve success. There are many ways to cope and adapt to changes. Some ways include: sharing emotions with peers, having a healthy social life outside of work, being humorous, and adjusting expectations of self and work. These coping skills will help turn negative emotion to positive and allow for more focus on the public in contrast to oneself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17647775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17647775", "title": "Enterprize Canada", "text": "Enterprize Canada\n\nEnterprize Canada is a student-run, not-for-profit organization with the focus on promoting entrepreneurship while providing opportunities to young entrepreneurs to grow and develop their ideas. Established in 2001 under the leadership of founder Michael Lee and other undergraduate business students from the Sauder School of Business at the University of British Columbia, Enterprize Canada hosts Canada's largest student-run business plan competition and entrepreneurship conference. Over 250 student-delegates, industry professionals, and young entrepreneurs from across Canada meet annually in Vancouver, BC in this two-part event. While the conference and the business plan competition are the highlight events of the organization, Enterprize Canada hosts and participates in a number of community-based activities through workshops, conferences and social events that connects students in universities across Canada. Since 2009, Enterprize has also hosted the annual miniEnterprize conference which connects young innovators in across twenty high schools throughout British Columbia.\n\nThe mission of Enterprize Canada is to facilitate a world-class forum for some of the brightest young entrepreneurs in the nation by providing a platform to showcase the future of Canadian innovation, as well as connecting young students with the entrepreneurial spirit.\n\nHosted in Vancouver, BC, the Enterprize Canada Entrepreneurship Conference has welcomed over 250 delegates annually from across Canada. Students from a wide range of disciplines are connected through a series of interactive workshops, professional networking sessions, and nightly social events.\n\nPast Locations\n\nThe business plan competition brings together teams of two to six students from several accredited Canadian post-secondary institutions. Teams first participate in regional competitions in their respective regions:\n\n\nThe top business plans from each region will go on to compete in the national competition in Vancouver, BC in early February.\n\nIn 2008, 100 teams from 16 different Canadian post-secondary institutions were selected to compete in their respective regional competitions. Of these 100, the top three were chosen from each of the four regions to compete in the national finals in Vancouver. Over $80,000 in prize money was awarded in 2008, with a $20,000 business grant awarded to the top team. With a prize pool worth over $100,000, the 2009 competition will be the largest of its kind in Canada.\n\n2012\n\n1st Place - Kaizen Biomedical - University of BC\n<br>\n2nd Place - Infinitives - McGill University\n<br>\n3rd Place - Conisys Electronics - University of BC\n\n2010\n\n1st Place - DragonFly Instruments – University of BC<br>\n2nd Place - Aegis – University of BC<br>\n3rd Place - Aeos Biomedical – University of BC\n\n2009\n\n1st Place - VSM Technologies – Carleton University<br>\n2nd Place - EasyPlug – University of BC<br>\n3rd Place - Carve – Simon Fraser University\n\n2008\n\n1st Place - VerifyRx – University of New Brunswick<br>\n2nd Place - Daily Splice – University of Victoria<br>\n3rd Place - TechTouch – Schulich School of Business, York University<br>\nPwC Innovation Award – LDCA Innovations - École de technologie supérieure (Université du Québec)\n\n2007\n\n1st Place - Divisio Technologies – Dalhousie University<br>\n2nd Place – NeoSpectra Technologies - Simon Fraser University<br>\n3rd Place – Effiventa Corporation - University of Manitoba\n\n2006\n\n1st Place – Sunpeak Foods - University of Manitoba- - Company established 2006\n\n2005\n\n1st Place – Energy Aware - University of British Columbia\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43656329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43656329", "title": "European Business History Association", "text": "European Business History Association\n\nThe European Business History Association (EBHA) is an academic association devoted to business history in Europe. It holds annual congresses (called conferences until 2013) and a bi-annual doctoral summer school. It is registered as a Scottish charity. Its constitution states its objectives as \"to advance the education of the public concerning all aspects of the history of business and management in Europe and in the environment in which they operate and to promote research into all such aspects\".\nIts aim is the organization of conferences and seminars, the publication of a newsletter and other materials, the encouragement of research in all aspects of business history, and specifically the promotion of collaborative projects based in several European countries such as The Performance of European Business in the 20th Century project per instance.\nThe association was established to enhance inter-European contacts and promote extra-European links among business historians, to encourage the exchange of business history graduate students and to promote teaching and interest in all such aspects.\n\nThe discussions to establish a European Business History Association followed in the wake of the successful foundation of the Association of Business Historians in Britain . Informal talks between Hans Pohl (University of Bonn), Geoffrey Jones (then at the University of Reading), and Tony Slaven (University of Glasgow) resulted in an invited meeting of representatives from a number of European countries in October 1993. This meeting was hosted and chaired by Tony Slaven at the Centre for Business History in Glasgow. The participants were not representative in any objective sense, but were those known to the organisers. They were Rolv Petter Amdam (BI Norwegian Business School, Norway), Michael Bibikov (Russia), Per Boje (Denmark), Hans Pohl (Germany), Keetie Sluyterman (University of Utrecht, Netherlands), Mary Rose, Geoff Jones and Tony Slaven (UK). That meeting reviewed models for an EBHA, objectives, and necessary steps to shape and establish a new association. Subsequent meetings chaired by Tony Slaven followed rapidly in Bonn in February 1994 and in Rotterdam in June 1994. By this time the initial group had been joined by François Crouzet (France), Ulf Olsson (Sweden), and Even Lange (Norway). The meeting in Rotterdam at Erasmus University in June 1994 established the first draft of objectives, the conditions of membership, the structure to be adopted for office bearers and members of council, and election procedures. The Erasmus meeting also decided that it was necessary to take the proposals to a wider forum to gain support for the creation of a European Business History Association; it was also decided to establish a steering committee to plan a first conference.\n\nThe Business History Conference held at Erasmus University in October 1994 was taken as the opportunity to present the proposals to a large representative group of business historians drawn from many European countries. Tony Slaven acted as spokesman for the steering group and presented proposals to a general meeting at the Erasmus conference. The conference gave its support to the proposals and to the existing planning group to act as a steering committee to bring the European Business History Association into being. The first newsletter was planned for October 1995 and an inaugural conference was planned for August/September 1996. The working group was established as an interim council of the proposed EBHA for a period of two years from October 1995. Further planning meetings of the interim council took place in the University of Reading in March 1995 and Matthias Kipping was adopted as the first editor of the EBHA Newsletter. At that meeting in Reading it was agreed to hold the inaugural conference in August 1996 to be hosted by Ulf Olsson in the University of Gothenburg. A subsequent meeting in London in July 1996 was held to discuss potential collaboration with Manfred Pohl representing the new established Centre for European Business History based in Frankfurt. At that time, however, it was agreed to develop the interests of the new groups independently.\n\nMembership is open to any individual interested in business history.\nEBHA has over 200 members drawn from 29 different European and non-European countries.\n\nAt the EBHA congress in Uppsala (2013), Centres for Business History and Business History Groups at European Universities and Business Schools have created a network in order to\n(1.) improve communication and exchange between the large research groups in Business History;\n(2.) improve cooperation and institutional support in research and teaching;\n(3) improve PhD education in Business History.\nThe Alliance is a network under the umbrella of the EBHA and it is open to all European research environments in Business History with at least four tenured positions within the respective University/Business School. These centres/groups are facing common challenges within their University/Business School, and they provide environments allowing for collaboration beyond conventional academic networking.\nThe Alliance meets annually in connection to the EBHA Congress.\n\n\nThe Centre for Business History was established in 1999 with the objective to strengthen the historical dimension in CBS research and teaching. Today, it consists of eight professors and five PhD and postdoc researchers that share a keen interest in the way history contributes to a better understanding of society and business.\n\n\nThe Centre for Business History in Scotland (CBHS), inaugurated in 1987, is Scotland’s only research unit in the discipline and counts as full members 13 business historians engaged in teaching and research. The prime objective of the CBH is to encourage, facilitate and conduct research in all aspects of business history, with particular emphasis on corporate governance, innovation and organisational change.\n\n\nThe Bocconi Business History group is based at Bocconi University, Milan (www.unibocconi.it), in the Department of Policy Analysis and Public Management. The group consists of tenured and non tenured scholars doing research in various fields of business history. The group is active in the organization of conferences and seminars both at national and international level. Broadly speaking, the research interests of its members include topics as entrepreneurship, history of fashion and creative industries, international business, family business and State-owned enterprises.\n\n\nCentre for Business History (CBH) at BI Norwegian Business School in Oslo was established in 1989 and, with a staff of 14 historians and 1 research coordinator, constitutes the largest group of economic and business historians in Norway. The Centre is a part of the Department of Innovation and Economic Organization at BI. CBH aims to improve the understanding of business institutions, interactions between companies and society as well as the dynamics of economic development. The research includes economic, political, social and cultural perspectives.\n\nThe main part of the research is commissioned work, organised in a way which shall secure the academic freedom of the researcher, through standardised contracts and also with book committees commenting on the manuscripts.\n\n\nEstablished in 1997 and part of Henley Business School at the University of Reading, the Centre for International Business History (CIBH) is the largest business history centre in the United Kingdom. CIBH strives to promote the study of the evolution of business and management in an international and comparative context. The Centre’s nine members mainly focus on various aspects of international business history, particularly on topics related to retailing, consumer goods industries, entrepreneurship, intellectual property, industrial finance, small firms, creative industries, and industrial clusters/districts. CIBH staff play active roles in various national and international business and economic history associations and are active participants at the main international conferences in these areas.\n\n\nBusiness History @ Erasmus brings together researchers with an interest in the history of business. The platform is an initiative by the School of History, Culture & Communication and the Rotterdam School of Management, both at Erasmus University Rotterdam, in the Netherlands.\n\n\nUppsala Centre for Business History (UCBH) is organizationally and economically associated with the Department of Economic History at Uppsala University.\nA large part of the research focuses on questions about the establishment and development of organizations and markets, primarily within the banking and financial sector of the economy. The dynamic interaction between organizations and institutions, both formal and informal, is considered an important factor in the analysis of development.\n\n\nBusiness History at Utrecht University focuses on the historical development of companies and entrepreneurs in their institutional context. As part of Economic and Social History (ESH) business history links to the central debate on the question why some countries are poor and others are rich. What is the role of business in economic growth and prosperity? Business History at UU is therefore closely related to the Centre for Global Economic History, the platform of the UU for pioneering research into the long term evolution of the world economy and its components. Business history is also an important part of the Commissioned Research group, which conducts research for third parties. This research often focuses on individual companies or sectors in their relationship to society. From these two perspectives business historians in Utrecht find their strength in the interaction between the scientific debate and individual case studies.\n\n\nThe Centre for Evolution of Global Business and Institutions (CEGBI) was inaugurated in 2009 with the aim of contributing with research to the understanding of how businesses and institutions around the world evolve, and also of helping to inform current management and policy issues. CEGBI’s main areas of research are international business history; global marketing; and governance, entrepreneurship and social enterprise. Distinctive features of CEGBI’s research include its interdisciplinarity and methodologies. It engages with topics of interest to business and management, economics, history, sociology, and law.\n\nThe inaugural conference in Gothenburg in August 1996 attracted over 230 participants by which time the initial paid up membership of the new EBHA was 214 members. First nominations and elections for council added Franco Amatori (Bocconi University) , Albert Carreras (Pompeu Fabra University), Wilfried Feldenkirchen, Ritta Hjerppe (Helsinki School of Economics), and Matthias Kipping to the first formally elected council. Tony Slaven was adopted as first President of EBHA with Geoff Jones as the first Secretary/Treasurer. It was decided in 1998 to hold an annual conference beginning with that held at Terni. Since then the association has met annually.\n\n2014 Utrecht, The Netherlands\n\n2013 Uppsala, Sweden\n\n2012 Paris, France (Joint with the Business History Society of Japan)\n\n2011 Athens, Greece\n\n2010 Glasgow, Scotland\n\n2009 Milan, Italy\n\n2008 Bergen, Norway\n\n2007 Geneva, Switzerland\n\n2006 Copenhagen, Denmark\n\n2005 Frankfurt, Germany\n\n2004 Barcelona, Spain\n\n2003 Lowell, USA (Joint with BHC)\n\n2002 Helsinki, Finland\n\n2001 Oslo, Norway\n\n2000 Bordeaux, France\n\n1999 Rotterdam, Netherlands\n\n1998 Terni, Italy\n\n1996 Gothenburg, Sweden\n\n2013-2015 Ray Stokes, University of Glasgow, UK\n\n2011-2013 Harm G. Schroeter, University of Bergen, Norway\n\n2010-2011 Albert Carreras, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Spain\n\n2008-2009 Per Boje, University of Southern Denmark\n\n2006-2007 Youssef Cassis, University of Geneva, Switzerland\n\n2004-2005 Mary Rose Lancaster University, UK\n\n2002-2003 Keetie Sluyterman, University of Utrecht, The Netherlands\n\n2000-2001 Franco Amatori, Bocconi University, Italy\n\n1998-1999 Geoffrey Jones, Harvard Business School, USA\n\n1993-1997 Tony Slaven, University of Glasgow, UK\n\nOther associations devoted to business history operate at national and international levels:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "786016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=786016", "title": "Executive information system", "text": "Executive information system\n\nAn Executive information system (EIS), also known as an Executive support system (ESS), is a type of management support system that facilitates and supports senior executive information and decision-making needs. It provides easy access to internal and external information relevant to organizational goals. It is commonly considered a specialized form of decision support system (DSS).\n\nEIS emphasizes graphical displays and easy-to-use user interfaces. They offer strong reporting and drill-down capabilities. In general, EIS are enterprise-wide DSS that help top-level executives analyze, compare, and highlight trends in important variables so that they can monitor performance and identify opportunities and problems. EIS and data warehousing technologies are converging in the marketplace.\n\nIn recent years, the term EIS has lost popularity in favor of business intelligence (with the sub areas of reporting, analytics, and digital dashboards).\n\nTraditionally, executive information systems were mainframe computer-based programs. The purpose was to package a company's data and to provide sales performance or market research statistics for decision makers, such as, marketing directors, chief executive officer, who were not necessarily well acquainted with computers. The objective was to develop computer applications that highlighted information to satisfy senior executives' needs. Typically, an EIS provides only data that supported executive level decisions, not all company data.\n\nToday, the application of EIS is not only in typical corporate hierarchies, but also at lower corporate levels. As some client service companies adopt the latest enterprise information systems, employees can use their personal computers to get access to the company's data and identify information relevant to their decision making. This arrangement provides relevant information to upper and lower corporate levels.\n\nEIS components can typically be classified as:\n\nWhen talking about computer hardware for an EIS environment, we should focus on the hardware that meets the executive's needs. The executive must be put first and the executive's needs must be defined before the hardware can be selected. The basic hardware needed for a typical EIS includes four components: \n\nIn addition, with the advent of local area networks (LAN), several EIS products for networked workstations became available. These systems require less support and less expensive computer hardware. They also increase EIS information access to more company users.\n\nChoosing the appropriate software is vital to an effective EIS. Therefore, the software components and how they integrate the data into one system are important. A typical EIS includes four software components:\n\nAn EIS must be efficient to retrieve relevant data for decision makers, so the user interface is very important. Several types of interfaces can be available to the EIS structure, such as scheduled reports, questions/answers, menu driven, command language, natural language, and input/output.\n\nAs decentralizing is becoming the current trend in companies, telecommunications will play a pivotal role in networked information systems. Transmitting data from one place to another has become crucial for establishing a reliable network. In addition, telecommunications within an EIS can accelerate the need for access to distributed data.\n\nEIS helps executives find data according to user-defined criteria and promote information-based insight and understanding. Unlike a traditional management information system presentation, EIS can distinguish between vital and seldom-used data, and track different key critical activities for executives, both which are helpful in evaluating if the company is meeting its corporate objectives. After realizing its advantages, people have applied EIS in many areas, especially, in manufacturing, marketing, and finance areas.\n\nManufacturing is the transformation of raw materials into finished goods for sale, or intermediate processes involving the production or finishing of semi-manufactures. It is a large branch of industry and of secondary production. Manufacturing operational control focuses on day-to-day operations, and the central idea of this process is effectiveness.\n\nIn an organization, marketing executives' duty is managing available marketing resources to create a more effective future. For this, they need make judgments about risk and uncertainty of a project and its impact on the company in short term and long term. To assist marketing executives in making effective marketing decisions, an EIS can be applied. EIS provides sales forecasting, which can allow the market executive to compare sales forecast with past sales. EIS also offers an approach to product price, which is found in venture analysis. The market executive can evaluate pricing as related to competition along with the relationship of product quality with price charged. In summary, EIS software package enables marketing executives to manipulate the data by looking for trends, performing audits of the sales data, and calculating totals, averages, changes, variances, or ratios.\n\nFinancial analysis is one of the most important steps to companies today. Executives needs to use financial ratios and cash flow analysis to estimate the trends and make capital investment decisions. An EIS integrates planning or budgeting with control of performance reporting, and it can be extremely helpful to finance executives. EIS focuses on financial performance accountability, and recognizes the importance of cost standards and flexible budgeting in developing the quality of information provided for all executive levels.\n\n\n\nThe future of Banu is not bound by mainframe computer systems. This trend free executives from learning different computer operating systems, and substantially decreases implementation costs. Because this trend includes using existing software applications, executives don't need to learn a new or special language for the EIS package.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32335653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32335653", "title": "Forum Invest", "text": "Forum Invest\n\nForum Invest is an international economic forums organizer, based in Bucharest, Romania, known for the international economic events organized in Bucharest or in various locations of the world, like Washington, D.C., New York City, Toronto, London, Brussels, Paris, Milano, Rome, Madrid, Monte Carlo, Berlin, Vienna, Athens, Belgrade, Moscow, Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Beijing. \n\nThe company’s core services include events organization, market entry advisory, mass-media, public relations, communication, corporate and institutional identity, multimedia services.\n\nForum Invest was founded in 2002 by Bogdan Popovici as Invest Romania Forum, on the foundation of Invest Romania Magazine - the first bilingual business magazine in Romania. \n\nForum Invest conferences bring together international political leaders, top business representatives, professional organizations, market analysts and the media, to debate over critical economical issues in the sectors of energy, healthcare, finance, infrastructure, agriculture or international economic cooperation. \n\nForum Invest annual conference brands include:\n\n\nIn March 2011, Forum Invest co-organized, together with the Romanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Romanian Ministry of Economy, the Federation of the Gulf Cooperation Council Chambers of Commerce and a number of other institutional partners, the first ever economic forum between Romania – South – Eastern Europe and the Gulf Cooperation Council, aiming to boost economic cooperation between the two regions. Similar forums are scheduled to be organized in 2012 and the following years, in Bucharest and in strategic locations from the Gulf region.\n\nBesides the international large-scale economic events, Forum Invest organizes the periodical Forum Invest Club in Bucharest, Geneva, Monaco or London, set as invitation-only informal meetings, for quality information exchange between high-level economical, political and geo-strategic factors that influence the future of the Central and the Southeast Europe, in the global context.\n\nMore than 7.000 business and political decision makers from 40+ countries, including leading international personalities, Nobel Prize laureates, presidents of states, prime ministers, members of governments, high state officials, diplomats, business and opinion leaders, entrepreneurs and journalists participate together in forums, seminars, clubs and roundtables organized by Forum Invest, to develop dialogues on the most critical issues of the moment. \n\nInternational personalities who participated at Forum Invest events include:\n\nEach year, Forum Invest organizes media scholarships for economic journalists, in locations such as Brussels, Paris, Athens or Vienna. During the Program, the journalists are arranged meetings with high EU officials, company leaders or journalist peers from correspondent media institutions.\n\nIn 2010, Forum Invest was granted by Business Initiative Directions (BID) with the International Arch of Europe Award in the Platinum Category, at the International BID Convention that took place in Frankfurt on June 28, a vanity award \n\nIn 2009, Forum Invest was also awarded by the World Energy Council, in recognition of valuable support accorded in increasing the visibility of the Romanian National Committee of the World Energy Council. \n\nOn September 22, 2008, at Palais des Congress in Paris, Forum Invest was awarded with the “World Quality Commitment” Trophy in the Gold category by the Business Initiative Directions (BID), a vanity award.\n\n"}
{"id": "46985218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46985218", "title": "Guidepoint", "text": "Guidepoint\n\nGuidepoint is an expert network, providing business professionals with opportunities to talk with industry experts who can answer their specialized industry questions. Guidepoint clients consult with experts over the phone, via conference, teleconference, or custom event, or may gather primary research data through a survey, poll, or web-based data offering.\n\nThe company has recruited over 440,000 \"experts\", known as “Guidepoint Advisors”, who come from 110 different business industries.\n\nGuidepoint is based in New York City and has additional offices in Boston, San Francisco, London, Düsseldorf, Singapore, Hong Kong, Shanghai, Seoul, and Tokyo.\n\nGuidepoint was founded by Albert Sebag, Ph.D., previously a bioorganic chemist, where he helped to develop anti-estrogen drugs for treatment of certain cancers. Sebag then moved on to law, earning his J.D. from Boston College Law School. During his legal career, he focused on intellectual property and biotechnology litigation for generic pharmaceutical clients. This experience eventually led Sebag to begin a matching service for oncology patients called Clinical Advisors. Launched in 2003, Clinical Advisors matched cancer patients with the clinical trial that best suited their case.\n\nAs Clinical Advisors expanded their network to include expertise in additional healthcare areas, the company progressed into other industries and sectors. In 2007, the company changed its name to Guidepoint Global to reflect this expanded business model. In 2009, Guidepoint Global acquired Vista Research from Standard & Poor’s, a subsidiary of the company formerly called The McGraw-Hill Companies, an expert network company that was active in Asia and had a strong network of experts in other industries such as technology and telecom.\n\nShortly after rebranding as Guidepoint, “the expert at finding expertise,” and premiering a new logo and website, Guidepoint acquired Innosquared, a Germany-based expert network firm. According to FINAlternatives, Guidepoint is “the only global expert network with a large research team based in Germany and one of only two with research locations in the EMEA region.”\n\nClients use Guidepoint as a resource to find answers to specific industry questions that might only be answered by industry and subject-matter experts. The company essentially operates as a matchmaking service, connecting its users to recruited experts in the field they are looking to learn more about. Experts are categorized into six main industry sectors: Healthcare; Financial and Business Services; Consumer Goods and Services; Energy, Industrials, and Basic Materials; Tech, Media, and Telecom; and Legal and Regulatory.\n\nServices are subscription-based and include hourly phone consultations, in-person events, teleconferences, surveys, custom research reports, and a monthly healthcare data offering called Guidepoint TRACKER, which features data on market share in the therapeutics and medical device sectors, such as the US Breast Implant market.\n\nExperts are pre-screened and required to adhere to compliance policies and procedures.\n\nExpert networks are a longstanding resource for qualitative and primary research. In 2009, IR Magazine reported there were more than 45 expert networks, generating between $400 - $450 million in yearly sales, around 20 percent of the independent research industry.\n\nAccording to Integrity Research, Guidepoint is ranked as the second-largest expert network, with a network of more than 400,000 experts.\n\nGuidepoint’s Terms & Conditions are a complete set of conservative rules that govern every consultation through Guidepoint. They include limitations on the participation of current and former employees of any company that is the subject of any consultation, employees of companies involved in tender offers and IPOs, competitors, government workers, FDA advisory committee members, and clinical trial participants. In addition, Guidepoint conducts background checks on all new experts that joins its network.\n\nIn 2011, Guidepoint hired Catherine Smith, a former senior counsel at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), to head Guidepoint’s Legal and Compliance departments. During her seven years in the SEC’s Enforcement Division, she was responsible for the investigation and litigation of potential violations of federal securities laws. Smith was an inaugural member of the SEC Enforcement Division’s national Market Abuse Unit and the recipient of the Enforcement Director’s Award. Smith is also a fellow of the Regulatory Compliance Association.\n\nSmith regularly speaks and writes about expert networks and compliance, including for the Regulatory Compliance Association, Boston Security Analysts Society, Private Equity International’s Private Fund Compliance Forum, Private Investment Forum, and The Hedge Fund Law Report.\n\nIn 2010, there were allegations that an expert who provided expert network services gave confidential information to a third party who traded on that information in violation of the federal securities law. That resulted in a strong regulatory focus on the industry and its investment firm clients. Charges were not brought against Guidepoint and now, years later, the investigation seems to be in the past. According to Integrity Research, “Although Guidepoint was mentioned in insider trading complaints, its compliance procedures protected it from accusations of wrong doing.”\n\nGuidepoint donates to and sponsors a number of charitable causes, including Teach for America, Harlem RBI, New York Cares, City Harvest, and the United Way of America.\n\nGuidepoint founder and CEO Albert Sebag is a board member for service organization Repair the World.\n"}
{"id": "24309649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24309649", "title": "Gōshi gaisha", "text": "Gōshi gaisha\n\nGo-shi Gaisha is a Japanese concept of an \"unlimited liability\" incorporation, but its structure is similar to the limited partnership. Unlike the other business types (Gōdō gaisha and Kabushiki gaisha) there is no limit on what a general partner (\"mugen sekinin shain\") of the company is legally responsible for.\n\nIn a Go-shi Gaisha, partners are divided into two categories: 1) a general partner who has unlimited liability similar to a partner in a general partnership and 2) a limited partner who has limited liability only up to the amount he has invested in the partnership (limited partner). All partners are still directly liable to creditors of the partnership, and thus partners can still be sued individually (direct liability).\n"}
{"id": "6688743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6688743", "title": "HeadBlade", "text": "HeadBlade\n\nHeadBlade is a head shaving razor brand produced by The HeadBlade Company. Founded by Todd Greene, a 1989 graduate of Bowdoin College, HeadBlade is headquartered in Gardena, California.\n\nHeadBlade’s first commercial product was the HeadBlade Classic, introduced in 1999. The unorthodox design of the Classic was made as a response to the difficulties of head shaving with a regular razor.\n\nThe HeadBlade Classic went on to win the IDSA Silver Award for Design Excellence, as well as a spot in Time Magazine’s “Ten Best Designs of 2000.” In 2005, the Classic was also added to the Permanent Collection at the Museum of Modern Art.\n\nAs the company began to grow, HeadBlade expanded into a variety of hair care products, including HeadSlick, a specially designed shaving cream, HeadShed Scrub, an exfoliating solution and HeadLube, a scalp moisturizing lotion. Greene also continued improving on the design of his original product.\n\nIn 2006, seven years after first introducing the Classic, HeadBlade released the HeadBlade Sport. The Sport kept the same general shape and function as the classic, but added an improved rubber grip to the finger ring and upper pad. Inspired by sport car design, it also added hardened rubber wheels and an improved axel to increase the mobility of the razor. \n\nIn 2012, HeadBlade came out with the HeadBlade ATX. With a design inspired by an all terrain vehicle, the ATX changed the position of the blade to the back of the razor, encouraging action by “pulling” the blade along the head rather than “pushing” it. This was done in order to reduce the learning curve for people who were accustomed to regular razors.\n\nThe latest HeadBlade model is the HeadBlade MOTO, which was released in late 2016. The MOTO was awarded a Red Dot Design Award in 2017 for it’s industrial design and it’s ease of use. \n\n\"GQ\" magazine named Todd Greene to the 2010 Bald 100.\n\n"}
{"id": "13997112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13997112", "title": "Hypernorms", "text": "Hypernorms\n\nHypernorms are a concept from Business ethics that applies to principles so fundamental that, by definition, they serve to evaluate lower-order norms, reaching to the root of what is ethical for humanity.\n\nThey were first proposed Thomas Donaldson and Thomas W. Dunfee as part of an integrative social contract model of business ethics.\nDonaldson and Dunfee have described hypernorms as:\n\"principles so fundamental that they constitute norms by which all others are to be judged. Hypernorms are discernible in a convergence of religious, political and philosophical thought. An \"authentic norm\" is one that is generated within a community's moral free space and which satisfies the requirements of terms 1 and 2 of the macrosocial contract. Authentic norms are based upon the attitudes and behaviors of the members of their source communities. A \"legitimate norm\" is an authentic norm that is compatible with hypernorms.\"\n"}
{"id": "7465935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7465935", "title": "Independent director", "text": "Independent director\n\nAn independent director (also sometimes known as an outside director) is a director (member) of a board of directors who does not have a material or pecuniary relationship with company or related persons, except sitting fees. In the US, independent outsiders make up 66% of all boards and 72% of S&P 500 company boards, according to The Wall Street Journal.\n\nThe NYSE and NASDAQ stock exchange standards for independent directors are similar. Both require that \"a majority of the board of directors of a listed company be 'independent,'\" Both allow compensation for directors of $120,000/year or less (as of August 2008).)\n\nThe NYSE states: \n\"no director qualifies as 'independent' unless the board of directors affirmatively determines that the director has 'no material relationship' with the listed company, either directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organization that has a relationship with the company.\"\n\nNasdaq's rules say that an independent director must not be an officer or employee of the company or its subsidiaries or any other individual having a relationship that, in the opinion of the company's board of directors, would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment in carrying out the responsibilities of a director.\n\nAccording to the Conference Board, \"other than delisting a company ... there really is no penalty\" by the stock exchanges or the SEC for not having enough independent directors.\n\nIn India as of 2017, a majority of the minimum two directors of public companies having share capital in excess of Rs. 100 million (Rs 100,000,000) should be independent. Clause 49 of the listing agreements defines independent directors as follows: \"For the purpose of this clause the expression 'independent directors' means directors who apart from receiving director's remuneration, do not have any other material pecuniary relationship or transactions with the company, its promoters, its management or its subsidiaries, which in judgment of the board may affect independence of judgment of the directors.\"\n\nThe Companies Act, 2013, most sections of which got implemented from 1 April 2014, has mandated all listed public companies to have at least one-third of the total Directors to be independent. Whereas in the case of unlisted public companies, the following class of companies shall have at least two directors as independent directors:\n\n(i) Public Companies having paid up share capital of Ten Crore rupees or more; or\n(ii) Public Companies having turnover of One Hundred Crore rupees or more; or\n(iii) Public Companies which have, in aggregate, outstanding loans, debentures and deposits exceeding 50 Crore rupees or more.\n\nThe Companies Act, 2013 is drafted taking into consideration the noteworthy inputs and contribution that an Independent Director can bring in to the business. Section 149(6) of the act stipulates the criteria for a candidate that ensures highest standards of integrity, while also preventing any conflict of interest. The provisions seek to ensure the autonomy of the appointee to facilitate effective discharge of duties such as upholding shareholders' interest, upholding corporate governance standards, among others. The compensation offered to such Independent Directors in the form of \"sitting fee\" has also been increased from Rs. 20,000 (prescribed by Companies Act, 1956) to a maximum of Rs. 1,00,000/- per meeting.\n\nThe requirements in Kenya are similar to those in India. (These are to be found in the Companies Act, Cap 486 Laws of Kenya).<George Kinyua, LL.B>\n\nSome researchers have complained that firms have appointed \"independent directors who are overly sympathetic to\nmanagement, while still technically independent according to regulatory definitions.\"\n\nOne complaint against the independence regulations is that CEOs may find loopholes to influence directors. While the NYSE has a $1 million limit on business dealing between directors and the firm, this does not include charitable contributions. Two critics of management influence over boards note that \"a director who is an officer or employee of a charitable organization can still be considered independent even if the firm on whose board the director sits contributes more than $1 million to that organization.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12185719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12185719", "title": "KXEN Inc.", "text": "KXEN Inc.\n\nKXEN was an American software company which existed from 1998 to 2013 when it was acquired by SAP AG.\n\nKXEN was founded in June 1998 by Roger Haddad and Michel Bera, based on an original idea from Léon Bottou using Vapnik–Chervonenkis theory on structural risk minimization. Erik Marcadé joined as chief technical officer in 1999. It was based in San Francisco, California with offices in Paris and London. On September 10, 2013 SAP AG announced plans to acquire KXEN. On October 1, 2013, a letter to KXEN customers announced the acquisition closed.\n\nKXEN primarily marketed predictive analytics software.\n\nInfiniteInsight is a predictive modeling suite developed by KXEN that assists analytic professionals, and business executives to extract information from data. Among other functions, InfiniteInsight is used for variable importance, classification, regression, segmentation, time series, product recommendation, as described and expressed by the Java Data Mining interface, and for social network analysis. InfiniteInsight allows prediction of a behavior or a value, the forecast of a time series or the understanding of a group of individuals with similar behavior. Advanced functions include behavioral modeling, exporting the model code into different target environments or building predictive models on top of SAS or SPSS data files. Competitors are SAS Enterprise Miner, IBM SPSS Modeler, and Statistica. Open source predictive tools like the R package or Weka are also competitors, since they provide similar features free of charge.\n\n"}
{"id": "57018677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57018677", "title": "La French Touch Conference", "text": "La French Touch Conference\n\nLa French Touch Conference is an itinerant business event for entrepreneurs, investors, corporates, and members of the creative industries. It aims to promote French entrepreneurship abroad, and was founded in 2014 by French entrepreneurs Gaël Duval & Cédric Giorgi. A total of seven editions were organized in Paris, San Francisco, and New York City. \nSome of the past speakers hosted at the events include Yann LeCun, Eric Hippeau, Rachel Haot, Alexandre Mars, the writer Harlan Coben, the French designer Ora-Ito and the pastry chef Dominique Ansel. \n\nLa French Touch Conference has been supported by the French government and the city of New York during its previous events, having hosted:\n\nIn June 2016, La French Touch Conference launched a start-up competition which took place aboard an airplane, called \"Pitch in the Plane\". \nTwo editions have been organized on Paris-New York commercial flights. The start-ups SkyLights and Mapwize won the competitions in 2016 and 2017 respectively. Among the jury members: VentureBeat European Correspondant Chris O’Brien, Géraldine Le Meur, Olivier Mathiot and Paul-François Fournier\n"}
{"id": "1670481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1670481", "title": "Managed services", "text": "Managed services\n\nManaged services is the practice of outsourcing on a proactive basis certain processes and functions intended to improve operations and cut expenses. It is an alternative to the break/fix or on-demand outsourcing model where the service provider performs on-demand services and bills the customer only for the work done.\n\nUnder this subscription model, the client or customer is the entity that owns or has direct oversight of the organization or system being managed whereas the Managed Services Provider (MSP) is the service provider delivering the managed services. The client and the MSP are bound by a contractual, service-level agreement that states the performance and quality metrics of their relationship.\n\nAdopting managed services is intended to be an efficient way to stay up-to-date on technology, have access to skills and address issues related to cost, quality of service and risk. As the IT infrastructure components of many SMB and large corporations are migrating to the cloud, with MSPs (managed services providers) increasingly facing the challenge of cloud computing, a number of MSPs are providing in-house cloud services or acting as brokers with cloud services providers. A recent survey claims that a lack of knowledge and expertise in cloud computing rather than offerors' reluctance, appears to be the main obstacle to this transition. For example, in transportation, many companies face a significant increase of fuel and carrier costs, driver shortages, customer service requests and global supply chain complexities. Managing day-to-day transportation processes and reducing related costs come as significant burdens that require the expertise of Transportation Managed Services (or managed transportation services) providers.\n\nThe evolution of MSP started in the 1990s with the emergence of application service providers (ASPs) who helped pave the way for remote support for IT infrastructure. From the initial focus of remote monitoring and management of servers and networks, the scope of an MSP's services expanded to include mobile device management, managed security, remote firewall administration and security-as-a-service, and managed print services. Around 2005, Karl W. Palachuk, Amy Luby (Founder of Managed Service Provider Services Network acquired by High Street Technology Ventures), and Erick Simpson (Managed Services Provider University) were the first advocates and the pioneers of the managed services business model.\n\nThe first books on the topic of managed services: \"Service Agreements for SMB Consultants: A Quick-Start Guide to Managed Services\" and \"The Guide to a Successful Managed Services Practice\" were published in 2006 by Palachuk and Simpson, respectively. Since then, the managed services business model has gained ground among enterprise level companies. As the value-added reseller (VAR) community evolved to higher level of services, it adapted the managed service model and tailored it to SMB companies.\n\nIn the new economy, IT manufacturers are currently moving away from a \"box-shifting\" resale to a more customized, managed service offering. In this transition, the billing and sales processes of intangible managed services, appear as the main challenges for traditional resellers.\n\nThe managed services market is expected to grow from an estimated $152.45 billion in 2017 to $257.84 billion by 2022, representing a CAGR of 11.1%. With IT driving all business operations, the significance of aligning managed IT services with all levels in an organization has grown to ensure reliability and continuity of business goals.\n\nIn the information technology area, the most common managed services appear to evolve around connectivity and bandwidth, network monitoring, security, virtualization, and disaster recovery. Beyond traditional application and infrastructure management, managed services may also include storage, desktop and communications, mobility, help desk and technical support. In general, common managed services include the following applications.\n\nA managed services provider (MSP) is most often an information technology (IT) services provider that manages and assumes responsibility for providing a defined set of services to its clients either proactively or as the MSP (not the client) determines that services are needed. Most MSPs bill an upfront setup or transition fee and an ongoing flat or near-fixed monthly fee, which benefits clients by providing them with predictable IT support costs. Sometimes, MSPs act as facilitators who manage and procure staffing services on behalf of the client. In such context, they use an online application called vendor management system (VMS) for transparency and efficiency.\n\nThe managed services model has been useful in the private sector, notably among Fortune 500 companies, and has an interesting future in government.\n\nMain manage services provides originate from the United States (IBM, Accenture, Cognizant), Europe (Atos, Capgemini) and India (TCS, Infosys, Wipro).\n\n"}
{"id": "1001919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1001919", "title": "Management buyout", "text": "Management buyout\n\nA management buyout (MBO) is a form of acquisition where a company's existing managers acquire a large part or all of the company from either the parent company or from the private owners. Management and leveraged buyouts became phenomena of the 1980s. MBOs originated in the US and traversed the Atlantic, spreading first to the UK and throughout the rest of Europe. The venture capital industry has played a crucial role in the development of buyouts in Europe, especially in smaller deals in the UK, the Netherlands, and France.\n\nManagement buyouts are similar in all major legal aspects to any other acquisition of a company. The particular nature of the MBO lies in the position of the buyers as managers of the company and the practical consequences that follow from that. In particular, the due diligence process is likely to be limited as the buyers already have full knowledge of the company available to them. The seller is also unlikely to give any but the most basic warranties to the management, on the basis that the management know more about the company than the sellers do and therefore the sellers should not have to warrant the state of the company. \n\nSome concerns about management buyouts are that the asymmetric information\npossessed by management may offer them unfair advantage relative to current owners. The impending possibility of an MBO may lead to principal–agent problems, moral hazard, and perhaps even the subtle downward manipulation of the stock price prior to sale via adverse information disclosure, including accelerated and aggressive loss recognition, public launching of questionable projects, and adverse earning surprises.\nNaturally, such corporate governance concerns also exist whenever current senior management is able to benefit personally from the sale of their company or its assets. This would include, for example, large parting bonuses for CEOs after a takeover or management buyout. \n\nSince corporate valuation is often subject to considerable uncertainty and ambiguity, and since it can be heavily influenced by asymmetric or inside information, some question the validity of MBOs and consider them to potentially represent a form of insider trading.\n\nThe mere possibility of an MBO or a substantial parting bonus on sale may create perverse incentives that can reduce the efficiency of a wide range of firms—even if they remain as public companies. This represents a substantial potential negative externality. The managers of the target company may at times also set up a holding company for the purpose of purchasing the shares of the target company.\n\nManagement buyouts are conducted by management teams as they want to get the financial reward for the future development of the company more directly than they would do as employees only. A management buyout can also be attractive for the seller as they can be assured that the future stand-alone company will have a dedicated management team thus providing a substantial downside protection against failure and hence negative press. Additionally, in the case the management buyout is supported by a private equity fund (see below), the private equity will, given that there is a dedicated management team in place, likely pay an attractive price for the asset.\n\nThe management of a company will not usually have the money available to buy the company outright themselves. They would first seek to borrow from a bank, provided the bank was willing to accept the risk. Management buyouts are frequently seen as too risky for a bank to finance the purchase through a loan. Management teams are typically asked to invest an amount of capital that is significant to them personally, depending on the funding source/banks determination of the personal wealth of the management team. The bank then loans the company the remaining portion of the amount paid to the owner. Companies that proactively shop aggressive funding sources should qualify for total debt financing of at least four times (4X) cash flow.\n\nIf a bank is unwilling to lend, the management will commonly look to private equity investors to fund the majority of buyout. A high proportion of management buyouts are financed in this way. The private equity investors will invest money in return for a proportion of the shares in the company, though they may also grant a loan to the management. The exact financial structuring will depend on the backer's desire to balance the risk with its return, with debt being less risky but less profitable than capital investment.\n\nAlthough the management may not have resources to buy the company, private equity houses will require that the managers each make as large an investment as they can afford in order to ensure that the management are locked in by an overwhelming vested interest in the success of the company. It is common for the management to re-mortgage their houses in order to acquire a small percentage of the company.\n\nPrivate equity backers are likely to have somewhat different goals to the management. They generally aim to maximise their return and make an exit after 3–5 years while minimising risk to themselves, whereas the management rarely look beyond their careers at the company and will take a long-term view.\n\nWhile certain aims do coincide—in particular the primary aim of profitability—certain tensions can arise. The backers will invariably impose the same warranties on the management in relation to the company that the sellers will have refused to give the management. This \"warranty gap\" means that the management will bear all the risk of any defects in the company that affect its value.\n\nAs a condition of their investment, the backers will also impose numerous terms on the management concerning the way that the company is run. The purpose is to ensure that the management run the company in a way that will maximise the returns during the term of the backers' investment, whereas the management might have hoped to build the company for long-term gains. Though the two aims are not always incompatible, the management may feel restricted.\n\nThe European buyout market was worth €43.9bn in 2008, a 60% fall on the €108.2bn of deals in 2007. The last time the buyout market was at this level was in 2001 when it reached just €34bn.\n\nIn certain circumstances, it may be possible for the management and the original owner of the company to agree a deal whereby the seller finances the buyout. The price paid at the time of sale will be nominal, with the real price being paid over the following years out of the profits of the company. The timescale for the payment is typically 3–7 years.\n\nThis represents a disadvantage for the selling party, which must wait to receive its money after it has lost control of the company. It is also dependent, if an earn-out is used, on the returned profits being increased significantly following the acquisition, in order for the deal to represent a gain to the seller in comparison to the situation pre-sale. This will usually only happen in very particular circumstances. The optimum structure would be to convert the earn-out to contracted deferred consideration which has compelling benefits for the seller as it legally fixes the total future amount paid to them. It's paid like a quarterly annuity, and then the seller needs to secure the annuity by taking out a deferred consideration surety guarantee from an independent surety institution. The direct beneficiary of the surety is the seller and should the sold firm become insolvent, following its sale, with any outstanding deferred payments due the seller, then the surety will pay the money to the vendor on the purchaser's behalf. \n\nThe vendor agrees to vendor financing for tax reasons, as the consideration will be classified as capital gain rather than as income. It may also receive some other benefit such as a higher overall purchase price than would be obtained by a normal purchase.\n\nThe advantage for the management is that they do not need to become involved with private equity or a bank and will be left in control of the company once the consideration has been paid.\n\nA classic example of an MBO involved Springfield Remanufacturing Corporation, a former plant in Springfield, Missouri owned by Navistar (at that time, International Harvester) which was in danger of being closed or sold to outside parties until its managers purchased the company. \n\nIn the UK, New Look was the subject of a management buyout in 2004 by Tom Singh, the founder of the company who had floated it in 1998. He was backed by private equity houses Apax and Permira, who now own 60% of the company. An earlier example of this in the UK was the management buyout of Virgin Interactive from Viacom which was led by Mark Dyne.\n\nThe Virgin Group has undergone several management buyouts in recent years. On September 17, 2007, Richard Branson announced that the UK arm of Virgin Megastores was to be sold off as part of a management buyout, and from November 2007, will be known by a new name, Zavvi. On September 24, 2008, another part of the Virgin group, Virgin Comics underwent a management buyout and changed its name to Liquid Comics. In the UK, Virgin Radio also underwent a similar process and became Absolute Radio\".\n\nIn Australia, another group of music and entertainment stores were subject to a management buyout in September 2009, when Sanity's owner and founder, Brett Blundy, sold BB Retail Capital's Entertainment Division (including Sanity, and the Australian franchises of Virgin Entertainment and HMV) to the company's Head of Entertainment, Ray Itaoui. This was for an undisclosed sum, leaving Sanity Entertainment to become a private company in its own right.\n\nHitman is a stealth video game series developed by the Danish company IO Interactive. Previously published by Eidos Interactive and Square Enix. IO Interactive remained a subsidiary of Square Enix until 2017, when Square Enix started seeking sellers for the studio, IO Interactive completed a management buyout, regaining their independent status and retaining the rights for \"Hitman\", in June 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22162830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22162830", "title": "Meeting scheduling tool", "text": "Meeting scheduling tool\n\nA meeting scheduling tool is a software application for scheduling rooms and meeting times and for coordinating personal itineraries. Such scheduling applications may either be delivered across the Internet as a web-based application or \"SaaS\" that can be accessed from any digital device such as a PC, laptop, tablet computer, smartphone or PDA, or which may be installed as a stand-alone software product within an organization. Meeting scheduling tools may also integrate and synchronize with other popular calendaring software such as Google Calendar and Microsoft Outlook.\n\nThe main components of a meeting scheduling tool consist of a conventional calendar interface, an address book, list of contacts/clients, or potential meeting participants, and an appointment overview. Similar to conventional scheduling software, a meeting scheduling tool may additionally automatically check the electronic calendar of meeting participants for open time slots, proposes alternative meeting times, schedules meetings, and notify participants of final meeting times by email.\n\nThe advantages of using a meeting scheduling tool rather than conventional calendaring software are several. The web-based nature of many meeting scheduling tools promote greater access from different locations and devices and provide improved security in terms of crash and recovery.\n\nThe interfaces of meeting scheduling tools are more tailored towards scheduling meetings and events with multiple participants, rather than conventional calendaring software which is tailored more towards keeping track of personal appointments.\n\nMany meeting scheduling tools offer a degree of automation, whereby they can automatically update remote/shared calendars maximizing the coordination of new meeting and appointment times.\n\n"}
{"id": "31897073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31897073", "title": "Mobile file management", "text": "Mobile file management\n\nMobile file management (MFM) is a type of information technology (IT) software that allows businesses to manage transfers and storage of corporate files and other related items on a mobile device, and allows the business to oversee user access. Mobile file management software is typically installed on a corporate file server like Windows 2008, and on a mobile device such as tablet computers and smartphones, e.g., Android, iPad, iPhone, etc. Other features include the ability to remotely wipe a lost or stolen device, access, cache and store files on a mobile device and integrate with file permission solutions like those from Microsoft's Active Directory.\n\nA main advantage of modern mobile file management solutions is that they do not need a VPN connection for the mobile devices to connect to the corporate file servers. The connection between the mobile device and the corporate file server is established via a cloud service. This way the corporate file server doesn't need to open incoming ports which would cause security issues. The files are transferred highly encrypted e.g. according to AES 256-bit industry standard. Only the company server and the mobile device keep the encryption key to be able to encrypt and decrypt the files. So nobody, not even the mobile file management solution provider, can access the files.\n\nThird-party cloud-based companies provide solutions which can be used to manage mobile files but are not controlled by corporate IT organizations. Companies that utilize Mobile Device Management solutions can also secure content on mobile devices, but usually cannot provide direct access and connection to a corporate file server.\n\nFile management is how the computer operating system keeps data organized through the use of files and folders, how they are arranged, and how they are listed in a hierarchical order. Mobile file management allows file management to be used on tablet computers. By installing it both on the tablet and the corporate server, users of mobile devices can freely access corporate servers from remote locations.\n\n"}
{"id": "23801267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23801267", "title": "Moreover Technologies", "text": "Moreover Technologies\n\nMoreover Technologies (generally known as \"Moreover\") is a provider of business intelligence, media monitoring and news aggregation products for enterprises, also offering free news feeds for consumers. Moreover was founded in 1998 by Nick Denton, David Galbraith, and Angus Bankes. In October 2014, Moreover was acquired by LexisNexis.\n\nMoreover became involved with developing the Really Simple Syndication (RSS) 1.0 standard in 2000 and was later acquired by VeriSign in 2005 for $30m. As part of VeriSign the Moreover business unit was renamed as Real-Time Publisher Services being paired with Weblogs.com to create a platform for publishers and bloggers to track and distribute content. In May 2009 Moreover was sold to a private investor group led by Paul Farrell. The sale included Weblogs.com with the ping server becoming wholly owned and run by Moreover.\n\nMoreover currently powers the Ask.com News Search and BBC Newstracker, having global headquarters in Reston, Virginia and further offices in Dayton, New York, San Francisco, Seattle and London.\n\nIn October 2014, Moreover was acquired by LexisNexis. LexisNexis has since integrated Moreover's flagship product, Newsdesk, into their portfolio of Media Intelligence Solutions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "214491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=214491", "title": "Multinational corporation", "text": "Multinational corporation\n\nMost of the largest and most influential companies of the modern age are publicly traded multinational corporations, including \"Forbes Global 2000\" companies. Multinational corporations are subject to criticisms for lacking ethical standards, and that this shows up in how they evade ethical laws and leverage their own business agenda with capital, and even the military backing of their own wealthy host nation-states. They have also become associated with multinational tax havens and base erosion and profit shifting tax avoidance activities.\n\nA multinational corporation (MNC) is usually a large corporation incorporated in one country which produces or sells goods or services in various countries. The two main characteristics of MNCs are their large size and the fact that their worldwide activities are centrally controlled by the parent companies.\n\nMNCs may gain from their global presence in a variety of ways. First of all, MNCs can benefit from the economy of scale by spreading R&D expenditures and advertising costs over their global sales, pooling global purchasing power over suppliers, and utilizing their technological and managerial know-how globally with minimal additional costs. Furthermore, MNCs can use their global presence to take advantage of underpriced labor services available in certain developing countries, and gain access to special R&D capabilities residing in advanced foreign countries.\n\nThe problem of moral and legal constraints upon the behavior of multinational corporations, given that they are effectively \"stateless\" actors, is one of several urgent global socioeconomic problems that emerged during the late twentieth century.\n\nPotentially, the best concept for analyzing society's governance limitations over modern corporations is the concept of \"stateless corporations\". Coined at least as early as 1990 in \"Business Week\", the conception was theoretically clarified in 1992: that an empirical strategy for defining a stateless corporation is with analytical tools at the intersection between demographic analysis and transportation research. This intersection is known as logistics management, and it describes the importance of rapidly increasing global mobility of resources. In a long history of analysis of multinational corporations we are some quarter century into an era of stateless corporations - corporations which meet the realities of the needs of source materials on a worldwide basis and to produce and customize products for individual countries.\n\nOne of the first multinational business organizations, the East India Company, was established in 1600. After the East India Company, came the Dutch East India Company, founded March 20, 1602, which would become the largest company in the world for nearly 200 years.\n\nThe main characteristics of multinational companies are:\n\nMultinational corporations can select from a variety of jurisdictions for various subsidiaries, but the ultimate parent company can select a single legal domicile; as of 2014, the Netherlands has been a popular choice, as it has fewer requirements for meetings, compensation, and audit committees. As of 2014, Great Britain had advantages due to laws on withholding dividends and a double-taxation treaty with the United States.\n\nCorporations can legally engage in tax avoidance through their jurisdiction, but must be careful to avoid illegal tax evasion.\n\nMultinational corporations may be subject to the laws and regulations of both their domicile and the additional jurisdictions where they are engaged in business. In some cases, the jurisdiction can help to avoid burdensome laws, but regulatory statutes often target the \"enterprise\" with statutory language around \"control\".\n\nFor small corporations, registering a foreign subsidiary can be expensive and complex, involving fees, signatures, and forms; a professional employer organization (PEO) is sometimes advertised as a cheaper and simpler alternative, but not all jurisdictions have laws accepting these types of arrangements.\n\nDisputes between corporations in different nations is often handled through international arbitration.\n\nThe actions of multinational corporations are strongly supported by economic liberalism and free market system in a globalized international society. According to the economic realist view, individuals act in rational ways to maximize their self-interest and therefore, when individuals act rationally, markets are created and they function best in free market system where there is little government interference. As a result, international wealth is maximized with free exchange of goods and services.\n\nTo many economic liberals, multinational corporations are the vanguard of the liberal order. They are the embodiment par excellence of the liberal ideal of an interdependent world economy. They have taken the integration of national economies beyond trade and money to the internationalization of production. For the first time in history, production, marketing, and investment are being organized on a global scale rather than in terms of isolated national economies.\n\nInternational business is also a specialist field of academic research. Economic theories of the multinational corporation include internalization theory and the eclectic paradigm. The latter is also known as the OLI framework.\n\nThe other theoretical dimension of the role of multinational corporations concerns the relationship between the globalization of economic engagement and the culture of national and local responses. This has a history of self-conscious cultural management going back at least to the 1960s. For example:\n\nA transnational corporation differs from a traditional multinational corporation in that it does not identify itself with one national home. While traditional multinational corporations are national companies with foreign subsidiaries, transnational corporations spread out their operations in many countries to sustain high levels of local responsiveness.<ref name=\"Case study: The Relationship between the Structure/Strategy of Multinational Corporations and Patterns of Knowledge Sharing within them\"></ref>\n\nAn example of a transnational corporation is Nestlé, who employ senior executives from many countries and tries to make decisions from a global perspective rather than from one centralized headquarters.\n\nAnother example is Royal Dutch Shell, whose headquarters are in The Hague, Netherlands, but whose registered office and main executive body are headquartered in London, United Kingdom.\n\n\"Multinational enterprise\" (MNE) is the term used by international economist and similarly defined with the multinational corporation (MNC) as an enterprise that controls and manages production establishments, known as plants located in at least two countries. The multinational enterprise (MNE) will engage in foreign direct investment (FDI) as the firm makes direct investments in host country plants for equity ownership and managerial control to avoid some transaction costs.\n\nThe history of multinational corporations is closely intertwined with the history of colonialism, the first multinational corporations being founded to undertake colonial expeditions at the behest of their European monarchical patrons. Prior to the era of New Imperialism, a majority European colonies not held by the Spanish and Portuguese crowns were administered by chartered multinational corporations. Examples of such corporations include the British East India Company, the Swedish Africa Company, and the Hudson's Bay Company. These early corporations facilitated colonialism by engaging in international trade and exploration, and creating colonial trading posts. Many of these corporations, such as the South Australia Company and the Virginia Company, played a direct role in formal colonization by creating and maintaining settler colonies. Without exception these early corporations created differential economic outcomes between their home country and their colonies via a process of exploiting colonial resources and labour, and investing the resultant profits and net gain in the home country. The end result of this process was the enrichment of the colonizer and the impoverishment of the colonized. Some multinational corporations, such as the Royal African Company, were also responsible for the logistical component of the Atlantic slave trade, maintaining the ships and ports required for this vast enterprise. During the 19th century, formal corporate rule over colonial holdings largely gave way to state-controlled colonies, however corporate control over colonial economic affairs persisted in a majority of colonies.\n\nDuring the process of decolonization, the European colonial charter companies were disbanded, with the final colonial corporation, the Mozambique Company, dissolving in 1972. However the economic impact of corporate colonial exploitation has proved to be lasting and far reaching, with some commentators asserting that this impact is among the chief causes of contemporary global income inequality.\n\nContemporary critics of multinational corporations have charged that some present day multinational corporations follow the pattern of exploitation and differential wealth distribution established by the now defunct colonial charter corporations, particularly with regards to corporations based in the developed world that operate resource extraction enterprises in the developing world, such as Royal Dutch Shell, and Barrick Gold. Some of these critics argue that the operations of multinational corporations in the developing world take place within the broader context of neocolonialism.\n\nHowever, multinational corporations from emerging markets are playing an ever-greater role, increasingly impacting the global economy.\n\nAnti-corporate advocates criticize multinational corporations for being without a basis in a national ethos, being ultimately without a specific nationhood, and that this lack of an ethos appears in their ways of operating as they enter into contracts with countries that have low human rights or environmental standards. In the world economy facilitated by multinational corporations, capital will increasingly be able to play workers, communities, and nations off against one another as they demand tax, regulation and wage concessions while threatening to move. In other words, increased mobility of multinational corporations benefit capital while workers and communities lose. Some negative outcomes generated by multinational corporations include increased inequality, unemployment, and wage stagnation.\n\nThe aggressive use of tax avoidance schemes, and multinational tax havens, allows multinational corporations to gain competitive advantages over small and medium-sized enterprises. Organizations such as the Tax Justice Network criticize governments for allowing multinational organizations to escape tax, particularly by using base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) tax tools, since less money can be spent for public services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023164", "title": "Novation", "text": "Novation\n\nNovation, in contract law and business law, is the act of:\n\n\nNovati, as a legal term is derived from the Roman law, in which \"novatio\" was of three kinds—substitution of a new debtor (\"expromissio\", or \"delegatio\"), of a new creditor (\"cessio nominum vel actionum\"), or of a new contract.\n\nIn English law the term (though it occurs as early as Bracton) is scarcely naturalized, the substitution of a new debtor or creditor being generally called an assignment, and of a new contract a merger. It is doubtful, however, whether merger applies except where the substituted contract is one of a higher nature, as where a contract under seal supersedes a simple contract. Where one contract is replaced by another, it is of course necessary that the new contract should be a valid contract, founded upon sufficient consideration (see Contract). The extinction of the previous contract is sufficient consideration. The question whether there is a novation most frequently arises in the course of dealing between a customer and a new partnership, and on the assignment of the business of a life assurance company with reference to the assent of the policyholders to the transfer of their policies. The points on which novation turns are whether the new firm or company has assumed the liability of the old, and whether, the creditor has consented to accept the liability of the new debtors and discharge the old. The question is one of fact in each case. See especially the Life Assurance Companies Act 1872, s. 7, where the word \"novations\" occurs in the marginal note to the section, and so has quasi-statutory sanction.\n\nScottish law seems to be more stringent than English law in the application of the doctrine of novation, and to need stronger evidence of the creditor's consent to the transfer of liability.\n\nIn American law, as in English, the term is something of a novelty, except in Louisiana, where much of the civil law is retain.\n\nIn contrast to an assignment, which is generally valid as long as the other party is given notice (except where the obligation is specific to the obligor, as in a personal service contract with a specific ballet dancer, or where assignment would place a new and special burden on the counterparty), a novation is valid only with the consent of all parties to the original agreement. A contract transferred by the novation process transfers all duties and obligations from the original obligor to the new obligor.\n\nFor example, if there exists a contract whereby Dan will give a TV to Alex, and another contract whereby Alex will give a TV to Becky, then, it is possible to novate both contracts and replace them with a single contract wherein Dan agrees to give a TV to Becky. In contrast to assignment, novation requires the consent of all parties. Consideration is still required for the new contract, but it is usually assumed to be the discharge of the former contract.\n\nAnother classic example is when Company A enters a contract with Company B and a novation is included to ensure that if Company B sells, merges or transfers the core of their business to another company, the new company assumes the obligations and liabilities that Company B has with Company A under the contract. So in terms of the contract, a purchaser, merging party or transferee of Company B steps into the shoes of Company B with respect to its obligations to Company A. Alternatively, a \"novation agreement\" may be signed after the original contract in the event of such a change. This is common in contracts with governmental entities; an example being under the United States Anti-Assignment Act, the governmental entity that originally issued the contract must agree to such a transfer or it is automatically invalid by law.\n\nThe criteria for novation comprise the obligee's acceptance of the new obligor, the new obligor's acceptance of the liability, and the old obligor's acceptance of the new contract as full performance of the old contract. Novation is not a unilateral contract mechanism, hence allows room for negotiation on the new T&Cs under the new circumstances. Thus, 'acceptance of the new contract as full performance of the old contract' may be read in conjunction to the phenomenon of 'mutual agreement of the T&Cs'.\n\nNovation is also used in futures and options trading to describe a special situation where the central clearing house interposes itself between buyers and sellers as a legal counter party, i.e., the clearing house becomes buyer to every seller and vice versa. This obviates the need for ascertaining credit-worthiness of each counter party and the only credit risk that the participants face is the risk of the clearing house defaulting. In this context, novation is considered a form of risk management.\n\nThe term is also used in markets that lack a centralized clearing system, such as swap trading and certain over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives, where \"novation\" refers to the process where one party to a contract may assign its role to another, who is described as \"stepping into\" the contract. This is analogous to selling a future contract.\n\n"}
{"id": "14761765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14761765", "title": "OHADA", "text": "OHADA\n\nOHADA is a system of corporate law and implementing institutions adopted by seventeen West and Central African nations in 1993 in Port Louis, Mauritius. OHADA is the acronym for the French \"Organisation pour l'harmonisation en Afrique du droit des affaires\", which translates into English as \"Organisation for the Harmonization of Corporate Law in Africa\".\n\nThe OHADA Treaty is made up today of 17 African states. Initially fourteen African countries signed the treaty, with two countries (Comoros and Guinea) subsequently adhering to the treaty and a third (the Democratic Republic of Congo) due to adhere shortly. The Treaty is open to all states, whether or not they are members of the Organisation of African Unity. OHADA was created with the objective of fostering economic development in West and Central Africa by creating a better investment climate so as to attract investment in a 225 million-consumer market.\n\nAs a West and Central African initiative to harmonize business laws and implementing institutions, OHADA aims to find alternative solutions to the lack of economic growth in sub-Saharan Africa - a region which has challenged and puzzled development economists for several decades. The stated purpose of the initiative is to facilitate and encourage both domestic and foreign investment in the member states, and as most of the participating countries are former French colonies, they draw chiefly on a modernised French legal model to achieve their goals. The laws promulgated by OHADA are exclusively business-related. The OHADA treaty has created a supranational court (Common Court of Justice and Arbitration of the Organization for the Harmonization in Africa of Business Law ) to ensure uniformity and consistent legal interpretations across the member countries, and the French influence in court proceedings is apparent.\n\nThe most critical tool for legal integration is the Uniform Act. A uniform act is the recollection of all relevant legal norms needed to ease business in the Member States. As of today, OHADA includes nine validated Uniform Acts: General Commercial Law, Commercial Companies and Economic Interest Groups, Secured Transactions Law, Debt Resolution Law, Insolvency Law, Arbitration Law, Harmonization of Corporate Accounting, Contracts for the Carriage of Goods, Cooperatives Companies Law. Two Uniform Acts (Arbitration and Accounting) are currently being revised.\n\n"}
{"id": "3751374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3751374", "title": "Operational excellence", "text": "Operational excellence\n\nOperational Excellence is the execution of the business strategy more consistently and reliably than the competition. Operational Excellence is evidenced by results. Given two companies with the same strategy, the Operationally Excellent company will have lower operational risk, lower operating costs, and increased revenues relative to its competitors, creating value for customers and shareholders. It may more simply be interpreted as \"Execution Excellence.\"\n\nSome interpretations of this management philosophy are based on earlier continuous improvement methodologies, such as Lean Thinking, Six Sigma, OKAPI and Scientific Management. However, the focus of Operational Excellence goes beyond the traditional event-based model of improvement toward a long-term change in organizational culture. Companies in pursuit of Operational Excellence do two things significantly differently than other companies: they manage their business and operational processes systematically and invest in developing the right culture.\n\nOperational Excellence manifests itself through integrated performance across revenue, cost, and risk. It focuses on meeting customer expectation through the continuous improvement of the operational processes and the culture of the organization.\n\nThere are two components fundamental to Operational Excellence: an integrated Management system (IMS) and a culture of Operational Discipline. \n\nThe first component, the IMS, consists of a framework of processes and standards that define where the company is going, identify the risks to getting there, mitigate them, manage change, and continuously improve. Having one single, integrated management system reduces overlap, redundancy, and conflict. Early adopters of this practice have been companies such as Exxon and Chevron utilizing Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) and Operations Excellence Management Systems (OEMS), respectively. \n\nThe second component, a culture of Operational Discipline, is commonly described as doing the right thing, the right way, every time. This culture is built upon five guiding principles developed from the United States Nuclear Navy, a high reliability organization. Those principles are integrity, questioning attitude, level of knowledge, watch team backup, and formality. These values are used to identify the behaviors expected of each and every employee and how they support the organization's mission and outcomes. \n\nThe Shingo Prize, an organization that recognizes success in the discipline, has identified ten key principles its award winners display:\n\n\nThe OKAPI method was created by Organizational Intelligence experts Iris Tsidon and Maya Gal. Their system incorporates the use of a methodology of SMART KPIs (key performance indicators).\n\n\nThe OKAPI method identifies the main challenges facing companies striving for operational excellence:\n\n\nAlso known as PBED (Plan-Brief-Execute-Debrief) the FLEX methodology is an iterative IMS designed by fighter pilots to achieve operational excellence in combat, the methodology was adapted to a business practice in 1998. Elements of the methodology are utilised in the agile manifesto commonly used by software developers. As an iterative process it values adaptation of strategy to real world influences through the practice of debriefing. Debriefing is a tool utilised by organisations to drive cultural change, specifically \"Nameless and Rankless\" where who are and what your position is in an organisation is irrelevant when assessing results and developing solutions:\n\n1. Set a clear, measurable and achievable team objective aligned to your HDD (alignment of the organisation)\n2. Identify the threats and risks to achieving the objective (define to problem)\n3. Identify the resources required to mitigate the threats (define the cost)\n4. Apply lessons learned (*this is the key step for this method, taking a lesson from a debrief and applying it to the plan)\n5. Develop individual objectives and tasks that align to the team objective (accountability)\n6. Contingency plan. (three simple steps to recover from a major disruption)\n\nPhilosophically individuals practising Operational Excellence within an organisation should champion simplicity over complexity. In practice this should see the self awareness exhibited around errors and mistakes in decision making be rewarded, on the basis the lesson is learned and applied, leading to continuous improvement of day to day practice and end result.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22036575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22036575", "title": "ParAccel", "text": "ParAccel\n\nParAccel, Inc. was a California-based software company. \nIt provided a database management system designed for advanced analytics for business intelligence. ParAccel was acquired by Actian in April 2013.\n\nParAccel was a venture-backed company focused on developing software for data analysis.\nIt acquired some intellectual property from the company XPrime, which ended operations in 2005.\nIt was officially incorporated in February 2006, founded by Barry Zane who became chief technology officer, and was first funded by angel investors.\nIn August 2006 the first series of venture capital came from Mohr Davidow Ventures, Bay Partners and Tao Venture Partners.\nIn 2007 the company was based in San Diego, California, with an office in Ann Arbor, Michigan. David J. Ehrlich was chief executive, and Bruce Scott, vice president of engineering.\nIn November 2007, a second round of $20 million included previous investors and was led by Walden Ventures.\nIn December the company opened an office in Cupertino, California (part of Silicon Valley).\n\nA third round of $22 million in June 2009 was led by Menlo Ventures. In January 2010 Mark Lockareff replaced Ehrlich as interim chief executive.\nIn March 2010 the \"Wall Street Journal\" listed ParAccel in a list of venture backed companies that included Solyndra.\nA result from the TPC-H benchmark from the Transaction Processing Performance Council in April 2010 had record performance at 1 TB data size using VMware. Charles W. Berger was appointed chairman and CEO in September 2010.\n\nBy early 2011 many of its competitors had been acquired.\nDuring its July 2011 funding round, existing investors were led by Amazon.com.\nIn December 2012, the Amazon Redshift database service was announced (and generally available in early 2013) using ParAccel technology.\n\nParAccel was based in California with offices in Campbell and San Diego.\nCompetitors included Greenplum (from Pivotal), EXASOL, Vertica (from Hewlett-Packard), Netezza (from IBM), Oracle Corporation, and Teradata (including its Aster Data Systems technology).\nParAccel was acquired by Actian in April 2013.\nBerger left at that time to become CEO of Extreme Networks.\n\nIn 2008 ParAccel offered two different products: Amigo and Maverick. Amigo was designed to accelerate queries directed at an existing data warehouse while leaving the data warehouse as the database of record. In contrast Maverick was designed as a stand-alone data store.\nParAccel discontinued Amigo in favor of the stand-alone offering which evolved into the ParAccel Analytic Database (PADB).\n\nThe ParAccel Analytic Database was a parallel relational database system using a shared-nothing architecture with a columnar orientation, adaptive compression, memory-centric design.\nParAccel's DBMS engine is built for analytics, initially based on PostgreSQL. ParAccel began phasing in a new optimizer (Omne) in release 2.0 and made significant changes to Omne in subsequent releases (3.1 released in June 2011).\nParAccel implements compiled queries, and a proprietary interconnect protocol for inter-node communications. It integrated with storage area network technologies such as those from EMC Corporation.\n\nParAccel offered on-demand integration (ODI) modules for analytics and data outside of the ParAccel Analytic Platform.\n"}
{"id": "26254667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26254667", "title": "Porter's four corners model", "text": "Porter's four corners model\n\nPorter's four corners model is a predictive tool designed by Michael Porter that helps in determining a competitor's course of action. Unlike other predictive models which predominantly rely on a firm's current strategy and capabilities to determine future strategy, Porter's model additionally calls for an understanding of what motivates the competitor. This added dimension of understanding a competitor's internal culture, value system, mindset, and assumptions helps in determining a much more accurate and realistic reading of a competitor's possible reactions in a given situation.\n\nThis helps in determining competitor's action by understanding their goals (both strategic and tactical) and their current position vis-à-vis their goals. A wide gap between the two could mean the competitor is highly likely to react to any external threat that comes in its way, whereas a narrower gap is likely to produce a defensive strategy. \nThe question to be answered here is: What is it that drives the competitor? These drivers can be at various levels and dimensions and can provide insights into future goals.\nThe perceptions and assumptions the competitor has about itself and its industry would shape strategy. This corner includes determining the competitor's perception of its strengths and weaknesses, organization culture and their beliefs about competitor's goals. If the competitor thinks highly of its competition and has a fair sense of industry forces, it is likely to be ready with plans to counter any threats to its position. On the other hand, a competitor who has a misplaced understanding of industry forces is not very likely to respond to a potential attack.\nThe question to be answered here is: What are competitor's assumption about the industry, the competition and its own capabilities?\nA competitor's strategy determines how it competes in the market. However, there could be a difference between the company's intended strategy (as stated in the annual report and interviews) and its realized strategy (as is evident in its acquisitions, new product development, etc.). \nIt is therefore important here to determine the competitor's realized strategy and how they are actually performing. If current strategy is yielding satisfactory results, it is safe to assume that the competitor is likely to continue to operate in the same way.\nThe questions to be answered here are: What is the competitor actually doing and how successful is it in implementing its current strategy? \n\nThis looks at a competitor's inherent ability to initiate or respond to external forces. Though it might have the motivation and the drive to initiate a strategic action, its effectiveness is dependent on its capabilities. \nIts strengths will also determine how the competitor is likely to respond to an external threat. An organization with an extensive distribution network is likely to initiate an attack through its channel, whereas a company with strong financials is likely to counter attack through price drops.\nThe questions to be answered here are: What are the strengths and weaknesses of the competitor? Which areas is the competitor strong in?\n\nFirms are more often than not aware of their rivals and do have a generally good understanding of their strategies and capabilities. However, motivational factors are often overlooked. Sufficiently motivated competitors can often prove to be more competitive than bigger but less motivated rivals. What sets this model apart from others is its insistence on accounting for the \"implicit\" factors such as culture, history, executive, consultants, and board's backgrounds, goals, values and commitments and inclusion of management's deep beliefs and assumptions about what works or does not work in the market. \n\nPorter's four corners model provides a framework that ties competitor's capabilities to their assumptions of the competitive environment and their underlying motivations. Looking at both a firm's capabilities (what the firm can do) and underlying implicit factors (their motivations to follow a course of action) can help predict competitor's actions with a relatively higher level of confidence. The underlying assumption here is that decision makers in firms are essentially human and hence subject to the influences of affective and automatic processes described by neuroscientists. Hence by considering these factors along with a firm's capabilities, this model is a better predictor of competitive behavior.\n\nDespite its strengths, Porter's four corners model is not widely used in strategy and competitive intelligence. In a 2005 survey by the Society of Competitive Intelligence Professionals's (SCIP) frequently used analytical tools, Porter's four corners does not even figure in the top ten.\n\nHowever this model can be used in competitive analysis and strategy as follows:\n\nStrategy development and testing: Can be used to determine likely actions by competitors in response to the firm's strategy. This can be used when developing a strategy (such as for a new product launch) or to test this strategy using simulation techniques such as a business war game.\n\n'Early warning: The predictive nature of this tool can also alert firms to possible threats due to competitive action.\n\nPorter's four corners also works well with other analytical models. For instance it complements Porter five forces analysis well. Competitive cluster analysis of industry products in turn complements four corners analysis. Using such models that complement each other can help create a more complete analysis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36383774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36383774", "title": "Practicing without a license", "text": "Practicing without a license\n\nPracticing without a license is the act of working without the licensure offered for that occupation, in a particular jurisdiction. Most activities that require licensure also have penalties for practicing without a valid, current license. In some jurisdictions, a license is offered but not required for some professions.\n\nFields where practicing without a license may carry civil or criminal penalties include lawyer, physician, physician assistant, optometrist, podiatrist, surgeon, coroner, medical examiner, paramedic, funeral director, osteopath, chiropractor, dentist, pharmacist, engineer, pilot, broadcasting, nurse, veterinarian, midwife, teacher, psychologist, surveyor, detective, social worker, architect, barber, hairdresser, electrologist, tattooist, cosmetologist, real estate agent, plumber, florist, accountant, and masseuse. If a person offering their services is licensed in one of these professions, any member of the public has a right to know if that person is validly licensed or not by the licensing authority. Anyone who claims to have a license and refuses to identify themselves properly by first and last name can possibly lose any one or all of their licenses. In many jurisdictions, it is illegal for service providers to hide their identities for purposes of making it difficult to verify licensure and past disciplinary actions or license violations.\n\nLicense requirements vary widely with jurisdiction, sometimes even within a single country. Practicing a professional discipline without a license may be legal in some jurisdictions. For example, nine U.S. states have passed health freedom laws that protect alternative practitioners such as herbalists from prosecution for \"practicing medicine without a license.\" In the area of mental health, Oregon offers broad licensing exemptions for professional counselors and marriage and family therapists, allowing people to practice these professions either with or without a license. Colorado requires registration but not licensing for psychotherapists. Other states also have exemptions or registration requirements instead of, or in addition to licensing for some professions.\n\nOther occupations, such as operating a business or working as a professional driver or mariner, may require specialized licensure as well. Operating a business without proper licenses can result in financial and sometimes criminal penalties. These licenses can include a general business license, a liquor license, a specialized drivers license, and other types regulated by local, regional, state, or federal requirements. Certain occupations may require obtaining appropriate intellectual property licenses, such as music licensing, brand licensing, patent licensing, software licensing, and other permissions for use.\n\nNon-professional activities may also require licenses for participation. These include driver's license, amateur radio license, dog license, firearms license, hunting license, marriage license, pilot license. Using certain products or services may also require obtaining a license, such as a software license. Operating without these licenses can lead to civil and criminal penalties.\n\nPenalties vary depending on the severity of the infraction, but practicing without a valid, current license may be punishable by one or more methods, including community service, fine, restitution, probation and temporary or permanent loss of the license. Criminal charges can lead to incarceration, as they can range from a misdemeanor to a felony, depending on the severity of the infraction.\n\nOn July 6, 1885, Louis Pasteur, a chemist who was a pioneer in microbiology, treated Joseph Meister after the boy was mauled by a dog infected with rabies with a vaccination treatment that had thus far only been tested on animals. This was technically illegal considering Pasteur was not a licensed physician, but he and his colleagues agreed that it was necessary considering his treatment seemed the only way to save the boy from a likely death. the treatment was successful, Pasteur was feted as a hero, and charges were never filed.\n\nAnother more modern example is the case of Frank Abagnale, who was accused of impersonating an airline pilot, lawyer, and teaching assistant.\n\nThe \"yogurt defense\" was made famous by the trial of Carol Downer, one of the developers of menstrual extraction. She was arrested at her self-help group and charged with practicing medicine without a license, as she inserted yogurt into the vagina of another woman to treat a yeast condition. Carol Downer was acquitted; the jury did not equate inserting yogurt with practicing medicine.\n\nBlack Jack is a Japanese comic book series created by Tezuka Osamu that is about the world's greatest surgeon, who chooses to remain unlicensed. This allows Black Jack to charge extortionate amounts of money instead of the standard fees agreed upon by the Japanese Medical Association. It also lets him perform extremely dangerous, often medically implausible or impossible operations, that are not legally allowed. Black Jack is often viewed as the Japanese equivalent to Batman, in his willingness to routinely break laws to save lives for which he is frequently imprisoned by the police. It is notable that Black Jack actually completed his college medical education and carries a driver's license, though he encourages other unlicensed doctors who have no such formal training. Like many of Osamu's works, Black Jack is extraordinarily critical of the medical establishment, and is notable for raising Japanese public awareness of medical corruption.\n\nThe majority of superheroes in comic books investigate crimes without detectives' licenses. In Detective Comics, The Question, Dick Grayson, Detective Chimp John Constantine and John Jones/Martian Manhunter are all licensed detectives or police officers, while Wally West, the third Flash is a professional crime scene investigator. Jonah Hex is a bounty hunter operating under the loose legal framework of the wild west. The Green Lantern Corps patrol the D.C. universe and enforce the ancient intergalactic laws of the guardians of Oa. In Marvel Comics, Frank Castle used to be a policeman, but after his wife and child were shot to death, he left the force forever and became the mass murdering vigilante The Punisher.\n\nBatman is one of only three members of the Justice League with any medical training but is the only one who lacks an official doctorate and license to practice medicine. Nevertheless, he occasionally performs surgery on his teammates despite being the son of the doctor Thomas Wayne. In Marvel Comics, the former neurosurgeon Stephen Strange, in desperate search of a cure for his crippled hands, wasted all of his money on alternative medicine, which did not heal him. Homeless, Doctor Strange performed back alley surgeries for cash, barely able to hold the instruments.\n\nVictor Frankenstein, though often incorrectly referred to as a doctor, is only a medical student, and as such operated on his monster without a license. Prior to the monster's vivification, Frankenstein and his assistant Igor were also acting as unlicensed morticians.\n\nThe movie Patch Adams, among other historical inaccuracies, showed the title character practicing medicine without a license, and getting his equipment by stealing from a hospital.\n\nThe USA Network drama \"Suits\"' protagonist, Michael \"Mike\" Ross, gets a high-flying job at the fictitious Pearson Hardman law firm without having the necessary license to practice law.\n\n"}
{"id": "398277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=398277", "title": "Professional sports", "text": "Professional sports\n\nProfessional sports, as opposed to amateur sports, are sports in which athletes receive payment for their performance. Professional athleticism has come to the fore through a combination of developments. Mass media and increased leisure have brought larger audiences, so that sports organizations or teams can command large incomes. As a result, more sportspeople can afford to make athleticism their primary career, devoting the training time necessary to increase skills, physical condition, and experience to modern levels of achievement. This proficiency has also helped boost the popularity of sports.\n\nMost sports played professionally also have amateur players far outnumbering the professionals.\n\nBaseball originated before the American Civil War (1861–1865). A humble game played on sandlots in particular, scoring and record-keeping gave baseball gravity. \"Today,\" notes John Thorn in The Baseball Encyclopedia, \"baseball without records is inconceivable.\"\n\nIn 1871 the first professional baseball league was created. By the beginning of the 20th century, most large cities in the eastern United States had a professional baseball team. The teams were divided into two leagues, the National and American leagues. During the regular season, a team played only against other teams within its league. The most victorious team in each league was said to have won the \"pennant;\" the two pennant winners met after the end of the regular season in the World Series. The winner of at least four games (out of a possible seven) was the champion for that year. This arrangement still holds today, although the leagues are now subdivided and pennants are decided in post-season playoff series between the winners of each division.\n\nBaseball became popular in the 1920s, when Babe Ruth led the New York Yankees to several World Series titles and became a national hero on the strength of his home runs (balls that cannot be played because they have been hit out of the field). One of the most noteworthy players was the Brooklyn Dodgers' Jackie Robinson, who became the first African-American player in the major leagues in 1947. Prior to Robinson, black players had been restricted to the Negro Leagues.\n\nStarting in the 1950s, major league baseball expanded its geographical range. Western cities got teams, either by luring them to move from eastern cities or by forming expansion teams with players made available by established teams. Until the 1970s, because of strict contracts, the owners of baseball teams also virtually owned the players; since then, the rules have changed so that players can become free agents, within certain limits, to sell their services to any team. The results have been bidding wars and stars who are paid millions of dollars a year. Disputes between the players' union and the owners have at times halted baseball for months at a time.\n\nJapan has also seen a prominent professional baseball circuit develop known as Nippon Professional Baseball, which was founded in 1934 and emerged as an international force after World War II. NPB is considered to be the highest caliber of baseball outside the U.S. major leagues, and the best Japanese talent can emigrate to the U.S. by way of the posting system. Other prominent countries to play the game include South Korea (where their league has its own posting system with Major League Baseball), Mexico, Latin America, and the Caribbean states.\n\nThe game of American football was professionalized in the 1890s as a slow, and initially covert, process; William Heffelfinger and Ben \"Sport\" Donnelly were the first to secretly accept payment for playing the game in 1892. Regional leagues in Chicago, Pennsylvania, Ohio and New York had coalesced in the 1900s and 1910s, most of which gave way to the first truly national football league, the American Professional Football Association, in 1920. By 1920, pro football remained overshadowed by the college game. The first game involving an APFA team took place on September 26, 1920, at Douglas Park in Rock Island, Illinois, as the hometown Independents flattened the St. Paul Ideals 48-0. The first head-to-head battles in the league occurred one week later as Dayton topped Columbus 14-0 and Rock Island pasted Muncie 45-0.\n\nForward passes were rare, coaching from the sidelines was prohibited and players competed on both offense and defense. Money was so tight that Hals carried equipment, wrote press releases, sold tickets, taped ankles, played and coached for the Decatur club. As opposed to today’s standard 16-game schedule, clubs in 1920 scheduled their own opponents and could play non league and even college squads that counted toward their records. With no established guidelines, the number of games played—and the quality of opponents scheduled—by APFA teams varied, and the league did not maintain official standings.\n\nThe Buffalo All-Americans, Chicago Tigers, Columbus Panhandles and Detroit Heralds joined the league before the end of the season, raising the total number of teams to 14, but the inaugural season was a struggle. Games received little attention from the fans—and even less from the press. According to Robert W. Peterson’s book \"Pigskin: The Early Years of Pro Football,\" APFA games averaged crowds of 4,241. The association bylaws called for teams to pay a $100 entry fee, but no one ever did. Muncie played only one game before dropping out before the end of the season, which concluded on December 19.\n\nAt the conclusion of the season there were no playoffs (that innovation, although New York's regional league had used it, would not arrive until 1933) and it took more than four months before the league even bothered to crown a champion. Much as college football did for decades, the APFA determined its victor by ballot. On April 30, 1921, team representatives voted the Akron Pros, who completed the season undefeated with eight wins and three ties while yielding only a total of seven points, the champion in spite of protests by the one-loss teams in Decatur and Buffalo, who each had tied Akron and had more wins. The victors received a silver loving cup donated by sporting goods company Brunswick-Balke-Collender. While players were not given diamond-encrusted rings, they did receive golden fobs in the shape of a football inscribed with the words \"World Champions.\"\n\nForgotten in the collective sports memory that the league’s official record books listed the 1920 championship as undecided until the 2013. The whereabouts of the Brunswick-Balke-Collender Cup, only given out that one time, are unknown. The legacy of two APFA franchises continues on, however. The Racine Cardinals now play in Arizona, and the Decatur Staleys moved to Chicago in 1921 and changed their name to the Bears the following year. Ten APFA players along with Carr are enshrined in the Pro Football Hall of Fame, which opened its doors in 1963 not far from the Canton automobile dealership that gave birth to the NFL in 1920.\n\nThe APFA, by 1922 known as the National Football League, has remained the predominant professional football league in the United States, and, effectively, the entire world. The evolution from a haphazard collection of teams in big and small cities to the much more rigid structure it is in the present was gradual; the smaller markets were squeezed out in the late 1920s and early 1930s, a championship game was established in 1933, a draft was established in 1936, and schedules were standardized in the 1930s. A competing league has historically arisen to attempt to challenge the NFL's dominance every 10 to 15 years, but none managed to maintain long-term operations independent of the NFL and only two—the All-America Football Conference of the late 1940s and the American Football League of the 1960s—were strong enough to successfully compete against the league before the NFL subsumed their operations. Minor league football, although their leagues' memberships were unstable, began to arise in the late 1930s and remained viable as a business model up into the 1970s.\n\nA major factor in the NFL's rise to dominance was its embrace of television early in the sport's history. As college football heavily restricted the rights of its teams to broadcast games (a policy eventually ruled to be illegal in 1984), the NFL instead allowed games to be televised nationwide, except in a team's home city; the restriction was softened in the early 1970s, by which point the NFL had secured broadcast deals with all of the major television networks, another major factor in the inability of any competing league to gain traction since then.\n\nThe related sport of Canadian football was eventually professionalized by the 1950s, which saw the evolution of the Canadian Football League. The CFL, despite losing all games in a series of contests against the NFL, was considered to be at least comparable in talent to the American leagues of the 1960s (its lone game against an AFL squad was a victory). Because Canada has a tenth of the population of the United States, the ability to make money from television was much lower, and although some of the cities of Canada were comparable to the major markets of the U.S., teams in places such as Saskatchewan and Hamilton were in markets quite small compared to even the small markets of the NFL, thus the CFL now pays noticeably less than other major professional leagues, but still more than enough to be considered fully professional.\n\nThe rise of indoor American football beginning in the late 1980s has allowed for smaller-scale professional football to be viable.\n\nIce hockey was first professionalized in Pittsburgh in the early 1900s (decade). As Canadians made up the vast majority of hockey players, early American professional leagues imported almost all of their talent before Canadian leagues began to form in the wake of a mining boom, depriving the U.S. leagues and teams of talent. Two distinct circuits formed: the Pacific Coast Hockey Association in western Canada and the northwestern U.S., and the National Hockey Association of central Canada, both of which competed for the then-independent Stanley Cup. The NHA's teams reorganized as the National Hockey League in 1917, and the West Coast circuit died out by the mid-1920s.\n\nBy 1926, the NHL expanded to 10 teams in Canada, and in the northeastern and midwestern United States. However, the onset of the Great Depression in 1930s, combined with Canada's entry into World War II (which greatly reduced the league's player pool), led to the league’s retrenchment to six markets: Boston, New York City, Chicago and Detroit in the U.S., and Toronto and Montreal in Canada. These Original Six cities would be the only cities with NHL franchises from 1935 to 1967. During this time, the NHL was both stagnant and restrictive in its policies, giving teams territorial advantages, having teams with multiple owners in the same family (thus allowing the best players to be stacked onto certain teams), and restricting its players' salaries through reserve clauses. This stagnation allowed other leagues to arise: the Western Hockey League soon became the \"de facto\" major league of the western states and provinces, and the second-tier American Hockey League emerged in a number of midwestern markets the NHL had neglected, in addition to a handful of small towns.\n\nAmid pressure from television networks that were threatening to offer the WHL a contract, the NHL doubled in size in 1967, beginning a period of expansion that lasted through much of the 1970s. The last major challenger to the NHL's dominance was the World Hockey Association, which successfully broke the NHL's reserve clause in court, drove up professional hockey salaries, and continued to pressure the older league into expansion. The WHA merged four of its remaining teams into the NHL in 1979, but had to give up most of its players, as they were still under NHL contract and had to return to their original teams. The NHL made its last pronounced realignment in the 1990s, moving most of the WHA teams out of their markets and establishing a number of new teams in the southern United States.\n\nIn Europe, the introduction of professionalism varied widely, and the highest-caliber league on the continent, the Soviet Championship League (proven to be at least equal to or better than the NHL in the 1970s), was officially composed of semi-professional works teams paid for their association with industries or government agencies (the Red Army squad employed members of the armed forces, and the Soviet Union often drafted the best hockey players in the country to serve on the squad). The modern-day descendant of the Soviet league, the Kontinental Hockey League, is fully professional and has a number of teams outside Russia, to the point where it has the resources to sign NHL veterans. Other European countries such as Germany, Sweden, Switzerland, Norway, Finland, and Austria also have prominent professional leagues.\n\nBasketball was invented in 1891 and the first professional leagues emerged in the 1920s. The Basketball Association of America was established in 1946 and three years later became the modern National Basketball Association. The NBA was slower to establish dominance of the sport than other sports in the United States, as it would not do so until 1976, when it absorbed four teams from the American Basketball Association.\n\nProfessional basketball has the advantages of much smaller rosters than other professional sports, allowing the sport to be viable in smaller cities than other sports. Professional basketball leagues of varying caliber can be found around the world, especially in Europe and South America.\n\nProfessional athleticism is seen as a contradiction of the central ethos of sport, competition performed for its own sake and pure enjoyment, rather than as a means of earning a living. Consequently, many organisations and commentators have resisted the growth of professional athleticism, saying that it was so incredible that it has impeded the development of sport. For example, rugby union was for many years a part-time sport engaged in by amateurs, and English cricket has allegedly suffered in quality because of a \"non-professional\" approach. An important reason why professional sports has been resisted in history was that organisations for professional sports usually did not submit to the international sports federations, and could have their own rules. For example, the National Basketball Association was formerly not a member of the FIBA.\n\nOn the other hand, amateur rules heavily favour those countries where all elite players are de facto professionals but are able to retain their amateur status by earning allowances instead of salaries. For example, all Eastern bloc countries were populated with amateur players who were actually full-time athletes hired as regular workers of a company (aircraft industry, food workers, tractor industry) or organization (KGB, Red Army, Soviet Air Force) that sponsored what would be presented as an after-hours social sports society team for their workers.\n\nMen involved in professional sports can earn a great deal of money at the highest levels. For instance, the highest-paid team in professional baseball is New York Yankees. Tiger Woods is the highest-paid athlete, totaling $127,902,706, including his endorsement income, which massively exceeds what he earns from tournament golf. Woods recently became the world's first athlete to earn a billion dollars from prize money and endorsements. It would have taken the salary of two thousand 1980s professional golfers each making $58,500 to match up with Tiger Woods’ current salary. Samuel Eto'o is the world's second highest-earning athlete and the highest-paid footballer in the world, raking in £35.7 million (over $54 million) a year excluding off-field earnings. The top ten tennis players make about $3 million a year on average. Much of the growth in income for sports and athletes has come from broadcasting rights; for example, the most recent television contract for the NFL is valued at nearly US$5 billion per year. Women in the U.S., on the other hand, make much less, for example as of 2014, the WNBA enforced a maximum salary of US$107,000 for star players (coaches could earn double that). This is largely driven by the fact that the American viewing audience has far less interest in women's professional sport compared to men's; average in-person attendance and television viewership are both far higher for the NBA compared to the WNBA. According to investopedia.com, a male star like Kobe Bryant or LeBron James can individually earn a salary larger than every player in the WNBA combined.\n\nOutside the highest leagues, however, the money professional athletes can earn drops dramatically, as fan bases are generally smaller and television revenues are nonexistent. For instance, while the National Football League's teams can afford to pay their players millions of dollars each year and still maintain a significant profit, the second-highest American football league in the United States, the United Football League, consistently struggled to pay its bills and has continually lost money despite allotting its players only US$20,000 a year, and television networks made the league pay for television airtime instead of paying the league, making the league's business model unworkable. In the United States and Canada, most lower-end professional leagues run themselves as affiliated farm teams, effectively agreeing to develop younger players for eventual play in the major leagues in exchange for subsidizing those players' salaries; this is known as the minor league system and is most prevalent in professional baseball and professional ice hockey. Otherwise, the league may be required to classify itself as semi-professional, in other words, able to pay their players a small sum, but not enough to cover the player's basic costs of living.\n\nMany professional athletes experience financial difficulties soon after retiring, due to a combination of bad investments, careless spending, and a lack of non-athletic skills. The wear and tear of a career in professional sport, can cause physical and mental side effects (such as chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a condition that has seen a massive rise in public awareness in the 2010s) that can harm a former professional athlete's employability. In the United States, some of these problems are mitigated by the fact that the college sports system ensures most professional athletes receive a college education with no student debt, a legacy that provides them with a career path after their sports career ends.\n\nIn the NFL average annual salaries by position in 2009 were:\n\n\nThe average salary of a player in the Chinese Super League was about ¥10.7 million (£1 million) for the 2011 season, up from ¥600,000 in the 2010 season. The highest-paid player for the 2011 Chinese Super League season was Dario Conca of Guangzhou Evergrande who received an annual salary of ¥67.4 million ($10.5 million) after income tax, putting him among the highest-paid players in the world.\n\nThe highest-paid player for the 2011–2012 Russian Premier League season was Samuel Eto'o of Anzhi Makhachkala, who at the end of the 2011–12 season was expected to receive a total salary of RUB 900.2 million (£35.7 million) after income tax, making Eto'o the second highest-earning athlete in the world and the highest-paid footballer in the world followed by Lionel Messi and Zlatan Ibrahimović.\n\nThe average salary of a player in the German Bundesliga was about €3.3 million (£2.5 million) for the 2010–11 season, up from €2.5 million in the 2009–2010 Bundesliga season. The highest-paid player for the 2010–11 Bundesliga season was Franck Ribéry of Bayern Munich who received a salary of €6.3 million after income tax.\n\nIn the Italian top league, Serie A, the average salary was about €5 million for the 2010–2011 Serie A season, up from €1 million in the 2005–2006 Serie A season. The highest-paid player for the 2010–2011 Serie A season was Zlatan Ibrahimović of A.C. Milan who received a salary of €25.9 million after income tax and which also includes Ibrahimović's bonuses and endorsements.\n\nLionel Messi of FC Barcelona is the world's second highest-paid player receiving a salary of £29.6 million (over US$45 million) a year after income taxation and which also includes the incomes of Messi's bonuses and endorsements. In the Spanish La Liga, the average salary for the players of Lionel Messi's club FC Barcelona was €6.5 million for the 2010–2011 La Liga season, up from €5.5 million for the 2009–2010 La Liga season.\n\nThe average salary of a player in the English Premier League was about £2.6 million in the 2017–18 season, compared with about £1.2 million in 2007–08 and £676,000 in 2006–07. Even as early as 2010–11, top players such as John Terry and Steven Gerrard could make up to £7 million per year with the players of Premier League club Manchester City F.C. receiving an average salary of £2 million in that season. Premier League salaries have boomed in more recent years thanks to massive television deals and wealthy new investors in clubs. Terry's and Gerrard's 2010–11 salaries would not have placed them among the top 25 earners in 2017–18. In that season, more than 20 players earned more than £10 million, led by Alexis Sánchez (£21.5 million) and Mesut Özil (£20.9 million). The Premier League's two Manchester clubs had the highest average salaries in 2017–18, with players for both Manchester United and Manchester City averaging over £5.2 million.\n\nPlayers in lower divisions make significantly less money. In 2006–07 the average salary of a player in the Championship (the second tier of the English football pyramid) made £195,750 while the average salary for League One and League Two (tiers 3 and 4) combined were £49,600.\n\nThe highest salary in Major League Soccer in 2018 is the $7.1 million paid to Italian international Sebastian Giovinco, who plays for Toronto FC. Giovinco was signed as a beneficiary of MLS' Designated Player Rule, which was instituted in 2007 for the express purpose of attracting international stars. Now-retired English star David Beckham was the first player signed under its provisions. When the rule was instituted, each team had one \"Designated Player\" slot with a salary cap charge of $400,000, but no limit on actual salary paid. Since then, the number of Designated Players per team has increased to three, with each counting for $504,375 of cap room in 2018. The league's average salary was about $283,000 per year in 2015, but the median salary was then closer to $110,000. MLS' minimum player salary in 2018 is $67,500 for most players, and for players on the reserve roster (slots #25-28) the minimum salary is $54,500.\n\nIn 1970, the average salary in Major League Baseball in the U.S. and Canada was $20,000 ($ inflation-adjusted). By 2005, the average salary had increased to $2,632,655 ($ inflation-adjusted) and the minimum salary was $316,000 (adjusted: $). In 2012 the average MLB salary was $3,440,000, the median salary was $1,075,000, and the minimum salary had grown to four times the inflation-adjusted average salary in 1970 ($480,000).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "272882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=272882", "title": "Qualitative marketing research", "text": "Qualitative marketing research\n\nQualitative marketing research involves a natural or observational examination of the philosophies that govern consumer behavior. The direction and framework of the research is often revised as new information is gained, allowing the researcher to evaluate issues and subjects in an in-depth manner. The quality of the research produced is heavily dependent on the skills of the researcher and is influenced by researcher bias.\n\nQualitative marketing researchers collect data ranging from focus group, case study, participation observation, innovation game and individual depth interview.\n\nThe focus group is marketing research technique for qualitative data that involves a small group of people (6–10) that share a common set characteristics (demographics, attitudes, etc.) and participate in a discussion of predetermined topics led by a moderator. There are opportunities to conduct focus groups with the use of focus group software. There are many types of focus group as well, but they always involve discussion among the group(s). The problem of the focus group is the issue of observer dependency: the results obtained are influenced by the researcher or his own reading of the group's discussion, raising questions of validity. Non-verbal cues, which may contradict the views participants articulate, are important and can easily be missed if the researcher is not familiar with visual cues, body language and other non verbal cues.\n\nQualitative case study methodology provides tools for researchers to study complex phenomena within their contexts. Because it only studies one case, so it is very up-close, in-depth. It contains high levels of internal validity (the extent to which one is able to say that no other variables except the one being studied caused the result), but the external validity is low. Customer behaviour is a good example for qualitative market research.\n\nParticipation observation is watching participants' behavior in real world settings without trying to manipulate their actions. This method is high in external validity but low in internal validity.\n\nInnovation game refers to a form of primary market research developed by Luke Hohmann where customers play a set of directed games as a means of generating feedback about a product or service. A facilitator explains the game(s) to be played and controls the paces, monitors the participants' levels and manages the time. There are many types of innovation games, such as 20/20 vision, me and my shadow, and buy a feature.\n\nBy doing individual depth interviews, one can get unique points from each respondent, and their answers will not be influenced by other people as in a focus group.\n\nQualitative market research is often part of survey methodology, including telephone surveys and consumer satisfaction surveys. We apply the qualitative market research when:\n\n\n\n\nQualitative research is usually aimed to have an inside look about opinions or motivations, while quantitative research uses data to simplify the result.\n\nQualitative research usually has a smaller sample size than quantitative research due to the complexity of its data.\n\nQualitative research usually uses unstructured or semi-structured techniques to collect data, e.g. individual depth interviews or group discussions, while quantitative research only uses structured techniques such as online questionnaires, on-street or telephone interviews.\n\nThe outcomes of qualitative marketing research are usually conclusive and cannot be used to make generalizations about the population of interest, instead developing an initial understanding and sound base for further decision making. The findings of quantitative marketing research are conclusive and usually descriptive in nature.\n\nCoding is an interpretive technique that both organizes the data and provides a means to introduce the interpretations of it into certain quantitative methods.\n\n"}
{"id": "6874024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6874024", "title": "Sales outsourcing", "text": "Sales outsourcing\n\nSales outsourcing is a way for companies to attract increased, high volumes of sales for their products or services by using a third party. The company typically uses outsourcing companies to improve sales volumes without links to the sales teams that carry out those campaigns. The company that undertakes the outsourcing will normally be paid based on the results they are able to generate, and therefore creates a mutually beneficial situation for both client and the outsourcing company. \n\nFull 'sales outsourcing' is observed when companies have an external third party sales force. It is differentiated from value added reselling or distribution in that the business model can be based on shared risk, although there are models where the outsourcer is paid for all of their activity - just as with a hired direct sales force, but the outsourcer provides rapidity, flexibility and experience. \nOther names for sales outsourcing include 'indirect sales' and 'channel sales'.\n\nFull sales outsourcing is different from telemarketing in that it requires direct recruitment of sales personnel with specific backgrounds for each sales campaign. Usually the sales executives will be part of a team that may include telemarketing, marketing, tools systems and methodologies as well as sales management.\n\nSales outsourcing firms provide accountability regarding all sales results and activities while representing the brand of the client. For the end-customer, it usually appears as if the sales team sold the product themselves rather than the sales outsourcing firm. The outsourcing firm is, in essence, an extension of the client but is responsible for all operations associated with direct sales activities, often receiving sales engineering and initial product/service training support from the client.\n\nThe sole purpose of a contract sales organization is to provide sales resource to its clients, without taking title to their products. Sales outsourcing providers include manufacturers' representatives, contract sales organizations, sales agents or sales outsourcing consultants. One way of organising the sales effort, especially when product delivery is erratic, is to replace or supplement internal resources with functionality and expertise brought in from contract sales organisations.\n\nSales outsourcing is quite different from large-scale service outsourcing, which has its advantages but also requires pro-active contract and relationship management. In addition to full sales outsourcing, many partial models are observed, particularly in large firms.\n\nSales outsourcing is expected to be cheaper than the fully loaded cost of employing salespeople, but calculating the cost comparison over time is far from straightforward. Nevertheless, replacing fixed costs with variable costs is attractive to budget-holders. However, unlike many forms of outsourcing, the advantages of sales outsourcing does not often come from saving costs but rather increasing revenue or providing speed of response or flexibility.\n\nThe business case for sales outsourcing should also include consideration of the cost of controlling the contract. Difficulty in measuring the link between sales activity and sales performance leads to a preference for employed salespeople. However, the issues internally are often the same and the internal hire has many other corporate \"distractions\" that do not occur with external resources.\n\nCompanies may also choose sales outsourcing as a means of accessing the best sales skills. Although the pejorative term “rent-a-rep” is still used, there is some evidence that contractors are perceived as good performers against qualitative as well as quantitative performance criteria. Even so, the reputational risk of third parties handling customer relationships has been observed as a factor restricting sales outsourcing. One could argue that an employee is often using a company to gain 2–3 years salary and experience whereas a sales outsourcing firm would usually be looking at a long term contract even though the staff may change during that time. So the aims of an outsourcer can be closely aligned with the aims and objectives of the contracting company.\n\nA recent study has highlighted flexibility as an important driver for outsourcing sales. Uncertain business environments accentuate the need to turn sales resource on and off quickly. Industries and companies undergoing rapid change may need to avoid hiring and firing costs and risks. Contract sales organizations can absorb employment risk, enabling their clients to respond to short-term opportunities or competitor activity (see Lean startup). However, an outsourcer may build in more of a premium to the rate or commission if excessive flexibility is required on a contract.\n\nContract sales organizations are growing in volume and influence, able to provide both tactical activity and long-term strategic support to their clients.\n\nSpeed of response is seen as a key reason to use an outsourcer. If a company was looking to enter a market it may take several months to recruit the local manager which then takes several months to find an office and build a team. With an outsourcer, a full working team can oftentimes be operational within a matter of days or weeks.\n\nSales outsourcing can also be used as a market entry strategy and avoids permanent establishment risk.\n\nThe experience of many organizations over the past several years demonstrates that indirect channels can be critical to expanding market coverage. This has been particularly true in the electronics, communications and high tech sectors. For example, the indirect channel now accounts for 66 percent of overall technology sales, up from 53 percent in 1997.\n\nSome examples of communications companies who employ indirect sales forces to their internal sales efforts include: AireSpring, AT&T, Comcast, Earthlink Business, Integra Telecom, Level 3 Communications, Time Warner Cable, TelePacific, tw telecom, XO Communications, and Windstream. Some top sales agencies who sell voice and data services for these carriers include Telarus, based in Salt Lake City, Utah, Intelisys, based in Petaluma, California, and Telecom Brokerage Inc (TBI), based in Chicago, Illinois.\n"}
{"id": "17347911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17347911", "title": "Senior Community Service Employment Program", "text": "Senior Community Service Employment Program\n\nThe Senior Community Service Employment Program (SCSEP) is a program of the United States Department of Labor, its Employment and Training Administration, to help more senior citizens get back into or remain active in the labor workforce. It is a community service and work-based training program. It does this through job skill training and employment assistance with an emphasis on getting a ready job with a suitable and cooperating company or organisation. In such a setting, the worker is paid the United States minimum wage, or the highest of Federal, State or local minimum wage, or the prevailing wage, for an average of 20 hours per week, and experiences on-the-job learning and newly acquired skills use. The intention is that through these community jobs, the older worker will gain a permanent job, not subsidized by federal government funds.\n\nPeople who are 55 or older can obtain job training and job search services from SCSEP. In each area of the country, SCSEP services are accessed through local organizations. These are usually nonprofits, but sometimes a state agency will administer the program.\n\nThe participant must be at least 55 years of age and from a family receiving regular cash welfare payments or with an annual family income of no more than 25% over the Federal poverty level as defined by the United States Census Bureau. There are certain exclusions in the income calculation, such as Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI).\n\nEnrollment priority is given to persons over age 60, veterans, and qualified spouses of veterans. Preference is given to minority, limited English-speaking, and Indian eligible individuals. Preference is also given to eligible individuals who have the greatest economic need.\n\nSCSEP was authorised by the United States Congress in Title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 and its later amendments to provide subsidized, part-time, community service work based training for low-income persons age 55 or older who have poor employment prospects. The program has evolved significantly in the last 50 years. The program is administered by nonprofit organizations and local government agencies.\n\nExperience Works, Inc., was historically the largest provider of SCSEP services. In 2015, the grantee was cited for $1.6 million dollars in questioned costs by the Department of Labor. The report details the use of unrestricted and accrued annual leave to cover a $1.6 million grant overspend, which $1.4 million was used to pay participant wages and fringe benefits, the misuse of federal funds to cover activities including first-class travel, pet hotels, fruit bouquets, personal loans to the CEO, and frequent credit card use on entertainment and prohibited lobbying. The number now totals approximately $2 million in questioned expenses. In 2016, the U.S. Department of Labor issued a follow up report critical of current management for not taking any corrective actions to restore funds. As a result of the prior management's actions, the U.S. Department of Labor has revamped the funding for SCSEP and the Inspector General has expanded the investigation into the activities of the previous management. The federal investigation is aided by a whistleblower and other former employees. In September, 2016 the Inspector General issued a preliminary report describing the organization as financial insolvent and took steps to curtail and eliminate federal funding. Subsequently, more than 100 employees were terminated as a result of the funding reduction and were paid only part of their accrued leave.\n\nSCSEP has received stable funding of $434,371,000 during the last several years. The Trump administration has called for the elimination of the program, which is meeting some resistance in Congress.\n\nThe most recent budget proposal from the White House would eliminate the program entirely.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27135498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27135498", "title": "Small Business Lending Index", "text": "Small Business Lending Index\n\nThe Thomson Reuters/PayNet Small Business Lending Index (SBLI) is an economic indicator from Thomson Reuters Indices and PayNet Inc. Because small businesses generally respond to changes in economic conditions more rapidly than larger businesses do, the Thomson Reuters/PayNet Small Business Lending Index serves as a leading indicator of the economy.\n\nThe index, utilizing small business loan origination data from major lenders, measures the volume of loans to Small Businesses normalized to a base year - 2005. Seasonally adjusted, the index is presented as an absolute as well as by a percent change versus the prior year. \nIt is published monthly as follows:\n\nThe index has its highest correlation with GDP change as a leading indicator, leading between 2 and 5 months in advance. The index undergoes periodic checks to examine the accuracy of the estimates over time.\n\nAll data is collected by PayNet, Inc. PayNet collects real-time loan information from more than 350 leading U.S. lenders. Its proprietary database encompasses over 19 million current and historic contracts worth over $1.5 trillion. \n\nPayNet primarily collects data from small business lenders in the United States, conducts research and analysis, develops and implements estimation methodologies and disseminates statistics to customers. Because PayNet receives its source data over time, estimates are routinely revised to reflect more complete source data. Preliminary and Revised estimates are reported as calculated without any reference to previously reported estimates for the same month. In addition, PayNet undertakes periodic studies that examine the accuracy of the estimates over time and for the existence of any systemic overstatement or understatement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56912929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56912929", "title": "Small and medium-sized enterprises in Azerbaijan", "text": "Small and medium-sized enterprises in Azerbaijan\n\nSmall and medium-sized enterprises are called as KOS (kiçik və orta sahibkarlıq) or KOM (kiçik və orta müəssisələr) in Azerbaijan. SMEs have a leading position in the provision of economic growth and employment in Azerbaijan.\n\nAzerbaijan also gave their categorization both relating to the amount of employees work at the company and annual turnover. Categorization of enterprises is indicated like below:\n\nGovernmental Statistic Committee defined this classification by taking into account various economic fields as below.\n\nSmall and medium-sized enterprises divided into two groups in Azerbaijan.\nIn term of the number of enterprises and employees, individual enterprises occupy the main part of the small and medium-sized business field. According to the data of the Statistics Committee for the year 2015, the number of small businesses in all economic sectors of the country, was 196 327. The number of small entrepreneurs has increased in 2015 about 9 429 people compared to 2014. In addition, 178 163 of them were individual entrepreneurs. Individual entrepreneur mostly agglomerated in the sectors, especially trade, and where take more revenues instead of minimum investments. Only a little amount of entrepreneurs takes part in business activities, which require high early investments and make profit in a long-term. On average, individual entrepreneurs employ less people and by this way, they decrease their expenditures and make more profit.\n\nLegal entities registered by central administrations of ministries and agencies, and inspected carefully by them. Small enterprise is an entrepreneurship that controlled by legal entity and indicated in the disposal of the Ministry Cabinet. In this disposal the main principles for small and medium-sized enterprises are indicated.\n\nDirect the development of entrepreneurship in Azerbaijan started in 1990s. On December 12, 1992 government established \"Regulations of the Republic of Azerbaijan National Entrepreneurship Support Fund\". The approval of this fund let small and medium-sized enterprises take advantage from preferential loans. However, until 2001 the mechanism of the delivery to the entrepreneurship entities did not work properly. Heydar Aliyev’s on August 27, 2002 issued decree resulted the approval of \"Regulations on National Entrepreneurship Support Fund of Azerbaijan Republic\" and \" The use of fund of National Entrepreneurship Support Fund of Azerbaijan Guidelines” was directed to the development of a mechanism for financing of investment projects of entrepreneurs. The began to issue loans with lower interest rates in the national currency, as well as, identification of the grace period to the first two-thirds parts of loans and credit’s low percentage caused arising interest to these credits.\n\nSME development in the country based on the Strategic Road Map defined in order to achieve the strategic goals and to ensure maximum use of the opportunities identified as a strategic objective as follows:\nStrategic Road Map defines the short, medium and long term directions of the economic reforms and development in SMEs. There are three main strategic views:\n\n\"Single window\" system applied based on the presidential decree issued on April 30, 2007. This principle provided for the registration of business entities and started to implement their online registration. Based on the principle E-Government portal has been created and implementation of the system started in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "4352677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4352677", "title": "Turnaround document", "text": "Turnaround document\n\nA turnaround document is a document that has been output from a computer, some extra information potentially added to it, and then returned to become an input document. For example, meter cards are produced for collecting readings from gas meters, photocopiers, water meters etc. These are filled in by the customer and then returned to the company for scanning using ICR (Intelligent Character Recognition) so that the system can produce the bills for the customer. Earlier versions used punched cards, sometimes with mark sense technology.\n"}
