{"id": "1449054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1449054", "title": "10/40 window", "text": "10/40 window\n\nThe 10/40 Window is a term coined by Christian missionary strategist and Partners International CEO Luis Bush in 1990 to refer to those regions of the eastern hemisphere, plus the European and African part of the western hemisphere, located between 10 and 40 degrees north of the equator, a general area that was purported to have the highest level of socioeconomic challenges and least access to the Christian message and Christian resources on the planet.\n\nThe concept behind the \"10/40 Window\" highlights these three elements (as of data available in 1990): an area of the world with great poverty and low quality of life, combined with lack of access to Christian resources. The Window forms a band encompassing Saharan and Northern Africa, as well as almost all of Asia (West Asia, Central Asia, South Asia, East Asia and much of Southeast Asia). Roughly two-thirds of the world population lived in the 10/40 Window, and it is predominantly Muslim, Hindu, Buddhist, animist, Jewish, or atheist. Many governments in the 10/40 Window are officially or unofficially opposed to Christian work of any kind within their borders.\n\nThis region of the world was previously known to Christians as the \"resistant belt\", as noted by Luis Bush at the 1989 Lausanne II Conference in Manila. In 1990, Bush's research led to a meeting with Pete Holzmann, a leader of the team developing the first PC-based GIS software. They analyzed the region using a box between 10 and 40 degrees north latitude and called it the \"10/40 box\". A few weeks later, Bush and his wife Doris were inspired to rename it the \"10/40 Window\", stating that this region ought to be seen as a \"window of opportunity\". The analysis and concept was a generalization that focuses on a region, not a sharp boundary defining what is a priority, and what is not. For this reason, many missiologists prefer to use the phrase \"10/40 Window region\".\n\nBefore being called the \"resistant belt\", the Islamic portions of this region, as well as selected unreached Buddhist and Hindu areas, were referred to as the \"unoccupied fields\" by Samuel Zwemer, in his book by that same title, published in 1911.\n\nSome have objected to such a broad-brush term which seems to imply a unifying characteristic of the 10/40 Window when in fact no large area of the planet is completely homogenous in cultural attributes.\n\nThe 1990 research data states:\n\nThis research deals in overall population characteristics. The \"10/40 Window\" is a term that helps people visualize the general area of the analysis, where the above characteristics are generally true, but with exceptions proving it is only a generalization. Some examples of the exceptions:\n\nOver the years, the 10/40 Window has evolved from a specialist term used by Christian missiologists to assumed vocabulary for Christians in the West. It is an emerging term in the secular press and can be found in press style glossaries. Non-western writers and organizations also refer to the 10/40 Window. In addition, those opposed to the idea of evangelism make use of the term. \n\nThe original 1990 GIS 10/40 Window analysis produced several insights, among them showing that the nations of the 10/40 Window represented (as of the research date):\n\nThe GIS analysis utilized country-level data from the Operation World almanac, the World Christian Encyclopedia, and the World Factbook.\n\nThe first edition GIS analysis maps highlighted the three major religious blocks in the 10/40 Window, specifically the majority Muslim, Hindu and Buddhist nations. Population estimates at the time for the year 2000 (from Operation World) were given as:\n\nLater updates have been based more on census data and other estimates rather than forward-looking population estimates. The cited reference provides the following estimate of \"unreached\" non-Christian populations in the 10/40 Window:\n\nThe 10/40 Window originally encompassed the following 57 countries. An expanded list including some important nearby nations is offered by the Joshua Project:\nThese were all Old World nations (mostly in the eastern hemisphere) with at least 50 percent of their land area falling within 10 to 40 degrees latitude as of 1990. (The list also included Gibraltar and Macau, which are not independent nations.) See the list of nations in the original study.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1178", "title": "Afterlife", "text": "Afterlife\n\nAfterlife (also referred to as life after death) is the concept that an essential part of an individual's identity or the stream of consciousness continues to manifest after the death of the physical body. According to various ideas about the afterlife, the essential aspect of the individual that lives on after death may be some partial element, or the entire soul or spirit, of an individual, which carries with it and may confer personal identity or, on the contrary, may not, as in Indian nirvana. Belief in an afterlife, which may be naturalistic or supernatural, is in contrast to the belief in oblivion after death.\n\nIn some views, this continued existence often takes place in a spiritual realm, and in other popular views, the individual may be reborn into this world and begin the life cycle over again, likely with no memory of what they have done in the past. In this latter view, such rebirths and deaths may take place over and over again continuously until the individual gains entry to a spiritual realm or Otherworld. Major views on the afterlife derive from religion, esotericism and metaphysics.\n\nSome belief systems, such as those in the Abrahamic tradition, hold that the dead go to a specific plane of existence after death, as determined by God, or other divine judgment, based on their actions or beliefs during life. In contrast, in systems of reincarnation, such as those in the Indian religions, the nature of the continued existence is determined directly by the actions of the individual in the ended life, rather than through the decision of a different being.\nTheists generally believe some type of afterlife awaits people when they die. Members of some generally non-theistic religions tend to believe in an afterlife, but without reference to a deity. The Sadducees were an ancient Jewish sect that generally believed that there was a God but no afterlife.\n\nMany religions, whether they believe in the soul's existence in another world like Christianity, Islam and many pagan belief systems, or in reincarnation like many forms of Hinduism and Buddhism, believe that one's status in the afterlife is a reward or punishment for their conduct during life.\n\nReincarnation is the philosophical or religious concept that an aspect of a living being starts a new life in a different physical body or form after each biological death. It is also called rebirth or transmigration, and is a part of the Saṃsāra doctrine of cyclic existence. It is a central tenet of all major Indian religions, namely Buddhism, Hinduism, Jainism, and Sikhism. The idea of reincarnation is found in many ancient cultures, and a belief in rebirth/metempsychosis was held by Greek historic figures, such as Pythagoras, Socrates, and Plato. It is also a common belief of various ancient and modern religions such as Spiritism, Theosophy, and Eckankar and is found as well in many tribal societies around the world, in places such as Australia, East Asia, Siberia, and South America.\n\nAlthough the majority of denominations within the Abrahamic religions of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam do not believe that individuals reincarnate, particular groups within these religions do refer to reincarnation; these groups include the mainstream historical and contemporary followers of Kabbalah, the Cathars, Alawites, the Druze, and the Rosicrucians. The historical relations between these sects and the beliefs about reincarnation that were characteristic of Neoplatonism, Orphism, Hermeticism, Manicheanism, and Gnosticism of the Roman era as well as the Indian religions have been the subject of recent scholarly research. Unity Church and its founder Charles Fillmore teach reincarnation.\n\nRosicrucians speak of a life review period occurring immediately after death and before entering the afterlife's planes of existence (before the silver cord is broken), followed by a judgment, more akin to a final review or end report over one's life.\n\nHeaven, the heavens, seven heavens, pure lands, Tian, Jannah, Valhalla, or the Summerland, is a common religious, cosmological, or transcendent place where beings such as gods, angels, jinn, saints, or venerated ancestors are said to originate, be enthroned, or live. According to the beliefs of some religions, heavenly beings can descend to earth or incarnate, and earthly beings can ascend to heaven in the afterlife, or in exceptional cases enter heaven alive.\n\nHeaven is often described as a \"higher place\", the holiest place, a paradise, in contrast to hell or the underworld or the \"low places\", and universally or conditionally accessible by earthly beings according to various standards of divinity, goodness, piety, faith or other virtues or right beliefs or simply the will of God. Some believe in the possibility of a heaven on Earth in a world to come.\n\nIn Indian religions, heaven is considered as \"Svarga loka\". There are seven positive regions the soul can go to after death and seven negative regions. After completing its stay in the respective region, the soul is subjected to rebirth in different living forms according to its \"karma\". This cycle can be broken after a soul achieves \"Moksha\" or \"Nirvana\". Any place of existence, either of humans, souls or deities, outside the tangible world (heaven, hell, or other) is referred to as otherworld.\n\nHell, in many religious and folkloric traditions, is a place of torment and punishment in the afterlife. Religions with a linear divine history often depict hell as an eternal destination, while religions with a cyclic history often depict a hell as an intermediary period between incarnations. Typically, these traditions locate hell in another dimension or under the earth's surface and often include entrances to hell from the land of the living. Other afterlife destinations include purgatory and limbo.\n\nTraditions that do not conceive of the afterlife as a place of punishment or reward merely describe hell as an abode of the dead, the grave, a neutral place (for example, sheol or Hades) located under the surface of earth.\n\nThe afterlife played an important role in Ancient Egyptian religion, and its belief system is one of the earliest known in recorded history. When the body died, parts of its soul known as \"ka\" (body double) and the \"ba\" (personality) would go to the Kingdom of the Dead. While the soul dwelt in the Fields of Aaru, Osiris demanded work as restitution for the protection he provided. Statues were placed in the tombs to serve as substitutes for the deceased.\n\nArriving at one's reward in afterlife was a demanding ordeal, requiring a sin-free heart and the ability to recite the spells, passwords and formulae of the Book of the Dead. In the Hall of Two Truths, the deceased's heart was weighed against the \"Shu\" feather of truth and justice taken from the headdress of the goddess Ma'at. If the heart was lighter than the feather, they could pass on, but if it were heavier they would be devoured by the demon Ammit.\n\nEgyptians also believed that being mummified and put in a sarcophagus (an ancient Egyptian \"coffin\" carved with complex symbols and designs, as well as pictures and hieroglyphs) was the only way to have an afterlife. Only if the corpse had been properly embalmed and entombed in a mastaba, could the dead live again in the Fields of Yalu and accompany the Sun on its daily ride. Due to the dangers the afterlife posed, the Book of the Dead was placed in the tomb with the body as well as food, jewellery, and 'curses'. They also used the \"opening of the mouth\".\n\nAncient Egyptian civilization was based on religion; their belief in the rebirth after death became the driving force behind their funeral practices. Death was simply a temporary interruption, rather than complete cessation, of life, and that eternal life could be ensured by means like piety to the gods, preservation of the physical form through mummification, and the provision of statuary and other funerary equipment. Each human consisted of the physical body, the \"ka\", the \"ba\", and the \"akh\". The Name and Shadow were also living entities. To enjoy the afterlife, all these elements had to be sustained and protected from harm.\n\nOn March 30, 2010, a spokesman for the Egyptian Culture Ministry claimed it had unearthed a large red granite door in Luxor with inscriptions by User, a powerful adviser to the 18th dynasty Queen Hatshepsut who ruled between 1479 BC and 1458 BC, the longest of any woman. It believes the false door is a 'door to the Afterlife'. According to the archaeologists, the door was reused in a structure in Roman Egypt.\n\nThe Greek god Hades is known in Greek mythology as the king of the underworld, a place where souls live after death. The Greek god Hermes, the messenger of the gods, would take the dead soul of a person to the underworld (sometimes called Hades or the House of Hades). Hermes would leave the soul on the banks of the River Styx, the river between life and death.\n\nCharon, also known as the ferry-man, would take the soul across the river to Hades, if the soul had gold: Upon burial, the family of the dead soul would put coins under the deceased's tongue. Once crossed, the soul would be judged by Aeacus, Rhadamanthus and King Minos. The soul would be sent to Elysium, Tartarus, Asphodel Fields, or the Fields of Punishment. The Elysian Fields were for the ones that lived pure lives. It consisted of green fields, valleys and mountains, everyone there was peaceful and contented, and the Sun always shone there. Tartarus was for the people that blasphemed against the gods, or were simply rebellious and consciously evil.\n\nThe Asphodel Fields were for a varied selection of human souls: Those whose sins equalled their goodness, were indecisive in their lives, or were not judged. The Fields of Punishment were for people that had sinned often, but not so much as to be deserving of Tartarus. In Tartarus, the soul would be punished by being burned in lava, or stretched on racks. Some heroes of Greek legend are allowed to visit the underworld. The Romans had a similar belief system about the afterlife, with Hades becoming known as Pluto. In the ancient Greek myth about the Labours of Heracles, the hero Heracles had to travel to the underworld to capture Cerberus, the three-headed guard dog, as one of his tasks.\n\nIn \"Dream of Scipio\", Cicero describes what seems to be an out of body experience, of the soul traveling high above the Earth, looking down at the small planet, from far away.\n\nIn Book VI of Virgil's \"Aeneid\", the hero, Aeneas, travels to the underworld to see his father. By the River Styx, he sees the souls of those not given a proper burial, forced to wait by the river until someone buries them. While down there, along with the dead, he is shown the place where the wrongly convicted reside, the fields of sorrow where those who committed suicide and now regret it reside, including Aeneas' former lover, the warriors and shades, Tartarus (where the titans and powerful non-mortal enemies of the Olympians reside) where he can hear the groans of the imprisoned, the palace of Pluto, and the fields of Elysium where the descendants of the divine and bravest heroes reside. He sees the river of forgetfulness, Lethe, which the dead must drink to forget their life and begin anew. Lastly, his father shows him all of the future heroes of Rome who will live if Aeneas fulfills his destiny in founding the city.\n\nThe Poetic and Prose Eddas, the oldest sources for information on the Norse concept of the afterlife, vary in their description of the several realms that are described as falling under this topic. The most well-known are:\n\nShe'ol, in the Hebrew Bible, is a place of darkness to which all the dead go, both the righteous and the unrighteous, regardless of the moral choices made in life, a place of stillness and darkness cut off from life and from God.\n\nThe inhabitants of Sheol are the \"shades\" (\"rephaim\"), entities without personality or strength. Under some circumstances they are thought to be able to be contacted by the living, as the Witch of Endor contacts the shade of Samuel for Saul, but such practices are forbidden (Deuteronomy 18:10).\n\nWhile the Hebrew Bible appears to describe Sheol as the permanent place of the dead, in the Second Temple period (roughly 500 BC–70 AD) a more diverse set of ideas developed. In some texts, Sheol is considered to be the home of both the righteous and the wicked, separated into respective compartments; in others, it was considered a place of punishment, meant for the wicked dead alone. When the Hebrew scriptures were translated into Greek in ancient Alexandria around 200 BC, the word \"Hades\" (the Greek underworld) was substituted for Sheol. This is reflected in the New Testament where Hades is both the underworld of the dead and the personification of the evil it represents.\n\nThe Talmud offers a number of thoughts relating to the afterlife. After death, the soul is brought for judgment. Those who have led pristine lives enter immediately into the \"Olam Haba\" or world to come. Most do not enter the world to come immediately, but now experience a period of review of their earthly actions and they are made aware of what they have done wrong. Some view this period as being a \"re-schooling\", with the soul gaining wisdom as one's errors are reviewed. Others view this period to include spiritual discomfort for past wrongs. At the end of this period, not longer than one year, the soul then takes its place in the world to come. Although discomforts are made part of certain Jewish conceptions of the afterlife, the concept of \"eternal damnation\", so prevalent in other religions, is not a tenet of the Jewish afterlife. According to the Talmud, extinction of the soul is reserved for a far smaller group of malicious and evil leaders, either whose very evil deeds go way beyond norms, or who lead large groups of people to utmost evil.\n\nMaimonides describes the \"Olam Haba\" in spiritual terms, relegating the prophesied physical resurrection to the status of a future miracle, unrelated to the afterlife or the Messianic era. According to Maimonides, an afterlife continues for the soul of every human being, a soul now separated from the body in which it was \"housed\" during its earthly existence.\n\nThe Zohar describes Gehenna not as a place of punishment for the wicked but as a place of spiritual purification for souls.\n\nAlthough there is no reference to reincarnation in the Talmud or any prior writings, according to rabbis such as Avraham Arieh Trugman, reincarnation is recognized as being part and parcel of Jewish tradition. Trugman explains that it is through oral tradition that the meanings of the Torah, its commandments and stories, are known and understood. The classic work of Jewish mysticism, the Zohar, is quoted liberally in all Jewish learning; in the Zohar the idea of reincarnation is mentioned repeatedly. Trugman states that in the last five centuries the concept of reincarnation, which until then had been a much hidden tradition within Judaism, was given open exposure.\n\nShraga Simmons commented that within the Bible itself, the idea [of reincarnation] is intimated in Deut. 25:5-10, Deut. 33:6 and Isaiah 22:14, 65:6.\n\nYirmiyahu Ullman wrote that reincarnation is an \"ancient, mainstream belief in Judaism\". The Zohar makes frequent and lengthy references to reincarnation. Onkelos, a righteous convert and authoritative commentator of the same period, explained the verse, \"Let Reuben live and not die ...\" (Deuteronomy 33:6) to mean that Reuben should merit the World to Come directly, and not have to die again as a result of being reincarnated. Torah scholar, commentator and kabbalist, Nachmanides (Ramban 1195–1270), attributed Job's suffering to reincarnation, as hinted in Job's saying \"God does all these things twice or three times with a man, to bring back his soul from the pit to ... the light of the living' (Job 33:29,30).\"\n\nReincarnation, called \"gilgul\", became popular in folk belief, and is found in much Yiddish literature among Ashkenazi Jews. Among a few kabbalists, it was posited that some human souls could end up being reincarnated into non-human bodies. These ideas were found in a number of Kabbalistic works from the 13th century, and also among many mystics in the late 16th century. Martin Buber's early collection of stories of the Baal Shem Tov's life includes several that refer to people reincarnating in successive lives.\n\nAmong well known (generally non-kabbalist or anti-kabbalist) rabbis who rejected the idea of reincarnation are Saadia Gaon, David Kimhi, Hasdai Crescas, Yedayah Bedershi (early 14th century), Joseph Albo, Abraham ibn Daud, the Rosh and Leon de Modena. Saadia Gaon, in Emunoth ve-Deoth (Hebrew: \"beliefs and opinions\") concludes Section VI with a refutation of the doctrine of metempsychosis (reincarnation). While rebutting reincarnation, Saadia Gaon further states that Jews who hold to reincarnation have adopted non-Jewish beliefs. By no means do all Jews today believe in reincarnation, but belief in reincarnation is not uncommon among many Jews, including Orthodox.\n\nOther well-known rabbis who are reincarnationists include Yonassan Gershom, Abraham Isaac Kook, Talmud scholar Adin Steinsaltz, DovBer Pinson, David M. Wexelman, Zalman Schachter, and many others. Reincarnation is cited by authoritative biblical commentators, including Ramban (Nachmanides), Menachem Recanti and Rabbenu Bachya.\n\nAmong the many volumes of Yitzchak Luria, most of which come down from the pen of his primary disciple, Chaim Vital, are insights explaining issues related to reincarnation. His \"Shaar HaGilgulim\", \"The Gates of Reincarnation\", is a book devoted exclusively to the subject of reincarnation in Judaism.\n\nRabbi Naftali Silberberg of The Rohr Jewish Learning Institute notes that \"Many ideas that originate in other religions and belief systems have been popularized in the media and are taken for granted by unassuming Jews.\"\n\nMainstream Christianity professes belief in the Nicene Creed, and English versions of the Nicene Creed in current use include the phrase: \"We look for the resurrection of the dead, and the life of the world to come.\" Although punishments are made part of certain Christian conceptions of the afterlife, the prevalent concept of \"eternal damnation\" is a tenet of the Christian afterlife.\n\nWhen questioned by the Sadducees about the resurrection of the dead (in a context relating to who one's spouse would be if one had been married several times in life), Jesus said that marriage will be irrelevant after the resurrection as the resurrected will be like the angels in heaven.\n\nJesus also maintained that the time would come when the dead would hear the voice of the Son of God, and all who were in the tombs would come out, who have done good deeds to the resurrection of life, but those who have done wicked deeds to the resurrection of condemnation.\n\nThe Book of Enoch describes Sheol as divided into four compartments for four types of the dead: the faithful saints who await resurrection in Paradise, the merely virtuous who await their reward, the wicked who await punishment, and the wicked who have already been punished and will not be resurrected on Judgment Day. The Book of Enoch is considered apocryphal by most denominations of Christianity and all denominations of Judaism.\n\nThe book of 2 Maccabees gives a clear account of the dead awaiting a future resurrection and judgment, plus prayers and offerings for the dead to remove the burden of sin.\nThe author of Luke recounts the story of Lazarus and the rich man, which shows people in Hades awaiting the resurrection either in comfort or torment. The author of the Book of Revelation writes about God and the angels versus Satan and demons in an epic battle at the end of times when all souls are judged. There is mention of ghostly bodies of past prophets, and the transfiguration.\n\nThe non-canonical Acts of Paul and Thecla speak of the efficacy of prayer for the dead, so that they might be \"translated to a state of happiness\".\n\nHippolytus of Rome pictures the underworld (Hades) as a place where the righteous dead, awaiting in the bosom of Abraham their resurrection, rejoice at their future prospect, while the unrighteous are tormented at the sight of the \"lake of unquenchable fire\" into which they are destined to be cast.\n\nGregory of Nyssa discusses the long-before believed possibility of purification of souls after death.\n\nPope Gregory I repeats the concept, articulated over a century earlier by Gregory of Nyssa that the saved suffer purification after death, in connection with which he wrote of \"purgatorial flames\".\n\nThe noun \"purgatorium\" (Latin: place of cleansing) is used for the first time to describe a state of painful purification of the saved after life. The same word in adjectival form (\"purgatorius -a -um\", cleansing), which appears also in non-religious writing, was already used by Christians such as Augustine of Hippo and Pope Gregory I to refer to an after-death cleansing.\n\nDuring the Age of Enlightenment, theologians and philosophers presented various philosophies and beliefs. A notable example is Emanuel Swedenborg who wrote some 18 theological works which describe in detail the nature of the afterlife according to his claimed spiritual experiences, the most famous of which is \"Heaven and Hell\". His report of life there covers a wide range of topics, such as marriage in heaven (where all angels are married), children in heaven (where they are raised by angel parents), time and space in heaven (there are none), the after-death awakening process in the World of Spirits (a place halfway between Heaven and Hell and where people first wake up after death), the allowance of a free will choice between Heaven or Hell (as opposed to being sent to either one by God), the eternity of Hell (one could leave but would never want to), and that all angels or devils were once people on earth.\n\nThe \"Spiritual Combat\", a written work by Lorenzo Scupoli, states that four assaults are attempted by the “evil one” at the hour of death. The Catholic conception of the afterlife teaches that after the body dies, the soul is judged, the righteous and free of sin enter Heaven. However, those who die in unrepented mortal sin go to hell. In the 1990s, the Catechism of the Catholic Church defined hell not as punishment imposed on the sinner but rather as the sinner's self-exclusion from God. Unlike other Christian groups, the Catholic Church teaches that those who die in a state of grace, but still carry venial sin go to a place called Purgatory where they undergo purification to enter Heaven.\n\nDespite popular opinion, Limbo, which was elaborated upon by theologians beginning in the Middle Ages, was never recognized as a dogma of the Catholic Church, yet, at times, it has been a very popular theological theory within the Church. Limbo is a theory that unbaptized but innocent souls, such as those of infants, virtuous individuals who lived before Jesus Christ was born on earth, or those that die before baptism exist in neither Heaven or Hell proper. Therefore, these souls neither merit the beatific vision, nor are subjected to any punishment, because they are not guilty of any personal sin although they have not received baptism, so still bear original sin. So they are generally seen as existing in a state of natural, but not supernatural, happiness, until the end of time.\n\nIn other Christian denominations it has been described as an intermediate place or state of confinement in oblivion and neglect.\n\nThe notion of purgatory is associated particularly with the Catholic Church. In the Catholic Church, all those who die in God's grace and friendship, but still imperfectly purified, are indeed assured of their eternal salvation; but after death they undergo purification, so as to achieve the holiness necessary to enter the joy of heaven or the final purification of the elect, which is entirely different from the punishment of the damned. The tradition of the church, by reference to certain texts of scripture, speaks of a \"cleansing fire\" although it is not always called purgatory.\n\nAnglicans of the Anglo-Catholic tradition generally also hold to the belief. John Wesley, the founder of Methodism, believed in an intermediate state between death and the resurrection of the dead and in the possibility of \"continuing to grow in holiness there\", but Methodism does not officially affirm this belief and denies the possibility of helping by prayer any who may be in that state.\n\nThe Orthodox Church is intentionally reticent on the afterlife, as it acknowledges the mystery especially of things that have not yet occurred. Beyond the second coming of Jesus, bodily resurrection, and final judgment, all of which is affirmed in the Nicene Creed (325 CE), Orthodoxy does not teach much else in any definitive manner. Unlike Western forms of Christianity, however, Orthodoxy is traditionally non-dualist and does not teach that there are two separate literal locations of heaven and hell, but instead acknowledges that \"the 'location' of one’s final destiny—heaven or hell—as being figurative.\" Instead, Orthodoxy teaches that the final judgment is simply one's uniform encounter with divine love and mercy, but this encounter is experienced multifariously depending on the extent to which one has been transformed, partaken of divinity, and is therefore compatible or incompatible with God. \"The monadic, immutable, and ceaseless object of eschatological encounter is therefore the love and mercy of God, his glory which infuses the heavenly temple, and it is the subjective human reaction which engenders multiplicity or any division of experience.\" For instance, St. Isaac the Syrian observes that \"those who are punished in Gehenna, are scourged by the scourge of love. ... The power of love works in two ways: it torments sinners . . . [as] bitter regret. But love inebriates the souls of the sons of Heaven by its delectability.\" In this sense, the divine action is always, immutably, and uniformly love and if one experiences this love negatively, the experience is then one of self-condemnation because of free will rather than condemnation by God. Orthodoxy therefore uses the description of Jesus' judgment in John 3:19-21 as their model: \"19 And this is the judgment: the light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. 20 For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his works should be exposed. 21 But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God.\" As a characteristically Orthodox understanding, then, Fr. Thomas Hopko writes, \"[I]t is precisely the presence of God’s mercy and love which cause the torment of the wicked. God does not punish; he forgives. . . . In a word, God has mercy on all, whether all like it or not. If we like it, it is paradise; if we do not, it is hell. Every knee will bend before the Lord. Everything will be subject to Him. God in Christ will indeed be \"all and in all,\" with boundless mercy and unconditional pardon. But not all will rejoice in God's gift of forgiveness, and that choice will be judgment, the self-inflicted source of their sorrow and pain.\"\n\nMoreover, Orthodoxy includes a prevalent tradition of \"apokatastasis\", or the restoration of all things in the end. This has been taught most notably by Origen, but also many other Church fathers and Saints, including Gregory of Nyssa. The Second Council of Constantinople (553 C.E.) affirmed the orthodoxy of Gregory of Nyssa while simultaneously condemning Origen's brand of universalism because it taught the restoration back to our pre-existent state, which Orthodoxy doesn't teach. It is also a teaching of such eminent Orthodox theologians as Olivier Clément, Metropolitan Kallistos Ware, and Bishop Hilarion Alfeyev. Although apokatastasis is not a dogma of the church but instead a theologoumena, it is no less a teaching of the Orthodox Church than its rejection. As Met. Kallistos Ware explains, \"It is heretical to say that all must be saved, for this is to deny free will; but, it is legitimate to hope that all may be saved,\" as insisting on torment without end also denies free will.\n\nJoseph F. Smith of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints presents an elaborate vision of the afterlife. It is revealed as the scene of an extensive missionary effort by righteous spirits in paradise to redeem those still in darkness—a spirit prison or \"hell\" where the spirits of the dead remain until judgment. It is divided into two parts: Spirit Prison and Paradise. Together these are also known as the Spirit World (also Abraham's Bosom; see Luke 16:19-25). They believe that Christ visited spirit prison (1 Peter 3:18-20) and opened the gate for those who repent to cross over to Paradise. This is similar to the Harrowing of Hell doctrine of some mainstream Christian faiths. Both Spirit Prison and Paradise are temporary according to Latter-day Saint beliefs. After the resurrection, spirits are assigned \"permanently\" to three degrees of heavenly glory, determined by how they lived– Celestial, Terrestrial, and Telestial.(1 Cor 15:44-42; Doctrine and Covenants, Section 76) Sons of Perdition, or those who have known and seen God and deny it, will be sent to the realm of Satan, which is called Outer Darkness, where they shall live in misery and agony forever.\n\nThe Celestial Kingdom is believed to be a place where we can live eternally with our families. Progression does not end once one has entered the Celestial Kingdom, but it extends eternally. According to \"True to the Faith\" (a handbook on doctrines in the LDS faith), \"The celestial kingdom is the place prepared for those who have \"received the testimony of Jesus\" and been \"made perfect through Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, who wrought out this perfect atonement through the shedding of his own blood\" (D&C 76:51, 69). To inherit this gift, we must receive the ordinances of salvation, keep the commandments, and repent of our sins.\"\n\nJehovah's Witnesses occasionally use terms such as \"afterlife\" to refer to any hope for the dead, but they understand Ecclesiastes 9:5 to preclude belief in an immortal soul. Individuals judged by God to be wicked, such as in the Great Flood or at Armageddon, are given no hope of an afterlife. However, they believe that after Armageddon there will be a bodily resurrection of \"both righteous and unrighteous\" dead (but not the \"wicked\"). Survivors of Armageddon and those who are resurrected are then to gradually restore earth to a paradise. After Armageddon, unrepentant sinners are punished with eternal death (non-existence).\n\nThe Seventh-day Adventist Church, teaches that the first death, or death brought about by living on a planet with sinful conditions (sickness, old age, accident, etc.) is a sleep of the soul. Adventists believe that the body + the breath of God = a living soul. Like Jehovah's Witnesses, Adventists use key phrases from the Bible, such as \"For the living know that they shall die: but the dead know not any thing, neither have they any more a reward; for the memory of them is forgotten.\" (Eccl. 9:5 KJV). Adventists also point to the fact that the wage of sin is death and God alone is immortal. Adventists believe God will grant eternal life to the redeemed who are resurrected at Jesus' second coming. Until then, all those who have died are \"asleep\". When Jesus the Christ, who is the Word and the Bread of Life, comes a second time, the righteous will be raised incorruptible and will be taken in the clouds to meet their Lord. The righteous will live in heaven for a thousand years (the millennium) where they will sit with God in judgment over the unredeemed and the fallen angels. During the time the redeemed are in heaven, the Earth will be devoid of human and animal inhabitation. Only the fallen angels will be left alive. The second resurrection is of the unrighteous, when Jesus brings the New Jerusalem down from heaven to relocate to Earth. Jesus will call to life all those who are unrighteous. Satan and his angels will convince the unrighteous to surround the city, but hell fire and brimstone will fall from heaven and consume them, thus cleansing Earth of all sin. The universe will be then free from sin forever. This is called the second death. On the new earth God will provide an eternal home for all the redeemed and a perfect environment for everlasting life, where Eden will be restored. The great controversy will be ended and sin will be no more. God will reign in perfect harmony forever. (Rom. 6:23; 1 Tim. 6:15, 16; Eccl. 9:5, 6; Ps. 146:3, 4; John 11:11-14; Col. 3:4; 1 Cor. 15:51-54; 1 Thess. 4:13-17; John 5:28, 29; Rev. 20:1-10; Rev. 20; 1 Cor. 6:2, 3; Jer. 4:23-26; Rev. 21:1-5; Mal. 4:1; Eze. 28:18, 19; 2 Peter 3:13; Isa. 35; 65:17-25; Matt. 5:5; Rev. 21:1-7; 22:1-5; 11:15.)\n\nThe Islamic belief in the afterlife as stated in the Quran is descriptive. The Arabic word for Paradise is \"Jannah\" and Hell is \"Jahannam\". Their level of comfort while in the grave (according to some commentators) depends wholly on their level of \"iman\" or faith in the one almighty creator or supreme being (God or Allah). In order for one to achieve proper, firm and healthy \"iman\" one must practice righteous deeds or else his level of \"iman\" chokes and shrinks and eventually can wither away if one does not practice Islam long enough, hence the depth of practicing Islam is good deeds. One may also acquire \"tasbih\" and recite the names of Allah in such manner as \"Subahann Allah\" or \"Glory be to Allah\" over and over again to acquire good deeds.\n\nIn the Quran, God gives warning about grievous punishment to those who do not believe in the afterlife (\"Akhirah\"), and admonishes mankind that Hell is prepared for those who deny the meeting with him.\n\nIslam teaches that the purpose of Man's entire creation is to worship Allah alone, which includes being kind to other human beings and life including bugs, and to trees, by not oppressing them. Islam teaches that the life we live on Earth is nothing but a test for us and to determine each individual's ultimate abode, be it punishment or \"Jannat\" in the afterlife, which is eternal and everlasting.\n\n\"Jannah\" and \"Jahannam\" both have different levels. \"Jannah\" has eight gates and seven levels. The higher the level the better it is and the happier you are. \"Jahannam\" possess 7 deep terrible layers. The lower the layer the worse it is. Individuals will arrive at both everlasting homes during Judgment Day, which commences after the Angel Israfil blows the trumpet the second time. Islam teaches the continued existence of the soul and a transformed physical existence after death. Muslims believe there will be a day of judgment when all humans will be divided between the eternal destinations of Paradise and Hell.\n\nIn the 20th century, discussions about the afterlife address the interconnection between human action and divine judgment, the need for moral rectitude, and the eternal consequences of human action in this life and world.\n\nA central doctrine of the Quran is the Last Day, on which the world will be destroyed and Allah will raise all people and jinn from the dead to be judged. The Last Day is also called the Day of Standing Up, Day of Separation, Day of Reckoning, Day of Awakening, Day of Judgment, The Encompassing Day or The Hour.\n\nUntil the Day of Judgment, deceased souls remain in their graves awaiting the resurrection. However, they begin to feel immediately a taste of their destiny to come. Those bound for hell will suffer in their graves, while those bound for heaven will be in peace until that time.\n\nThe resurrection that will take place on the Last Day is physical, and is explained by suggesting that God will re-create the decayed body (17:100: \"Could they not see that God who created the heavens and the earth is able to create the like of them?\").\n\nOn the Last Day, resurrected humans and jinn will be judged by Allah according to their deeds. One's eternal destination depends on balance of good to bad deeds in life. They are either granted admission to Paradise, where they will enjoy spiritual and physical pleasures forever, or condemned to Hell to suffer spiritual and physical torment for eternity. The day of judgment is described as passing over Hell on a narrow bridge (as thin as human hair and sharper than a razor) in order to enter Paradise. Those who fall, weighted by their bad deeds, will remain in Hell forever.\n\nAhmadi Muslims believe that the afterlife is not material but of a spiritual nature. According to Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, the founder of Ahmadiyya sect in Islam, the soul will give birth to another rarer entity and will resemble the life on this earth in the sense that this entity will bear a similar relationship to the soul as the soul bears relationship with the human existence on earth. On earth, if a person leads a righteous life and submits to the will of God, his or her tastes become attuned to enjoying spiritual pleasures as opposed to carnal desires. With this, an \"embryonic soul\" begins to take shape. Different tastes are said to be born which a person given to carnal passions finds no enjoyment. For example, sacrifice of one's own rights over that of others becomes enjoyable, or that forgiveness becomes second nature. In such a state a person finds contentment and peace at heart and at this stage, according to Ahmadiyya beliefs, it can be said that a soul within the soul has begun to take shape.\n\nThe Sufi scholar Ibn 'Arabi defined Barzakh as the intermediate realm or \"isthmus.\" It is between the world of corporeal bodies and the world of spirits, and is a means of contact between the two worlds. Without it, there would be no contact between the two and both would cease to exist. He described it as simple and luminous, like the world of spirits, but also able to take on many different forms just like the world of corporeal bodies can. In broader terms Barzakh, \"is anything that separates two things\". It has been called the dream world in which the dreamer is in both life and death.\n\nThe teachings of the Bahá'í Faith state that the nature of the afterlife is beyond the understanding of those living, just as an unborn fetus cannot understand the nature of the world outside of the womb. The Bahá'í writings state that the soul is immortal and after death it will continue to progress until it attains God's presence. In Bahá'í belief, souls in the afterlife will continue to retain their individuality and consciousness and will be able to recognize and communicate spiritually with other souls whom they have made deep profound friendships with, such as their spouses.\n\nThe Bahá'í scriptures also state there are distinctions between souls in the afterlife, and that souls will recognize the worth of their own deeds and understand the consequences of their actions. It is explained that those souls that have turned toward God will experience gladness, while those who have lived in error will become aware of the opportunities they have lost. Also, in the Baha'i view, souls will be able to recognize the accomplishments of the souls that have reached the same level as themselves, but not those that have achieved a rank higher than them.\n\nThe Upanishads describe reincarnation (\"punarjanma\") (see also: samsara). The Bhagavad Gita, an important Hindu script, talks extensively about the afterlife. Here, Krishna says that just as a man discards his old clothes and wears new ones; similarly the soul discards the old body and takes on a new one. In Hinduism, the belief is that the body is nothing but a shell, the soul inside is immutable and indestructible and takes on different lives in a cycle of birth and death. The end of this cycle is called \"mukti\" (Sanskrit: मुक्ति) and staying finally with supreme God forever; is \"moksha\" (Sanskrit: मोक्ष) or salvation.\n\nThe Garuda Purana deals solely with what happens to a person after death. The God of Death Yama sends his representatives to collect the soul from a person's body whenever he is due for death and they take the soul to Yama. A record of each person's timings & deeds performed by him is kept in a ledger by Yama's assistant, Chitragupta.\n\nAccording to the Garuda Purana, a soul after leaving the body travels through a very long and dark tunnel towards the South. This is why an oil lamp is lit and kept beside the head of the corpse, to light the dark tunnel and allow the soul to travel comfortably.\n\nThe soul, called \"atman\" leaves the body and reincarnates itself according to the deeds or \"karma\" performed by one in last birth. Rebirth would be in form of animals or other lower creatures if one performed bad karmas and in human form in a good family with joyous lifetime if the person was good in last birth. In between the two births a human is also required to either face punishments for bad karmas in \"naraka\" or hell or enjoy for the good karmas in \"swarga\" or heaven for good deeds. Whenever his or her punishments or rewards are over he or she is sent back to earth, also known as \"Mrutyulok\" or human world. A person stays with the God or ultimate power when he discharges only & only \"yajna karma\" (means work done for satisfaction of supreme lord only) in last birth and the same is called as \"moksha\" or \"nirvana\", which is the ultimate goal of a self realised soul. \"Atma\" moves with \"Parmatma\" or the greatest soul. According to Bhagavad Gita an \"Atma\" or soul never dies, what dies is the body only made of five elements—Earth, Water, Fire, Air, and Sky. Soul is believed to be indestructible. None of the five elements can harm or influence it. Hinduism through Garuda Purana also describes in detail various types of \"narkas\" or Hells where a person after death is punished for his bad \"karmas\" and dealt with accordingly.\n\nHindus also believe in \"karma\". \"Karma\" is the accumulated sums of one's good or bad deeds. \"Satkarma\" means good deeds, \"vikarma\" means bad deeds. According to Hinduism the basic concept of karma is 'As you sow, you shall reap'. So, if a person has lived a good life, they will be rewarded in the afterlife. Similarly their sum of bad deeds will be mirrored in their next life. Good karma brings good rewards and bad karmas lead to bad results. There is no judgment here. People accumulate karma through their actions and even thoughts. In Bhagavad Gita when Arjuna hesitates to kill his kith and kin the lord reprimands him saying thus \"Do you believe that you are the doer of the action. No. You are merely an instrument in MY hands. Do you believe that the people in front of you are living? Dear Arjuna, they are already dead. As a \"kshatriya\" (warrior) it is your duty to protect your people and land. If you fail to do your duty, then you are not adhering to dharmic principles.\"\n\nBuddhists maintain that rebirth takes place without an unchanging self or soul passing from one form to another. The type of rebirth will be conditioned by the moral tone of the person's actions (kamma or karma). For example, if a person has committed harmful actions of body, speech and mind based on greed, hatred and delusion, rebirth in a lower realm, i.e. an animal, a hungry ghost or a hell realm, is to be expected. On the other hand, where a person has performed skillful actions based on generosity, loving-kindness (metta), compassion and wisdom, rebirth in a happy realm, i.e. human or one of the many heavenly realms, can be expected.\n\nYet the mechanism of rebirth with kamma is not deterministic. It depends on various levels of kamma. The most important moment that determines where a person is reborn into is the last thought moment. At that moment, heavy kamma would ripen if there were performed, if not then near death kamma, if not then habitual kamma, finally if none of the above happened, then residual kamma from previous actions can ripen. According to Theravada Buddhism, there are 31 realms of existence that one can be reborn into.\n\nPure Land Buddhism of Mahayana believes in a special place apart from the 31 planes of existence called Pure Land. It is believed that each Buddha has their own pure land, created out of their merits for the sake of sentient beings who recall them mindfully to be able to be reborn in their pure land and train to become a Buddha there. Thus the main practice of pure land Buddhism is to chant a Buddha's name.\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhism the Tibetan Book of the Dead explains the intermediate state of humans between death and reincarnation. The deceased will find the bright light of wisdom, which shows a straightforward path to move upward and leave the cycle of reincarnation. There are various reasons why the deceased do not follow that light. Some had no briefing about the intermediate state in the former life. Others only used to follow their basic instincts like animals. And some have fear, which results from foul deeds in the former life or from insistent haughtiness. In the intermediate state the awareness is very flexible, so it is important to be virtuous, adopt a positive attitude, and avoid negative ideas. Ideas which are rising from subconsciousness can cause extreme tempers and cowing visions. In this situation they have to understand, that these manifestations are just reflections of the inner thoughts. No one can really hurt them, because they have no more material body. The deceased get help from different Buddhas who show them the path to the bright light. The ones who do not follow the path after all will get hints for a better reincarnation. They have to release the things and beings on which or whom they still hang from the life before. It is recommended to choose a family where the parents trust in the Dharma and to reincarnate with the will to care for the welfare of all beings.\n\n\"Life is cosmic energy of the universe and after death it merges in universe again and as the time comes to find the suitable place for the entity died in the life condition it gets born. There are 10 life states of any life: Hell, hunger, anger, animality, rapture, humanity, learning, realization, bodhisatva and buddhahood. The life dies in which life condition it reborn in the same life condition.\"\n\nSikhism may have a belief in the afterlife. They believe that the soul belongs to the spiritual universe which has its origins in God. However it's been a matter of great debate amongst the Sikhs about Sikhism's belief in afterlife. Many believe that Sikhism endorses the afterlife and the concept of reward and punishment as there are verses given in \"Guru Granth Sahib\", but a large number of Sikhs believe otherwise and treat those verses as metaphorical or poetic.\n\nAlso it has been noted by many scholars that the Guru Granth Sahib includes poetic renditions from multiple saints and religious traditions like that of Kabir, Farid and Ramananda. The essential doctrine is to experience the divine through simple living, meditation and contemplation while being alive. Sikhism also has the belief of being in union with God while living. Accounts of afterlife are considered to be aimed at the popular prevailing views of the time so as to provide a referential framework without necessarily establishing a belief in the afterlife. Thus while it is also acknowledged that living the life of a householder is above the metaphysical truth, Sikhism can be considered agnostic to the question of an afterlife. Some scholars also interpret the mention of reincarnation to be naturalistic akin to the biogeochemical cycles.\n\nBut if one analyses the Sikh Scriptures carefully, one may find that on many occasions the afterlife and the existence of heaven and hell are mentioned in \"Guru Granth Sahib\" and in \"Dasam granth\", so from that it can be concluded that Sikhism does believe in the existence of heaven and hell; however, heaven and hell are created to temporarily reward and punish, and one will then take birth again until one merges in God. According to the Sikh scriptures, the human form is the closet form to God and the best opportunity for a human being to attain salvation and merge back with God. Sikh Gurus said that nothing dies, nothing is born, everything is ever present, and it just changes forms. Like standing in front of a wardrobe, you pick up a dress and wear it and then you discard it. You wear another one. Thus, in the view of Sikhism, your soul is never born and never dies. Your soul is a part of God and hence lives forever.\n\nJainism also believes in the after life. They believe that the soul takes on a body form based on previous karmas or actions performed by that soul through eternity. Jains believe the soul is eternal and that the freedom from the cycle of reincarnation is the means to attain eternal bliss.\n\nTraditional African religions are diverse in their beliefs in an afterlife. Hunter-gatherer societies such as the Hadza have no particular belief in an afterlife, and the death of an individual is a straightforward end to their existence. Ancestor cults are found throughout Sub-Saharan Africa, including cultures like the Yombe, Beng, Yoruba and Ewe, \"[T]he belief that the dead come back into life and are reborn into their families is given concrete expression in the personal names that are given to children...What is reincarnated are some of the dominant characteristics of the ancestor and not his soul. For each soul remains distinct and each birth represents a new soul.\" The Yoruba, Dogon and LoDagoa have eschatological ideas similar to Abrahamic religions, \"but in most African societies, there is a marked absence of such clear-cut notions of heaven and hell, although there are notions of God judging the soul after death.\" In some societies like the Mende, multiple beliefs coexist. The Mende believe that people die twice: once during the process of joining the secret society, and again during biological death after which they become ancestors. However, some Mende also believe that after people are created by God they live ten consecutive lives, each in progressively descending worlds. One cross-cultural theme is that the ancestors are part of the world of the living, interacting with it regularly.\n\nIt is common for families to participate in ceremonies for children at a shrine, yet have a Buddhist funeral at the time of death. In old Japanese legends, it is often claimed that the dead go to a place called \"yomi\" (黄泉), a gloomy underground realm with a river separating the living from the dead mentioned in the legend of Izanami and Izanagi. This \"yomi\" very closely resembles the Greek Hades; however, later myths include notions of resurrection and even Elysium-like descriptions such as in the legend of Okuninushi and Susanoo. Shinto tends to hold negative views on death and corpses as a source of pollution called \"kegare\". However, death is also viewed as a path towards apotheosis in Shintoism as can be evidenced by how legendary individuals become enshrined after death. Perhaps the most famous would be Emperor Ojin who was enshrined as Hachiman the God of War after his death.\n\nSome Unitarian Universalists believe in universalism: that all souls will ultimately be saved and that there are no torments of hell. Unitarian Universalists differ widely in their theology hence there is no exact same stance on the issue. Although Unitarians historically believed in a literal hell, and Universalists historically believed that everyone goes to heaven, modern Unitarian Universalists can be categorized into those believing in a heaven, reincarnation and oblivion. Most Unitarian Universalists believe that heaven and hell are symbolic places of consciousness and the faith is largely focused on the worldly life rather than any possible afterlife.\n\nAccording to Edgar Cayce, the afterlife consisted of nine realms equated with the nine planets of astrology. The first, symbolized by Saturn, was a level for the purification of the souls. The second, Mercury's realm, gives us the ability to consider problems as a whole. The third of the nine soul realms is ruled by Earth and is associated with the Earthly pleasures. The fourth realm is where we find out about love and is ruled by Venus. The fifth realm is where we meet our limitations and is ruled by Mars. The sixth realm is ruled by Neptune, and is where we begin to use our creative powers and free ourselves from the material world. The seventh realm is symbolized by Jupiter, which strengthens the soul's ability to depict situations, to analyze people and places, things, and conditions. The eighth afterlife realm is ruled by Uranus and develops psychic ability. The ninth afterlife realm is symbolized by Pluto, the astrological realm of the unconscious. This afterlife realm is a transient place where souls can choose to travel to other realms or other solar systems, it is the souls liberation into eternity, and is the realm that opens the doorway from our solar system into the cosmos.\n\nMainstream Spiritualists postulate a series of seven realms that are not unlike Edgar Cayce's nine realms ruled by the planets. As it evolves, the soul moves higher and higher until it reaches the ultimate realm of spiritual oneness. The first realm, equated with hell, is the place where troubled souls spend a long time before they are compelled to move up to the next level. The second realm, where most souls move directly, is thought of as an intermediate transition between the lower planes of life and hell and the higher perfect realms of the universe. The third level is for those who have worked with their karmic inheritance. The fourth level is that from which evolved souls teach and direct those on Earth. The fifth level is where the soul leaves human consciousness behind. At the sixth plane, the soul is finally aligned with the cosmic consciousness and has no sense of separateness or individuality. Finally, the seventh level, the goal of each soul, is where the soul transcends its own sense of \"soulfulness\" and reunites with the World Soul and the universe.\n\nThe Wiccan afterlife is most commonly described as The Summerland. Here, souls rest, recuperate from life, and reflect on the experiences they had during their lives. After a period of rest, the souls are reincarnated, and the memory of their previous lives is erased. Many Wiccans see The Summerland as a place to reflect on their life actions. It is not a place of reward, but rather the end of a life journey at an end point of incarnations.\n\nZoroastrianism states that the \"urvan\", the disembodied spirit, lingers on earth for three days before departing downward to the kingdom of the dead that is ruled by Yima. For the three days that it rests on Earth, righteous souls sit at the head of their body, chanting the Ustavaiti Gathas with joy, while a wicked person sits at the feet of the corpse, wails and recites the Yasna. Zoroastrianism states that for the righteous souls, a beautiful maiden, which is the personification of the soul's good thoughts, words and deeds, appears. For a wicked person, a very old, ugly, naked hag appears. After three nights, the soul of the wicked is taken by the demon Vizaresa (Vīzarəša), to Chinvat bridge, and is made to go to darkness (hell).\n\nYima is believed to have been the first king on earth to rule, as well as the first man to die. Inside of Yima's realm, the spirits live a shadowy existence, and are dependent on their own descendants which are still living on Earth. Their descendants are to satisfy their hunger and clothe them, through rituals done on earth.\n\nRituals which are done on the first three days are vital and important, as they protect the soul from evil powers and give it strength to reach the underworld. After three days, the soul crosses Chinvat bridge which is the Final Judgment of the soul. Rashnu and Sraosha are present at the final judgment. The list is expanded sometimes, and include Vahman and Ormazd. Rashnu is the yazata who holds the scales of justice. If the good deeds of the person outweigh the bad, the soul is worthy of paradise. If the bad deeds outweigh the good, the bridge narrows down to the width of a blade-edge, and a horrid hag pulls the soul in her arms, and takes it down to hell with her.\n\nMisvan Gatu is the \"place of the mixed ones\" where the souls lead a gray existence, lacking both joy and sorrow. A soul goes here if his/her good deeds and bad deeds are equal, and Rashnu's scale is equal.\n\nThe Society for Psychical Research was founded in 1882 with the express intention of investigating phenomena relating to Spiritualism and the afterlife. Its members continue to conduct scientific research on the paranormal to this day. Some of the earliest attempts to apply scientific methods to the study of phenomena relating to an afterlife were conducted by this organization. Its earliest members included noted scientists like William Crookes, and philosophers such as Henry Sidgwick and William James.\n\nParapsychological investigation of the afterlife includes the study of haunting, apparitions of the deceased, instrumental trans-communication, electronic voice phenomena, and mediumship. But also the study of the near death experience. Scientists who have worked in this area include Raymond Moody, Susan Blackmore, Charles Tart, William James, Ian Stevenson, Michael Persinger, Pim van Lommel and Penny Sartori among others.\n\nA study conducted in 1901 by physician Duncan MacDougall sought to measure the weight lost by a human when the soul \"departed the body\" upon death. MacDougall weighed dying patients in an attempt to prove that the soul was material, tangible and thus measurable. Although MacDougall's results varied considerably from \"21 grams\", for some people this figure has become synonymous with the measure of a soul's mass. The title of the 2003 movie \"21 Grams\" is a reference to MacDougall's findings. His results have never been reproduced, and are generally regarded either as meaningless or considered to have had little if any scientific merit.\n\nFrank Tipler has argued that physics can explain immortality, though such arguments are not falsifiable and thus do not qualify, in Karl Popper's views, as science.\n\nAfter 25 years of parapsychological research, Susan Blackmore came to the conclusion that there is no empirical evidence for an afterlife.\n\nThere is still the position, based on the philosophical question of personal identity, termed open individualism, and in some ways similar to the old belief of monopsychism, that concludes that individual existence is illusory, and our consciousness continues existing after death in other conscious beings. Positions regarding existence after death were supported by some notable physicists such as Erwin Schrödinger and Freeman Dyson.\n\nCertain problems arise with the idea of a particular person continuing after death. Peter van Inwagen, in his argument regarding resurrection, notes that the materialist must have some sort of physical continuity. John Hick also raises some questions regarding personal identity in his book, \"Death and Eternal Life\" using an example of a person ceasing to exist in one place while an exact replica appears in another. If the replica had all the same experiences, traits, and physical appearances of the first person, we would all attribute the same identity to the second, according to Hick.\n\nIn the panentheistic model of process philosophy and theology the writers Alfred North Whitehead and Charles Hartshorne rejected that the universe was made of substance, instead reality is composed of living experiences (occasions of experience). According to Hartshorne people do not experience subjective (or personal) immortality in the afterlife, but they do have objective immortality because their experiences live on forever in God, who contains all that was. However other process philosophers such as David Ray Griffin have written that people may have subjective experience after death.\n\nRegarding the mind–body problem, most neuroscientists take a physicalist position according to which consciousness derives from and/or is reducible to physical phenomena such as neuronal activity occurring in the brain. The implication of this premise is that once the brain stops functioning at brain death, consciousness fails to survive and ceases to exist.\n\nPsychological proposals for the origin of a belief in an afterlife include cognitive disposition, cultural learning, and as an intuitive religious idea. In one study, children were able to recognize the ending of physical, mental, and perceptual activity in death, but were hesitant to conclude the ending of will, self, or emotion in death.\n\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "102883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102883", "title": "Belief", "text": "Belief\n\nBelief is the state of mind in which a person thinks something to be the case with or without there being empirical evidence to prove that something is the case with factual certainty. Another way of defining belief sees it as a mental representation of an attitude positively oriented towards the likelihood of something being true. In the context of Ancient Greek thought, two related concepts were identified with regards to the concept of belief: \"pistis\" and \"doxa\". Simplified, we may say that \"pistis\" refers to \"trust\" and \"confidence\", while \"doxa\" refers to \"opinion\" and \"acceptance\". The English word \"orthodoxy\" derives from \"doxa\". Jonathan Leicester suggests that belief has the purpose of guiding action rather than indicating truth.\n\nIn epistemology, philosophers use the term \"belief\" to refer to personal attitudes\nassociated with true or false ideas and concepts. However, \"belief\" does not require active introspection and circumspection. For example, we never ponder whether or not the sun will rise. We simply assume the sun will rise. Since \"belief\" is an important aspect of mundane life, according to Eric Schwitzgebel in the \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\", a related question asks: \"how a physical organism can have beliefs?\"\n\nEpistemology is concerned with delineating the boundary between justified belief and opinion, and involved generally with a theoretical philosophical study of knowledge. The primary problem in epistemology is to understand exactly what is needed in order for us to have knowledge. In a notion derived from Plato's dialogue \"Theaetetus\", where the epistemology of Socrates (Platon) most clearly departs from that of the sophists, who at the time of Plato seem to have defined knowledge as what is here expressed as \"justified true belief\". The tendency to translate from belief (here: doxa – common opinion) to knowledge (here: episteme), which Plato (e.g. Socrates of the dialogue) utterly dismisses, results from failing to distinguish a dispositive belief (gr. 'doxa', not 'pistis') from knowledge (episteme) when the opinion is regarded \"true\" (here: orthé), in terms of right, and juristically so (according to the premises of the dialogue), which was the task of the rhetors to prove. Plato dismisses this possibility of an affirmative relation between belief (i.e. opinion) and knowledge even when the one who opines grounds his belief on the rule, and is able to add \"justification\" (gr. logos: reasonable and necessarily plausible assertions/evidence/guidance) to it.\n\nPlato has been credited for the \"justified true belief\" theory of knowledge, even though Plato in the Theaetetus (dialogue) elegantly dismisses it, and even posits this argument of Socrates as a cause for his death penalty. Among American epistemologists, Gettier (1963) and Goldman (1967), have questioned the \"justified true belief\" definition, and challenged the \"sophists\" of their time.\n\nMainstream psychology and related disciplines have traditionally treated belief as if it were the simplest form of mental representation and therefore one of the building blocks of conscious thought. Philosophers have tended to be more abstract in their analysis, and much of the work examining the viability of the belief concept stems from philosophical analysis.\n\nThe concept of belief presumes a subject (the believer) and an object of belief (the proposition). So, like other propositional attitudes, belief implies the existence of mental states and intentionality, both of which are hotly debated topics in the philosophy of mind, whose foundations and relation to brain states are still controversial.\n\nBeliefs are sometimes divided into core beliefs (that are actively thought about) and \"dispositional beliefs\" (that may be ascribed to someone who has not thought about the issue). For example, if asked \"do you believe tigers wear pink pajamas?\" a person might answer that they do not, despite the fact they may never have thought about this situation before.\n\nThis has important implications for understanding the neuropsychology and neuroscience of belief. If the concept of belief is incoherent, then any attempt to find the underlying neural processes that support it will fail.\n\nPhilosopher Lynne Rudder Baker has outlined four main contemporary approaches to belief in her controversial book \"Saving Belief\":\nStrategic approaches make a distinction between rules, norms and beliefs as follows:\n(1) Rules. Explicit regulative processes such as policies, laws, inspection routines, or incentives. Rules function as a coercive regulator of behavior and are dependent upon the imposing entity's ability to enforce them.\n(2) Norms. Regulative mechanisms accepted by the social collective. Norms are enforced by normative mechanisms within the organization and are not strictly dependent upon law or regulation.\n(3) Beliefs. The collective perception of fundamental truths governing behavior. The adherence to accepted and shared beliefs by members of a social system will likely persist and be difficult to change over time. Strong beliefs about determinant factors (i.e., security, survival, or honor) are likely to cause a social entity or group to accept rules and norms.\n\nHistorically \"belief-in\" belonged in the realm of religious thought, \"belief-that\" instead belonged to epistemological considerations.\n\nTo \"believe in\" someone or something is a distinct concept from \"believing-that.\" There are at least these types of belief-in:\n\n\nEconomic beliefs are beliefs which are reasonably and necessarily contrary to the tenet of rational choice or instrumental rationality.\n\nStudies of the Austrian tradition of the economic thought, in the context of analysis of the influence and subsequent degree of change resulting from existing economic knowledge and belief, has contributed the most to the subsequent holistic collective analysis.\n\nInsofar as the truth of belief is expressed in sentential and propositional form we are using the sense of \"belief-that\" rather than \"belief-in\". Delusion arises when the truth value of the form is clearly nil.\n\nDelusions are defined as beliefs in psychiatric diagnostic criteria (for example in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\"). Psychiatrist and historian G.E. Berrios has challenged the view that delusions are genuine beliefs and instead labels them as \"empty speech acts,\" where affected persons are motivated to express false or bizarre belief statements due to an underlying psychological disturbance. However, the majority of mental health professionals and researchers treat delusions as if they were genuine beliefs.\n\nIn Lewis Carroll's \"Through the Looking-Glass\" the White Queen says, \"Why, sometimes I've believed as many as six impossible things before breakfast.\" This is often quoted in mockery of the common ability of people to entertain beliefs contrary to fact.\n\nPsychologists study belief formation and the relationship between beliefs and actions. Three models of belief formation and change have been proposed:\n\nWhen people are asked to estimate the likelihood that a statement is true, they search their memory for information that has implications for the validity of this statement. Once this information has been identified, they estimate a) the likelihood that the statement would be true if the information were true, and b) the likelihood that the statement would be true if the information were false. If their estimates for these two probabilities differ, people average them, weighting each by the likelihood that the information is true and false (respectively). Thus, information bears directly on beliefs of another, related statement.\n\nUnlike the previous model, this one takes into consideration the possibility of multiple factors influencing belief formation. Using regression procedures, this model predicts belief formation on the basis of several different pieces of information, with weights assigned to each piece on the basis of their relative importance.\n\nThese models address the fact that the responses people have to belief-relevant information is unlikely to be predicted from the objective basis of the information that they can recall at the time their beliefs are reported. Instead, these responses reflect the number and meaning of the thoughts that people have about the message at the time that they encounter it.\n\nSome influences on people's belief formation include:\n\nHowever, even educated people, well aware of the process by which beliefs form, still strongly cling to their beliefs, and act on those beliefs even against their own self-interest. In Anna Rowley's book, Leadership Therapy, she states \"You want your beliefs to change. It's proof that you are keeping your eyes open, living fully, and welcoming everything that the world and people around you can teach you.\" This means that peoples' beliefs should evolve as they gain new experiences.\n\nJustified true belief is a definition of knowledge that gained approval during the Enlightenment, 'justified' standing in contrast to 'revealed'. There have been attempts to trace it back to Plato and his dialogues. The concept of justified true belief states that in order to know that a given proposition is true, one must not only believe the relevant true proposition, but also have justification for doing so. In more formal terms, an agent formula_1 knows that a proposition formula_2 is true if and only if:\n\nThis theory of knowledge suffered a significant setback with the discovery of Gettier problems, situations in which the above conditions were seemingly met but that many philosophers disagree that anything is known. Robert Nozick suggested a clarification of \"justification\" which he believed eliminates the problem: the justification has to be such that were the justification false, the knowledge would be false. Bernecker and Dretske (2000) argue that \"no epistemologist since Gettier has seriously and successfully defended the traditional view.\" On the other hand, Paul Boghossian argues that the Justified True Belief account is the \"standard, widely accepted\" definition of knowledge.\n\nAn extensive amount of scientific research and philosophical discussion exists around the modification of beliefs, which is commonly referred to as belief revision.\nGenerally speaking, the process of belief revision entails the believer weighing the set of truths and/or evidence, and the dominance of a set of truths or evidence on an alternative to a held belief can lead to revision. One process of belief revision is Bayesian updating and is often referenced for its mathematical basis and conceptual simplicity. However, such a process may not be representative for individuals whose beliefs are not easily characterized as probabilistic.\n\nThere are several techniques for individuals or groups to change the beliefs of others; these methods generally fall under the umbrella of persuasion. Persuasion can take on more specific forms such as consciousness raising when considered in an activist or political context.\nBelief modification may also occur as a result of the experience of outcomes. Because goals are based, in part on beliefs, the success or failure at a particular goal may contribute to modification of beliefs that supported the original goal.\n\nWhether or not belief modification actually occurs is dependent not only on the extent of truths or evidence for the alternative belief, but also characteristics outside the specific truths or evidence. This includes, but is not limited to: the source characteristics of the message, such as credibility; social pressures; the anticipated consequences of a modification; or the ability of the individual or group to act on the modification. Therefore, individuals seeking to achieve belief modification in themselves or others need to consider all possible forms of resistance to belief revision.\n\nWithout qualification, \"belief\" normally implies a lack of doubt, especially insofar as it is a designation of a life stance. In practical everyday use however, belief is normally partial and retractable with varying degrees of certainty.\n\nA copious literature exists in multiple disciplines to accommodate this reality. In mathematics probability, fuzzy logic, fuzzy set theory, and other topics are largely directed to this.\n\nDifferent psychological models have tried to predict people's beliefs and some of them try to estimate the exact probabilities of beliefs. For example, Robert Wyer developed a model of subjective probabilities. When people rate the likelihood of a certain statement (e.g., \"It will rain tomorrow\"), this rating can be seen as a subjective probability value. The subjective probability model posits that these subjective probabilities follow the same rules as objective probabilities. For example, the law of total probability might be applied to predict a subjective probability value. Wyer found that this model produces relatively accurate predictions for probabilities of single events and for changes in these probabilities, but that the probabilities of several beliefs linked by \"and\" or \"or\" do not follow the model as well.\n\nReligious belief refers to attitudes towards mythological, supernatural, or spiritual aspects of a religion. Religious belief is distinct from religious practice and from religious behaviours – with some believers not practicing religion and some practitioners not believing religion. Religious beliefs, deriving from ideas that are exclusive to religion, often relate to the existence, characteristics and worship of a deity or deities, to the idea of divine intervention in the universe and in human life, or to the deontological explanations for the values and practices centered on the teachings of a spiritual leader or of a spiritual group. In contrast to other belief systems, religious beliefs are usually codified.\n\nA popular view holds that different religions each have identifiable and exclusive sets of beliefs or creeds, but surveys of religious belief have often found that the official doctrine and descriptions of the beliefs offered by religious authorities do not always agree with the privately held beliefs of those who identify as members of a particular religion. For a broad classification of the kinds of religious belief, see below.\n\nFirst self-applied as a term to the conservative doctrine outlined by anti-modernist Protestants in the United States of America, \"fundamentalism\" in religious terms denotes strict adherence to an interpretation of scriptures that are generally associated with theologically conservative positions or traditional understandings of the text and are distrustful of innovative readings, new revelation, or alternative interpretations. Religious fundamentalism has been identified in the media as being associated with fanatical or zealous political movements around the world that have used a strict adherence to a particular religious doctrine as a means to establish political identity and to enforce societal norms.\n\nFirst used in the context of Early Christianity, the term \"orthodoxy\" relates to religious belief that closely follows the edicts, apologies, and hermeneutics of a prevailing religious authority. In the case of Early Christianity, this authority was the communion of bishops, and is often referred to by the term \"Magisterium\". The term \"orthodox\" was applied almost as an epithet to a group of Jewish believers who held to pre-Enlightenment understanding of Judaism – now known as Orthodox Judaism. The Eastern Orthodox Church of Christianity and the Catholic Church each consider themselves to be the true heir to Early Christian belief and practice. The antonym of \"orthodox\" is \"heterodox\", and those adhering to orthodoxy often accuse the heterodox of apostasy, schism, or heresy.\n\nThe Renaissance and later the Enlightenment in Europe exhibited varying degrees of religious tolerance and intolerance towards new and old religious ideas. The \"philosophes\" took particular exception to many of the more fantastical claims of religions and directly challenged religious authority and the prevailing beliefs associated with the established churches. In response to the liberalizing political and social movements, some religious groups attempted to integrate Enlightenment ideals of rationality, equality, and individual liberty into their belief systems, especially in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Reform Judaism and Liberal Christianity offer two examples of such religious associations.\n\nA term signifying derogation that is used by the religious and non-religious alike, \"superstition\" refers to a deprecated belief in supernatural causation. Those who deny the existence of the supernatural generally attribute all beliefs associated with it to be superstitious, while a typical religious critique of superstition holds that it either encompasses beliefs in non-existent supernatural activity or that the supernatural activity is inappropriately feared or held in improper regard (see idolatry). Christian Churches strongly condemned occultism, animism, paganism, and other folk religions as mean forms of superstition, though such condemnation did not necessarily eliminate the beliefs among the common people, and many such religious beliefs persist .\n\nIn Buddhism, practice and progress along the spiritual path happens when one follows the system of Buddhist practice. Any religion which follows (parts of) the fundamentals of this system has, according to the teachings of Buddha, good aspects to the extent it accords with this system. Any religion which goes against (parts of) the fundamentals of this system includes bad aspects too. Any religion which does not teach certain parts of this system, is not because of this a \"bad\" religion; it just lacks those teachings and is to that extent incomplete.\n\nA question by the monk Subhadda to the Buddha:\nThe Buddha replied:\nAs a religious tradition, Hinduism has experienced many attempts at systemization. In medieval times, Shankara advocated for the Advaita system of philosophy. In recent times, Tamala Krishna Gosvami has researched the systemization of Krishna theology as expounded by Srila Prabhupada. (See Krishnology)\n\nSome believe that religion cannot be separated from other aspects of life, or believe that certain cultures did not or do not separate their religious activities from other activities in the same way that some people in modern Western cultures do.\n\nSome anthropologists report cultures in which gods are involved in every aspect of life – if a cow goes dry, a god has caused this, and must be propitiated; when the sun rises in the morning, a god has caused this, and must be thanked. Even in modern Western cultures, many people see supernatural forces behind every event, as described by Carl Sagan in his 1995 book \"The Demon-Haunted World\".\n\nPeople with such a worldview often regard the influence of Western culture as inimical. Others with this worldview resist the influence of science, and believe that science (or \"so-called science\") should be guided by religion. Still others with this worldview believe that all political decisions and laws should be guided by religion. This last belief, written into the constitutions of many Islamic nations, is shared by some fundamentalist Christians.\n\nIn addition, beliefs about the supernatural or metaphysical may not presuppose a difference between any such thing as nature and non-nature, nor between science and what most educated people believe. In the view of some historians, the pre-Socratic Athenians saw science, political tradition, culture and religion as not easily distinguishable, but as all part of the same body of knowledge and wisdom available to a community.\n\nAdherents of particular religions deal with the differing doctrines and practices espoused by other religions or by other religious denominations in a variety of ways. All strains of thought appear in different segments of all major world religions.\n\nPeople with exclusivist beliefs typically explain other beliefs either as in error, or as corruptions or counterfeits of the true faith. This approach is a fairly consistent feature among smaller new religious movements that often rely on doctrine that claims a unique revelation by the founders or leaders, and considers it a matter of faith that the \"correct\" religion has a monopoly on truth. All three major Abrahamic monotheistic religions have passages in their holy scriptures that attest to the primacy of the scriptural testimony, and indeed monotheism itself is often vouched as an innovation characterized specifically by its explicit rejection of earlier polytheistic faiths.\n\nSome exclusivist faiths incorporate a specific element of proselytization. This is a strongly-held belief in the Christian tradition which follows the doctrine of the Great Commission, and is less emphasized by the Islamic faith where the Quranic edict \"There shall be no compulsion in religion\" (2:256) is often quoted as a justification for toleration of alternative beliefs. The Jewish tradition does not actively seek out converts.\n\nExclusivism correlates with conservative, fundamentalist, and orthodox approaches of many religions, while pluralistic and syncretist approaches either explicitly downplay or reject the exclusivist tendencies within a religion.\n\nPeople with inclusivist beliefs recognize some truth in all faith systems, highlighting agreements and minimizing differences. This attitude is sometimes associated with Interfaith dialogue or with the Christian Ecumenical movement, though in principle such attempts at pluralism are not necessarily inclusivist and many actors in such interactions (for example, the Roman Catholic Church) still hold to exclusivist dogma while participating in inter-religious organizations.\n\nExplicitly inclusivist religions include many that are associated with the New Age movement, as well as modern reinterpretations of Hinduism and Buddhism. The Bahá'í Faith considers it doctrine that there is truth in all faith-systems.\n\nPeople with pluralist beliefs make no distinction between faith systems, viewing each one as valid within a particular culture. Examples include:\n\n\nPeople with syncretistic views blend the views of a variety of different religions or traditional beliefs into a unique fusion which suits their particular experiences and contexts (\"see\" eclecticism). Unitarian Universalism exemplifies a syncretistic faith.\n\nTypical reasons for adherence to religion include the following:\n\n\nPsychologist James Alcock also summarizes a number of apparent benefits which reinforce religious belief. These include prayer appearing to account for successful resolution of problems, \"a bulwark against existential anxiety and fear of annihilation,\" an increased sense of control, companionship with one's deity, a source of self-significance, and group identity.\n\nTypical reasons for rejection of religion include:\n\nA belief system is a set of mutually supportive beliefs. The beliefs of any such system can be classified as religious, philosophical, political, ideological, or a combination of these. Philosopher Jonathan Glover says that beliefs are always part of a belief system, and that tenanted belief systems are difficult for the tenants to completely revise or reject.\n\nA collective belief is referred to when people speak of what 'we' believe when this is not simply elliptical for what 'we all' believe.\n\nSociologist Émile Durkheim wrote of collective beliefs and proposed that they, like all 'social facts', 'inhered in' social groups as opposed to individual persons. Durkheim's discussion of collective belief, though suggestive, is relatively obscure.\n\nPhilosopher Margaret Gilbert has offered a related account in terms of the joint commitment of a number of persons to accept a certain belief as a body. According to this account, individuals who together collectively believe something need not personally believe it themselves. Gilbert's work on the topic has stimulated a developing literature among philosophers. One question that has arisen is whether and how philosophical accounts of belief in general need to be sensitive to the possibility of collective belief.\n\nJonathan Glover believes that he and other philosophers ought to play some role in starting dialogues between people with deeply held, opposing beliefs, especially if there is risk of violence. Glover also believes that philosophy can offer insights about beliefs that would be relevant to such dialogue.\nGlover suggests that beliefs have to be considered holistically, and that no belief exists in isolation in the mind of the believer. It always implicates and relates to other beliefs. Glover provides the example of a patient with an illness who returns to a doctor, but the doctor says that the prescribed medicine is not working. At that point, the patient has a great deal of flexibility in choosing what beliefs to keep or reject: the patient could believe that the doctor is incompetent, that the doctor's assistants made a mistake, that the patient's own body is unique in some unexpected way, that Western medicine is ineffective, or even that Western science is entirely unable to discover truths about ailments.\n\nGlover maintains that any person can continue to hold any belief if they would really like to (e.g., with help from ad hoc hypotheses). One belief can be held fixed, and other beliefs will be altered around it. Glover warns that some beliefs may not be entirely explicitly believed (e.g., some people may not realize they have racist belief systems adopted from their environment as a child). Glover believes that people tend to first realize that beliefs can change, and may be contingent on their upbringing, around age 12 or 15.\n\nGlover emphasizes that beliefs are difficult to change. He says that one may try to rebuild one's beliefs on more secure foundations (axioms), like building a new house, but warns that this may not be possible. Glover offers the example of René Descartes, saying about Descartes that \"[h]e starts off with the characteristic beliefs of a 17th-century Frenchman; he then junks the lot, he rebuilds the system, and somehow it looks a lot like the beliefs of a 17th-century Frenchman.\" To Glover, belief systems are not like houses but are instead like boats. As Glover puts it: \"Maybe the whole thing needs rebuilding, but inevitably at any point you have to keep enough of it intact to keep floating.\"\n\nGlover's final message is that if people talk about their beliefs, they may find more deep, relevant, philosophical ways in which they disagree (e.g., less obvious beliefs, or more deeply held beliefs). Glover thinks that people often manage to find agreements and consensus through philosophy. He says that at the very least, if people do not convert each other, they will hold their own beliefs more openmindedly and will be less likely to go to war over conflicting beliefs.\n\nThe British philosopher Stephen Law has described some belief systems (including belief in homeopathy, psychic powers, and alien abduction) as \"claptrap\" and said that they \"draw people in and hold them captive so they become willing slaves to victory... if you get sucked in, it can be extremely difficult to think your way clear again\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23712707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23712707", "title": "Buddhism and euthanasia", "text": "Buddhism and euthanasia\n\nBuddhist views, although varying on a series of canons within the three branches of Buddhism (Theravada, Mahayana, and Vajrayana), observe the concept of euthanasia, or \"mercy killing\", in a denunciatory manner. Such methods of euthanasia include voluntary, involuntary, and non-voluntary. In the past, as one school of Buddhism evolved into the next, their scriptures recorded through the oral messages of Buddha himself on Buddhist principles and values followed, guiding approximately 500 million Buddhists spanning the globe on their path to nirvana. In the Monastic Rule, or Vinaya, a consensus is reached by the Buddha on euthanasia and assisted suicide that expresses a lack of fondness of its practice.\nBuddhism does not confirm that life should be conserved by implementing whatever is necessary to prolong death, but instead expresses that the intentional precipitation of death is ethically inadmissible in every condition one is presented in.\n\nThe Vinaya Tripitaka is one of three Buddhist canonical sources that makes up the Tripitaka that most relates to euthanasia. It was created to encompass a series of case laws in which Buddha provided judgement on various matters, even though the term \"euthanasia\" is not specifically mentioned. Monks and nuns are meant to follow the decorum that is relayed, which expresses what is considered to be wrongfully killing someone (prohibited by Buddhist precepts) by the actions of another who is conferred to follow holy orders and those who are not. Outside of Vinaya, there is no specific mention in early Buddhist texts on euthanasia. During the life of Buddha, instances occurred when monks who practiced medicine were put in situations where they had to make a decision to assist in another's suicide by physically taking their life, providing the instrument used to take their life, or allowing the person to suffer, as observed in cases written in Vinaya. The Buddha, therefore, included a precept in Vinaya against the termination of another human life following the discovery that monks either took their own life or requested that others kill them because they were unhappy with their body. Buddha stated that:\n\nWith this, Buddha later expanded the precept in the third parajika, adding the punishment of excommunication for life from the Sangha after recognizing a number of monks provoking a patient to believe that he should choose death over life. In this instance, the monks praised the idea that death was beautiful to a sick monk, persuading him to take an unrevealed measure to end his life. Because of the monk's expression of virtue, as he was informed by other monks, he would receive a good rebirth. As a result of these provocations, the monk stopped eating and later died.\n\nBuddhists believe that life begins at the point of birth and ends when the individual dies. Throughout the course of the individual's life, between life and death, they are to be respected with dignity, regardless of their state of mental capacity or psychometric functions. What constitutes life in a body is usma (heat), ayu (vitality), and vinanna (sentiency). Among Buddhists, there is much confusion as to when one is truly dead. Some consider death to be when the brain loses its functionality. And there are those who disagree with this idea. When Buddha passed away, according to ancient texts, his 25-year personal attendant Ananda declared him as dead. However, Ananda was later corrected by a monk senior to him, claiming that Buddha was only in a severe state of yogistic stupor. During this yogic trance, Buddha lacked any vital signs of life, making it unclear for future Buddhists to determine the point of death when such physiological states exist and are relayed in Buddhist literary texts. Although at death one loses all physical possessions, leaving their family, loved ones, and achievements all behind, death does not destroy all that belongs to a person. The purification of their character through virtuous and meditative practices carries over into their next life and into their mental sequence of continuation.Buddhists hold the belief that upon death, they are reborn and will experience life through a series of lifetimes called samsara until they can cease to desire and nirvana is obtained. In conjunction with a person's previously attained karma, their state of mind at the point of death holds great importance when the determining of what kind of rebirth is to take place. There are six realms of life in Buddhist cosmology: Hell realm (Naraka), hungry ghost (Preta) realm, animal realm (Tiracchānayoni), human realm (Manussa), demi-god realm (Asura), and god realm (Deva). Of all the realms that exist, the human realm is the most anticipated, yet the most difficult to obtain. Based on the level of karma one garners in their current lifetime, it is determined at which realm one diverges to next upon death. The first three realms (Hell realm, hungry ghost realm, and animal realm) are the most detested of the six and are meant to cause suffering, disallowing proper mental capabilities as a result of negative karma from negative acts performed during the previous life. And although more acceptable than the former, the asura and god realm remain unfavorable as they permit one ultimate happiness but prevents the opportunity for the spirit to progress. Only through good karma can one's spirit reach the human realm. Euthanasia, although it can be considered a compassionate act, is not seen in Buddhism as an act of selflessness and benevolence, but rather an act of damage masked as help, which in turn can result in negative karma. If someone is suffering as a result of sickness, it could be a result of karma, and ending their life is not likely to end their adversity, as the suffering caused by karma will only follow them after death until its energy concludes.\n\nCompassion (karuṇā) is a Buddhist value that reinforces how Buddhism views standards in medicine, which is observed in all three schools of Buddhism. Although it can be seen as morally good, committing an act through compassion is not always justified. Taking a life out of compassion to mitigate the affliction one experiences through illness or injury is an instance in which a person may feel he or she is vindicated to exploit euthanasia. However, in Buddhism and the Bodhisattva, it can create incongruities through the infringement of life. An example of an unjustified act of compassion is a case written in the Vinaya, where a convicted man is hastily executed after a monk requests the executioner to do so, as to not prolong his suffering and the sorrowful period he has to wait. A morally good scenario of compassion would be if a patient in a hospital in his or her right mind feels that their ailment is using too much of a valuable resource in limited quantities, or causing their family to spend large sums of money that is not readily available on medical bills to keep them alive. Out of morally good compassion, he or she might decide to cease the sources of life preservation without pressure from others. Had those associations been pressuring the patient to forgo further life saving treatment, this could be observed as murderous. If the patient were terminally ill and unable to eat on their own accord, it would be a requirement of his or her associations to assist them, even if intravenous feeding was necessary. Buddhism paints life in a way that is fundamentally valuable, and it should never be surrendered for any reason, whether compassion, amity, or anything of value. It would be an ill-advised way to show compassion rooted in misconception to endorse death using compassion as the reasoning.\n\nAccording to Buddhist precepts, someone who is in a vegetative state is neither dead nor alive, but instead is said to be in some form of obscure state of mind and still a living individual. They lack the necessity to rely on outside assistance to support their ability to stay alive other than being supplemented with nutrients to keep them functioning for a significant number of years. With this, Buddhism sees someone in a vegetative state as a living, breathing life form, because the value in which one's life holds is not observed through individualism. Although Buddhism views this state of being as damaged, the individual should be treated no different than before. Both animals and humans, prior to their birth as they await in the mother's womb, have value and therefore should not have their life taken from them. However, some Buddhists are under the impression that an unconscious life, or one that lacks awareness, does not have value, which is highly debatable. Buddhism shows that even with a damaged physical organ, such as the brain, someone is still deserving of compassion because they are still capable of causing varying emotions in someone who cares for them. To end a life because of a patient's state of mind and to deny them treatment would be an act of abandonment, which would be considered irrational and unfair because Buddhists have a strong belief in compassion for all living things.\n\nA vegetative state can be considered a varied form of meditation where the sentience of someone acts in a way not ordinary to what is regularly observed. Another form of consciousness where the body does not react is that of \"formless\" rebirths. Due to these meditative states, it is often difficult to determine in a physical manner a state of consciousness. The state of consciousness, at the time, may be experiencing a demonstration of going through the processes of death in ultimate preparation so that once death does come, it can receive the best form of rebirth. During this process of preparation, the eyes and other sense-organs will cease to function, but the person's sense of touch, brain function, and life force lie in the heart. In Buddhism, considering the conception of meditative states, some in a vegetative state are therefore still sentient. Being in a continuous state of vegetation is not the same as the process by which one prepares for death, even though it does resemble it. The possibility exists for one to lack the function to breathe and think, but still be alive.\n\nMoving someone who is terminally ill into hospice care to help mitigate physical pain with pain relievers that is not intended to end their life, allowing them to pass away painless and comfortable, is a highly considerable alternative to euthanasia. Hospice care is meant to assist a person to have, what is called a \"good death.\" When one nears death, they should be able to reflect on their life peacefully. Since 1971, the San Francisco Zen Center has offered assistance to terminally ill patients, with trained hospice employees since the inception of a hospice training program in 1987. The Buddhist Hospice Trust in the United Kingdom has been an alternative to this center since its founding in 1987. Not only does it provide volunteers to visit those nearing death, but it provides an avenue for those who lost someone they cared about to receive counsel and sympathy and is also used as a center into researching death and mourning. The purpose of such a center is to truly alleviate any amount of anxiety one could experience when approaching death, leaving known loved ones behind, and to ensure a clear and calm state of mind. Hospice care employees therefore prefer not to allow a person to die in an anesthetized, unconscious state of mind. A positive transition to a future life is best obtained when one dies with a clear conscience, free of anger, dissent, and anxiety, and in a relaxed state of being. In Buddhism, a \"good death\" is facilitated by family and friends, who do their best to ensure the dying person is untroubled and uplifted.\n\n"}
{"id": "41042751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41042751", "title": "Center for Jewish–Christian Understanding and Cooperation", "text": "Center for Jewish–Christian Understanding and Cooperation\n\nThe Center for Jewish–Christian Understanding and Cooperation or CJCUC is an educational institution at which Christians who tour Israel can study the Hebrew Bible with Orthodox rabbis and learn about the Hebraic roots of Christianity. The center was established in Efrat in 2008 by Rabbi Dr. Shlomo Riskin, who has been described as \"the most prominent rabbinic spokesperson to Christian Zionists\". CJCUC partners with major Christian interfaith organizations such as Christians United for Israel and the International Christian Embassy Jerusalem.\n\nThe ideological groundwork, which led to the eventual establishment of CJCUC in 2008, began to take shape almost 50 years beforehand. In 1964, Rabbi Joseph B. Soloveitchik, the teacher and mentor of CJCUC's Chancellor and Founder, Shlomo Riskin, published an essay entitled \"Confrontation\" in which he expounded his views on interfaith dialogue and carefully drew out guidelines which permitted such a dialogue and, in the view of Riskin, not only permitted it but rendered it necessary.\n\nAt around the same time, fundamental ideological shifts were forming within the ranks of the Catholic Church, and a year after Soloveitchik's essay was published, The Holy See issued \"Nostra aetate\", the Declaration on the Relation of the Church with Non-Christian Religions. \"Nostra aetate\" absolved the Jews from the crucifixion of Jesus, and admitted that religious antisemitism had a significant role in laying the foundation for the atrocities perpetrated against the Jewish people.\n\nRiskin's academic plunge into Jewish–Christian relations began in the early 1960s when he attended seminars, held by Professor David Flusser, about the Christian Gospels at The Hebrew University of Jerusalem. As an Orthodox Jew, he could pinpoint the parallels for Jesus' teachings within the Hebrew scripture.\n\nAfter settling in Efrat, Riskin began to engage with the Christian world. Most of the Christian visitors to Efrat, those who came to hear and learn, were Evangelicals. He formed relations with Rev. Robert Stearns of Eagles' Wings and with Pastor John Hagee.\n\nCJCUC hosts Christian groups from all over the world for all-day seminars, which include tours\nof biblical sites such as nearby Jerusalem, the Path of the Patriarchs and the Herodian wells.\nAmong the subjects that the seminar series includes are Jewish–Christian Relations; the Theology\nof Biblical Holidays; Covenant and Mission; The Ten Commandments; Satan, Evil and Free Will;\nJudaism and the Ministry of Jesus; and Human Life Created in the Image of God.\n\nThe center runs educational seminars for students and faculty of Catholic and Protestant seminaries in the United States, Canada, and Europe. It has appointed North American and European directors to coordinate relations with religious leaders on these continents.\n\nCJCUC has established a Theological Think Tank, the Institute for Theological Inquiry (ITI), headed by Rabbi Eugene Korn and Dr. Robert Jenson of the Witherspoon Institute, which consists of international scholars and theologians whose tasks are to clarify areas of Jewish and Christian theological agreement and disagreement, as well as identify areas of fruitful cooperation. The topics focus on past and present Jewish–Christian Relations, Covenant, Salvation, Biblical Hermeneutics, Religion and Violence, Ethical Monotheism, and\nMessianism.\n\nIn May 2011, CJCUC facilitated and sponsored a Yale University student group consisting of Orthodox Jewish and Evangelical Christians to learn the fundamentals of Jewish–Christian relations.\n\nIn March 2012, CJCUC took Latin American priests and rabbis to learn the fundamentals of Jewish-Catholic relations in the backdrop of the Holy Land.\n\nIn June 2012, CJCUC partnered with Christians United for Israel to bring 30 Evangelical pastors from the U.S. to learn the fundamentals of Jewish–Christian relations.\n\nIn February 2013, CJCUC co-sponsored the visit of more than 160 pastors to Israel through the Christians United for Israel organization.\n\nIn January 2015, CJCUC founder, Rabbi Shlomo Riskin along with CJCUC's Executive Director, David Nekrutman, addressed a group of 400 pastors and rabbis at a symposium held in Broward County, Florida.\n\nIn February 2015, on a visit to Oklahoma, Rabbi Riskin unveiled plans for historic high school curricula, being worked on in a joint effort with the government of Israel, detailing advancements in Jewish–Christian relations.\n\nIn July 2016, CJCUC announced that it was moving its center of operations from Efrat to the Bible Lands Museum in Jerusalem.\n\nCJCUC has received funds from Israel's Hertog family, Paul Singer Foundation, Zion's Gate International Foundation, Ministry of Justice, and John Hagee Ministries.\n\nIn October 2014, Riskin became the first Orthodox rabbi to invite Christian visitors to Israel to participate in a \"praise rally\" with Jewish interfaith leaders at the Center's headquarters during the holiday of Sukkot. For Sukkot 2012, he hosted a seminar for Christian visitors.\n\nIn March 2015, he launched the Day to Praise global initiative calling out to Christians worldwide to join him in reciting Hallel (Psalms 113–118) to praise God on Yom Ha'atzmaut (Israel's Independence Day).\n\nLater that year, in 2015, during the festival of Sukkot, CJCUC, together with its founder, Rabbi Shlomo Riskin, the chief rabbi of Efrat, hosted an interfaith event in Efrat in which 200 Christians and Jews came together to sing the praises of God in unity. Riskin said that \"the prayer event will help usher in the Messianic Age.\"\n\nCJCUC created the first food voucher program to help financially disadvantaged Christian Arabs living in the Land.\n\nIn September 2016, CJCUC's Associate Director, Rabbi Pesach Wolicki, launched the \"Blessing Bethlehem\" fundraising initiative at the LifeLight Festival in Sioux Falls, South Dakota in and effort to create a food giveaway program for persecuted Christians in Bethlehem and the surrounding area.\n\nIn October 2013, CJCUC Executive Director, David Nekrutman published a controversial appeal for funds from Jews to support the purchase of a permanent site for the Christian-Arab church of Pastor Steven Khoury.\n\nIn May 2014, CJCUC sponsored an interfaith Latin American clergy mission that visited the Ziv Medical Center in Safed, Israel, donating supplies to wounded Syrian civil war refugees.\n\nIn a September 2015 piece for The Times of Israel, Executive Director, David Nekrutman appealed to the Israeli Ministry of Education in regards to budget cuts and equal funding for Christian Schools in Israel citing these budget cuts as \"collateral damage\" of internal political issues and stating that these issues \"should never oppress minority populations\". Later, together with The Pave the Way Foundation (PTWF) and the Galilee Center for Studies in Jewish-Christian Relations (CSJCR), CJCUC initiated an international campaign urging the Israeli Prime Minister and Education Ministry to Save Christian Education.\n\nCJCUC accomplishments include:\n\n\n\n\nOn 3 December 2015, CJCUC spearheaded a petition of orthodox rabbis from around the world calling for increased partnership between Jews and Christians.\n\nThe unprecedented statement, entitled \"To Do the Will of Our Father in Heaven: Toward a Partnership between Jews and Christians\", was initially signed by over 25 prominent Orthodox rabbis in Israel, United States, and Europe, and now has over 60 signatories.\n\nThe statement cites traditional opinions by past rabbinic authorities to justify partnership with Christians and religious appreciation of Christianity.\n\nIn May 2017, the statement was approbated by Rabbi Abraham Skorka of Argentina and Cardinal Christoph Schönborn Archbishop of Vienna.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26223218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26223218", "title": "Creature worship", "text": "Creature worship\n\nIn contrast with worship of a Creator deity, the theological term creature worship refers unflatteringly to veneration of that which is created. In the biblical worldview, creature worship is seen as analogous to a reversal of the relationship between God and creature or the reversal of mindedness, which places power in the handiwork. \n\nCreature worship may include: Animal worship, Animism,Cult of personality,Household deity, Idolatry, Nature worship, and/or Pantheism.\n\nIn some Christian denominations and even in the early development of the Christian church, the veneration of saints is considered creature worship. It is based on the view that Christians worship the deity of God instead of his humanity and that all creature worship, including the bowing and reverence for any creature such as the veneration of Mary and the saints are forbidden. \n\nIn Buddhism, Buddha was said to have forbidden his disciples from worshiping his images. To get around this, some Buddhists worship objects that serve as his symbols such as the \"pipal\" tree, images of Buddha's footsteps, and the wheel of law, among others. \n\nCreature worship is part of the Hindu faith and this is based on the theory of karma and the principle of rebirth. With the goal to achieve \"nirvana\", the soul experiences rebirth in the form of different creatures. It is, thus, accepted to worship nature in all of its elements because it signifies respect for the environment as well as the worship for one's ancestors.\n"}
{"id": "2118673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2118673", "title": "Criticism of the Bahá'í Faith", "text": "Criticism of the Bahá'í Faith\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith has had many critics, who have from time to time found fault with many of its teachings and precepts, discovered apparent contradictions and inconsistencies in its history, and even raised controversial questions about specific policies and actions of past and existing administrative bodies.\n\nIn recent times, some of the more common of these criticisms have been compiled in books and blogs. Many Bahá'í authors have also given their own responses to these criticisms.\n\nA core teaching of the Bahá'í Faith is the unity of all the world's religions; They believe that the teachings of all the major religions are components of a single plan which is directed by the same God, yet that religion is cyclical in nature and becomes corrupted with time. The religions that the Bahá'í Faith claims to be congruent appear to have contradictory teachings. For instance, their attitude toward the Abrahamic prophets (Moses, Jesus, Muhammad) and the way in which followers partake in worship vary significantly among the major religions, and social laws and attitudes vary between traditions.\n\nThe principle of universalism itself has many opponents, such as Rabbi Jonathan Sacks, who claims that it not only demeans local and national traditions but also encourages widespread religious supremacy. Sacks disputes the principle of universalism on the grounds that there may not be just one truth about the essentials of the human condition. Bahá'í authors have tried to refute the criticism by claiming to promote unity in diversity.\n\nAnthropologist Fiona Bowie and author on comparative religion Karen Armstrong claim that religious ideas cannot be unified because they evolve out of primitive beliefs in animism and idolatry, ideas at odds with monotheism. Armstrong says that idol worship predates monotheism, raising the question of whether the Bahá'í ideal of unity of religion can extend to ancient beliefs and practices.\n\nChristians have been known to dismiss the Bahá'í Faith as a syncretic combination of faiths or point to discrepancies between faiths to contradict the idea of unity of religion. The Christian doctrine of atonement is commonly understood to exclude all other religions as a path to God. Regarding the Bahá'í teachings of peace and unity, Professor Browne argued that whilst they are admirable, they are, in his opinion, inferior to the simplicity and beauty of the teachings of Christ. He further argued that in the case of \"Baha'ism, with its rather vague doctrines as to the nature and destiny of the soul of man, it is a little difficult to see whence the driving force to enforce the ethical maxims can be derived.\"\n\nChristian apologist Francis J. Beckwith wrote of the Bahá'í teachings:\nBahá'í authors have attempted to address this criticism by claiming that the contradictory teachings are either social laws that change from age to age, or human error introduced to the more ancient faiths over time.\n\nStrict Muslim theology regards Muhammad as the last messenger that God has sent and Islam as the final religion for all humankind. In this view, it is impossible for either any prophet after Muhammad or any new religion to come into existence, and thus they reject the Bahá'í Faith. Some Muslims claim that the idea of oneness of humanity is not a new principle; They claim that Islam espouses such a principle. Fanatical Shīʿites have been known to picture the faith as a \"heresy\" or \"a political movement\". Many Islamic scholars reject all prophets after Muhammad, and regard Bahá'ís as apostates if they had been Muslims before conversion. Critics also argue that, despite the Bahá'í Faith's claim of unity, there are numerous theological differences between Islam and the Bahá'í Faith, with one critic, Imran Shaykh, arguing that the disparities are evidence to the Bahá'í Faith not being a natural progression of Islam, as is claimed.\n\nWhilst Bahá'í teachings assert that men and women are spiritually equal, author Lil Abdo says that the Bahá'í understanding of sexual equality is different from that of secular feminists. Abdo presented the following list of criticisms of the Bahá'í Faith from a feminist perspective at an annual gathering for Bahá'í studies in 1995:\n\nQuoting `Abdu’l-Bahā, Iranian critics claim he saw women as inferior to men. According to these critics, `Abdu’l-Bahā said: \"Although women and men share the same capacities and abilities, there is definitely no doubt that men are superior and stronger. Even in animals like pigeons, sparrows, peacocks, and other [birds] this advantage is visible,\" `Abdu’l-Bahā made the comments in light of being questioned as to why God didn't send any female prophets.\n\nAzadeh Haiati claims that whilst \"official statements from the Baha'i administration seemingly promote gender equality and the ideal of justice and equity in the world at large, Baha'i women themselves are treated with injustice\". Juan Cole notes that in 1988 the all-male House of Justice \"permanently suppressed\" an academic paper that was arguing for women to be able to serve in the UHJ. He says they insisted only men could serve.\n\nSome critics have claimed that Bahá'í leaders have tried to portray themselves as women's rights advocates in order to make their religion more appealing to modern society.\n\nAccording to Shoghi Effendi, the harmony between science and religion is an important Bahá'í principle. However, there is tension over this principle due to several instances of Bahá'í scriptures disagreeing with current scientific knowledge. Prominent among them are references by `Abdu'l-Bahá that humans evolved over a long period, but were never animals. Many Bahá'í authors have commented that the intention of the comments \"were in line with a modern understanding of evolution\" and that the apparent conflict is \"an unfortunate semantic mistake\". One Bahá'í commentator acknowledged that the comments by `Abdu'l-Bahá are not in line with current scientific understanding, but that `Abdu'l-Bahá should not be regarded as infallible in scientific matters.\n\nOther scientifically controversial ideas from Bahá'u'lláh include that the universe is without beginning or end, that every planet has \"creatures\", and that copper can turn into gold.\n\nCritics claim Bahá'u'lláh said that every star has planets, and that every planet has its own creatures. They claim that science has already \"proven the falsity of this claim\". In response, a Baha'i apologist by the name of Gary L. Mathews argued that Bahá'u'lláh's teachings explicitly stated that minerals are endowed with life. He further quotes a teaching of Bahá'u'lláh and a teaching of `Abdu'l-Bahá saying this. `Abdu'l-Bahá says this is even said in the Quran, where it supposedly says \"All things are living\". Critics however point out that this is a misquote of the Quran, which actually says, We made from water everything living . The critics further argue that in addition to this misquotation of the Quran, Mathews leaves out a part of the original quote which they argue has `Abdu'l-Bahá claim that materialists agree that every star has planets and that every planet has life. The critics summarise this by saying, \"As if distorting the Quran wasn't enough `Abdu'l-Bahá puts the burden of his lies upon the materialists\".\n\nAccording to critics, Bahá'u'lláh claimed to be God. William Miller says that the wording of the Aqdas made it difficult to distinguish between the words of the author (Bahá'u'lláh) and the words of God. He further opines that \"Bahá'u'lláh felt no such distinction was necessary\" and that \"Bahá'u'lláh claims to be not merely a human Messenger of God, but a Divine Manifestation\". Samuel Wilson writes that the fundamental assertion of the Bahá'í Faith is that Bahá'u'lláh is the incarnation of \"God the Father\". He further quotes `Abdu'l-Bahá saying, \"Thanks to Baha Ullah, we arrived safely in Liverpool.\" This supposed claim of divinity has been criticised by Imran Shaykh who points to this as an example of a discrepancy between faiths.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith espouses the need to abolish racial prejudices. Critics have claimed that comments made by `Abdu'l-Bahá are contrary to this principle, and show racial prejudice against Black Africans. For example, in \"Twelve Principles\" (2014) `Abdu'l-Bahá is quoted as saying that Africans are \"cows\" with \"human faces\". In addition he is further quoted as saying: \"The [black Africans] are like animals in human form. The [black Americans] are civilized, intelligent, and have culture. [...] what difference is there between these two types of blacks other than nurture, with one in utter ignorance and the other completely civilized?\"\n\nResponding to this, a Bahá'í blogger (Sen McGlinn) claims to directly address the criticism by arguing that the racist references are examples of `Abdu'l-Bahá describing the opinions of others and that with the context of surrounding text `Abdu'l-Bahá does not appear racist and that the writings in question are using Africans as an example of humans \"in a state of nature\" that can be improved through education.\n\nAlthough polygamy is forbidden by Bahá'í law, Bahá'u'lláh himself had three concurrent wives.\n\nBahá'u'lláh very specifically abolished the slave trade among his followers in 1874, but the Báb and Bahá'u'lláh were raised in households that included slaves and, according to Abu'l Qasim, they owned slaves in adulthood too.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith identifies itself as the fulfillment of the Bábí Faith. The separation of the two began in 1863 and was accompanied by conflict and murders.\n\nThe Bahá'í scriptures intend for a line of Guardians appointed by their predecessor - the Kitáb-i-Aqdas states that all Bahá'ís must leave a will, however Shoghi Effendi (the first guardian) broke this law and left no provision for the future administration and guidance of the faith. Due to the first Guardian leaving no appointment, the line ended.\n\nAlthough the Faith emphasizes its own unity, the Bahá'í Faith has had several challenges to leadership, resulting in the formation of breakaway factions. Claimants challenging the widely accepted successions of leadership are shunned by the majority group as Covenant-Breakers. By the time of Shoghi Effendis passing, almost every member of Bahaullahs family had been expelled from the faith.\n\nBahá'ís have been accused, particularly by successive Iranian governments, of being agents or spies of Russia, Britain, the Shah, the United States, and as agents of Zionism—each claim being linked to each regime's relevant enemy and justifying anti-Bahá'í actions. The last claim is partially rooted in the presence of the Bahá'í World Centre in northern Israel.\n\nThere has been criticism of the Bahá'í Faith that has centered on what critics see as exaggerated statements concerning numbers of believers.\n\nThe table below highlights some differences between Bahá'í-cited data and Census data.\nBahá'ís wishing to publish books about the Bahá'í Faith must first submit their work to their respective National Spiritual Assembly for approval through a review process. This process has had critics, some of whom have characterized this requirement as a form of censorship.\n\nJuan Cole refers to this process as \"mandatory prepublication censorship\" of everything Bahá'ís publish about their religion. He argues that Bahá'í leaders employ control mechanisms to \"shape the speech and behavior of Bahá'ís\". Furthermore, he says that when a group of editors proposed their idea of discontinuing censorship and having term limits for N.S.A. members, the N.S.A.'s response was to accuse the editors of engaging in \"negative campaigning\". The editors were then publicly denounced and interrogated by assembly members, who privately expressed concerns that the publication of such a document might have prevented the current members from being reelected. According to Cole, the censorship instituted by the Bahá'í Faith has led to \"intellectually acute Bahá'í literature, to a lack of indepedent magazines and to the withdrawal of a number of Bahá'í writers.\" He states that writers who publicly disagree with the policies of the Bahá'í institutions risk having their voting rights removed, being declared non-members and, the most serious sanction of all, being declared a \"covenant breaker\".\n\nJuan Cole was an American academic who resigned from membership in the Bahá'í Faith in 1996 after conflict with members of the Bahá'í administration, who perceived him as extreme and threatened him with a Bahá'í version of excommunication. Cole went on to critically attack the Bahá'í Faith in several books and articles written from 1998-2002, describing a prominent Bahá'í as an \"inquisitor\" and \"bigot\", and describing Bahá'í institutions as socially isolating, dictatorial, and controlling, with financial irregularities and sexual deviance. Soon after his resignation, Cole created an email list and website called H-Bahai, which became a repository of both primary source material and critical analysis on the religion. For example, he wrote in 2002:\n"}
{"id": "9831038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9831038", "title": "Declaration of faith", "text": "Declaration of faith\n\nA declaration of faith is a phrase that is said by a member of any religion to show either to themselves, their God or other members of the religion their belief and faith in the religion. Notable declarations of faith include the Sign of the Cross in Christianity, the Shahadah in Islam and the Shema Yisrael in Judaism.\n\nThere are numerous other declarations of faith, typically performed during religious rituals in many faiths. Often, the declaration of faith is led by the leader of the congregation and followers respond in kind.\n\n"}
{"id": "3383953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3383953", "title": "Desecration", "text": "Desecration\n\nDesecration is the act of depriving something of its sacred character, or the disrespectful, contemptuous, or destructive treatment of that which is held to be sacred or holy by a group or individual.\n\nMany consider acts of desecration to be sacrilegious acts. This can include desecration of sacred books, sacred places or sacred objects. Desecration generally may be considered from the perspective of a particular religion or spiritual activity. Desecration may be applied to natural systems or components, particularly if those systems are part of naturalistic spiritual religion.\n\nTo respectfully remove the sacred character of a place or an object is deconsecration, and is distinct from desecration.\n\nSome religions, such as the Roman Catholic Church have specific rules as to what constitutes desecration and what should be done in these circumstances.\n\nExamples of the destruction of pagan temples in the late fourth century, as recorded in surviving texts, describe Martin of Tours' attacks on holy sites in Gaul, the destruction of temples in Syria by Marcellus the destruction of temples and images in, and surrounding, Carthage, the Patriarch Theophilus who seized and destroyed pagan temples in Alexandria, the levelling of all the temples in Gaza and the wider destruction of holy sites that spread rapidly throughout Egypt. This is supplemented in abundance by archaeological evidence in the northern provinces exposing broken and burnt out buildings and hastily buried objects of piety. The leader of the Egyptian monks who participated in the sack of temples replied to the victims who demanded back their sacred icons:\n\n\"I peacefully removed your gods...there is no such thing as robbery for those who truly possess Christ.\"\nAt the turn of the century St Augustine would exhort his congregation in Carthage to smash all tangible symbols of paganism:\n\n\"for that all superstition of pagans and heathens should be annihilated is what God wants, God commands, God proclaims!\"\nIn the year 407 a decree was issued to the west from Rome: \n\n\"If any images stand even now in the temples and shrines..., they shall be torn from their foundations...The temples situated in cities or towns shall be taken for public use. Altars shall be destroyed in all places.\"\n\nSacred sites were now appropriated by Christianity: \"\"Let altars be built and relics be placed there\" wrote Pope Gregory I, \"so that [the pagans] have to change from the worship of the daemones to that of the true God\".\n\nThe Red Terror in Spain during the Spanish Civil War involved massive desecration of churches, synagogues and other sacred objects and places by leftists. On the night of July 19, 1936 alone, 50 churches were burned. In Barcelona, out of the 58 churches, only the Cathedral was spared, and similar events occurred almost everywhere in Republican Spain. All the Catholic churches in the Republican zone were closed, but the attacks were not limited to Catholic churches, as synagogues were also pillaged and closed, but some small Protestant churches were spared.\n\nThe ethnic cleansing campaign that took place throughout areas controlled by the Army of the Republika Srpska (VRS) targeted Bosnian Muslims, and included the destruction of Muslim places of worship.\n\nNumerous Albanian cultural sites in Kosovo were destroyed during the Kosovo conflict (1998-1999) which constituted a war crime violating the Hague and Geneva Conventions. In all 225 out of 600 mosques in Kosovo were damaged, vandalised, or destroyed alongside other Islamic architecture during the conflict. Archives belonging to the Islamic Community of Kosovo with records spanning 500 years were also destroyed. During the war, Islamic architectural heritage posed for Yugoslav Serb paramilitary and military forces as Albanian patrimony with destruction of non-Serbian architectural heritage being a methodical and planned component of ethnic cleansing in Kosovo.\n\nRevenge attacks against Serbian religious sites commenced following the conflict and the return of hundreds of thousands of Kosovo Albanian refugees to their homes. During violent unrest in 2004, more than 35 Serbian Orthodox church buildings were desecrated, damaged or destroyed.\n\nIn 2014 a man and a woman received jail sentences for attaching bacon strips to door handles of Edinburgh Central Mosque.\n\nIn 2017, a statue of Buddha in Palms, Los Angeles was decapitated twice.\n\n"}
{"id": "8363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8363", "title": "Divinity", "text": "Divinity\n\nIn religion, divinity or godhead is the state of things that are believed to come from a supernatural power or deity, such as a god, supreme being, creator deity, or spirits, and are therefore regarded as sacred and holy.\nSuch things are regarded as divine due to their transcendental origins or because their attributes or qualities are superior or supreme relative to things of the Earth. Divine things are regarded as eternal and based in truth, while material things are regarded as ephemeral and based in illusion. Such things that may qualify as divine are apparitions, visions, prophecies, miracles, and in some views also the soul, or more general things like resurrection, immortality, grace, and salvation. Otherwise what is or is not divine may be loosely defined, as it is used by different belief systems.\n\nThe root of the word \"divine\" is literally \"godly\" (from the Latin \"deus\", cf. \"Dyaus\", closely related to Greek \"zeus\", \"div\" in Persian and \"deva\" in Sanskrit), but the use varies significantly depending on which deity is being discussed. This article outlines the major distinctions in the conventional use of the terms.\n\nFor specific related academic terms, see Divinity (academic discipline), or Divine (Anglican).\n\nDivinity as a quality has two distinct usages:\nOverlap occurs between these usages because deities or godly entities are often identical with or identified by the powers and forces that are credited to them — in many cases a deity is merely a power or force personified — and these powers and forces may then be extended or granted to mortal individuals. For instance, Jehovah is closely associated with storms and thunder throughout much of the Old Testament. He is said to speak in thunder, and thunder is seen as a token of his anger. This power was then extended to prophets like Moses and Samuel, who caused thunderous storms to rain down on their enemies. (See and 1 Samuel 12:18.)\n\nDivinity always carries connotations of goodness, beauty, beneficence, justice, and other positive, pro-social attributes. In monotheistic faiths there is an equivalent cohort of malefic supernatural beings and powers, such as demons, devils, afreet, etc., which are not conventionally referred to as divine; \"demonic\" is often used instead. Pantheistic and polytheistic faiths make no such distinction; gods and other beings of transcendent power often have complex, ignoble, or even irrational motivations for their acts. Note that while the terms \"demon\" and \"demonic\" are used in monotheistic faiths as antonyms to \"divine\", they are in fact derived from the Greek word \"daimón\" (δαίμων), which itself translates as \"divinity\".\n\nThere are three distinct usages of \"divinity\" and \"divine\" in religious discourse:\n\nIn monotheistic faiths, the word \"divinity\" is often used to refer to the singular God central to that faith. Often the word takes the definite article and is capitalized — \"the Divinity\" — as though it were a proper name or definitive honorific. \n\"Divine\" — capitalized — may be used as an adjective to refer to the manifestations of such a Divinity or its powers: e.g. \"basking in the Divine presence...\"\n\nThe terms \"divinity\" and \"divine\" — uncapitalized, and lacking the definite article — are sometimes used as to denote 'god(s) or certain other beings and entities which fall short of absolute Godhood but lie outside the human realm. These include (by no means an exhaustive list):\n\nAs previously noted, divinities are closely related to the transcendent force(s) or power(s) credited to them, so much so that in some cases the powers or forces may themselves be invoked independently. This leads to the second usage of the word \"divine\" (and a less common usage of \"divinity\"): to refer to the operation of transcendent power in the world.\n\nIn its most direct form, the operation of transcendent power implies some form of divine intervention. For pan- and polytheistic faiths this usually implies the direct action of one god or another on the course of human events. In Greek legend, for instance, it was Poseidon (god of the sea) who raised the storms which blew Odysseus' craft off course on his return journey, and Japanese tradition holds that a god-sent wind saved them from Mongol invasion. Prayers or propitiations are often offered to specific gods of pantheisms to garner favorable interventions in particular enterprises: e.g. safe journeys, success in war, or a season of bountiful crops. Many faiths around the world — from Japanese Shinto and Chinese traditional religion, to certain African practices and the faiths derived from those in the Caribbean, to Native American beliefs — hold that ancestral or household deities offer daily protection and blessings. In monotheistic religions, divine intervention may take very direct forms: miracles, visions, or intercessions by blessed figures.\n\nTranscendent force or power may also operate through more subtle and indirect paths. Monotheistic faiths generally support some version of divine providence, which acknowledges that the divinity of the faith has a profound but unknowable plan always unfolding in the world. Unforeseeable, overwhelming, or seemingly unjust events are often thrown on 'the will of the Divine', in deferences like the Muslim \"inshallah\" ('as God wills it') and Christian 'God works in mysterious ways'. Often such faiths hold out the possibility of divine retribution as well, where the divinity will unexpectedly bring evil-doers to justice through the conventional workings of the world; from the subtle redressing of minor personal wrongs, to such large-scale havoc as the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah or the biblical Great Flood. Other faiths are even more subtle: the doctrine of \"karma\" shared by Buddhism and Hinduism is a divine law similar to divine retribution but without the connotation of punishment: our acts, good or bad, intentional or unintentional, reflect back on us as part of the natural working of the universe. Philosophical Taoism also proposes a transcendent operant principle — transliterated in English as \"tao\" or \"dao\", meaning 'the way' — which is neither an entity or a being per se, but reflects the natural ongoing process of the world. Modern western mysticism and new age philosophy often use the term 'the Divine' as a noun in this latter sense: a non-specific principle or being that gives rise to the world, and acts as the source or wellspring of life. In these latter cases the faiths do not promote deference, as happens in monotheisms; rather each suggests a path of action that will bring the practitioner into conformance with the divine law: \"ahimsa\" — 'no harm' — for Buddhist and Hindu faiths; \"de\" or \"te\" — 'virtuous action' — in Taoism; and any of numerous practices of peace and love in new age thinking.\n\nIn the third usage, extensions of divinity and divine power are credited to living, mortal individuals. Political leaders are known to have claimed actual divinity in certain early societies — the ancient Egyptian Pharaohs being the premier case — taking a role as objects of worship and being credited with superhuman status and powers. More commonly, and more pertinent to recent history, leaders merely claim some form of divine mandate, suggesting that their rule is in accordance with the will of God. The doctrine of the divine right of kings was introduced as late as the 17th century, proposing that kings rule by divine decree; Japanese Emperors ruled by divine mandate until the inception of the Japanese constitution after World War II.\n\nLess politically, most faiths have any number of people that are believed to have been touched by divine forces: saints, prophets, heroes, oracles, martyrs, and enlightened beings, among others. Saint Francis of Assisi, in Catholicism, is said to have received instruction directly from God and it is believed that he grants plenary indulgence to all who confess their sins and visit his chapel on the appropriate day. In Greek mythology, Achilles' mother bathed him in the river Styx to give him immortality, and Hercules — as the son of Zeus — inherited near-godly powers. In religious Taoism, Lao Tsu is venerated as a saint with his own powers. Various individuals in the Buddhist faith, beginning with Siddhartha, are considered to be enlightened, and in religious forms of Buddhism they are credited with divine powers. Christ is said to have performed divine miracles.\n\nIn general, mortals with divine qualities are carefully distinguished from the deity or deities in their religion's main pantheon. Even the Christian faith, which generally holds Christ to be identical to God, distinguishes between God the Father and Christ the begotten Son. There are, however, certain esoteric and mystical schools of thought, present in many faiths — Sufis in Islam, Gnostics in Christianity, Advaitan Hindus, Zen Buddhists, as well as several non-specific perspectives developed in new age philosophy — which hold that all humans are in essence divine, or unified with the Divine in a non-trivial way. Such divinity, in these faiths, would express itself naturally if it were not obscured by the social and physical worlds we live in; it needs to be brought to the fore through appropriate spiritual practices.\n\nIn traditional Christian theology, the concept and nature of divinity always has its source ultimately from God himself. It's the state or quality of being divine, and the term can denote Godly nature or character. In Hebrew, the terms would usually be \"el\", \"elohim\", and in Greek usually \"theos\", or \"theias\". The divinity in the Bible is considered the Godhead itself, or God in general. Or it may have reference to a deity. Even angels in the Psalms are considered divine or \"elohim\", as spirit beings, in God's form. Redeemed Christians born-again or believers, according to Biblical verses, are said to partake of the \"divine nature\" through the \"exceeding great and precious promises\" of Jesus Christ (2 Peter 1:4).\n\nIn the Christian Greek Scriptures of the Bible, the Greek word θεῖον (\"theion\") in the Douay Version, is translated as \"divinity\". Examples are below:\n\nThe word translated as either \"deity\", \"Godhead\", or \"divinity\" in the Greek New Testament is also the Greek word θεότητος (\"theotētos\"), and the one Verse that contains it is this:\nColossians 2:9\n\nThe word \"divine\" in the New Testament is the Greek word θείας (\"theias\"), and is the adjective form of \"divinity\". Biblical examples from the King James Bible are below:\n\nThe most prominent conception of divine entities in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) is the Godhead, a divine council of three distinct beings: Elohim (the Father), Jehovah (the Son, or Jesus), and the Holy Spirit. Joseph Smith described a nontrinitarian Godhead, with God the Father and Jesus Christ each having individual physical bodies, and the Holy Spirit as a distinct personage with a spirit body. Smith also introduced the existence of a Heavenly Mother in the King Follett Discourse, but very little is acknowledged or known beyond her existence.\n\nMormons hold a belief in the divine potential of humanity; Smith taught a form of divinization where mortal men and women can become like god through salvation and exaltation. Lorenzo Snow succinctly summarized this using a couplet, which is often repeated within the LDS Church: \"As man now is, God once was: As God now is, man may be.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "183054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183054", "title": "Divisions of the world in Islam", "text": "Divisions of the world in Islam\n\nThe Arabic singular form \"dar\" (), translated literally, may mean \"house\", \"abode\", \"structure\", \"place\", \"land\", or \"country\". In Islamic jurisprudence it often refers to a part of the world.\n\nThe notions of \"houses\" or \"divisions\" of the world in Islam such as \"Dar al-Islam\" and \"Dar al-Harb\" does not appear in the Quran or the Hadith. According to Abou El Fadl, the only \"dar\" the Qur'an speaks of are \"the abode of the Hereafter and the abode of the earthly life, with the former described as clearly superior to the latter\". \n\nIn classical Islamic law, the major division are \"dar al-islam\" (lit. territory of Islam), denoting regions where Islamic law prevails, \"dar al-sulh\" (lit. territory of treaty) denoting non-Islamic lands which have concluded an armistice with a Muslim government, and \"dar al-harb\" (lit. territory of war), denoting adjoining non-Islamic lands whose rulers are called upon to accept Islam. \n\nEarly Islamic jurists devised these terms to denote legal rulings for ongoing Muslim conquests almost a century after Muhammad. The first use of the terms was in Iraq by Abu Hanifa and his disciples Abu Yusuf and Al-Shaybani. Among those in the Levant, Al-Awza'i was leading in this discipline and later Shafi'i.\n\nThe concept of \"dar al-harb\" has been affected by the political fragmentation of the Muslim world and has little significance today.\n\nDar al-Islam ( literally \"house/abode of Islam\"; or Dar as-Salam, \"house/abode of Peace\"; or Dar al-Tawhid, \"house/abode of monotheism\") is a term used by Muslim scholars to refer to those countries where Muslims can practice their religion as the ruling sect. It is the area of the world under the rule of Islam, literally, \"the home of Islam.\" These are usually Islamic cultures wherein Muslims represent the majority of the population, and so the government promises them a privileged status. Most \"Dar al-Islam\" areas are surrounded by other Islamic societies to ensure public protection.\n\nSome modern Muslim scholars believe that the labeling of a country or place as being a part of \"Dar al-Islam\" revolves around the question of religious security. This means that if a Muslim practices Islam freely in his place of abode, even though that place happens to be secular or un-Islamic, then he will be considered as living in the \"Dar al-Islam\". Yet, the majority opinion, which relies on tradition, claims that only countries ruled by Sharia can be considered true \"abodes of peace.\"\n\n\"Dar al-Islam\", or house/abode of Submission, is also known and referred to as \"Dar al-Salam\", or house/abode of Peace. The term appears in the Quran in 10.25 and 6.127 as a name of Paradise.\n\nAccording to Abu Hanifa, considered to be the originator of the concept, the requirements for a country to be part of \"Dar al-Islam\" are:\n\nDar al-Harb ( \"house of war\". Dar al-Harb is a term classically referring to those countries which do not have a treaty of nonaggression or peace with Muslims (those that do are called Dar al-'Ahd or Dar al-Sulh). \n\nAccording to Majid Khadduri, the fundamental distinction between \"Dar al-Islam\" and \"Dar al-Harb\" was introduced after the defeat of the Umayyad Caliphate at Battle of Tours in 732 which prevented the expansion of Islam to the north, while at the same time the expansion of the caliphate to the east had been halted.\n\nWahbah al-Zuhayli argues that the concept of Dar al-Harb is mostly historical: \"The existence of Dār al-Islām and Dār al-Ḥarb in contemporary times is rare or extremely limited. This is because Islamic countries have joined the United Nations covenant that stipulates relationship between nations is peace and not war. Therefore non-Muslim countries are Dār al-‘Ahd …\"\n\nDar al-'Ahd ( \"house of truce\") or Dar al-Sulh ( \"house of conciliation/treaty\") are terms used for territories that have a treaty of non-aggression or peace with Muslims. \n\nThis designation can be found in the Quran, where Muslims are directed on how they should act in war:\n\n\"Excepting those who join a people between whom and you there is a treaty, or such as come to you with hearts reluctant to fight you, or to fight their own people. Had Allah wished, He would have imposed them upon you, and then they would have surely fought you. So if they keep out of your way and do not fight you, and offer you peace, then Allah does not allow you any course [of action] against them.\" Quran 4:90\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2559878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2559878", "title": "European Congress of Ethnic Religions", "text": "European Congress of Ethnic Religions\n\nThe European Congress of Ethnic Religions (ECER) is an organisation for cooperation among associations that promote the ethnic religions of Europe \nThe primary goal of the ECER is the strengthening of pre-Christian ethnic religious traditions of Europe, emphasizing and fostering their ties with Neopagan movements with ethnic focuses which developed during the 1980s to 1990s.\n\nThe first \"World Pagan Congress\" was hosted in June 1998 in Vilnius, Lithuania, organized by Jonas Trinkunas, the founder of Romuva, a Lithuanian neopagan organization. The renaming from \"Pagan\" to \"Ethnic\" was the result of a day-long passionate debate.\nThe congress was held under the name \"World Congress of Ethnic Religions\" during 1999 to 2010. The 2006 and 2009 conferences were held in India, in the spirit of collaboration between western Neopaganism and Hinduism.\n\nThe intention of a worldwide scope was \"more of a dream than reality\", as the congress mostly consisted of representatives of neopagan movements in Europe. To reflect this, the organization was renamed \"European Congress of Ethnic Religions\" in 2010, acting on a suggestion by Trinkunas.\n\nMember organizations represent Baltic, Slavic, Germanic, Greek and Roman traditions. As of 2014 the member organizations of ECER are:\nFormer members:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46587938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46587938", "title": "Faith-based organization", "text": "Faith-based organization\n\nA Faith-based organization is an organization whose values are based on faith and/or beliefs, which has a mission based on social values of the particular faith, and which most often draws its activists (leaders, staff, volunteers) from a particular faith group. The faith to which the organization is relating to does not have to be academically classified as religion. The term \"faith-based organization\" is more inclusive than the term \"religious organization\" as it refers also to the non-congregation faith beliefs.\n\nFaith-based organizations are grass-root organizations active locally but also on an international scale. Their funding comes from member donations, but they are also eligible for state or international grants.\n\nCurrently, this terminology is widely used in governmental, inter-governmental, and non-governmental settings. World Bank prepared a list of international faith-based organizations.\n"}
{"id": "24060108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24060108", "title": "Faith and Globalisation Initiative", "text": "Faith and Globalisation Initiative\n\nThe Faith and Globalisation Initiative (FGI) is an international group of universities created in 2008 by former British prime minister Tony Blair and his Faith Foundation.\nThe Faith and Globalisation Initiative is \"bringing together some of the world’s leading research Universities to form a global network focusing on the emerging field of faith and globalisation\".\n\nIn 2008 Yale University was the first university the Foundation started working with and in 10 months it expanded the network to include the National University of Singapore, Durham University and McGill University. Two years later the Foundation developed an associate university programme which seeks to foster the study of faith and globalisation in a broad range of higher education institutions.\n\nThe institutions were selected on the basis of their ability to contribute to the Initiative, but also to ensure that they have a geographic and cultural spread that lends multiple perspectives to the discipline.\n\nKey objectives of the FGI are the following:\n\nAs of January 2011, the participating members of the Faith and Globalisation Network of Universities are:\n\nLead Universities:\n\nAssociate Universities:\n\n"}
{"id": "2795075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2795075", "title": "Gerin oil", "text": "Gerin oil\n\nGerin oil or geriniol is a fictional drug used as a device to criticize religion in articles written by Richard Dawkins. The word is an anagram of \"religion\".\n\nThe first article, \"Gerin Oil\", was published in an American secular humanism publication, \"Free Inquiry\", in December 2003 (Volume 24, No. 1). It was popularised in an article titled \"Opiate of the Masses\". It describes a dangerous legal drug \"Gerin Oil\" or \"Geriniol.\" Dawkins blames its effects as being responsible for historic acts of violence such as the September 11th attacks, massacres of native South Americans by conquistadors, and the Salem Witch Trials.\n\nIn Dawkins' satirical description, users are often introduced to the \"drug\" at social gatherings such as weddings and funerals. In small amounts it is considered harmless, but its usage may increase over time. Medium usage of \"Gerin Oil\" is said to cause a disconnect with reality where users expect private wishes expressed to come true, and may be accompanied by spasmodic muscular movement or contraction. In large doses it is said to cause aural or visual hallucinations. He also links its use to child mutilation, sexual prohibition, and the tendency to smile when convicted of mass murder.\n\nChristopher Hitchens included Dawkins' essay in his compilation \"\".\n"}
{"id": "13277470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13277470", "title": "Heortology", "text": "Heortology\n\nHeortology is the study of religious festivals. It was originally only used in respect of Christian festivals, but it now covers all religions, in particular those of Ancient Greece.\n"}
{"id": "602114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=602114", "title": "History of theology", "text": "History of theology\n\nThis is an overview of the history of theology in Greek thought and its relationship with Abrahamic religions.\n\nVarious forms of systematic and philosophical reflection on Ancient Greek religion and Greek mythology arose in the classical period—from Hesiod's attempts to organize the diverse materials of mythology into a unified \"Theogony\" to the more properly philosophical analysis reportedly carried out by Socrates.\n\nInfluential texts include:\n\nPhilosophical reflection on the gods, on religion, and on the origins and governance of the Universe, flourished in the Hellenistic period among both Greek- and Latin-speaking thinkers. Among the very diverse movements of Hellenistic philosophy in which theological reflection could be found were Skepticism, Cynicism, Stoicism, Epicureanism, Middle Platonism, and Neoplatonism. The Skeptics were to have a larger impact on Western reasoning than the Cynics; but this would not occur until after its having been reified during the middle years of the Roman Empire when it passed into the mainstream of Western thought.\n\nInfluential texts include:\n\nHellenistic theology, which could be deemed to last until the suppression of the Athenian Academy in 529 by Justinian I, overlaps with early Jewish and early Christian theology (see below), and several strands of thought important particularly to early Christian thought arise within Hellenistic circles: attempts to explain the apparent caprice of the gods, Atheism, the development of monotheism, the idea of God as first cause or form of the Good, the dualism of spirit and matter in humanity, and redemption (the release of the spirit from its material prison to a higher spiritual world) through knowledge.\n\nTwo strands of Jewish theology develop in the 1st and 2nd centuries. On the one hand, there are those oral traditions of Rabbinic exegesis (Midrash) and legal discussion (Mishnah and Tosefta) that eventually began to be written down towards the end of the 2nd century AD.\n\nImportant figures (known as Tannaim) include\n\nOn the other hand, there is the attempt to accommodate traditional Jewish exegesis of the Jewish Scriptures and tradition with Greek philosophy—a strand of thought of which Philo (c. 20 BC to 40 AD) is the best known proponent. The destruction of the Jerusalem temple in 70 AD and the dispersion of many Jews from Israel had a profound effect on Jewish Theology.\n\nIn the centuries after its compilation, discussion and commentary upon the Mishnah flourished in Jewish academies in Israel and in Babylon. Collections of opinions from these discussions, known as Gemara were eventually edited together and placed with the Mishnah itself, in both Israel (around 350 AD – the Jerusalem Talmud) and Babylon (around 550 AD, with further editing in the two centuries that followed – the Babylonian Talmud).\n\nImportant figures (known as Amoraim) include\n\nThe New Testament contains evidence of some of the earliest forms of reflection upon the meanings and implications of Christian faith, mostly in the form of guidance offered to Christian congregations on how to live a life consistent with their convictions – notably in the Pauline corpus and Johannine corpus.\n\nA huge quantity of theological reflection emerged in the early centuries of the Christian church – in a wide variety of genres, in a variety of contexts, and in several languages – much of it the product of attempts to discuss how Christian faith should be lived in cultures very different from the one in which it was born. So, for instance, a good deal of the Greek language literature can be read as an attempt to come to terms with Hellenistic culture. The period sees the slow emergence of orthodoxy (the idea of which seems to emerge from the conflicts between catholic Christianity and Gnostic Christianity), the establishment of a Biblical canon, debates about the doctrine of the Trinity (most notably between the councils of Nicaea in 325 and Constantinople in 381), about Christology (most notably between the councils of Constantinople in 381 and Chalcedon in 451), about the purity of the Church (for instance in the debates surrounding the Donatists), and about grace, free will and predestination (for instance in the debate between Augustine of Hippo and Pelagius).\n\nInfluential texts and writers in the 2nd century include:\n\nInfluential texts and writers between c. 200 and 325 (the First Council of Nicaea) include:\nTexts from patristic authors before 325 AD are collected in the Ante-Nicene Fathers.\n\nInfluential texts and writers between 325 AD and c. 500 AD include:\nTexts from patristic authors after 325 AD are collected in the Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers. Important theological debates also surrounded the various Ecumenical Councils – Nicaea in 325, Constantinople in 381, Ephesus in 431 and Chalcedon in 451\nSee also main articles on Patristics and Church Fathers.\n\nWhile the Western Roman Empire declined and fell, the Eastern Roman Empire, centred on Constantinople, remained standing until 1453, and was the home of a wide range of theological activity that was seen as standing in strong continuity with the theology of the Patristic period; indeed the division between Patristic and Byzantine theology would not be recognised by many Orthodox theologians and historians.\n\n\n\n\nWhen the Western Roman Empire fragmented under the impact of various 'barbarian' invasions, the Empire-wide intellectual culture that had underpinned late Patristic theology had its interconnections cut. Theology tended to become more localised, more diverse, more fragmented. The classically clothed Christianity preserved in Italy by men like Boethius and Cassiodorus was different from the vigorous Frankish Christianity documented by Gregory of Tours which was different again from the Christianity that flourished in Ireland and Northumbria in the 7th and 8th centuries. Throughout this period, theology tended to be a more monastic affair, flourishing in monastic havens where the conditions and resources for theological learning could be maintained.\n\nImportant writers include:\n\nBoth because it made communication between different Christian centres easier, and because there was a concerted effort by its rulers to encourage educational and religious reforms and to develop greater uniformity in Christian thought and practice across their territories, the establishment of the Carolingian Empire saw an explosion of theological inquiry, and theological controversy. Controversy flared, for instance, around 'Spanish Adoptionism, around the views on predestination of Gottschalk, or around the eucharistic views of Ratramnus.\n\nImportant writers include:\n\nWith the division and decline of the Carolingian Empire, notable theological activity was preserved in some of the Cathedral schools that had begun to rise to prominence under it – for instance at Auxerre in the 9th century or Chartres in the 11th. Intellectual influences from the Arabic world (including works of classical authors preserved by Islamic scholars) percolated into the Christian West via Spain, influencing such theologians as Gerbert of Aurillac, who went on to become Pope Sylvester II and mentor to Otto III. (Otto was the fourth ruler of the Germanic Ottonian Holy Roman Empire, successor to the Carolingian Empire). With hindsight, one might say that a new note was struck when a controversy about the meaning of the eucharist blew up around Berengar of Tours in the 11th century: hints of a new confidence in the intellectual investigation of the faith that perhaps foreshadowed the explosion of theological argument that was to take place in the 12th century.\n\nNotable authors include:\n\nAnselm of Canterbury is sometimes misleadingly called the 'Father of Scholasticism' because of the prominent place that reason has in his theology; instead of establishing his points by appeal to authority, he presents arguments to demonstrate why it is that the things he believes on authority must be so. His particular approach, however, was not very influential in his time, and he kept his distance from the Cathedral Schools. We should look instead to the production of the gloss on Scripture associated with Anselm of Laon, the rise to prominence of dialectic (middle subject of the medieval trivium) in the work of Abelard, and the production by Peter Lombard of a collection of Sentences or opinions of the Church Fathers and other authorities. Scholasticism proper can be thought of as the kind of theology that emerges when, in the Cathedral schools and their successors, the tools of dialectic are pressed into use to comment upon, explain, and develop the gloss and the sentences.\n\nNotable authors include:\n\nThe 13th century saw the attempted suppression of various groups perceived as heterodox, such as the Cathars and Waldensians and the associated rise of the mendicant orders (notably the Franciscans and Dominicans), in part intended as a form of orthodox alternative to the heretical groups. Those two orders quickly became contexts for some of the most intense scholastic theology, producing such 'high scholastic' theologians as Alexander of Hales (Franciscan) and Thomas Aquinas (Dominican), or the rather less obviously scholastic Bonaventure (Franciscan). The century also saw a flourishing of mystical theology, with women such as Mechthild of Magdeburg playing a prominent role. In addition, the century can be seen as period in which the study of natural philosophy that could anachronistically be called 'science' began once again to flourish in theological soil, in the hands of such men as Robert Grosseteste and Roger Bacon.\n\nNotable authors include:\n\n\nScholastic theology continued to develop as the 13th century gave way to the fourteenth, becoming ever more complex and subtle in its distinctions and arguments. The 14th century saw in particular the rise to dominance of the nominalist or voluntarist theologies of men like William of Ockham. The 14th century was also a time in which movements of widely varying character worked for the reform of the institutional church, such as conciliarism, Lollardy and the Hussites. Spiritual movements such as the Devotio Moderna also flourished.\n\nNotable authors include:\n\n\nIslamic theology or \"Kalam\", in the sense of ordered, rational reflection upon Allah and his Qur'an, is commonly held to begin at the end of the 7th century – the 1st century A.H. – with debates about divine and human freedom.\n\nThe \"Qadariyyah\" were those who defended a fairly strong view of human freedom, and included\n\n'The \"Jabriyyah\" were their opponents, and included\n\nThe \"Qadariyyah\" evolved into \"Mu‘tazilah\" which for some time was the dominant form of \"kalam\", imposed as official orthodoxy under the Abbasid dynasty, until the accession of Al-Mutawakkil in 847, after which it was suppressed. For the five principal doctrines of Mutazilism, see the main article. Prominent Mutazilite theologians include:\n\nFrom the late 10th century onwards, \"Mutazilite kalam\", opposition to which had hitherto been almost indistinguishable from opposition to \"kalam\" itself, found a new opponent \"within\" \"kalam\": \"Ash'ari kalam\". \"Asharite kalam\" rose to become the dominant form of Islamic \"kalam\", and helped distinguish \"kalam\" from \"falasafa\"—from philosophy (a distinction which is less clear when considering \"Mutazilite\" thought).\n\nProminent Asharites include:\n\n\nNote should also be taken of the variant of Asharism known as \"Maturidism\". Prominent Maturidi authors include:\n\nWhilst the boundaries are sometimes rather porous, scholars of Islamic thought often make a distinction between \"Falasafa\" (Islamic philosophy) and \"Kalam\" (Islamic theology). Prominent writers normally held to stand on the Falasafa side of the divide include:\n\nRenaissance Platonists, most notably from Florentine circles (from Boccaccio and Petrarch, to Landino and Politian), appealed to \"poetic theology\" (theologia poetica) as a mythical theology independent of Biblical revelation and thus, too, of Christian medieval theology. The paradigmatic \"poet theologian\" was Orpheus, a mythical legislator capable of subduing or civilizing beast-like men with his songs. Renaissance philosophers would adopt mythical \"personae\" such as that of Orpheus to carry out their civilizing function, as philosophical mediators between \"sacred\" authority and the \"profane\" lives subject to it. Thus, e.g., Politian would emerge as a \"new Orpheus\", a philosopher in poetic garb.\n\nThe Renaissance judicious appeal to theologia poetica would find its historical consummation in the works of Giambattista Vico, whose discussions on \"poet theologians\" (Scienza Nuova) echoed Renaissance counterparts both literally and allegorically.\n\nThe Renaissance yielded scholars the ability to read the scriptures in their original languages and this in part stimulated the Reformation, a theological movement that protested the outlawing of their faith at the Second Diet of Speyer. Its main themes were Justification by faith, the Bible as the only source of Christian teaching, and the Priesthood of all believers, and. Important figures include Luther, Melanchthon, Bucer, Zwingli, Calvin, and the Anabaptists. Calvinist theology was developed by successors such as Beza, the English Puritans and Turretin. Lutheran theology entered a period of doctrinal unity with the adoption of the Book of Concord and preserved it through the work of theologians such as Chemnitz and Gerhard.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Counter-Reformation spearheaded by the Jesuits under Ignatius Loyola took their theology from the decisions of the Council of Trent and developed Second Scholasticism, which they pitted against Lutheran and Reformed scholasticism. The overall result of the Reformation was to highlight distinctions of belief that had previously co-existed uneasily.\n\nThe Fall of Constantinople in the East, 1453, led to a significant shift of gravity to the rising state of Russia, the \"Third Rome\". The Renaissance stimulated a program of reforms by patriarchs of prayer books. A movement called the \"Old Believers\" consequently resulted and influenced Russian Orthodox Theology in the direction of conservatism and Erastianism.\n\nAfter the Reformation protestant groups continued to splinter, leading to a range of new theologies. The \"Enthusiasts\" were so named because of their emotional zeal. These included the Methodists, the Quakers and Baptists. Another group sought to reconcile Christian faith with \"Modern\" ideas, sometimes causing them to reject beliefs they considered to be illogical, including the Nicene creed and Chalcedonian Creed. these included Unitarians and Universalists. A major issue for Protestants became the degree to which Man contributes to his salvation. The debate is often viewed as synergism versus monergism, though the labels Calvinist and Arminian are more frequently used, referring to the conclusion of the Synod of Dort.\n\nThe 19th century saw the rise of biblical criticism, new knowledge of religious diversity in other continents and above all the growth of science. This led many church men to espouse a form of Deism. This, along with concepts such as the brotherhood of man and a rejection of miracles led to what is called \"Classical liberalism\". Immensely influential in its day, classic liberalism suffered badly as a result of the two world wars and fell prey to the criticisms of postmodernism.\n\nVladimir Lossky is a famous Eastern Orthodox theologian writing in the 20th century for the Greek church.\n\nPostmodern theology seeks to respond to the challenges of post modern and deconstructionist thought, and has included the death of God movement, process theology, feminist theology and queer theology and most importantly Neo-orthodox theology. Karl Barth, Rudolf Bultmann and Reinhold Niebuhr were Neo-Orthodoxy's main representatives. In particular Barth labeled his theology \"dialectical theology\", a reference to existentialism.\n\nThe predominance of classic liberalism resulted in many reactionary movements amongst conservative believers. Evangelical theology, Pentecostal or Renewal theology and fundamentalist theology, often combined with dispensationalism, all moved from the fringe into the academy. Marxism stimulated the significant rise of liberation theology which can be interpreted as a rejection of Academic Theology that fails to challenge the establishment and help the poor.\n\nFrom the late 19th century to the early twentieth groups established themselves that derived many of their beliefs from Protestant evangelical groups but significantly differed in doctrine. These include the Jehovah's Witnesses, the Latter Day Saints and others. Many of these groups use the Protestant version of the bible and typically interpret it in a fundamentalist fashion, adding, however, special prophecy or scriptures, and typically denying the trinity and the full deity of Jesus Christ.\n\nEcumenical theology sought to discover a common consensus on theological matters that could bring the many Christian denominations together. As a movement it was successful in helping to provide a basis for the establishment of the World Council of Churches and for some reconciliation between more established denominations. But ecumenical theology was nearly always the concern of liberal theologians, especially Protestant ones. The movement for ecumenism was opposed especially by fundamentalists and viewed as flawed by many neo-orthodox and confessional Lutheran theologians.\n\nThe pattern of challenge from a changing world, liberal response from official representatives and orthodox backlash from conservatives is found also in the history of Islam and Judaism. Reform Judaism represents a liberal interpretation as against Orthodox Judaism, and moderate or liberal Islam continues to be theologically distinct from Islamic fundamentalism, notably its Wahabi and Deobandi Schools.\n"}
{"id": "3063286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3063286", "title": "Hylics", "text": "Hylics\n\nHylic (from Greek (\"hylē\") \"matter\") is the opposite of psychic (from Greek (\"psychē\") \"soul\").\n\nIn the gnostic belief system, hylics, also called somatics (from Gk (\"sōma\") \"body\"), were the lowest order of the three types of human. The other two were the psychics and the pneumatics (from Gk (\"pneuma\") \"spirit, breath\"). So humanity comprised matter-bound beings, matter-dwelling spirits and the matter-free or immaterial souls.\n\nSomatics were deemed completely bound to matter. Matter, the material world, was considered evil by the gnostics. The material world was created by a demiurge, in some instances a blind, mad God, in others an army of rebellious angels as a trap for the spiritual Ennoia. The duty of (spiritual) man was to escape the material world by the aid of the hidden knowledge (gnosis).\n\nSomatics were human in form, but since their entire focus was on the material world, such as eating, sleeping, mating or creature comforts, they were seen as doomed. The pneumatic saw himself as escaping the doom of the material world via the secret knowledge. Somatics were thought to be incapable of understanding.\n\nFor consideration of these dynamics, see for example the Gospel of Judas, believed to be a gnostic text, where Jesus is posited as a pneumatic and the other disciples, non-gnostics, as somatics.\n\n"}
{"id": "1449016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1449016", "title": "Interpretatio graeca", "text": "Interpretatio graeca\n\nInterpretatio graeca (Latin, \"Greek translation\" or \"interpretation by means of Greek [models]\") is a discourse in which ancient Greek religious concepts and practices, deities, and myths are used to interpret or attempt to understand the mythology and religion of other cultures. It is thus a comparative methodology that looks for equivalencies and shared characteristics. The phrase may describe Greek efforts to explain others' beliefs and myths, as when Herodotus describes Egyptian religion in terms of perceived Greek analogues, or when Dionysius of Halicarnassus and Plutarch document Roman cults, temples, and practices under the names of equivalent Greek deities. \"Interpretatio graeca\" may also describe non-Greeks' interpretation of their own belief systems by comparison or assimilation with Greek models, as when Romans adapt Greek myths and iconography under the names of their own gods.\n\nInterpretatio romana is comparative discourse in reference to ancient Roman religion and myth, as in the formation of a distinctive Gallo-Roman religion. Both the Romans and the Gauls reinterpreted Gallic religious traditions in relation to Roman models, particularly Imperial cult.\n\nJan Assmann considers the polytheistic approach to internationalizing gods as a form of \"intercultural translation\":\n\nThe great achievement of polytheism is the articulation of a common semantic universe. ... The meaning of a deity is his or her specific character as it unfolded in myths, hymns, rites, and so on. This character makes a deity comparable to other deities with similar traits. The similarity of gods makes their names mutually translatable. … The practice of translating the names of the gods created a concept of similarity and produced the idea or conviction that the gods are international.\n\nPliny the Elder expressed the \"translatability\" of deities as \"different names to different peoples\" \"(nomina alia aliis gentibus).\" This capacity made possible the religious syncretism of the Hellenistic era and the pre-Christian Roman Empire.\n\nHerodotus was one of the earliest authors to engage in this form of interpretation. In his observations regarding the Egyptians, he establishes Greco-Egyptian equivalents that endured into the Hellenistic era, including Amon/Zeus, Osiris/Dionysus, and Ptah/Hephaestus. In his observations regarding the Scythians, he equates their queen of the gods, Tabiti, to Hestia, Papaios and Api to Zeus and Gaia respectively, and Argimpasa to Aphrodite Urania, whilst also claiming that the Scythians worshipped equivalents to Herakles and Ares, but which he doesn't name.\n\nSome pairs of Greek and Roman gods, such as Zeus and Jupiter, are thought to derive from a common Indo-European archetype (Dyeus as the supreme sky god), and thus exhibit shared functions by nature. Others required more expansive theological and poetic efforts: though both Ares and Mars are war gods, Ares was a relatively minor figure in Greek religious practice and deprecated by the poets, while Mars was a father of the Roman people and a central figure of archaic Roman religion.\n\nSome deities dating to Rome's oldest religious stratum, such as Janus and Terminus, had no Greek equivalent. Other Greek divine figures, most notably Apollo, were adopted directly into Roman culture, but underwent a distinctly Roman development, as when Augustus made Apollo one of his patron deities. In the early period, Etruscan culture played an intermediary role in transmitting Greek myth and religion to the Romans, as evidenced in the linguistic transformation of Greek \"Heracles\" to Etruscan \"Her[e]cle\" to Roman \"Hercules\".\n\nThe phrase \"interpretatio romana\" was first used by the Imperial-era historian Tacitus in the \"Germania\". Tacitus reports that in a sacred grove of the Nahanarvali, \"a priest adorned as a woman presides, but they commemorate gods who in Roman terms \"(interpretatione romana)\" are Castor and Pollux.\" Elsewhere, he identifies the principal god of the Germans as Mercury, perhaps referring to Wotan.\n\nSome information about the deities of the ancient Gauls (the continental Celts), who left no written literature other than inscriptions, is preserved by Greco-Roman sources under the names of Greek and Latin equivalents. A large number of Gaulish theonyms or cult titles are preserved, for instance, in association with Mars. As with some Greek and Roman divine counterparts, the perceived similarities between a Gallic and a Roman or Greek deity may reflect a common Indo-European origin. Lugh was identified with Mercury, Nodens with Mars as healer and protector, Sulis with Minerva. In some cases, however, a Gallic deity is given an \"interpretatio romana\" by means of more than one god, varying among literary texts or inscriptions. Since the religions of the Greco-Roman world were not dogmatic, and polytheism lent itself to multiplicity, the concept of \"deity\" was often expansive, permitting multiple and even contradictory functions within a single divinity, and overlapping powers and functions among the diverse figures of each pantheon. These tendencies extended to cross-cultural identifications.\n\nIn the Eastern empire, the Anatolian storm god with his double-headed axe became Jupiter Dolichenus, a favorite cult figure among soldiers. Roman scholars such as Varro interpreted the monotheistic god of the Jews into Roman terms as Caelus or Jupiter Optimus Maximus. Some Greco-Roman authors seem to have understood the Jewish invocation of Yahweh Sabaoth as Sabazius.\n\n\"Interpretatio germanica\" is the practice by the Germanic peoples of identifying Roman gods with the names of Germanic deities. According to Rudolf Simek, this occurred around the 1st century of the common era, when both cultures came into closer contact. Some evidence for \"interpretatio germanica\" exists in the Germanic translations of the Roman names for the days of the week:\n\n\nIn most of the Romance languages, which derive from Latin, days of the week still preserve the names of the original Roman deities, such as the Italian for Tuesday, \"martedì\" (from the Latin \"Martis dies\"). This is also the case with Saturn in some West Germanic languages; such as the English \"Saturday\", the West Frisian \"\", the Low German \"\" and the Dutch \"\" all meaning Saturn's day.\n\nSimek emphasizes the paucity of evidence and notes that comparison with Roman gods is insufficient to reconstruct ancient Germanic gods and equate them definitively with those of later Norse mythology.\n\nThe following is a list of Greek, Roman, Etruscan, Egyptian, and Phoenician equivalents, based on usage among the ancients themselves, supported by the analyses of modern scholars. \"Equivalent\" should not be taken to mean \"the same god\". For instance, when the myths or even cult practices of a particular Roman deity were influenced by the Greek or Etruscan tradition, the deity may have had an independent origin and a tradition that is culturally distinctive.\n\nFrom the Roman point of view, it was natural to apply the above principle also to the Jewish God Jehovah and equate him with Jupiter. However, the Jews – unlike other people living under Roman rule – rejected out of hand any such attempt, regarding such an identification as the worst of sacrilege. This complete divergence of views was one of the factors contributing to the frequent friction between the Jews and the Roman Empire – for example, the Emperor Hadrian's decision to rebuild Jerusalem under the name of Aelia Capitolina, a city dedicated to Jupiter, precipitated the bloodbath of the Bar Kokhba revolt.\n\nIn late antiquity mysticism, the sun god Helios is sometimes equated to the Judeo-Christian God.\n\nExamples of deities depicted in syncretic compositions by means of \"interpretatio graeca\" or \"romana\":\n\n"}
{"id": "29466318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29466318", "title": "Judgement (afterlife)", "text": "Judgement (afterlife)\n\nA central theme of many religions is what happens to people upon death. Almost all religions are greatly devoted to the afterlife, emphasizing that what you do in your current life affects what happens to you in the afterlife. This usually takes the form of judgement by a deity, in which ones deeds and characteristics in life determine either punishment or reward (when one has been mostly good).\n\nIn Ancient Egypt, it was believed that upon death, one's fate in the afterlife was determined by the weighing of one’s heart. One's heart was kept within the body during mummification so that it can travel with the deceased into the afterlife. Upon death, one entered the underworld (Duat), where Anubis, the God of the dead, weighed the persons heart on a scale against the feather of Ma’at, the goddess of order, truth, and righteousness. If the heart weighed more than the feather, meaning that the person was more wicked than good, then the heart would be devoured by Ammit, a demon with the head of a crocodile, the front half of the body of a leopards, and the back half of a hippopotamus, but with goat arms. If a person's heart was devoured by Ammit, then he would die a second death and be completely annihilated from existence.\n\nAncient Greeks believed that upon death, an individual would enter the realm of Hades, the Greek underworld, and be judged by King Minos, Aeacus, and Radamanthus. Depending on one's actions in life, an individual would be sent to one of three different planes: Elysium, the Asphodel Fields, or Tartarus. Elysium is for those who were righteous in life and is reserved for good people and legendary heroes. In Elysium people relax and enjoy a life of everlasting joy in a beautiful and comfortable field with trees and sun. The Asphodel Fields is the land of neutrality, where those who were either neutral, or whose good and bad deeds are about equal reside. It is a bland place symbolizing their lack of notability in life. The final realm, Tartarus, is the realm of the wicked. It is the deepest realm of Hades, and those who have performed wicked deeds are punished here for eternity. Punishment here reflects the wicked deeds committed in one's life (e.g., Tantalus killed and fed his son to the Gods, so he was punished by being made to stand in a pool surrounded by trees with fruit, but can partake of neither water nor fruit.). Mortals shared this realm with non-mortals.\n\nHinduism was extremely influential, with aspects and gods from Hinduism being borrowed into other religions not only in India, but also in China, Korea, and Japan. As such, many of the Asian religions have similarities in myths, deities, and concepts.\n\nIn Hinduism, people are judged by Yama, the God of Death, in accordance with Karma. Depending on whether or not and how closely one adhered to one's duties in life, as well as one's deeds, they would be either punished or rewarded in their next life after reincarnation. Those who performed their duties and performed good deeds would reincarnate into a higher class, spending some time between lives in bliss in heaven, whereas those who did not follow the rules of their caste and performed bad deeds in life were either reincarnated into lower classes or lower lifeforms, such as animals, as well as sent to Naraka (the equivalent of Hell) and tortured by various means between lives. There are several layers to Naraka, and people are sent to different ones for different punishments based on the severity and nature of their misdeeds in life.\n\nBuddhism applies the principles of Karma and reincarnation much the same way that Hinduism does. There are several differing versions. In some there is no God that passes down judgement on individuals to either determine their future life or to reward or punish them for their current one. In such cases, humans, as well as all other beings except for the Buddhas who have reached Nirvana, simply follow the cycle of reincarnation based on Karma until they can reach Nirvana. In some other versions of Buddhism, Yama, as well as conceptions of Naraka and punishment, are adopted from Hinduism.\n\nChinese religion borrows heavily form Hinduism and Buddhism, including Yama and Naraka (Diyu). However, Karma and the Caste system is not employed; thus reincarnation, as well as rewards and punishment between lives and in Diyu, are based solely on good or bad deeds in life. The wicked are tortured in Diyu, which contains different levels with different punishments, just like in Hinduism, and are reincarnated either into humans with bad luck and conditions or into animals. Those who are righteous and good are either reincarnated into humans with good fortune and status or are accepted into heaven\n\nIn Judaism, judgement occurs by God during the transition from the current earthly world \"Olam Ha-Zeh\" to the world to come \"Olam Ha-Ba\", which is roughly the equivalent of paradise or Eden. Those who followed all of the seven laws given to Moses, including non-Jews, would be considered righteous gentiles and allowed to enter Olam Ha-Ba. In contrast, those who did not obey the rules and were wicked would spend time in Gehenna for spiritual purification. Gehenna was a fiery place similar to common conceptions of Hell, where the wicked would be tortured for a maximum of one year's time in order to purify them for Olam Ha-Ba. Those who were too wicked would instead be completely destroyed after being tortured in Gehenna.\n\nCatholics believe that all men, women, and children whether just or unjust will be resurrected, and shall come to The Day of Judgment both in body and soul. Humans are judged according to their deeds. Those found pure are saved and welcomed into the kingdom, for nothing impure shall pass through the gates of God's Kingdom, but those found wanting enter everlasting damnation. Catholics believe that while salvation is by and through the grace of God, that human cooperation with grace is necessary as evidenced by the Parable of The Talents. They believe that the works done to merit salvation are not merited in virtue of the human's own being, who is a sinner, but as a servant and friend who acts well with the graces given them freely; thus faith without works is deemed Solo Fides and is rejected by Catholics, but so too works without Faith is rejected as Pelagianism by Catholics. Judgment Day is thus considered to require both Faith as a gift from above, but also the works of the human are judged, just as a branch of a vine is judged by its fruits. Catholics also believe in Purgatory, but as a place that is pre-Judgment Day, a purifying locale for those preparing for The Day of Judgment. If souls are purifed before Judgment Day they are released where they join the Saints who are spirits without bodies, enjoying an intellectual vision of The Father who is without body, known as The Beautific Vision. There the Saints await The Day of Judgment knowing they will be resurrected to receive their bodies and will be judged pure by The Trinity, confirmed by the Apostles and Patriarchs. Not only are humans judged on That Day, but so too are other creatures like angels.\n\nThe Catholic Church differs from other World beliefs in that it maintains God cannot be a Higher Power, for this claims God is in time and space as one of many powers, but is necessarily outside all Creation. The Catholic God is thus transcendent in The Godhead, yet immanent in The Incarnation and present in Baptism. Most importantly, this God is said to be Three Persons in One Essence. Salvation is by good deeds worked through, by, and in the grace of God. The Ordo Salutis is thus: The Father calls one to Baptism in Christ, through The Holy Spirit, and then the believer cultivates the virtues of Fatih, Hope, and Love through work to merit salvation through the grace given them in the sacraments, and continuously fed by the sacraments. Christ's place in The Godhead is as Logos incarnate, as both the lamb of God given for the sins of the world and the High Priest, making him both the one sacrificing and the sacrifice, which still require human response and agency to God's first act of call and action.\n\nProtestants believe that the deceased leave their bodies and their spirit faces judgement for sin by God. Since all humans sin, the only way into Heaven is faith in Jesus Christ, who is both God's Son and God in human form. Good deeds in this life store up treasures in heaven – entering into Heaven (the true life) is worth far more than earthly riches and honor. All others go to Hell. Once in Hell, people will suffer to varying degrees depending on their deeds in life. This punishment is eternal. When the world ends all of the dead will come back to life for their permanent judgement and placed in a new Heaven, Earth and Hell. Protestantism differs from other World beliefs in that while it allows a distinct avenue for judgement by a Higher Power, passage into a comfortable eternal life cannot be earned, but happens due to the self-sacrifice of that Higher Power by Solo Fides.\n\nIn Islam, there are two general paths after death: the first is Jannah, roughly the equivalent of paradise, and the second is Jahannam, the equivalent to Hell. One's assignment to Jannah or Jahannam are determined by one's deeds in life. Those who believe in and follow the rules laid out, as well as who perform good deeds, are allowed to enter Jannah, whereas those who do not believe in Islam or are unfaithful to it are punished in Jahannam. Jannah is a garden of perpetual bliss; its inhabitants live in a state of happiness and satisfaction with no worries or problems. They live in beautiful conditions in which they get everything they desire: beautiful clothes, servants, surroundings, food, etc.; all of the things indicative of a perfect life in the current world. In addition, they are brought close to God. Those in Jahannam are tortured, primarily by methods relating to fire, for eternity, or until Allah wills for it to stop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16853", "title": "Kitáb-i-Aqdas", "text": "Kitáb-i-Aqdas\n\nThe Kitáb-i-Aqdas or Aqdas is the central book of the Bahá'í Faith written by Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the religion, in 1873. The work was written in Arabic under the Arabic title ( / \"al-Kitāb al-ʾaqdās\"), but it is commonly referred to by its Persian title, \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\" ( / \"Ketâb Âqdas\"), which was given to the work by Bahá'u'lláh himself. It is sometimes also referred to as \"the Most Holy Book\", \"the Book of Laws\" or the Book of Aqdas. The word Aqdas has a significance in many languages as the superlative form of a word with its primary letters Q-D-Š.\n\nBahá'u'lláh had manuscript copies sent to Bahá'ís in Iran some years after the revelation of the \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\" in 1873, and in 1890–91 (1308 AH, 47 BE) he arranged for the publication of the original Arabic text of the book in Bombay, India.\n\nThe \"Aqdas\" is referred to as \"the Mother-Book\" of the Bahá'í teachings, and the \"Charter of the future world civilization\". It is not, however, only a 'book of laws': much of the content deals with other matters, notably ethical exhortations and addresses to various individuals, groups, and places. The \"Aqdas\" also discusses the establishment of Bahá'í administrative institutions, Bahá'í religious practices, mysticism, laws of personal status, criminal law, spiritual and ethical exhortations, social principles, miscellaneous laws and abrogations, and prophecies.\n\nBahá'u'lláh stated that the observance of the laws that he prescribed should be subject to \"tact and wisdom\", and that they do not cause \"disturbance and dissension.\" Bahá'u'lláh thus provided for the progressive application of his laws; for example certain Bahá'í laws are only applicable to Middle Eastern Bahá'ís such as the limit to the period of engagement, while any Bahá'í may practice the laws if they so decide. Shoghi Effendi also stated that certain other laws, such as criminal laws, that are dependent upon the existence of a predominantly Bahá'í society would only be applicable in a possible future Bahá'í society. He also stated that if the laws were in conflict with the civil law of the country where a Bahá'í lives the laws could not be practiced. Furthermore, some laws and teachings are, according to Bahá'í teaching, not meant to be applied at the present time and their application depends on decisions by the Universal House of Justice. Baha'is believe the Aqdas supersedes and succeeds previous revelations such as the Quran and the Bible.\n\nThe text of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas consists of several hundred verses, which have been grouped in 189 numbered paragraphs in the English translation most of which are just a few sentences. The style combines elements of both poetry (\"shi'r\") and rhymed prose (\"saj\") and the text contains instances of literary devices like alliteration, assonance, repetition, onomatopoeia, juxtaposition and antithesis, metaphors, alternation of person and personification.\n\nRules and principles are interspersed and guide interpretation, and authority and limits for authorized interpretation are also specified. It defines a Bahá'í Administration as part of the Covenant of Bahá'u'lláh, and also speaks to the individual reader, as there are no clergy in the religion to rely on for guidance. The text also moves between statements said to be plain and statements suggesting the key to understanding the book is to look at the text for clues to itself. Some statements reflect on the teachings in the religion on various themes and underscore a relationship of the Aqdas as a 'motherhood' in relation to all the other scriptural works and they to it. It also relates to scriptures of other religions by abrogation, explanation, affirmation or reformation — an example of progressive revelation as a principle of the religion. While it is the core text on laws of the religion, it is not the exclusive source of laws in the religion, nor of Bahá'u'lláh's own writings, and complementarily the reader is told explicitly to not view the text as a \"mere code of laws\".\n\nThe Kitáb-i-Aqdas was completed by Bahá'u'lláh in 1873. It was published in the Arabic for circulation among Bahá'ís speaking the language circa 1890. A Russian translation was undertaken by Alexander Tumansky in 1899 and was his most important contribution to Bahá'í studies. Around 1900 an informal English translation was made by Bahá'í Anton Haddad, which circulated among the early American Bahá'í community in a typewritten form. In 1961, an English scholar of Arabic, Dr. Earl E. Elder, and William McElwee Miller, who (according to Laurence Elwell-Sutton) is an openly hostile Christian minister, published an English translation, \"Al-Kitab Al-Aqdas\", through the Royal Asiatic Society, however its translation of the notes section was problematic and overall lacked \"poetic sensibility, and skill in Arabic translation\". Indeed, Miller only ever used it to further his polemical agenda. In 1973 a \"Synopsis and Codification\" of the book was published in English by the Universal House of Justice, with 21 passages of the Aqdas that had already been translated into English by Shoghi Effendi with additional terse lists of laws and ordinances contained in the book outside of any contextual prose. Finally, in 1992, a full and authorized Bahá'í translation in English was published. This version is used as the basis of translation into many other languages highlighting the practice of an indirect translation and how the purpose of the translation affects the act of translation. The Bahá'í Library Online provides a side-by-side comparison of the authorized translation with earlier translations of Anton Haddad and Earl Elder.\n\nThe \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\" is supplemented by the \n\nThe book was divided into six main themes in the \"Synopsis and Codification\" by Shoghi Effendi:\n\nFurther, the laws were divided into four categories:\n\nScholarly review finds the Aqdas has themes of laws of worship, societal relations and administrative organization, or governance, of the religion. Through the authority vested in 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the Aqdas there is an expanse of internationalism related to the law in works like \"The Secret of Divine Civilization\" and through his extended authority to Shoghi Effendi works like his \"World Order of Bahá'u'lláh\" further elaborates on the internationalism theme. This stands in some distinction from other scriptures by not using triumphal tones as the voice of God is given to be viewed but rather one of progressive development, social context, and outright delay in application until another day. Indeed, it insists that divine law is applicable only in situations with requisite conditions, where it is likely to have certain social effects. The goal of application of the law and its methods are not to cause disturbance and dissension and requires an appreciation for context and intention. Additionally one is to eschew emphasis in the development of textualist and intentionalist arguments about the law though some of this is visible in scholarship on the Aqdas. Such methods of application of law in a religious context are, in the opinion of Roshan Danish, common in Islam and Judaism.\n\nThe Aqdas is understood by Bahá'ís to be a factor in the process of ongoing developments in world order. This can be seen comparing the Bahá'í approach to history and the future to that of the theory of The Clash of Civilizations on the one hand and the development of a posthegemony system on the other (compared with work of Robert Cox, for example, in \"Approaches to World Order\", (Robert Cox & Timonthy Sinclair eds, Cambridge University Press, 1996).)\n\nCertain possible sources of law are specifically abrogated: laws of the Bábí religion, notably in the \"Persian Bayán\", oral traditions (linked with pilgrim notes, and natural law, (that is to say God's sovereign will through revelation is the independent authority.) Divine revelation's law-making is both unconditioned in terms of the divine right to choose, and conditioned in the sense of the progress of history from one revelation to the next.\n\nBaha'u'llah's statements about marriage in the \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\" are brief. Marriage is highly recommended but is stated to not be obligatory. Bahá'u'lláh states that the maximum number of wives is two, but also states that having only one wife would add more tranquility to both partners. These statements were later interpreted by 'Abdu'l-Bahá that having a second wife is conditional upon treating both wives with justice and equality and was not possible in practice, thus establishing monogamy.\n\nThat Bahá'u'lláh had three wives, while his religion teaches monogamy, which has been the subject of criticism. The writing of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas and Bahá'í teachings on gender equality and monogamy post-date Bahá'u'lláh's marriages and are understood to be evolutionary in nature, slowly leading Bahá'ís away from what had been a deeply rooted cultural practice.\n\nThe institutional status of the authority of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and a House of Justice are specifically delineated. On the basis of the authority granted 'Abdu'l-Bahá he extended forms of the authority vested in him to the Guardianship, whose sole member was Shoghi Effendi, and the Universal, or International, House of Justice through his Will and Testament. This was confirmed and amplified in other texts, notably the Kitáb-i-'Ahd. The Universal House of Justice is specifically empowered to write and rescind any laws it is felt necessary aside from those of the text of scripture and actual application of the laws of the Aqdas among Bahá'ís are dependent on the choice of the Universal House of Justice.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1646993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1646993", "title": "Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Associations", "text": "Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Associations\n\nThe Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Associations (Russian: «Закон О свободе совести и о религиозных объединениях»), also known as the 1997 Law (Russian: «Закон 1997 года») is a Russian law passed and signed by President Boris Yeltsin on September 26, 1997.\n\nThe law redefined the state's relationship with religion, as Soviet premier Mikhail Gorbachev had defined in on the Law of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic on Freedom of Worship passed on October 25, 1990, commonly known as the 1990 Law. After the fall of Communism, Gorbachev had given much-needed breathing room to the practice of religion in Russia, whose culture's heart is Eastern Orthodoxy, but had also opened the door indescriminately and generally to the practice of religion. The Russian Orthodox Church believed that a new law was needed to preserve Russia against what they considered to be the corruption of Orthodoxy.\n\nThe law was formulated and pushed by the Russian Orthodox Church, secular nationalists, and communists alike, with such determination that though Yeltsin vetoed the bill once, he could not legitimately do so a second time.\n\nWritten in the law was the upholding of separation of church and state, as well as an interdiction against a state religion. With that in mind, the following definitions and regulations are given:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nReligion under the new law became nearly as regulated as it had been in Soviet times, though without the official communist hostility. It did accomplish some expulsion of Western religious work, though it left room for some foreign churches to legitimately register. There had been on the order of 16,000 registered organizations before the passage of the law, and by 2004 there were 22,000. By regulating on grounds common among new, foreign organizations, it made it difficult for them to take root, and it succeeded in promoting and securing a privileged place for the Russian Orthodox Church.\n\nOn June 22, 2005, debate of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) concluded, that the 1997 Law \"creates a complex form of categorization of religions which has led to various forms of discrimination and to the stigmatization of 'non-traditional' religions.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2941757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2941757", "title": "Letter of Benan", "text": "Letter of Benan\n\nThe Letter of Benan was a literary forgery issued by Ernst Edler von der Planitz in 1910, allegedly a translation from a fifth-century Coptic papyrus containing a translation of an original composed in Greek in 83 CE. There is no evidence that either the Greek or Coptic works ever existed.\n\nIt consists of a letter purporting to be of an Egyptian physician describing his encounters with Jesus and the apostles. Internal evidence and historical inconsistencies, in the absence of the purported original manuscripts, clearly indicate this work to be a fake. It is thus counted among the modern apocrypha.\n"}
{"id": "7325276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7325276", "title": "List of New Age topics", "text": "List of New Age topics\n\nThis article contains a list of New Age topics that are too extensive to include in its main article New Age; further information may be found at .\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41002569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41002569", "title": "Lived religion", "text": "Lived religion\n\nLived religion is the ethnographic and holistic framework for understanding the beliefs, practices, and everyday experiences of religious and spiritual persons in religious studies. The name lived religion comes from the French tradition of sociology of religion \"la religion vécue.\"\n\nThe concept of lived religion was popularized in the late 20th century by religious study scholars like Robert A. Orsi and David D. Hall. The study of lived religion has come to include a wide range of subject areas as a means of exploring and emphasizing what a religious person does and what they believe. Today, the field of lived religion is expanding to include many topics and scholars.\n\nRobert A. Orsi is Professor of Religious Studies and History and Grace Craddock Nagle Chair in Catholic Studies at Northwestern University. He researches, writes, and teaches about religion in the United States, in the past and in contemporary contexts, with a particular focus on American Catholicism. Orsi’s book \"The Madonna of 115th Street: Faith And Community In Italian Harlem, 1880-1950\", won several prizes including the Jesuit National Book Award and is an example study of lived religion.\n\nOrsi defines lived religion as including “the work of social agents/actors themselves as narrators and interpreters (and reinterpreters) of their own experiences and histories, recognizing that the stories we tell about others exist alongside the many and varied story they tell of them selves”. Orsi understands lived religion to be centered on the actions and interpretations of religious person.\n\nIn order to study and write about lived religion Orsi suggests a broad field of study in terms of topic matter and methodology. Orsi describes his own process of studying lived religion for \"Madonna On 115th Street\" as wide in scope: “I came to realize that I was learning as much from how people were to me as from what they were telling me, as much as what was going on around the stories as from the stories themselves.” Rather than a narrow archival study, Orsi’s focus on non-traditional forms of research demands that scholars give attention to institutions \"and\" persons, texts \"and\" rituals, practices \"and\" theology, things and ideas. In order to study lived religion, Orsi advocates for a complex academic lens where almost anything can hold meaning and serve as a source or text for study. \n\nIn \"The Madonna Of 115th Street\", Orsi studies the lived religion of Catholic Italian immigrants in Harlem New York. Orsi focuses on a particular religious celebration known as the festa for The Madonna and the social structures that create and layer the event. Through observations, story telling, conversations and research Orsi weaves a picture of life for this immigrant community. In his book, Orsi explores and explains various internal traditions, cultures, and power and social dynamicss in order to illustrate the various religious meanings and significance for community in Italian Harlem.\n\nOrsi talks about the importance of dynamic subject matter covered by the study of lived religion: “the study of lived religion is shaped by and shapes the way family life is organized, for instance; how the dead are buried, children disciplined, the past and present imagined, moral boundaries established and challenged, home constructed, maintained and destroyed, the gods and spirits worshiped and importuned and so on”.\n\nOrsi critiques popular religion as being a limited framework and method for studying religion. Orsi claims that popular religion is “unclear, misleading, and tendentious”. Orsi notes that popular religion is concerned only with the practices of “common folk” and distinguishing popular religion practices as separate from “official religion”. In his introduction to The Madonna on 115th Street, he writes, “popular religion served to seal off certain expressions of religious life from unspecified but obviously normative religion”. Orsi is concerned with the limitations of popular religions because he sees it as potentially authorizing legitimacy and boundaries in religious practices and beliefs. For Orsi, the implied intent in popular religion is to highlight the primitive, ignorant, and often marginalized practitioners of popular religion as a means of “policing religion”. Orsi’s scholarly move to lived religion as a theoretical framework was an attempt to provide a more holistic approach to religious studies and also highlights the perspective that “religious practices and understandings only have meaning in relations to other cultural forms and in relations to the life experiences and actual circumstance of the people using them”.\n\nDavid D. Hall has been a faculty member at Harvard Divinity School since 1989. Hall was Bartlett Professor of New England Church History until 2008, when he became Bartlett Research Professor. Hall writes extensively on religion and society in seventeenth-century New England and England. Hall edited a series of essays titled \"Lived Religion In America: Toward a History Of Practice\", which is a foundational compilation in the study of lived religion. Hall’s book covers topics including gift exchange, cremation, hymn singing and many other essays on lived and practiced religious belief. Many of Hall's students have gone on to become notable scholars in the field of lived religion.\n\nHall defines lived religion as “rooted less in sociology than cultural and ethnographical approaches to the study of religion and American religious history.” He instead sees lived religion as the study of the context and content about the practices of religious laity and their “everyday thinking.” Hall believes that using lived religion as an approach to the study of religion allows for a wider interpretation of meaning and also provides an opportunity for historians to examine the past and present from many angles. For Hall, lived religion “does not depend on any single method or discipline.”\n\nHall also acknowledges the limitations of lived religion. Hall suggests that as a field, lived religion is “fluid, mobile, and incompletely structured.” Hall calls lived religion an “imperfect tool” noting that even with a dynamic study of laity it is impossible to fully understand any one person’s religious practices, especially when summarizing from a single location be it time or place.\n\nHall distinguishes the study of lived religion from popular religion by saying that popular religion is concerned with hierarchy and opposition in religious beliefs and practices. Hall writes, “popular religion has therefore come to signify the space that emerged between official or learned Christianity and the profane (or ‘pagan’) culture.” Hall critiques popular religion as imposing normative perspectives on practices.\n\n"}
{"id": "28413544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28413544", "title": "Magis Institute", "text": "Magis Institute\n\nMagis Institute is a non-profit educational organization founded by Jesuit priest and former Gonzaga University president Robert J. Spitzer, SJ. The institute's primary outreaches are the Magis Center of Reason and Faith and the Magis Center for Catholic Spirituality.\n\nRobert J. Spitzer S.J. (b. May 16, 1952) is a Jesuit priest, philosopher, educator, author, speaker, and retired President of Gonzaga University in Spokane, Washington. Father Spitzer is founder and currently active as President of Magis Institute, a non-profit organization dedicated to public education concerning the complementary relationship among the varied disciplines of physics, philosophy, reason, and faith. He is also the Chief Education Officer of the Ethics and Performance Institute which delivers web-based ethics education to corporations and individuals. He is also President of the Spitzer Center of Ethical Leadership, which delivers similar curricula to non-profit organizations.\n\nMagis Institute originally was created to be only a center for Catholic spirituality. In 2008, Father Spitzer and his associates at Magis considered how they might offer a reasoned, scientific alternative viewpoint to those publicly expressed by \"new atheism\" writers such as Christopher Hitchins and Richard Dawkins. As a result of these conversations, Father Spitzer began the Magis Center for Reason and Faith to provide a framework for the creation and distribution of materials expressing this alternative viewpoint.\n\nOn 3 September 2010, the Catholic News Agency featured Magis founder Father Spitzer in their response to the announcement of Stephen Hawking's new book touching on the subject of the origins of the universe. Online magazine \"The Blaze\" also featured a response to Hawking from Father Spitzer: \"There are already numerous video responses to Hawking popping up on YouTube. Let’s pick one. Here is former Gonzaga University President Father Robert Spitzer who now heads the Magis Center of Reason and Faith\"\n\nOn 10 September 2010, the institute was prominently mentioned on the CNN program \"Larry King Live\". Father Spitzer appeared as a panelist on the program which featured Dr. Stephen Hawking, Hawking's literary collaborator, Leonard Mlodinow, and author Deepak Chopra in a one-hour prime-time discussion on the need for a transcendent creator of the universe.\n\nThe institute, through Magis Center for Reason and Faith, is using five methods to leverage media to publicize their view of the compatibility of faith and reason:\n\nFather Spitzer has published \"New Proofs for the Existence of God\" The books authored by members of the institute will be \"affordable (under $30.00 US for the most part) and tailored for the average reader within the planned demographic. The institute also helps to promote the books of other writers who share a similar viewpoint, e.g. William Lane Craig, working with a physicist named Simpson, published the \"Blackwell Commentary on Natural Theology\".\n\nThe institute hired Martha Cotton, former producer of NBC News and the \"Today Show\", who has written a script that made these complex issues more intelligible, with the goal of bringing the discussion to the level of a high school student. Planned for a 2011 release, the first documentary features Nobel Laureate Arno Penzias, who discovered background radiation from the Big Bang. A Templeton Prize winner, John Polkinghorne, who is also an Anglican priest, is featured as well. The feature is completed and distribution is being negotiated (as of March 2011).\n\nThe institute is reaching out via the World Wide Web, and to the blogosphere; it has a popular Facebook page, and also releases frequent videos via YouTube. The institute provides information concerning the long history of scientific research done by members of the clergy over the centuries with a special focus on those who are currently active in their respective fields both on Facebook and its website.\n\nThe institute has planned the release in September 2011 of a curriculum aimed at the high school student, and designed for use in parochial schools and church youth groups..\n\nCatalogued for the Fall (September) of 2011, there is a college course in conjunction with Benedictine College in Atchison, Kansas numbered GS298 and titled \"Physics and Metaphysics in Dialogue\". The course will carry 3 semester credits and will be transferable as elective credit to any regionally accredited institution of higher education.\n\nAdult Curricula for group settings or individual study, with less scope and depth than the college course, are also to be released in September 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "196799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=196799", "title": "Monopsychism", "text": "Monopsychism\n\nMonopsychism is the belief that all humans share the same eternal consciousness, soul, mind and intellect. It is also a recurring feature in many mystical traditions.\n\nMonopsychism is a doctrine of Sabianism, Jewish Kabbalah, and Averroism, and also forms a part of the Rastafarian belief system.\n\nThomas Aquinas disagreed with this belief and devoted most of his writing to Averroism and criticized monopsychism. One of his works, a commentary on Aristotle's \"On the soul\", is titled \"De unitate intellectus contra Averroistas\". In this commentary, Aquinas demonstrates how Averroes misinterpreted Aristotle's argument, claiming that the correct interpretation was that an individual's intellect cannot be independent of his or her physical body.\n\n"}
{"id": "4117066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4117066", "title": "Murder for body parts", "text": "Murder for body parts\n\nThe murder of human beings for their body parts is a crime in all countries. Such practices have been confirmed or suspected to occur within a handful of contexts.\n\nMedicine murder (not to be confused with \"medical murder\" due to medical negligence) means the killing of a human being in order to excise body parts to use as medicine or for magical purposes in witchcraft. Medicine murder is not viewed as a form of human sacrifice in a religious sense, because the motivation is not the death of a human or the effecting of magical changes through the death of a human being, but the obtaining of an item or items from their corpse to be used in traditional medicine. Its practice in the format described below occurs primarily in sub-equatorial Africa. Medicine murder in southern Africa has been documented in some small detail in South Africa, Lesotho and Swaziland, although it is a difficult subject to investigate because of its controversial standing in customary practices and laws. Very few research and discussion documents have been devoted to this subject. Three concerning Lesotho were published in 1951, 2000 and 2005 regarding the same events in the 1940s and 1950s; one concerning Swaziland was published in 1993 covering the 1970s and 1980s; and a commission of enquiry held in South Africa in 1995 covering medicine murder and witchcraft in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nThe illegal organ trade has at times led to murder for body parts, because of a worldwide demand of organs for transplant and organ donors. At times, criminal organizations have engaged in kidnapping people, especially children and teens, with the victims being killed and their organs harvested for the illegal organ trade. The extent is unknown, and non-fatal organ theft and removal is more widely reported than murder.\n\nIn 2006, China was reported to be using its extensive pool of Falun Gong political prisoners as a supply for body parts to be used in transplants. The allegations and supporting testimony were raised in several countries and seen as deeply disturbing. Reports and testimony found that such prisoners were routinely assessed for transplants and apparent tissue typing, in a manner with no relevance to ordinary patient wellbeing, and that many were subsequently executed to meet demand for matching organs. Data on availability and speed of transplants within China (under 2 – 3 weeks in some cases compared to years elsewhere) led several renowned doctors to state that the statistics and transplant rates seen would be impossible without access to a very large pool of pre-existing donors already available on very short notice for hearts and other organs; several governments also established restrictions intended to target such a practice. China denied such practices.\n\nHistorically, anatomy murders took place during the earlier parts of modern Western medicine. In the 19th century, the human body was still poorly understood, but fresh cadavers for dissection and anatomical study were sometimes difficult to obtain. Mortuaries remained the most common source, but in some cases, such as the notorious Irish murderers Burke and Hare, victims were killed instead and the killers then sold the bodies for study. The practice has intermittently been reported since that time; in 1992 Colombian activist Juan Pablo Ordoñez, claimed that 14 poor residents of the town of Barranquilla had been killed for local medical study with a purported account by an alleged escapee being publicized by the international press.\n\nThe objective of medicine murder is to create traditional medicine based partly on human flesh. Medicine murder is often termed ritual murder or muthi / muti murder, although there is evidence to suggest that the degree of ritual involved in the making of medicine is only a small element of the practice overall. Social anthropological ethnographies have documented anecdotes of medicine murder in southern Africa since the 1800s, and research has shown that incidences of medicine murder increase in times of political and economic stress.\n\nThe practice is commonly associated with witchcraft, although ethnographic evidence suggests that this has not always been the case, and that it may have been accorded local-level political sanction. Medicine murder is difficult to describe concisely, as it has changed over time, involving an ever-greater variety of perpetrator, victim, method and motive. Most detailed information about the minutiae of medicine murder is derived from state witnesses in trials, court records and third-party anecdote.\n\nThe phenomenon is widely acknowledged to occur in southern Africa, although no country has issued an accurate and up to date record of the frequency with which it takes place. This is not only because of the secrecy of the practice, given its controversial status, but also because of difficulties in classifying subcategories of murder. Medicine murder has been a topic of urban legends in South Africa, but this does not diminish its status as a practice that has resulted in legal trials and convictions of perpetrators.\n\nThe perpetrators are usually men, although women have been convicted as well, most notably in Swaziland when Phillippa Mdluli was hanged in 1983 for commissioning a medicine murder. Perpetrators vary widely in age and social status.\n\nAn individual or group of individuals commissions a traditional healer or \"inyanga / nanga \" (a herbalist skilled in traditional medicine) to assist them by concocting medicine (or muti). The medicine supposedly strengthens the 'personality' or personal force of the person who commissions the medicine. This increased personal force enables the person to excel in business, politics, or other sphere of influence. A human victim is identified for murder in order to create the medicine.\n\nVictims vary widely in age and social standing. They are often young children or elderly people, and are both male and female. In some instances, the victim is identified and 'purchased' via a transaction involving an often nominal amount of money. The victim is then abducted, often at night, and taken to an isolated place, often in the open countryside if the murder is being committed in a rural area. It is usually intended that the victim be mutilated while conscious, so that the medicine can be made more potent through the noises of the victim in agony. Mutilation does not take place in order to kill the victim, but it is expected that the victim will die of the wounds.\n\nBody parts excised mostly include soft tissue – eyelids, lips, scrota, labia – although there have been instances where entire limbs have been severed. These body parts are removed to be mixed with medicinal plants to create a medicine through a cooking process. The resulting medicine is sometimes consumed, but is often made into a paste that is carried on the person of the perpetrator or rubbed onto scarifications.\n\nSince the 1970s, the manner in which medicine murder is practiced has become altered to the methods described above, although the continued practice of medicine murder demonstrates that belief in human flesh as a powerful medicinal component remains strong in some communities. It would appear that medicine murder in the 18th and 19th centuries may have been considered the legitimate domain of traditional chiefs and leaders, in order to improve agriculture and protect against war (see Human sacrifice).\n\nFollowing industrialisation and growth of commerce, the range of purposes for which medicine was used to increase influence expanded significantly. In the early 1990s when South Africa was experiencing internal political strife between several political groupings, it became clear that some mutilations for medicine were opportunistic and incidental to the assassination of political opponents. There have also been occurrences of mutilation of corpses in medical facilities. In not all cases does the employment of a traditional healer seem to have been thought necessary to the process.\n\nIn 1994, a 14-year-old named Segametsi Mogomotsi was murdered in Mochudi, Botswana and body parts removed. The killing was widely believed to have been for muti, and the police even recovered some excised organs. However, these were destroyed before being tested to establish them as human, leading to accusations of police complicity with the murder. The killing led to riots as students in Mochudi protested about police inaction, and eventually Scotland Yard from Britain were asked to investigate, as neutral outsiders. Their report was given to the Botswana government, which did not release it to the public. These events inspired some of the events in the book \"The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency\" by Alexander McCall Smith.\n\nA little boy whose headless and limbless body was found floating in the Thames in 2001 was identified by an arrestee in March 2011.\nThe five-year-old’s identity has remained a mystery after he was smuggled into Britain and murdered in a voodoo-style ritual killing.\nHe was drugged with a ‘black-magic’ potion and sacrificed before being thrown into the Thames, where his torso washed up next to the Globe Theatre in September 2001.\nDetectives used pioneering scientific techniques to trace radioactive isotopes in his bones to his native Nigeria.\nThey even enlisted Nelson Mandela to appeal for information about the murder.\n\nThey struggled to formally identify the boy, whom they called Adam, despite travelling to the West African state to try to trace his family.\nNigerian Joyce Osiagede, the only person to be arrested in Britain as part of the inquiry, has claimed that the victim's real name is Ikpomwosa.\nIn an interview with ITV’s \"London Tonight\", Mrs Osiagede said she looked after the boy in Germany for a year before travelling to Britain without him in 2001.\nShe claimed she handed the boy over to a man known as Bawa who later told her that he was dead and threatened to kill her unless she kept silent.\n\nPolice have passed numerous files on the case to the Crown Prosecution Service but it has never gone to court.\nA second suspect, a Nigerian man, was arrested in Dublin in 2003 but was never charged.\nMrs Osiagede was first questioned by police after they found clothing similar to that worn by ‘Adam’ in her Glasgow tower-block flat in 2002.\nThe only clothing on his body was a pair of orange shorts, exclusively sold in Woolworths in Germany and Austria.\nDressed in a traditional gold and green dress, Mrs Osiagede denied any involvement with the death of the young boy.\n\nAsked who killed him, she said a ‘group of people’.\nShe added: \"They used him for a ritual in the water.\"\nClaiming the boy was six years old, she said: ‘He was a lively boy. A very nice boy, he was also intelligent.’\nDetailed analysis of a substance in the boy’s stomach was identified as a ‘black magic’ potion.\nIt included tiny clay pellets containing small particles of pure gold, an indication that Adam was the victim of a Muti ritual killing in which it is believed that the body parts of children are sacred. Bodies are often disposed of in flowing water.\n\nMasego Kgomo was a 10-year-old South African girl whose body parts were removed and sold to a sangoma in Soshanguve, South Africa. The little girl's body was found in bushes near the Mabopane railway station, north-west of Pretoria. Thirty-year-old Brian Mangwale was found guilty of the murder and sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nAccording to the World Health Organization (WHO), illegal organ trade occurs when organs are removed from the body for the purpose of commercial transactions. The illegal organ trade is growing, and a recent report by Global Financial Integrity estimates that globally it generates profits between $0.6 billion and $1.2 billion per year\n\nIn some cases, criminal organizations have engaged in kidnapping of people, especially children and teens, who are murdered and their organs harvested for profit. In 2014 an alleged member of the Mexican Knights Templar cartel was arrested for the kidnapping and deaths of minors, after children were found wrapped in blankets and stuffed in a refrigerated container inside a van.\n\nAccording to the most recent Bulletin of the World Health Organization on the state of the international organ trade, 66,000 kidney transplants, 21,000 liver transplants, and 6000 heart transplants were performed globally in 2005, while another article reports that 2008 the median waiting time for the U.S. transplant list in 2008 was greater than 3 years and expected to rise, while the United Kingdom reported a lack of organs for 8000 patients, with the rate increasing at 8%. It was estimated that about 10% of all transplants occur illegally, with the Internet acting as a facilitator. Transplant tourism raises concerns because it involves the transfer of healthy organs in one direction, depleting the regions where organs are bought. This transfer typically occurs from South to North, developing to developed nations, females to males, and from people of color to whites, a trend that experts say \"has exacerbated old...divisions\". While some organs such as the kidney can be transplanted routinely and the single remaining kidney is adequate for normal human needs, other organs are less easy to source. Liver transplants in particular are prominent, but incur an excruciating recovery that deters donations.\n\nMost countries have laws which criminalize the buying and selling of organs, or the carrying out of medical procedures for the illegal organ trade.\n\nIn March 2006, three individuals alleged that thousands of Falun Gong practitioners had been killed at Sujiatun Thrombosis Hospital, to supply China's organ transplant industry. The third person, a doctor, said the so-called hospitals in Sujiatun are but one of 36 similar concentration camps all over China.\n\nThe allegations were the subject of investigative reports by Edward McMillan-Scott, Vice-President of the European Parliament, and by former Canadian Secretary of State David Kilgour and human rights lawyer David Matas.\n\nThe Kilgour-Matas report stated \"the source of 41,500 transplants for the six year period 2000 to 2005 is unexplained\" and concluded that \"there has been and continues today to be large scale organ seizures from unwilling Falun Gong practitioners\".\n\nThe report called attention to the extremely short wait times for organs in China—one to two weeks for a liver compared with 32.5 months in Canada—noting that this was indicative of organs being procured on demand. A significant increase in the number of annual organ transplants in China beginning in 1999, corresponded with the onset of the persecution of Falun Gong. Despite very low levels of voluntary organ donation, China performs the second-highest number of transplants per year. The report includes incriminating material from Chinese transplant center web sites advertising the immediate availability of organs from living donors, and transcripts of interviews in which hospitals told prospective transplant recipients that they could obtain Falun Gong organs. An updated version of their report was published as a book in 2009.\n\nIn 2014, investigative journalist Ethan Gutmann, published his own investigation. He conducted extensive interviews with former detainees of Chinese labor camps and prisons, as well as former security officers and medical professionals with knowledge of China's transplant practices. He reported that organ harvesting from political prisoners likely began in Xinjiang province in the 1990s, and then spread nationwide. Gutmann estimates 65,000 Falun Gong prisoners were killed for their organs from 2000 to 2008.\n\nThe extent of evidence still led to many responses expressing \"deep concerns\" at the findings, and several countries took action as a result of the concerns and findings.\nResponses were noted from the US Government, the US National Kidney Foundation (\"deeply concerned\"), and the Queensland Ministry of Health in Australia (abolished training programs for Chinese doctors in organ transplant procedures and banned joint research with China on organ transplantation), A petition signed by 140 Canadian physicians urged the Government to warn Canadian nationals that organ transplants in China were \"sourced almost entirely from non-consenting people\".\n\nIn 2012, \"State Organs: Transplant Abuse in China\", edited by David Matas and Dr. Torsten Trey, was published with contributions from 12 specialists. Several of the essays in the book conclude that a primary source of organs has been prisoners of conscience, specifically practitioners of Falun Gong.\n\nIn May 2008, two United Nations Special Rapporteurs reiterated their requests for the Chinese government to fully explain the allegation of taking vital organs from Falun Gong practitioners and the source of organs for the sudden increase in organ transplants in China since 2000.\n\nIn August 2009, Manfred Nowak the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Torture said, \"The Chinese government has yet to come clean and be transparent ... It remains to be seen how it could be possible that organ transplant surgeries in Chinese hospitals have risen massively since 1999, while there are never that many voluntary donors available.\"\n\nAn anatomy murder (sometimes called burking in British English) is a murder committed in order for all or part of the cadaver to be used for medical research or teaching. It is not a medicine murder because the body parts are not believed to have any medicinal use in themselves. The motive for the murder is created by the demand for cadavers for dissection, and the opportunity to learn anatomy and physiology as a result of the dissection. Rumors concerning the prevalence of anatomy murders are associated with the rise in demand for cadavers in research and teaching produced by the Scientific Revolution. During the nineteenth century, the sensational serial murders associated with Burke and Hare and the London Burkers led to legislation which provided scientists and medical schools with legal ways of obtaining cadavers. Rumors persist that anatomy murders are carried out wherever there is a high demand for cadavers. These rumors are hard to substantiate, and may reflect continued, deep-held fears of the use of cadavers as commodities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17674966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17674966", "title": "Nakchhong", "text": "Nakchhong\n\nNakchhong (नाक्छोङ) are priests of the Kirati people, an ethnic group that is predominantly located in the Himalayas. \n\nNakchhong maintain a vegetarian diet as part of their spiritual regime. The Kirati believe that Nakchhong are chosen bodies of good spirits. One of the foremost Kirat, Mundhum, has taught that there are two types of spirits. Rumahang, the divine spirit, is a supreme spirit who created the universe and living beings on this earth. Rumahang represents truth, happiness, compassion and love. Conversely, the devil spirit represents destruction, jealousy and hatred. Thus, Nakchhong act under Rumahang against the devil spirits. \n\nThose who possess a magical weapon (any kind of BAN to harm or kill another) are regarded as chosen bodies of the devil spirit. On the other hand, Nakchhong do not have any magical weapons to harm or kill other living beings.\n\nNakchhong frequently work with the following materials:\n"}
{"id": "28193343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28193343", "title": "Nontheistic religion", "text": "Nontheistic religion\n\nNontheistic religions are traditions of thought within a religious context—some otherwise aligned with theism, others not—in which nontheism informs religious beliefs or practices. Nontheism has been applied to the fields of Christian apologetics and general liberal theology, and plays significant roles in Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, and Satanism. While many approaches to religion exclude nontheism by definition, some inclusive definitions of religion show how religious practice and belief do not depend on the presence of god(s). For example, Paul James and Peter Mandaville distinguish between religion and spirituality, but provide a definition of the term that avoids the usual reduction to \"religions of the book\":\n\nThe Buddha said that \"devas\" (translated as \"gods\") do exist, but they were regarded as still being trapped in \"samsara\", and are not necessarily wiser than we. In fact, the Buddha is often portrayed as a teacher of the gods, and superior to them.\n\nSince the time of the Buddha, the denial of the existence of a creator deity has been seen as a key point in distinguishing Buddhist from non-Buddhist views. The question of an independent creator deity was answered by the Buddha in the Brahmajala Sutta. The Buddha denounced the view of a creator and sees that such notions are related to the false view of eternalism, and like the 61 other views, this belief causes suffering when one is attached to it and states these views may lead to desire, aversion and delusion. At the end of the Sutta the Buddha says he knows these 62 views and he also knows the truth that surpasses them.\n\nOn one occasion, when presented with a problem of metaphysics by the monk Malunkyaputta, the Buddha responded with the Parable of the Poison Arrow. When a man is shot with an arrow thickly smeared with poison, his family summons the doctor to have the poison removed, and the doctor gives an antidote:\n\nA few liberal Christian theologians, define a \"nontheistic God\" as \"the ground of all being\" rather than as a personal divine being. John Shelby Spong refers to a theistic God as \"a personal being with expanded supernatural, human, and parental qualities, which has shaped every religious idea of the Western world.\"\n\nFrom a nontheist, naturalist, and rationalist perspective, the concept of divine grace appears to be the same concept as luck.\nMany of them owe much of their theology to the work of Christian existentialist philosopher Paul Tillich, including the phrase \"the ground of all being\". Another quotation from Tillich is, \"God does not exist. He is being itself beyond essence and existence. Therefore to argue that God exists is to deny him.\" This Tillich quotation summarizes his conception of God. He does not think of God as a being that exists in time and space, because that constrains God, and makes God finite. But all beings are finite, and if God is the Creator of all beings, God cannot logically be finite since a finite being cannot be the sustainer of an infinite variety of finite things. Thus God is considered beyond being, above finitude and limitation, the power or essence of being itself. \n\nA nontheist Friend or an atheist Quaker is someone who affiliates with, identifies with, engages in and/or affirms Quaker practices and processes, but who does not accept a belief in a theistic understanding of God, a Supreme Being, the divine, the soul or the supernatural. Like theistic Friends, nontheist Friends are actively interested in realizing centered peace, simplicity, integrity, community, equality, love, happiness and social justice in the Society of Friends and beyond.\n\nHinduism is characterised by extremely diverse beliefs and practices. In the words of R.C. Zaehner, \"it is perfectly possible to be a good Hindu whether one's personal views incline toward monism, monotheism, polytheism, or even atheism.\" He goes on to say that it is a religion that neither depends on the existence or non-existence of God or Gods. More broadly, Hinduism can be seen as having three more important strands: one featuring a personal Creator or Divine Being, one that emphasises an impersonal Absolute and a third that is pluralistic and non-absolute. The latter two traditions can be seen as nontheistic.\n\nAlthough the Vedas are broadly concerned with the completion of ritual, there are some elements that can be interpreted as either nontheistic or precursors to the later developments of the nontheistic tradition. The oldest Hindu scripture, the Rig Veda mentions that 'There is only one god though the sages may give it various names' (1.164.46). Max Müller termed this henotheism, and it can be seen as indicating one, non-dual divine reality, with little emphasis on personality. The famous Nasadiya Sukta, the 129th Hymn of the tenth and final Mandala (or chapter) of the Rig Veda, considers creation and asks \"The gods came afterwards, with the creation of this universe. /Who then knows whence it has arisen?\". This can be seen to contain the intuition that there must be a single principle behind all phenomena: 'That one' (tad ekam), self-sufficient, to which distinctions cannot be applied.\n\nIt is with the Upanishads, reckoned to be written in the first millennia (coeval with the ritualistic Brahmanas), that the Vedic emphasis on ritual was challenged. The Upanishads can be seen as the expression of new sources of power in India. Also, separate from the Upanishadic tradition were bands of wandering ascetics called Vadins whose largely nontheistic notions rejected the notion that religious knowledge was the property of the Brahmins. Many of these were shramanas, who represented a non-Vedic tradition rooted in India's pre-Aryan history. The emphasis of the Upanishads turned to knowledge, specifically the ultimate identity of all phenomena. This is expressed in the notion of Brahman, the key idea of the Upanishads, and much later philosophizing has been taken up with deciding whether Brahman is personal or impersonal. The understanding of the nature of Brahman as impersonal is based in the definition of it as 'ekam eva advitiyam' (Chandogya Upanishad 6.2.1) - it is one without a second and to which no substantive predicates can be attached. Further, both the Chandogya and Brihadaranyaka Upanishads assert that the individual atman and the impersonal Brahman are one. The mahāvākya statement Tat Tvam Asi, found in the Chandogya Upanishad, can be taken to indicate this unity. The latter Upanishad uses the negative term Neti neti to 'describe' the divine.\n\nClassical Samkhya, Mimamsa, early Vaisheshika and early Nyaya schools of Hinduism do not accept the notion of an omnipotent creator God at all. While the Sankhya and Mimamsa schools no longer have significant followings in India, they are both influential in the development of later schools of philosophy. The Yoga of Patanjali is the school that probably owes most to the Samkhya thought. This school is dualistic, in the sense that there is a division between 'spirit' (Sanskrit: purusha) and 'nature' (Sanskrit: prakṛti). It holds Samadhi or 'concentrative union' as its ultimate goal and it does not consider God's existence as either essential or necessary to achieving this.\n\nThe Bhagavad Gita, contains passages that bear a monistic reading and others that bear a theistic reading. Generally, the book as a whole has been interpreted by some who see it as containing a primarily nontheistic message, and by others who stress its theistic message. These broadly either follow after either Sankara or Ramanuja An example of a nontheistic passage might be \"The supreme Brahman is without any beginning. That is called neither being nor non-being,\" which Sankara interpreted to mean that Brahman can only be talked of in terms of negation of all attributes—'Neti neti'.\n\nThe Advaita Vedanta of Gaudapada and Sankara rejects theism as a consequence of its insistence that Brahman is \"Without attributes, indivisible, subtle, inconceivable, and without blemish, Brahman is one and without a second. There is nothing other than He.\" This means that it lacks properties usually associated with God such as omniscience, perfect goodness, omnipotence, and additionally is identical with the whole of reality, rather than being a causal agent or ruler of it.\n\nJain texts claim that the universe consists of \"jiva\" (life force or souls) and ajiva (lifeless objects). According to Jain doctrine, the universe and its constituents-soul, matter, space, time, and principles of motion-have always existed. The universe and the matter and souls within it are eternal and uncreated, and there is no omnipotent creator god. Jainism offers an elaborate cosmology, including heavenly beings/\"devas\", but these heavenly beings are not viewed as creators-they are subject to suffering and change like all other living beings, and are portrayed as mortal.\n\nAccording to the Jain concept of divinity, any soul who destroys its \"karmas\" and desires, achieves liberation/Nirvana. A soul who destroys all its passions and desires has no desire to interfere in the working of the universe. If godliness is defined as the state of having freed one's soul from \"karmas\" and the attainment of enlightenment/Nirvana and a god as one who exists in such a state, then those who have achieved such a state can be termed gods (\"Tirthankara\").\n\nBesides scriptural authority, Jains also employ syllogism and deductive reasoning to refute creationist theories. Various views on divinity and the universe held by the vedics, sāmkhyas, mimimsas, Buddhists, and other school of thoughts were criticized by Jain Ācāryas, such as Jinasena in Mahāpurāna.\n\nLucien Greaves, the founder of the Satanic Temple, argues that contemporary Satanism is \"the future of religion\" insofar as it offers a model for how religious traditions can evolve and be maintained without the need for the supernatural, as cultural and philosophical identities that inform the narratives and the rituals of individuals adherents and communities. His organization challenges the traditional view that religion must incorporate supernatural claims.\n\nPhilosophical models not falling within established religious structures, such as Daoism, Confucianism, Deism and Pandeism, have also been considered to be nontheistic religions.\n"}
{"id": "2347090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2347090", "title": "Numen", "text": "Numen\n\nNumen, pl. numina, is a Latin term for \"divinity\", or a \"divine presence\", \"divine will.\" The Latin authors defined it as follows. Cicero writes of a \"divine mind\" (\"divina mens\"), a god \"whose numen everything obeys,\" and a \"divine power\" (\"vim divinam\") \"which pervades the lives of men.\" It causes the motions and cries of birds during augury. In Virgil's recounting of the blinding of the one-eyed giant, Polyphemus, from the Odyssey, in his Aeneid, he has Odysseus and his men first \"ask for the assistance of the great numina\" (\"magna precati numina\"). Reviewing public opinion of Augustus on the day of his funeral, the historian Tacitus reports that some thought \"no honor was left to the gods\" when he \"established the cult of himself\" (\"se ... coli vellet\") \"with temples and the effigies of numina\" (\"effigie numinum\"). Pliny the younger in a letter to Paternus raves about the \"power,\" the \"dignity,\" and \"the majesty;\" in short, the \"\"numen\" of history.\" Lucretius uses the expression \"numen mentis\", or \"bidding of the mind,\" where \"bidding\" is \"numen\", not, however, the divine numen, unless the mind is to be considered divine, but as simply human will.\n\nSince the early 20th century, numen has sometimes been treated in the history of religion as a pre-animistic phase; that is, a belief system inherited from an earlier time. \"Numen\" is also used by sociologists to refer to the idea of magical power residing in an object, particularly when writing about ideas in the western tradition. When used in this sense, \"numen\" is nearly synonymous with \"mana\". However, some authors reserve use of \"mana\" for ideas about magic from Polynesia and southeast Asia.\n\nEtymologically, the word means \"a nod of the head\", here referring to a deity as it were \"nodding\", or making its will or its presence known). According to H. J. Rose: \nThe literal meaning is simply \"a nod\", or more accurately, for it is a passive formation, \"that which is produced by nodding\", just as \"flamen\" is \"that which is produced by blowing\", \"i.e.\", a gust of wind. It came to mean \"the product or expression of power\" — not, be it noted, power itself.\n\nThus, \"numen\" (divinity) is not personified (although it can be a personal attribute) and should be distinguished from \"deus\" (god).\n\nNumen was also used in the imperial cult of ancient Rome, to refer to the guardian-spirit, 'godhead' or divine power of a living emperor—in other words, a means of worshiping a living emperor without literally calling him a god.\n\nThe cult of Augustus was promoted by Tiberius, who dedicated the \"Ara Numinis Augusti\".\nIn this context, a distinction can be made between the terms \"numen\" and \"genius\".\n\nThe expression \"Numen inest\" appears in Ovid's \"Fasti\" (III, 296) and has been translated as 'There is a spirit here'. Its interpretation, and in particular the exact sense of \"numen\" has been discussed extensively in the literature.\n\nThe supposition that a \"numinous presence\" in the natural world supposed in the earliest layers of Italic religion, as it were an \"animistic\" element left over in historical Roman religion and especially in the etymology of Latin theonyms, has often been popularly implied, but was criticised as \"mostly a scholarly fiction\" by McGeough (2004).\n\nThe phrase \"numen eris caeloque redux mirabere regna\" appears on line 129 of the poem \"Metrum in Genesin\", attributed to Hilary of Arles.\n\n\nIn modern times, the term (referring to the Christian God) has been used in various expressions:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30221292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30221292", "title": "Person of faith", "text": "Person of faith\n\nThe description person of faith (plural: people of faith) refers to any person who can be delineated or classified by an adherence to a religious tradition or doctrine, as opposed to those who do not publicly identify or in any way espouse a religious path. The term people of faith has been increasingly used in the 20th and 21st century by religious adherents in Westernized countries who are critical of a perceived increase in public disenchantment or de-emphasis upon accommodation for religious adherents, although the term itself is used more as a catch-all term which is intentionally non-denominational or non-specific to any particular religious path. A person of faith is said to belong to a faith community or faith-based community.\n\nThe term is also criticized by advocates of nontheistic positions for being inaccurate in its assumption of an underlying, unifying commonality between all religious observants - despite stark doctrinal differences and oppositional stances - simply for the purpose of reducing the influence of secular-minded individuals (similar to the term person of color as a catch-all descriptor of non-white persons, or the Islamic description of people of the Book to describe the communities of adherents to Islam, Christianity and Judaism).\n"}
{"id": "19720856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19720856", "title": "Prayer walk", "text": "Prayer walk\n\nA prayer walk is an activity that consists in walking and praying at the same time. It's done not for the physical benefit but for the spiritual exercise, either publicly functioning also as a demonstration or rally (to let other people know the group is praying), or quietly in sight of the subject. For instance, a person or group may be praying for a town or city, and walk the streets of the city while praying, either out loud, or in silence.\n\n"}
{"id": "49050369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49050369", "title": "Religion and video games", "text": "Religion and video games\n\nThe study of religion and video games is a subfield of digital religion, which the American scholar of communication, Heidi Campbell, defines as \"Religion that is constituted in new ways through digital media and cultures.\" (Campbell, 2012, p. 3). Video games once struggled for legitimacy as a cultural product, today, however, they are both business and art. Video games increasingly turn to religion not just as ornament but as core elements of their video game design and play.\n\nReligion has several definitions. Religions that are organized can be seen as cultural systems, with corresponding behavior and practice. They often have sacred texts and holy places. A religious experience, however, does not necessarily have to be understood through an established religious framework.\n\nThemes and questions about life and death, innocence and guilt and violence are existential in nature; while they are not immediately understood as \"religious\", they are about the meaning of life.\n\nVideo game developers use religious and spiritual themes to involve the player more deeply in the game. Video game developer Shigeru Miyamoto, who used to play outside as a child, used his experiences and memories of exploring the forest and discovering a Buddhist temple in the design of his video games. Canadian developer BioWare (\"Mass Effect\", \"Dragon Age\") has in its offices several encyclopedias on religion, as well as the Book of the Dead.\n\nThe negative portrayal of religions has been criticized.\n\nReligious elements are used in two ways: explicit and implicit. They are seen side-by-side in video games and do not exclude each other. Religion in \"Mass Effect\", for instance, can be understood as an \"unseen character\".\n\nAn explicit reference to a religious or spiritual concept is one that is clear to what it is referring. These can be based upon real-world religions, but also on fictional ones. Stories, motifs and names of characters from religious texts are used as reference points.\n\nAncient religions and their deities are used in various ways. The religions portrayed are often no longer practiced, like ancient Greek religion. In the real-time strategy game \"Age of Mythology\" the player has to choose a \"major god\", which gives certain gameplay benefits. In \"Prince of Persia\" the nameless Prince has to fight Ahriman, an evil deity from Zoroastrianism.\n\nReal world historical religions and events are used as inspiration for video games. For instance, while \"Assassin's Creed\" (2007) is fictional, it is set during the Third Crusade in the Holy Land; the player takes on the role of the Assassin Altaïr Ibn-La'Ahad and is involved in the conflict between Catholic Christians, Orthodox Christians, Sunni Muslims and Shi'ite Muslims. While these religions appear, they are portrayed in a \"sanitized manner\".\n\nReligion is often institutionalized, having a certain organisational structure. Most games in the \"Megami Tensei\" series involve a religion, or a cult.\n\nIn the action role-playing game \"\" (2011) a civil war is about to erupt between the Empire and the Stormcloaks. The Stormcloaks wish to worship Talos, a human ascended to godhood. The Empire suffered a defeat against the powerful Aldmeri Dominion, an alliance of Elves who have made the worship of Talos illegal. It is up to the player to help in the conflict.\n\nThe stories of action-adventure and role-playing games often involve world-saving quests. The player, as the protagonist, takes on the role of the hero. The player character is often destined to save the world, which in itself is a prophecy.\n\n\"The Legend of Zelda\" uses religious elements and motifs like the Triforce.\n\nPlayers and developers use games to express their existential and spiritual feelings. Video games as cultural objects can also provide religious and spiritual experiences, like \"Journey\" (2012). Developer Jenova Chen said that \"I feel that \"Journey\" is a very spiritual game. People from around the world ask me if the game has a religious connection. Many religions share an affinity with \"Journey\"—this is because many religions partly share a common structure\". Chen said \"Journey\" is based upon Joseph Campbell's book on comparative mythology \"The Hero with a Thousand Faces\" and the \"Hero's Journey\" narrative structure.\n\nAfter the death of Leonard Nimoy, \"Star Trek Online\" added two statues in his honor, and \"World of Warcraft\" added a non-player character (NPC) based upon Robin Williams after his death. Developer Gearbox Software honored a late fan of \"Borderlands\", cancer victim Michael John Mamaril, by adding a NPC named after him in the sequel. Additionally, Gearbox posted a eulogy to Mamaril in the voice of the game character Claptrap. For their game \"MechWarrior Online\", developer Piranha Games sold a custom in-game unit called a Jenner, honoring the daughter of a player of the game. CAD122,210 was donated to the Canadian Cancer Society. Losing his wife Pauline to ovarian cancer, \"Minecraft\" player \"GasBandit\" built a memorial for her. When players of the online game \"Final Fantasy XIV\" heard that fellow gamer \"Codex Vahla\" was in the hospital on life support, they held a digital wake.\n\nSome religious groups use video games for education. An example is the Christian game \"\".\nIn May 2012, the Exeter Cathedral used \"Flower\" during its Sunday service.\n\nOpinions on video games differ from religion and denomination; there are religious groups that use games actively to convert people, while some games are banned for religious reasons. Scholars of religious studies are also studying video games, by looking at the game and to the players and their experiences, with games like \"Journey\" Religion is considered a serious real world topic, while video games are an art and entertainment. As such, developers and publishers sometimes take precaution not to offend people's religious beliefs. Religious references in the Japanese role-playing video game series \"Final Fantasy\" were originally censored for the U.S. release of the games. It was after the franchise switched to Sony's PlayStation with \"Final Fantasy VII\" (1997) that the religious references were left largely intact. Ubisoft's \"Assassin's Creed\" series show a disclaimer: \n\nDespite efforts from some companies, there have been incidents with religious groups and video games. The German video game rating board USK gave \"The Binding of Isaac\" a 16+ rating, considering it \"blasphemous\".\n\nThe game \"BioShock Infinite\" is heavily based on the notion of American exceptionalism at the turn of the 19th century, and incorporates notions taken from Christianity to support the game's dystopian themes. One aspect of this was the use of baptism. One developer on Irrational Games staff expressed strong concern to the lead developer, Ken Levine, that the game's presentation of baptism was highly controversial, leading Levine to with the developer to recast the baptism aspect as a notion of forgiveness rather than a religious tenet. At least one player objected to the final changes, prompting them to request a refund from Steam. The scene was otherwise well received by critics as less a commentary on Christianity but on as a representation of themes such as free will, evil, rebirth and redemption that were central to the game.\n\nOn October 22, 2008, Microsoft announced that \"Fallout 3\" would not be released in India on the Xbox 360 platform. Religious and cultural sentiments were cited as the reason. Although the specific reason was not revealed in public, it is possible that it is because the game contains two-headed mutated cows called Brahmin, or that Brahmin is also the name of an ancient, powerful hereditary caste of Hindu priests and religious scholars in India, or its similarity to the spelling of brahman, a type of cow that originated in India. Brahman, a breed of Zebu, are revered by Hindus.\n\nThe action game \"Hanuman: Boy Warrior\" was criticized by Rajan Zed, president of the Universal Society of Hinduism, for portraying the Hindu deity Hanuman. Developed and published in India by Aurona Technologies, the player controls Hanuman. \"Controlling and manipulating Lord Hanuman with a joystick/button/keyboard/mouse [is] denigration\", said Zed. \"Lord Hanuman was not meant to be reduced to just a 'character' in a video game to solidify [a] company/product's base in the growing economy of India.\" He urged Sony, the publisher of the game, to pull the game. Sony's regional manager however said that \"Hanuman: Boy Warrior\" sold beyond their expectations.\n\nZed was also critical of the use of Hindu deities in the MOBA game \"Smite\". In response, developer Hi-Rez Studios COO Todd Harris said that \"Smite\" would still be featuring Hindu deities, possibly adding more. GameSpot asked if characters based upon Abrahamic religions would be added as well, but Harris said that \"the key Abrahimic figures—Adam, Noah, Moses, Jesus, Mohammed, are not that interesting in character design or gameplay\".\n\n\"LittleBigPlanet\" (2008) had a last-minute delay involving a licensed song in the game's soundtrack, after a PlayStation Community member reported the lyrics to one of the licensed songs in the game included passages from the Qur'an and could therefore be offensive to Muslims. However, no actual complaints regarding the music were made. The song, entitled \"Tapha Niang\", was by Malian artist Toumani Diabaté, himself a devout Muslim. The game was patched twice, the day before its release for players who had received the game early, before its intended release date. The first update did not affect the song, whilst the second updated the game to remove the vocals from the track, leaving only an instrumental. Some American Muslims responded to the recall and stated that they were offended by the restriction of freedom of speech. M. Zuhdi Jasser M.D., head of the American Islamic Forum for Democracy, was quoted as saying, \"Muslims cannot benefit from freedom of expression and religion and then turn around and ask that anytime their sensibilities are offended that the freedom of others be restricted.\"\n\nThe fighting game \"\" was temporarily banned in the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait. Originally, the title of the game was rebranded as \"Injustice: The Mighty Among Us\" for promotional uses in those areas. It is speculated that \"Injustice\" was banned because of the inclusion of the word 'Gods' in the title, the cleavage exposed in the outfits of some female characters, and overall bloodiness. Eventually, the ban in the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait was lifted.\n\n\"\" (2002) sparked controversy due to a level featuring the killing of Sikhs within a depiction of their most holy site, the Harmandir Sahib, where hundreds of Sikhs were massacred in 1984. An altered version of \"Silent Assassin\" was eventually released with the related material removed from the game.\n\nA study released by the University of Missouri stated that video games often emphasize the violent aspects of religion. Researcher Greg Perreault said \"It doesn't appear that game developers are trying to purposefully bash organized religion in these games, I believe they are only using religion to create stimulating plot points in their story lines\".\n\nFor many years video games were seen as mere entertainment, a form of \"low culture\". Playing video games was seen as a form of escapism and the medium was not regarded as a valid object of scientific research. To \"play\" games as a scholarly pursuit was thought of as \"ludicrous\". It has only been in recent years that video games have become the object of scientific study. Looking at the game as an object, researchers can explore religious and spiritual references. Video game research is done in two ways; the game can be studied as an object, while actor-focused research looks at the player.\n\nVideo games, as products of human culture, can be seen and read as \"texts\". They carry myths, stories and symbols of the time in which they were created. By \"reading\" video games, philosophers, sociologists and theologians have the opportunity to study the religious and spiritual themes in video games. This can be done in several ways.\n\n\nVideo games are interactive; it requires input from the player to happen. While a video game developer designs the game, including its rules and story, it is up to the player to make the game \"happen\". As such, it is up to individual player to give meaning to their experience.\n\nVideo games allow the player to think, form and possibly change their own opinion about religious and spiritual matters. Players often discuss these elements on online platforms. For instance, some players made their own version of the player character Commander Shepard of the \"Mass Effect\" series an atheist, while others thought of him/her as a Christian. As such, video games also give new meaning to the concept of religion.\n\n"}
{"id": "420034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=420034", "title": "Religiosity", "text": "Religiosity\n\nReligiosity is difficult to define, but different scholars have seen this concept as broadly about religious orientations and involvement. It includes experiential, ritualistic, ideological, intellectual, consequential, creedal, communal, doctrinal, moral, and cultural dimensions. Sociologists of religion have observed that the people's beliefs, sense of belonging, and behavior often are not congruent with an individual's actual religious beliefs since there is much diversity in how one can be religious or not. Multiple problems exist in measuring religiosity. For instance, variables such as church attendance produce different results when different methods are used such as traditional surveys vs time use surveys. \n\nDecades of anthropological, sociological, and psychological research have established that \"religious congruence\" (the assumption that religious beliefs and values are tightly integrated in an individual's mind or that religious practices and behaviors follow directly from religious beliefs or that religious beliefs are chronologically linear and stable across different contexts) is actually rare. People’s religious ideas are fragmented, loosely connected, and context-dependent; like in all other domains of culture and in life. The beliefs, affiliations, and behaviors of any individual are complex activities that have many sources including culture. As examples of religious incongruence he notes, \"Observant Jews may not believe what they say in their Sabbath prayers. Christian ministers may not believe in God. And people who regularly dance for rain don’t do it in the dry season.\"\n\nDemographic studies often show wide diversity of religious beliefs, belonging, and practices in both religious and non-religious populations. For instance, out of Americans who are not religious and not seeking religion: 68% believe in God, 12% are atheists, 17% are agnostics; also, in terms of self-identification of religiosity 18% consider themselves religious, 37% consider themselves as spiritual but not religious, and 42% considers themselves as neither spiritual nor religious; and 21% pray every day and 24% pray once a month. Global studies on religion also show diversity.\n\nNumerous studies have explored the different components of human religiosity (Brink, 1993; Hill & Hood 1999). What most have found is that there are multiple dimensions (they often employ factor analysis). For instance, Cornwall, Albrecht, Cunningham and Pitcher (1986) identify six dimensions of religiosity based on the understanding that there are at least three components to religious behavior: knowing (cognition in the mind), feeling (effect to the spirit), and doing (behavior of the body). For each of these components of religiosity, there were two cross classifications resulting in the six dimensions:\n\nOther researchers have found different dimensions, ranging generally from four to twelve components. What most measures of religiosity find is that there is at least some distinction between religious doctrine, religious practice, and spirituality.\n\nFor example, one can accept the truthfulness of the Bible (belief dimension), but never attend a church or even belong to an organized religion (practice dimension). Another example is an individual who does not hold orthodox Christian doctrines (belief dimension), but does attend a charismatic worship service (practice dimension) in order to develop his/her sense of oneness with the divine (spirituality dimension).\n\nAn individual could disavow all doctrines associated with organized religions (belief dimension), not affiliate with an organized religion or attend religious services (practice dimension), and at the same time be strongly committed to a higher power and feel that the connection with that higher power is ultimately relevant (spirituality dimension). These are explanatory examples of the broadest dimensions of religiosity and may not be reflected in specific religiosity measures.\n\nMost dimensions of religiosity are correlated, meaning people who often attend church services (practice dimension) are also likely to score highly on the belief and spirituality dimensions. But individuals do not have to score high on all dimensions or low on all dimensions; their scores can vary by dimension.\n\nSociologists have differed over the exact number of components of religiosity. Charles Glock's five-dimensional approach (Glock, 1972: 39) was among the first of its kind in the field of sociology of religion. Other sociologists adapted Glock's list to include additional components (see for example, a six component measure by Mervin F. Verbit).\n\nThe contributions of genes and environment to religiosity have been quantified in studies of twins (Bouchard \"et al.\", 1999; Kirk \"et al.\", 1999) and sociological studies of welfare, availability, and legal regulations (state religions, etc.).\n\nKoenig \"et al.\" (2005) report that the contribution of genes to variation in religiosity (called heritability) increases from 12% to 44% and the contribution of shared (family) effects decreases from 56% to 18% between adolescence and adulthood.\n\nA market-based theory of religious choice and governmental regulation of religion have been the dominant theories used to explain variations of religiosity between societies. However, Gill and Lundsgaarde (2004) documented a much stronger correlation between welfare state spending and religiosity. See \"Welfare spending vs Church attendance\" diagram on the right.\n\nStudies have found belief in a just world to be correlated with aspects of religiousness.\n\nSeveral studies have discovered a positive correlation between the degree of religiousness and Risk aversion\n\n\nDemographics:\n\n"}
{"id": "34418537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34418537", "title": "Religious delusion", "text": "Religious delusion\n\nA religious delusion is any delusion involving religious themes or subject matter. Though a small minority of psychologists have characterized all or nearly all religion as delusion, others focus solely on a denial of any spiritual cause of symptoms exhibited by a patient and look for other answers relating to a chemical imbalance in the brain.\n\nIndividuals experiencing religious delusions are preoccupied with religious subjects that are not within the expected beliefs for an individual's background, including culture, education, and known experiences of religion. These preoccupations are incongruous with the mood of the subject. Falling within the definition also are delusions arising in psychotic depression; however, these must present within a major depressive episode and be congruous with mood.\n\nResearchers in a 2000 study found religious delusions to be unrelated to any specific set of diagnostic criteria, but correlated with demographic criteria, primarily age. In a comparative study sampling 313 patients, those with religious delusion were found to be aged older, and had been placed on a drug regime or started a treatment programme at an earlier stage. In the context of presentation, their global functioning was found to be worse than another group of patients without religious delusions. The first group also scored higher on the Scale for the Assessment of Positive Symptoms (SAPS), had a greater total on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), and were treated with a higher mean number of neuroleptic medications of differing types during their hospitalization.\n\nReligious delusion was found in 2007 to strongly correlate with \"temporolimbic overactivity\". This is a condition where irregularities in the brain's limbic system may present as symptoms of paranoid schizophrenia.\n\nIn a 2010 study, Swiss psychiatrists found religious delusions with themes of spiritual persecution by malevolent spirit-entities, control exerted over the person by spirit-entities, delusional experience of sin and guilt, or delusions of grandeur.\n\nReligious delusions have generally been found to be less stressful than other types of delusion. A study found adherents to new religious movements to have similar delusionary cognition, as rated by the Delusions Inventory, to a psychotic group, although the former reported feeling less distressed by their experiences than the latter.\n\nBehaviours out of the ordinary were traditionally viewed as demonic possession. These episodes, although entirely disavowed by modern psychiatry, are evaluated by clinicians only such that they fall within the safety of a treatment programme.\n\nEarlier propositions that religious shamans were motivated by delusions and that their behaviour resembled that of patients with schizophrenia were found to be incorrect.\n\nIn a 1937 essay, Sigmund Freud stated that he considered believing in a single god to be a delusion, thus extending his 1907 comment that religion is the indication of obsessional neurosis. His thoughts defining \"delusion\" perhaps crystallized from the notion of the religion formulations of the common man (\"circa\" 1927) as \"patently infantile, foreign to reality\"; around the same year he also stated that religion \"comprises a system of wishful illusions together with a disavowal of reality, such as we find in an isolated form nowhere else but amentia, in a state of blissful hallucinatory confusion\".\n\nExamples from a 295-subject study in Lithuania showed that the most common religious delusions were being a saint (in women) and being God (in men).\n\nIn one study of 193 people who had previously been admitted to hospital and subsequently diagnosed with schizophrenia, 24% were found to have religious delusions.\n\nA 1999 study identified that religious delusions were often present or expressed in persons with forensic committal to a psychiatric unit.\n\nAlthough many researchers have brought evidence for a positive role that religion plays in health, others have shown that religious practices and experiences may be linked to mental illnesses of various kind (mood disorders, personality disorders, psychiatric disorders). In 2011, a team of psychiatrists, behavioral psychologists, neurologists and neuropsychiatrists from the Harvard Medical School published a research which suggested the development of a new diagnostic category of psychiatric disorders related to religious delusion and hyperreligiosity.\n\nThey compared the thought and behavior of the most important figures in the Bible (Abraham, Moses, Jesus Christ and Paul) with patients affected by mental disorders related to the psychotic spectrum using different clusters of disorders and diagnostic criteria (DSM-IV-TR), and concluded that these Biblical figures \"may have had psychotic symptoms that contributed inspiration for their revelations\", such as schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, manic depression, delusional disorder, delusions of grandeur, auditory-visual hallucinations, paranoia, Geschwind syndrome (Paul especially) and abnormal experiences associated with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE).\n\nIn 1998–2000 Pole Leszek Nowak (born 1962) from Poznań authored a study in which, based on his own history of religious delusions of mission and overvalued ideas, and information communicated in the Gospels, made an attempt at reconstructing Jesus′ psyche with the view of Jesus as apocalyptic prophet. He does so in chapters containing, in sequence, an analysis of character traits of the ″savior of mankind″, a description of the possible course of events from the period of Jesus' public activity, a naturalistic explanation of miracles.\n\nA religious experience of communication from heavenly or divine beings could be interpreted as a test of faith. An example of such is Joan of Arc, \"La Pucelle d'Orléans\", who rallied French forces late in the Hundred Years' War.\n\nDaniel Paul Schreber is an example of a supposed religious delusion occurring in a developed condition of psychosis. Schreber was a successful and highly respected German judge until middle age, when he came to believe that God was turning him into a woman. Two of his three illnesses (1884–1885 and 1893–1902) are described in his book \"Memoirs of My Nervous Illness\" (original German title \"Denkwürdigkeiten eines Nervenkranken\"), which became an influential book in the history of psychiatry and psychoanalysis thanks to its interpretation by Sigmund Freud.\n\nThe Harvard Medical School research also focused on social models of psychopathology, analyzing new religious movements and charismatic cult leaders such as David Koresh, leader of the Branch Davidians, and Marshall Applewhite, founder of the Heaven's Gate cult. The researchers concluded that \"If David Koresh and Marshall Applewhite are appreciated as having psychotic-spectrum beliefs, then the premise becomes untenable that the diagnosis of psychosis must rigidly rely upon an inability to maintain a social group. A subset of individuals with psychotic symptoms appears able to form intense social bonds and communities despite having an extremely distorted view of reality. The existence of a better socially functioning subset of individuals with psychotic-type symptoms is corroborated by research indicating that psychotic-like experiences, including both bizarre and non-bizarre delusion-like beliefs, are frequently found in the general population. This supports the idea that psychotic symptoms likely lie on a continuum.\"\n\nAn individual may hear communication from heavenly or divine beings compelling one to commit acts of violence. Some cite the case of the Hebrew patriarch Abraham, who was commanded by God to sacrifice his son Isaac. However, when Abraham was prepared to act on it, God informed him that this was only a test of faith and forbade any human sacrifice.\n\nIn contemporary times persons judged to have experienced auditory hallucination include those hearing voices instructing or motivating them to commit violent acts. These auditory experiences are classified by psychiatry as command hallucination. Persons acting to commit murder are reported as hearing voices of religious beings such as God, angels, or the Devil.\n\nWithin the anti-psychiatry community, Professor Thomas Szasz critiques the concept of religious auditory hallucination: those who hear the voice of God talking to them are experiencing schizophrenia, while those who talk to God but hear no response are simply praying.\n\n"}
{"id": "4964120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4964120", "title": "Renunciation", "text": "Renunciation\n\nRenunciation (or renouncing) is the act of rejecting something, especially if it is something that the renouncer has previously enjoyed or endorsed.\n\nIn religion, renunciation often indicates an abandonment of pursuit of material comforts, in the interests of achieving spiritual enlightenment. It is highly practiced in Jainism. In Hinduism, the renounced order of life is \"sannyāsa\"; in Buddhism, the Pali word for \"renunciation\" is \"nekkhamma\", conveying more specifically \"giving up the world and leading a holy life\" or \"freedom from lust, craving and desires\". See Sangha, Bhikkhu, Bhikkhuni, Śramaṇa. In Christianity, some denominations have a tradition of renunciation of the Devil.\n\nLegally, renunciation arises in nationality law with the renunciation of citizenship, a formal process by which the renouncer ceases to hold citizenship with a specific country. A person can also renounce property, as when a person submits a disclaimer of interest in property that has been left to them in a will.\n\nIt is widely believed in India that voluntary renunciation is how one gains power, for whatever purpose. In South Africa (1893-1915) Gandhi tried many spiritual practices and experiments, almost all of them including a component of renunciation, based in the practice of Sannyasi. After reading “Unto this Last” By John Ruskin in 1904 he redoubled his commitment to gain greater control over self, increasing his capacity to work for the common welfare and find a greater sense of oneness with others. The ultimate renunciation is of self, one's separateness from others and the world.\n\nIn some Christian denominations, renunciation of the Devil is a common liturgical rubric. This is most often seen in connection with the sacrament of baptism. In the Roman Catholic church a baptism usually contains the \"Prayer of Exorcism\". Later in the ceremony, the parents and godparents are asked to publicly renounce the devil.\n\nThe Church of England dismissed this rubric in a 2014 renewal of liturgy. According to The Independent, this was done in an attempt to \"widen the appeal\" of the rite. A prior report for the Church's Liturgical Commission stated that \"[f]or the majority of those attending, the existing provision can seem complex and inaccessible.\"\n\nIn the Church of Norway, the public renunciation of the Devil is a obligatory element in the Main Service. It is stated by the congregation before the profession of faith (usually the Apostles' Creed, as the Nicene Creed is largely reserved for special observances). When performed in a service which includes a baptism, it is also considered an extension of the testimony given by the sponsors, as they are required to confess to a denomination which does not rejects the Apostles' or the Nicene Creed, nor rejects infant baptism.\n\n"}
{"id": "6593765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6593765", "title": "Sacred contagion", "text": "Sacred contagion\n\nSacred contagion is the belief that spiritual properties within an object, place, or person may be passed to another object, place, or person, usually by direct contact or physical proximity. While the concept of sacred contagion has existed in numerous cultures since before recorded history, the term \"sacred contagion\" originated with French sociologist Émile Durkheim, who introduced it in his book, \"The Elementary Forms of Religious Life\". For example, the Book of Leviticus, in Chapters 11 through 15, specifies which animals are considered spiritually clean and unclean, and defines women during menstruation and men after a nocturnal emission as unclean.\n\nThe text also gives many examples of sacred contagion brought about by contact with these spiritually unclean people and things. For example, chapter 15 states that spiritual uncleanliness exists not only in the menstruating woman but also the bed she sleeps in, as well as any object placed upon that bed, and any person who touches an object placed upon that bed. We see not only the passing of uncleanliness through spiritual contagion, but also that the uncleanliness may be further passed, from person to object and back to person indefinitely.\n\nAnthropologist Mary Douglas, whose work is heavily influenced by Durkheim, wrote an extensive modern work on the topic of sacred contagion entitled \"Purity and Danger: An Analysis of the Concepts of Pollution and Taboo\". She states that, \"We cannot understand sacred contagion unless we distinguish a class of cultures in which pollution ideas flourish from another class of cultures, including our own, in which they do not.\" Douglas and Durkheim both rejected the idea that concepts of purity and impurity, such as those found in Leviticus, were an attempt to use religion to explain hygiene, an otherwise impossible task in the scientific terms of the time, several millennium before the concept of germs. Instead, according to Douglas and Durkheim, spiritual cleanliness and physical cleanliness are wholly separate and must be considered on their own terms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28688811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28688811", "title": "September 2010 Quetta bombing", "text": "September 2010 Quetta bombing\n\nThe September 2010 Quetta bombing occurred on 3 September 2010 in Quetta, Pakistan. At least 73 people were killed and 160 injured when a bomb exploded in a Quds Day procession which Shias were carrying out to express solidarity with Palestinians.\n\nPakistan, which has a mostly Sunni population, has seen sectarian attacks against minorities including Shias, who account for about 35–40% of Pakistan's population, and are the followers of the Prophet's progeny. Two days prior to these attacks dozens of Shias were killed in a similar attack in Lahore. Sunni militant groups like Lashkar-e-Jhangvi and Sipah-e-Sahaba Pakistan which operate freely in Pakistan have for years targeted minorities including Shias.\n\nOn the day prior to this attack Pakistan's interior minister Rehman Malik had asked the Shia community not to hold large gatherings due to security concerns.\n\nThe procession was to mark the Quds Day event staged every year by the Shia community to oppose Israel's occupation of Jerusalem. The rally drew an estimated 2,500 participants, mostly Shiias. The size of the blast caused a stampede. The explosion occurred in the Meezan chowk area of the town. The bomb exploded around 3:05 pm local time. It was estimated that the suicide bomber used about 15 kilograms of explosives.\n\nLashkar-e-Jhangvi claimed responsibility for the attack and said a 22-year-old suicide bomber, Rashid Moaawia, carried out the attack.\n\nFollowing the blast, widespread protests erupted in the city with gunfire being heard across the city. Several shops were burnt by the protesters. People were seen lying on the roads to avoid gunfire, while others set fire to vehicles and buildings to vent their anger.\n\nAfter the blast, police cordoned off the area and fired in the air to hold back people trying to search for their relatives.\n\nThousands have attended a funeral in the Pakistani city of Quetta for victims of a suicide attack on a Shia Muslim procession.\n\nThe death toll from Friday's attack rose from 43 to 65 overnight as critically wounded people died in hospitals, police said on Saturday.\n\nShops and schools remained closed the following day. Security was also stepped up at mosques across Pakistan.\n\nThousands attended a funeral mass in Quetta.\n\nPrime Minister Yousaf Raza Gillani condemned the attack and ordered an investigation. Interior Minister Rehman Malik told the press that militants want to encourage sectarianism in an effort to destabilise the government following a series of military offensives against them. He also claimed that Punjabi, such as Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, and al-Qaida and the Tehrik-e-Taliban are one and the same. \"Shiite Conference, Balochistan\" announced a 40-day mourning period in line with Shia custom.\n\nUN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon's spokesman said \"These attacks, which deliberately targeted Shiite Muslims and killed or injured scores of civilians, are unacceptable.\"\n\nCondemning the attacks the White House stated \"To target innocent civilians during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan at an already difficult time as the country is working hard to recover from terrible flooding caused by monsoons makes these acts even more reprehensible.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3734595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3734595", "title": "Spiritual direction", "text": "Spiritual direction\n\nSpiritual direction is the practice of being with people as they attempt to deepen their relationship with the divine, or to learn and grow in their own personal spirituality. The person seeking direction shares stories of his or her encounters of the divine, or how he or she is cultivating a life attuned to spiritual things. The director listens and asks questions to assist the directee in his or her process of reflection and spiritual growth. Spiritual direction advocates claim that it develops a deeper awareness with the spiritual aspect of being human, and that it is not psychotherapy, counseling, or financial planning.\n\nWhile there is some degree of variability, there are primarily two forms of spiritual direction: regular direction and retreat direction. They differ largely in the frequency of meeting and in the intensity of reflection.\n\nRegular direction can involve a one- to two-hour meeting every four to eight weeks, and thus is slightly less intense than retreat direction, although spiritual exercises and disciplines are often given for the directee to attempt between meetings.\n\nIf the directee is on a retreat (lasting a weekend, a week or even 40 days), he or she will generally meet with his or her director on a daily basis for one hour. During these daily meetings, exercises or spiritual disciplines such as lectio divina are given to the directee as fodder to continue his or her spiritual growth. Alternatively, retreat centres often offer direction or companionship to persons visiting the centre alone.\n\nThe Spiritual Exercises of Ignatius of Loyola are a popular example of guidelines used for spiritual direction.\n\nWithin Christianity, spiritual direction has its roots in Early Christianity. The gospels describe Jesus serving as a mentor to his disciples. Additionally, Acts of the Apostles Chapter 9 describes Ananias helping Paul of Tarsus to grow in his newfound experience of Christianity. Likewise, several of the Pauline epistles describe Paul mentoring both Timothy and Titus among others. Tradition tells us that John the Evangelist tutored Polycarp, the 2nd-century bishop of Smyrna.\n\nTheologian John Cassian who lived in the 4th century provided some of the earliest recorded guidelines on the Christian practice of spiritual direction. He introduced mentoring in the monasteries. Each novice was put under the care of an older monk. Benedict of Nursia integrated Cassian's guidelines into what is now known as the Rule of Saint Benedict.\n\nSpiritual direction is widespread in the Catholic religion: a person with wisdom and spiritual discernment, usually but not exclusively a priest or consecrated in general, provides counsel to a person who wishes to make a journey of faith and discovery of God's will in his life. The spiritual guide aims to discern, understand what the Holy Spirit, through the situations of life, spiritual insights fruit of prayer, reading and meditation on the Bible, tells the person accompanied. The spiritual father or spiritual director may provide advice, give indications of life and prayer, resolving doubts in matters of faith and morals without replacing the choices and decisions to the person accompanying.\n\nEastern Orthodoxy comes from the same pre-schism traditions, but the role of a \"spiritual director\" or \"elder\" in Orthodoxy has maintained its important role. The original Greek term geron (meaning \"elder\", as in gerontology) was rendered by the Russian word starets, from Old Church Slavonic starĭtsĭ, \"elder\", derived from starŭ, \"old\". The Greek tradition has a long unbroken history of elders and disciples, such as Sophronius and John Moschos in the seventh century, Symeon the Elder and Symeon the New Theologian in the eleventh century, and contemporary charismatic gerontes such as Porphyrios and Paisios. Sergius of Radonezh and Nil Sorsky were two most venerated startsy of Old Muscovy. The revival of elders in the Slavic world is associated with the name of Paisius Velichkovsky (1722–94), who produced the Russian translation of the Philokalia. The most famous Russian starets of the early 19th century was Seraphim of Sarov (1759-1833), who went on to become one of the most revered Orthodox saints.\nThe Optina Pustyn near Kozelsk used to be celebrated for its startsy (Schema-Archimandrite Moses, Schema-Hegumen Anthony, Hieroschemamonk Leonid, Hieroschemamonk Macarius, Hieroschemamonk Hilarion, Hieroschemamonk Ambrose, Hieroschemamonk Anatole (Zertsalov)).[1] Such writers as Nikolay Gogol, Aleksey Khomyakov, Leo Tolstoy and Konstantin Leontyev sought advice from the elders of this monastery. They also inspired the figure of Zosima in Dostoyevsky's novel The Brothers Karamazov. A more modern example of a starets is Archimandrite John Krestiankin (1910-2006) of the Pskov Monastery of the Caves who was popularly recognized as such by many Orthodox living in Russia.\n\nIn Judaism, the Hebrew term for spiritual director differs among traditional communities. The verb \"Hashpa'ah\" is common in some communities though not all; the spiritual director called a \"mashpi'a\" occurs in the Habad-Lubavitch community and also in the Jewish Renewal community. A \"mashgiakh ruchani\" is the equivalent role among mitnagedim (adherents of the \"mussar\" tradition). The purpose of hashpa'ah is to support the directee in her or his personal relationship with God, and to deepen that person's ability to find God's presence in ordinary life. Amongst Lubavitchers this draws on the literature and praxis of Hasidism as it is practiced according to Habad standards, and to Jewish mystical tradition generally. Spiritual mentorship is customary in the Hasidic world, but not necessarily in the same way.\n\nIn Sufism, the term used for spiritual master is \"murshid\", Arabic for \"guide\" or \"teacher\". He is more than a spiritual director and believed to be guiding the disciples based on his direct connectivity with the Divine. The murshid's role is to spiritually guide and verbally instruct the disciple on the Sufi path after the disciple takes an oath of allegiance or Bay'ah (\"bai'ath\") with him. The concept of Murshid Kamil Akmal (also known as Insan-e-Kamil) is significant in most tariqas. The doctrine states that from pre-existence till pre-eternity, there shall always remain a Qutb or a Universal Man upon the earth who would be the perfect manifestation of God and at the footsteps of the Islamic prophet Mohammad.\n\n\n\nClassics\nContemporary\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "464773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=464773", "title": "Stasi Commission", "text": "Stasi Commission\n\nThe French commission Stasi is a commission set up to reflect upon the application of the \"laïcité\" principle. Named after the chair Bernard Stasi, ombudsman of the (French) Republic (\"médiateur de la République\") since 1998, and consisting of 20 members, it was set up by the president of the Republic Jacques Chirac on 3 July 2003. It reported its conclusions on 11 December 2003.\n\nJacques Chirac established the commission to reflect upon the principle of \"laïcité\" and its application in France. He appointed Bernard Stasi to oversee the commission. During this time, the commission interviewed various representatives from different groups, for example religious leaders such as Cardinal Lustiger, intellectuals such as Régis Debray and Patrick Weil as well school headteachers, political leaders, equal-rights groups and social groups (for example the Ni Putes Ni Soumises).\n\nThe commission emerged from public debates concerning the place of the hijab in French public life in relation to the principles of laïcité, in particular whether its was appropriate in state schools. In addition the commission sought to more clearly define the application of laïcité in the workplace, public services and public spaces. To this end the Stasi Commission lead to the introduction of the French law on secularity and conspicuous religious symbols in schools. Despite this apparent resolution to the questions concerning laïcité, the controversy surrounding the wearing of the hijab and the media attention paid to it has meant that it remains a source of disagreement within the political class.\n\nIn response to the commission's report Jacques Chirac called for the French public to unite around the principle of laïcité.\n\nThe report espouses two key stances that emerge from the history of secularism in France: state neutrality in regard to religion and freedom of thought particularly in relation to freedom of worship. The report also acknowledges that tensions arise between these two principles particularly in the spheres of the army, prisons, hospitals and education.\n\nThe Commission also called for the incorporation of 'accomodements raisonables' or reasonable accommodation into the principles of laïcité for problems that are not covered by the 1905 French law on the Separation of the Churches and the State.\n"}
{"id": "582588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=582588", "title": "Surgat", "text": "Surgat\n\nSurgat () is a minor demon mentioned in The Grimoire of Pope Honorius, The Secrets of Solomon and the Grimorium Verum. He is listed as \"Surgat who opens all locks.\" His angel opposite is \"Aquiel\".\n\nIn Harlan Ellison's 1981 short story \"Grail\", Surgat is an important character, unlocking some of the barriers in the protagonist's path...for a terrible price.\n\nHe is also a character or mentioned in:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2483269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2483269", "title": "Svikiro", "text": "Svikiro\n\nSvikiro is a spirit medium of the Shona people of Zimbabwe.\n\nA Svikiro is an ancestral spirit primarily known to possess a living human and will give advice based on that communication.\n\nThe word comes from the verb \"kusvika\" meaning 'to arrive at or reach a place'.It also stems from \"kusvikirwa\" meaning 'to arrive upon' , as it is believed that the ancestral spirits arrive in the bodies of the mediums. \n\nOther types of mediums (svikiro) include \"mhondoro\" which are possessed by the ancestor spirits of the same name. Mhondoro means lion in the Shona Language. It is believed that mhondoro spirits reside in the bodies on maneless lion until they have a host to possessed. Mhondoro spirits are royal ancestral spirits of deceased chief and kings or any other royals.The believed to be concerned with matter of the clan and territories including the nation.\n\n"}
{"id": "47105495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47105495", "title": "The Ritual of Embalming Papyrus", "text": "The Ritual of Embalming Papyrus\n\nThe Ritual of Embalming Papyrus or \"Papyrus of the Embalming Ritual\" is one of only two extant papyri which detail anything at all about the practices of mummification used within the burial practices of Ancient Egyptian culture.\n\nOne version of the papyri is contained within the Egyptian museum Cairo (\"Pap. Boulaq No.3\") and the other is within the Louvre (No. 5158).\n\nThe papyri within Cairo was located and discovered during the year 1857, within a tomb in Thebes. The papyri represents the last ten pages of a work of which all other pages are lost, of these, eight were in a good condition.\n\nThe Louvre papyri shows the same information as is held on the last two pages of the Cairo.\n\nBoth are copies made in hieratic script, with Demotic notation, during the Roman period, and were copied from a single earlier text.\n\nThe papyri probably dates to the 1st century A.D., and contain specifically information on eleven acts of anointing of the body, the wrapping and placing of internal organs, which had been treated, inside Canopic jars, and the act of performing the bandaging of the embalmed corpse to create a mummy.\n\nThe act of mummification described was to be done while religious acts of praying and incantation were performed ritualistically.\n\nPersons necessarily present and participating within a performance of the ritual were a \"master of secrets\" or \"stolist\" (both refer to the same person), a \"lector\", and a divine chancellor or seal-bearer (\"hetemu-netjer\"). Of the persons present, the individual who was the \"hery-sheshta\" fulfilled the most important and superior position, the \"hetemu-netjer\" was next in importance, then the \"wetiu\", who were to wrap the embalmed corpse in material.\n\nThe text proceeds in the direction of the embalming the head, toward the feet.\n\nThe head was to be wrapped firstly in linen, of this first linen, the embalmer was to obtain the linen from Sais, with a second layer added afterwards.\n"}
{"id": "5438682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5438682", "title": "Tobacco fatwa", "text": "Tobacco fatwa\n\nA tobacco fatwa is a fatwa (Islamic legal pronouncement) that prohibits the usage of tobacco by Muslims. All contemporary rulings condemn smoking as potentially harmful or prohibit (haram) smoking outright as a result of the severe health damage that it causes. Arab Muslims tend to prohibit smoking (despite Saudi Arabia ranking 23rd in the world for the percentage of its population that smokes) and, in South Asia, smoking tends to be considered lawful but discouraged:\n\nFor many Muslims, the legal status of smoking has changed during recent years, and numerous fatawas, including from notable authorities such as Al-Azhar University in Cairo, now consider smoking \"haram\" (prohibited). The reasons cited in support of the reclassification of smoking as prohibited include Islamic law's general prohibition of all actions that result in harm. For example, the Quran says, \"And spend of your substance in the cause of God, and make not your own hands contribute to your own destruction.\" Additionally, jurists rely on the exhortations in the Quran not to waste money. Greater appreciation of the risks associated with secondhand smoke has also led recent jurists to cite the obligation to avoid causing willful annoyance, distress, or harm to other people.\n\nFatwas condemning smoking have been issued in Egypt, Indonesia, Kuwait, Malaysia, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Pakistan, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia, and the UAE, among others. \n\nThe earliest fatwa regarding smoking was issued in Morocco in 1602. Following the introduction of tobacco to the kingdom in 1598, King Ahmad al-Mansur sought guidance from religious scholars in Fez. The kingdom's Grand Mufti and the Wali of Sila both ruled that smoking was forbidden in Islam. This ruling failed to have much effect on tobacco use in the kingdom, leading the Mufti to issue a second ruling forbidding its use, as the use of all \"intoxicants and harmful substances\" is forbidden in Islam. This categorical prohibition was unsuccessful, and the Mufti and the other scholars who joined him in his ruling were either killed by a mob angry at this ruling or fled the country.\n\nIn recent years, tobacco fatwas (Islamic legal pronouncements) have been issued due to health concerns.\n\nThe holy book of Islam, the Qur'ān, does not specifically prohibit or denounce smoking, but gives behavioral guidance:\n\n\nIn practice, at least one recent survey (Abbottabad, Pakistan) found that observant Muslims tend to avoid smoking. A study of young Muslim Arab-Americans found that Islamic influences were correlated with some diminished smoking. Conversely, an Egyptian study found that knowledge of an anti-smoking fatwa did not reduce smoking. Overall, the prevalence of smoking is increasing in Islamic countries.\n\nThe prominent scholar Yusuf al Qaradawi argues that smoking is no longer an issue of dispute among Islamic scholars due to the knowledge of health risks.\n\nThe reported juristic disagreement among Muslim scholars on the ruling concerning smoking, since its appearance and spread, is not usually based on differences between legal proofs, but on the difference in the verification of the cause on which the ruling is based. They all agree that whatever is proved to be harmful to the body and mind is prohibited, yet they differ whether this ruling applies to smoking. Some of them claimed that smoking has some benefits, others assured that it had few disadvantages compared to its benefits, whereas a third group maintained that it had neither benefits nor bad effects. This means that if scholars had been certain about the harmfulness of smoking, then they would undoubtedly have considered it prohibited.[…]\n\nSecond: Our inclination to consider smoking prohibited does not mean that it is as grave as major sins like adultery, drinking alcohol or theft. In fact, prohibited matters in Islam are relative; some of them are minor prohibitions whereas others are major, and each has its own ruling. The major sins, for example, have no expiation other than sincere repentance. However, the minor sins can be expiated by the Five Prayers, the Friday Prayer, the Fasting of Ramadan, the Night Vigil Prayer in Ramadan, and other acts of worship. They can also be expiated by avoiding the major sins.\n\nFatwas ruling that smoking is impermissible have been issued by sheikhs of all four Sunni schools of fiqh—Hanafi, Maliki, Shafi'i, and Hanbali—as well as by those of the Ibadi sect.\n\nIn 2000, the Grand Mufti of Egypt, Dr. Nasr Farid Wasil, ruled that smoking was \"haram\" (forbidden) in Islam because of its detrimental health effects. The fatwa, which ruled that smoking is a major sin on par with alcohol use and acceptable grounds for divorce, triggered substantial controversy in Egypt. Grand Imam Gadul Haq Ali Gadul Haq, the Sheikh of al-Azhar mosque, the center of Islamic learning in the Sunni world, issued a similar ruling in 2000, citing the following verse from the Quran as justification: \"and cast not yourselves to ruin with your own hands\". \n\nIn 2009, Majelis Ulama Indonesia, the organization of Indonesian religious scholars, declared smoking in public or near pregnant women \"haram\" (forbidden), while declaring smoking in general to be \"makruh\" (discouraged or reprehensible). Indonesian Muslim organization Muhammadiyah declared smoking \"haram\" in 2010; the organization had previously listed smoking as merely \"Makruh\" (to be avoided). Tobacco companies sponsored 1,350 youth-oriented events from January to October in 2007, and often gave free cigarettes to youths. A 2015 study found that the fatwa had had a small effect on smoking and was primarily effective at keeping non-smokers from smoking.\n\nIran’s Grand Ayatollah Mirza Shirazi in 1891 issued a fatwa against tobacco.\n\nMalaysia's National Fatwa Council first issued a fatwa against smoking in 1996, when it declared smoking haram because of its detrimental health effects. In 2013, a study of Muslims and Buddhists in Malaysia found that this fatwa and other religious norms against smoking have had an independent and significant increase in quit attempts. Among Muslims, religious pressure against smoking was more effective at inspiring people to quit than social pressure. In 2015, the National Fatwa Council followed-up by issuing a fatwa declaring electronic cigarettes haram because of their harmful health effects and bad smell. \n\nIn 1996, Sheikh Ahmed Bin Hamad Al Khalili, the Grand Mufti of Oman, issued a fatwa prohibiting smoking and the sale of tobacco, comparing smoking to \"sipping poison\" Sheikh Al Khalili cited a verse from the Quran, \"do not kill yourselves for God Almighty is most merciful to you,\" to justify his ruling.\n\nThe Supreme Council of Darul Ifta of the Philippines, headed by Grand Mufti Sheikh Omar Pasigan, stated in June 2010 that smoking cigarettes is \"haram\".\n\nThe Grand Mufti of Saudi Arabia, Sheikh Muhammad ibn Ibrahim Aal Al-Sheikh, has ruled that \"smoking is impermissible on the basis of authentic quotations, sound judgments, and the opinions of reputable physicians.\" The Mufti cites a sahih hadith (verifiable saying of the Prophet) saying \"do not harm yourself or others.\" He further referenced a Quranic verse saying that the Prophet \"forbids that which is unwholesome.\" \n\nIn addition to issuing a fatwa against smoking, the United Arab Emirates instructed imams in all mosques to read a sermon against smoking on June 11, 1999 following Friday prayers.\n\nFrom the 1970s to the late 1990s, tobacco companies including British American Tobacco and Phillip Morris were involved in campaigns to undermine fatwas against smoking in Muslim majority countries by branding Muslims who opposed smoking as a fundamentalist'? who wishes to return to sharia law\", and be \"a threat to existing government\". The tobacco industry was also concerned that the World Health Organization's encouraging of anti-smoking stance of Muslim scholars. A 1985 report from tobacco firm Philip Morris squarely blamed the WHO: \"This ideological development has become a threat to our business because of the interference of the WHO ... The WHO has not only joined forces with Muslim fundamentalists who view smoking as evil, but has gone yet further by encouraging religious leaders previously not active anti-smokers to take up the cause.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18076631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18076631", "title": "Urreligion", "text": "Urreligion\n\nUrreligion is a notion of an \"original\" or \"oldest\" form of religious tradition ( being a Germanic prefix for \"original, primitive, elder, primeval, or \"\"\"). The term contrasts with organized religion, such as the theocracies of the early urban cultures of the Ancient Near East or current world religions.\nThe term originates in German Romanticism.\n\nFriedrich Creuzer put forward the notion of a monotheistic primeval religion in 1810 - an idea taken up by other authors of the Romantic period, such as J. J. Bachofen, but decidedly opposed by Johann Heinrich Voss.\nGoethe in a conversation with Eckermann on 11 March 1832 discussed the human \"Urreligion\", which he characterized as \"pure nature and [pure] reason, of divine origin\".\nThe final scene of his \"Faust Part Two\" (1832) has been taken as evoking \"the 'Urreligion' of mankind\".\n\nOften used in the sense of natural religion or indigenous religion, the religious behaviour of pre-modern tribal societies such as shamanism, animism and ancestor worship (e.g. Australian aboriginal mythology), the term \"Urreligion\" has also been used by adherents of various religions to back up the claim that their own religion is somehow \"primeval\" or \"older\" than competing traditions. In the context of a given religious faith, literal belief in a creation may be the base of primality. (e.g. Biblical literalism, or literal belief in the Hindu Puranas).\n\nIn particular, Urmonotheismus comprises the historical claim that primeval religion was monotheistic. Some have rejected this hypothesis, and certain Christian apologetics circles defend it.\n\nNineteenth-century Germanic mysticism sometimes claimed that the Germanic runes bore testimony of a primeval religion.\nSome more recent new religious movements that claim to restore primeval religion include Godianism\nand Umbanda.\n\n"}
{"id": "3859907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3859907", "title": "Veritatis splendor", "text": "Veritatis splendor\n\nVeritatis splendor (Latin: \"The Splendor of the Truth\") is an encyclical by Pope John Paul II. It expresses the position of the Catholic Church regarding fundamentals of the Church's role in moral teaching. The encyclical is one of the most comprehensive and philosophical teachings of moral theology in the Catholic tradition. It was promulgated on 6 August 1993. Cardinal Georges Cottier, Theologian emeritus of the Pontifical Household and Cardinal-Deacon of \"Santi Domenico e Sisto\" the University Church of the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas was influential in drafting the encyclical, as was Servais-Théodore Pinckaers a professor of moral theology at the University of Fribourg.\n\n\"Veritatis splendor\" responds to questions of moral theology that had been raised during the postconciliar period of the Church (events after the Vatican II ecumenical council of 1962-65). These questions revolve around man's ability to discern good, the existence of evil, the role of human freedom and human conscience, mortal sin, and the authority of the magisterium of the Catholic Church in guiding man. In response to these, Pope John Paul II emphatically says that moral truth is knowable, that the choice of good or evil has a profound effect on one's relationship with God, and that there is no true contradiction between freedom and following the good. \"Veritatis splendor\" consists of three chapters: (I) Teacher, What Good Must I Do; (II) Do Not Be Conformed to this World; and (III) Lest the Cross of Christ be Emptied of its Power.\n\n\"Veritatis splendor\" begins by asserting that there are indeed absolute truths accessible to all persons. Contrary to the philosophy of moral relativism, the encyclical says that moral law is universal across people in varying cultures, and is in fact rooted in the human condition. Pope John Paul teaches that no matter how separated someone is from God, \"in the depths of his heart there always remains a yearning for absolute truth and a thirst to attain full knowledge of it.\" He goes on to say that the splendor of truth \"shines forth deep within the human spirit.\"\n\nUltimately, John Paul teaches, \"to ask about the good, in fact, ultimately means to turn towards God, the fullness of goodness.\" Against the idea that the Church's teaching body has a mainly exhortatory role, the pope reiterates the Catholic doctrine that the magisterium of the Catholic Church has authority to definitively pronounce on moral questions. Even more, John Paul teaches that the Church is Christ's particular response to help answer everyone's question of what is right and wrong.\n\nJohn Paul teaches that there is no true conflict between human freedom and God's law. The true end of human freedom is growth as a mature person into how each is created by God. Furthermore, God's divine law governing human behavior is not opposed to human freedom, but rather \"it protects and promotes that freedom.\"\n\nThe encyclical affirms that today's respect for human freedom \"represents one of the positive achievements of modern culture.\" However, he cautions, though it is a good, human freedom is not in itself an absolute. Merely deciding for oneself that one may do something is not at all a true substitute for determining whether something is in fact good or bad. Because God is the true author of good, it remains of critical importance to understand how the divine Law, as expressed by the authoritative magisterium of the Church, considers an issue before determining absolutely for oneself.\n\nThe pope welcomes and supports the role of human reason in discovering and applying the natural law (those aspects of the moral law that may be discovered without divine revelation). Nevertheless, because God remains the true author of moral law, he states that human reason will not properly supersede the elements of the moral law that are of divine origin—the encyclical states that this \"would be the death of true freedom.\" In particular, John Paul denies those ideas of morality that treat the human body as a \"raw datum,\" separating man and how he uses his body from his greater meaning derived from the entirety of his person.\n\nJohn Paul reiterates the longstanding Catholic teaching that people are obliged to follow their conscience, and that if they do not, they are condemned by their own conscience.\n\nJohn Paul depicts conscience as a form of inner dialogue. However, he says, it is not merely a dialogue of a man with himself, but it is very much a dialogue between man and God. Following Bonaventure, John Paul likens conscience to a herald from God who proclaims the divine law. In opposition to how it is often represented elsewhere, John Paul says that conscience is emphatically not a replacement for the divine law. Rather, it is the process by which a person may apply the divinely revealed law to the concrete situation at hand.\n\n\"Veritatis splendor\" states that because conscience may err in its judgment, a person is obliged to do his best to inform his conscience. Hence, it remains crucial for a person to make an effort to understand what the divine law on a matter is, as expressed by the Church, and the reasons behind it. Even if a person is not condemned by his conscience for a morally wrong act, committing that act nevertheless causes damage in other ways, and if done habitually it can progressively make it harder for a person to perceive the truth. Furthermore, habitual sin enslaves us, so following a wrong judgment of conscience is in the end a step away from freedom.\n\nThe encyclical also responds to the idea of the \"fundamental option.\" In this way of thinking, a man's particular actions do not necessarily affect his ultimate salvation—what is important is his fundamental orientation towards or against God. The pope writes:\n\n\"There is no doubt that Christian moral teaching, even in its Biblical roots, acknowledges the specific importance of a fundamental choice which qualifies the moral life and engages freedom on a radical level before God. It is a question of the decision of faith, of the obedience of faith (cf. Rom 16:26) \"by which man makes a total and free self-commitment to God, offering 'the full submission of intellect and will to God as he reveals' \".\"\n\nJohn Paul firmly opposes the theological assertion that such a fundamental choice can be separated from particular actions, stating that it is contrary to Scripture as well as to long-held Catholic teaching on sin and salvation. He also opposes it on philosophical grounds, writing, \"To separate the fundamental option from concrete kinds of behaviour means to contradict the substantial integrity or personal unity of the moral agent in his body and in his soul.\"\n\nJohn Paul emphasizes that the \"fundamental option\" view undermines the traditional Catholic understanding on mortal sin and venial sin, their distinction, and effects: \"For mortal sin exists also when a person knowingly and willingly, for whatever reason, chooses something gravely disordered... The person turns away from God and loses charity.\"\n\nThe encyclical also says that certain acts are intrinsically evil. In the language of Catholic moral theology, this means that certain acts are always wrong, and that there are never circumstances in which they may be permitted if done knowingly and intentionally. Stated another way, this is a strong support for the long-held doctrine of Catholic moral theology that \"the ends do not justify the means.\" John Paul bases this on the argument that certain acts are so destructive to the human person that there are no extenuating circumstances that would allow them. As an example, John Paul specifically mentions the teaching of Pope Paul VI on contraception, which stipulates that although it is permissible to tolerate a lesser evil to prevent a greater one, or to promote a greater good, it is never permissible, even in the gravest of circumstances to intentionally do an evil so that good may come of it. Or in other words it is never permissible to intend directly something which contradicts a moral order. This reiterates Paul VI's teaching on contraception, and that if an act is intrinsically evil, a good intention or particular circumstances can diminish their evil, but they cannot remove it.\n\nJohn Paul teaches that man can and must respect the norm of morality even in the most difficult situations: \"Temptations can be overcome, sins can be avoided, because together with the commandments the Lord gives us the possibility of keeping them.\" He rejected the proposition that the Church's teaching is essentially only an \"ideal\" which must then be adapted to each case.\n\n\n\n"}
