{"id": "147847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147847", "title": "Abstract expressionism", "text": "Abstract expressionism\n\nAbstract expressionism is a post–World War II art movement in American painting, developed in New York in the 1940s. It was the first specifically American movement to achieve international influence and put New York City at the center of the western art world, a role formerly filled by Paris. Although the term \"abstract expressionism\" was first applied to American art in 1946 by the art critic Robert Coates, it had been first used in Germany in 1919 in the magazine \"Der Sturm\", regarding German Expressionism. In the United States, Alfred Barr was the first to use this term in 1929 in relation to works by Wassily Kandinsky.\n\nTechnically, an important predecessor is surrealism, with its emphasis on spontaneous, automatic, or subconscious creation. Jackson Pollock's dripping paint onto a canvas laid on the floor is a technique that has its roots in the work of André Masson, Max Ernst, and David Alfaro Siqueiros. The newer research tends to put the exile-surrealist Wolfgang Paalen in the position of the artist and theoretician who fostered the theory of the viewer-dependent possibility space through his paintings and his magazine \"DYN\". Paalen considered ideas of quantum mechanics, as well as idiosyncratic interpretations of the totemic vision and the spatial structure of native-Indian painting from British Columbia and prepared the ground for the new spatial vision of the young American abstracts. His long essay \"Totem Art\" (1943) had considerable influence on such artists as Martha Graham, Isamu Noguchi, Jackson Pollock, Mark Rothko and Barnett Newman. Around 1944 Barnett Newman tried to explain America's newest art movement and included a list of \"the men in the new movement.\" Paalen is mentioned twice; other artists mentioned are Gottlieb, Rothko, Pollock, Hofmann, Baziotes, Gorky and others. Motherwell is mentioned with a question mark. Another important early manifestation of what came to be abstract expressionism is the work of American Northwest artist Mark Tobey, especially his \"white writing\" canvases, which, though generally not large in scale, anticipate the \"all-over\" look of Pollock's drip paintings.\n\nThe movement's name is derived from the combination of the emotional intensity and self-denial of the German Expressionists with the anti-figurative aesthetic of the European abstract schools such as Futurism, the Bauhaus, and Synthetic Cubism. Additionally, it has an image of being rebellious, anarchic, highly idiosyncratic and, some feel, nihilistic. In practice, the term is applied to any number of artists working (mostly) in New York who had quite different styles, and even to work that is neither especially abstract nor expressionist. California abstract expressionist Jay Meuser, who typically painted in the non-objective style, wrote about his painting \"Mare Nostrum\", \"It is far better to capture the glorious spirit of the sea than to paint all of its tiny ripples.\" Pollock's energetic \"action paintings\", with their \"busy\" feel, are different, both technically and aesthetically, from the violent and grotesque \"Women\" series of Willem de Kooning's figurative paintings and the rectangles of color in Mark Rothko's Color Field paintings (which are not what would usually be called expressionist, and which Rothko denied were abstract). Yet all four artists are classified as abstract expressionists.\n\nAbstract expressionism has many stylistic similarities to the Russian artists of the early 20th century such as Wassily Kandinsky. Although it is true that spontaneity or the impression of spontaneity characterized many of the abstract expressionists' works, most of these paintings involved careful planning, especially since their large size demanded it. With artists such as Paul Klee, Wassily Kandinsky, Emma Kunz, and later on Rothko, Barnett Newman, and Agnes Martin, abstract art clearly implied expression of ideas concerning the spiritual, the unconscious, and the mind.\n\nWhy this style gained mainstream acceptance in the 1950s is a matter of debate. American social realism had been the mainstream in the 1930s. It had been influenced not only by the Great Depression, but also by the muralists of Mexico such as David Alfaro Siqueiros and Diego Rivera. The political climate after World War II did not long tolerate the social protests of these painters. Abstract expressionism arose during World War II and began to be showcased during the early forties at galleries in New York such as The Art of This Century Gallery. The McCarthy era after World War II was a time of artistic censorship in the United States, but if the subject matter were totally abstract then it would be seen as apolitical, and therefore safe. Or if the art was political, the message was largely for the insiders.\n\nWhile the movement is closely associated with painting, and painters such as Arshile Gorky, Franz Kline, Clyfford Still, Hans Hofmann, Willem de Kooning, Jackson Pollock, and others, collagist Anne Ryan and certain sculptors in particular were also integral to abstract expressionism. David Smith, and his wife Dorothy Dehner, Herbert Ferber, Isamu Noguchi, Ibram Lassaw, Theodore Roszak, Phillip Pavia, Mary Callery, Richard Stankiewicz, Louise Bourgeois, and Louise Nevelson in particular were some of the sculptors considered as being important members of the movement. In addition, the artists David Hare, John Chamberlain, James Rosati, Mark di Suvero, and sculptors Richard Lippold, Raoul Hague, George Rickey, Reuben Nakian, and even Tony Smith, Seymour Lipton, Joseph Cornell, and several others were integral parts of the abstract expressionist movement. Many of the sculptors listed participated in the Ninth Street Show, a famous exhibition curated by Leo Castelli on East Ninth Street in New York City in 1951. Besides the painters and sculptors of the period the New York School of abstract expressionism also generated a number of supportive poets, including Frank O'Hara and photographers such as Aaron Siskind and Fred McDarrah, (whose book \"The Artist's World in Pictures\" documented the New York School during the 1950s), and filmmakers—notably Robert Frank—as well.\n\nAlthough the abstract expressionist school spread quickly throughout the United States, the major centers of this style were New York City and the San Francisco Bay area of California.\n\nIn the 1940s there were not only few galleries (The Art of This Century, Pierre Matisse Gallery, Julien Levy Gallery and a few others) but also few critics who were willing to follow the work of the New York Vanguard.\nThere were also a few artists with a literary background, among them Robert Motherwell and Barnett Newman, who functioned as critics as well.\n\nWhile New York and the world were yet unfamiliar with the New York avant-garde by the late 1940s, most of the artists who have become household names today had their well-established patron critics: Clement Greenberg advocated Jackson Pollock and the color field painters like Clyfford Still, Mark Rothko, Barnett Newman, Adolph Gottlieb and Hans Hofmann; Harold Rosenberg seemed to prefer the action painters such as Willem de Kooning and Franz Kline, as well as the seminal paintings of Arshile Gorky; Thomas B. Hess, the managing editor of \"ARTnews\", championed Willem de Kooning.\n\nThe new critics elevated their protégés by casting other artists as \"followers\" or ignoring those who did not serve their promotional goal.\n\nIn 1958, Mark Tobey became the first American painter since Whistler (1895) to win top prize at the Venice Biennale.\n\nBarnett Newman, a late member of the Uptown Group, wrote catalogue forewords and reviews, and by the late 1940s became an exhibiting artist at Betty Parsons Gallery. His first solo show was in 1948. Soon after his first exhibition, Barnett Newman remarked in one of the Artists' Sessions at Studio 35: \"We are in the process of making the world, to a certain extent, in our own image.\" Utilizing his writing skills, Newman fought every step of the way to reinforce his newly established image as an artist and to promote his work. An example is his letter on April 9, 1955, \"Letter to Sidney Janis: — it is true that Rothko talks the fighter. He fights, however, to submit to the philistine world. My struggle against bourgeois society has involved the total rejection of it.\"\n\nStrangely the person thought to have had most to do with the promotion of this style was a New York Trotskyist; Clement Greenberg. As long-time art critic for the \"Partisan Review\" and \"The Nation\", he became an early and literate proponent of abstract expressionism. The well-heeled artist Robert Motherwell joined Greenberg in promoting a style that fit the political climate and the intellectual rebelliousness of the era.\n\nClement Greenberg proclaimed abstract expressionism and Jackson Pollock in particular as the epitome of aesthetic value. He supported Pollock's work on formalistic grounds as simply the best painting of its day and the culmination of an art tradition going back via Cubism and Cézanne to Monet, in which painting became ever-'purer' and more concentrated in what was 'essential' to it, the making of marks on a flat surface.\n\nJackson Pollock's work has always polarised critics. Harold Rosenberg spoke of the transformation of painting into an existential drama in Pollock's work, in which \"what was to go on the canvas was not a picture but an event\". \"The big moment came when it was decided to paint 'just to paint'. The gesture on the canvas was a gesture of liberation from value—political, aesthetic, moral.\"\n\nOne of the most vocal critics of abstract expressionism at the time was \"The New York Times\" art critic John Canaday. Meyer Schapiro and Leo Steinberg along with Clement Greenberg and Harold Rosenberg were important art historians of the post-war era who voiced support for abstract expressionism. During the early-to-mid-sixties younger art critics Michael Fried, Rosalind Krauss, and Robert Hughes added considerable insights into the critical dialectic that continues to grow around abstract expressionism.\n\nDuring the period leading up to and during World War II, modernist artists, writers, and poets, as well as important collectors and dealers, fled Europe and the onslaught of the Nazis for safe haven in the United States. Many of those who didn't flee perished. Among the artists and collectors who arrived in New York during the war (some with help from Varian Fry) were Hans Namuth, Yves Tanguy, Kay Sage, Max Ernst, Jimmy Ernst, Peggy Guggenheim, Leo Castelli, Marcel Duchamp, André Masson, Roberto Matta, André Breton, Marc Chagall, Jacques Lipchitz, Fernand Léger, and Piet Mondrian. A few artists, notably Pablo Picasso, Henri Matisse, and Pierre Bonnard remained in France and survived.\n\nThe post-war period left the capitals of Europe in upheaval, with an urgency to economically and physically rebuild and to politically regroup. In Paris, formerly the center of European culture and capital of the art world, the climate for art was a disaster, and New York replaced Paris as the new center of the art world. In Europe after the war there was the continuation of Surrealism, Cubism, Dada, and the works of Matisse. Also in Europe, Art brut, and Lyrical Abstraction or Tachisme (the European equivalent to abstract expressionism) took hold of the newest generation. Serge Poliakoff, Nicolas de Staël, Georges Mathieu, Vieira da Silva, Jean Dubuffet, Yves Klein, Pierre Soulages and Jean Messagier, among others are considered important figures in post-war European painting. In the United States, a new generation of American artists began to emerge and to dominate the world stage, and they were called \"Abstract Expressionists\".\n\nThe 1940s in New York City heralded the triumph of American abstract expressionism, a modernist movement that combined lessons learned from Henri Matisse, Pablo Picasso, Surrealism, Joan Miró, Cubism, Fauvism, and early Modernism via great teachers in America such as Hans Hofmann from Germany and John D. Graham from Ukraine. Graham's influence on American art during the early 1940s was particularly visible in the work of Arshile Gorky, Willem de Kooning, Jackson Pollock, and Richard Pousette-Dart among others. Gorky's contributions to American and world art are difficult to overestimate. His work as lyrical abstraction was a \"new language. He \"lit the way for two generations of American artists\". The painterly spontaneity of mature works such as \"The Liver is the Cock's Comb\", \"The Betrothal II\", and \"One Year the Milkweed\" immediately prefigured Abstract expressionism, and leaders in the New York School have acknowledged Gorky's considerable influence. The early work of Hyman Bloom was also influential. American artists also benefited from the presence of Piet Mondrian, Fernand Léger, Max Ernst, and the André Breton group, Pierre Matisse's gallery, and Peggy Guggenheim's gallery \"The Art of This Century\", as well as other factors. Hans Hofmann in particular as teacher, mentor, and artist was both important and influential to the development and success of abstract expressionism in the United States. Among Hofmann's protégés was Clement Greenberg, who became an enormously influential voice for American painting, and among his students was Lee Krasner, who introduced her teacher, Hofmann, to her husband, Jackson Pollock.\n\nDuring the late 1940s, Jackson Pollock's radical approach to painting revolutionized the potential for all Contemporary art that followed him. To some extent, Pollock realized that the journey toward making a work of art was as important as the work of art itself. Like Pablo Picasso's innovative reinventions of painting and sculpture near the turn of the century via Cubism and constructed sculpture, with influences as disparate as Navaho sand paintings, surrealism, Jungian analysis, and Mexican mural art, Pollock redefined what it was to produce art. His move away from easel painting and conventionality was a liberating signal to the artists of his era and to all that came after. Artists realized that Jackson Pollock's process—the placing of unstretched raw canvas on the floor where it could be attacked from all four sides using artist materials and industrial materials; linear skeins of paint dripped and thrown; drawing, staining, brushing; imagery and non-imagery—essentially took art-making beyond any prior boundary. Abstract expressionism in general expanded and developed the definitions and possibilities that artists had available for the creation of new works of art.\n\nThe other abstract expressionists followed Pollock's breakthrough with new breakthroughs of their own. In a sense the innovations of Jackson Pollock, Willem de Kooning, Franz Kline, Mark Rothko, Philip Guston, Hans Hofmann, Clyfford Still, Barnett Newman, Ad Reinhardt, Richard Pousette-Dart, Robert Motherwell, Peter Voulkos, and others opened the floodgates to the diversity and scope of all the art that followed them. The new art movements of the 1960s essentially followed the lead of abstract expressionism and in particular the innovations of Pollock, De Kooning, Rothko, Hofmann, Reinhardt, and Newman. The radical Anti-Formalist movements of the 1960s and 1970s including Fluxus, Neo-Dada, Conceptual art, and the feminist art movement can be traced to the innovations of abstract expressionism. Rereadings into abstract art, done by art historians such as Linda Nochlin, Griselda Pollock and Catherine de Zegher critically shows, however, that pioneer women artists who have produced major innovations in modern art had been ignored by the official accounts of its history, but finally began to achieve long overdue recognition in the wake of the abstract expressionist movement of the 1940s and 1950s. Abstract expressionism emerged as a major art movement in New York City during the 1950s and thereafter several leading art galleries began to include the abstract expressionists in exhibitions and as regulars in their rosters. Some of those prominent 'uptown' galleries included: the Charles Egan Gallery, the Sidney Janis Gallery, the Betty Parsons Gallery, the Kootz Gallery, the Tibor de Nagy Gallery, the Stable Gallery, the Leo Castelli Gallery as well as others; and several downtown galleries known at the time as the Tenth Street galleries exhibited many emerging younger artists working in the abstract expressionist vein.\n\nAction painting was a style widespread from the 1940s until the early 1960s, and is closely associated with abstract expressionism (some critics have used the terms action painting and abstract expressionism interchangeably). A comparison is often drawn between the American action painting and the French tachisme.\n\nThe term was coined by the American critic Harold Rosenberg in 1952 and signaled a major shift in the aesthetic perspective of New York School painters and critics. According to Rosenberg the canvas was \"an arena in which to act\". While abstract expressionists such as Jackson Pollock, Franz Kline and Willem de Kooning had long been outspoken in their view of a painting as an arena within which to come to terms with the act of creation, earlier critics sympathetic to their cause, like Clement Greenberg, focused on their works' \"objectness.\" To Greenberg, it was the physicality of the paintings' clotted and oil-caked surfaces that was the key to understanding them as documents of the artists' existential struggle.\nRosenberg's critique shifted the emphasis from the object to the struggle itself, with the finished painting being only the physical manifestation, a kind of residue, of the actual work of art, which was in the act or process of the painting's creation. This spontaneous activity was the \"action\" of the painter, through arm and wrist movement, painterly gestures, brushstrokes, thrown paint, splashed, stained, scumbled and dripped. The painter would sometimes let the paint drip onto the canvas, while rhythmically dancing, or even standing in the canvas, sometimes letting the paint fall according to the subconscious mind, thus letting the unconscious part of the psyche assert and express itself. All this, however, is difficult to explain or interpret because it is a supposed unconscious manifestation of the act of pure creation.\n\nIn practice, the term abstract expressionism is applied to any number of artists working (mostly) in New York who had quite different styles, and even applied to work which is not especially abstract nor expressionist. Pollock's energetic action paintings, with their \"busy\" feel, are different both technically and aesthetically, to the violent and grotesque \"Women\" series of Willem de Kooning. \"Woman V\" is one of a series of six paintings made by de Kooning between 1950 and 1953 that depict a three-quarter-length female figure. He began the first of these paintings, \"Woman I,\" collection: The Museum of Modern Art, New York City, in June 1950, repeatedly changing and painting out the image until January or February 1952, when the painting was abandoned unfinished. The art historian Meyer Schapiro saw the painting in de Kooning's studio soon afterwards and encouraged the artist to persist. De Kooning's response was to begin three other paintings on the same theme; \"Woman II\", collection: The Museum of Modern Art, New York City, \"Woman III,\" Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art, \"Woman IV,\" Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art, Kansas City, Missouri. During the summer of 1952, spent at East Hampton, de Kooning further explored the theme through drawings and pastels. He may have finished work on \"Woman I\" by the end of June, or possibly as late as November 1952, and probably the other three women pictures were concluded at much the same time. The \"Woman series\" are decidedly figurative paintings.\n\nAnother important artist is Franz Kline. As with Jackson Pollock and other abstract expressionists, Kline was labelled an \"action painter because of his seemingly spontaneous and intense style, focusing less, or not at all, on figures or imagery, but on the actual brush strokes and use of canvas; as demonstrated by his painting \"Number 2\" (1954). \nAutomatic writing was an important vehicle for action painters Franz Kline (in his black and white paintings), Jackson Pollock, Mark Tobey and Cy Twombly, who used gesture, surface, and line to create calligraphic, linear symbols and skeins that resemble language, and resonate as powerful manifestations from the Collective unconscious. Robert Motherwell in his \"Elegy to the Spanish Republic\" series also painted powerful black and white paintings using gesture, surface and symbol evoking powerful emotional charges.\n\nMeanwhile, other action painters, notably Willem de Kooning, Arshile Gorky, Norman Bluhm, Joan Mitchell, and James Brooks, used imagery via either abstract landscape or as expressionistic visions of the figure to articulate their highly personal and powerful evocations. James Brooks' paintings were particularly poetic and highly prescient in relationship to Lyrical Abstraction that became prominent in the late 1960s and the 1970s.\n\nClyfford Still, Barnett Newman, Adolph Gottlieb and the serenely shimmering blocks of color in Mark Rothko's work (which is not what would usually be called expressionist and which Rothko denied was abstract), are classified as abstract expressionists, albeit from what Clement Greenberg termed the Color field direction of abstract expressionism. Both Hans Hofmann and Robert Motherwell can be comfortably described as practitioners of action painting and Color field painting. In the 1940s Richard Pousette-Dart's tightly constructed imagery often depended upon themes of mythology and mysticism; as did the paintings of Adolph Gottlieb, and Jackson Pollock in that decade as well.\n\nColor Field painting initially referred to a particular type of abstract expressionism, especially the work of Mark Rothko, Clyfford Still, Barnett Newman, Robert Motherwell, Adolph Gottlieb, Ad Reinhardt and several series of paintings by Joan Miró. Art critic Clement Greenberg perceived Color Field painting as related to but different from Action painting. The Color Field painters sought to rid their art of superfluous rhetoric. Artists like Robert Motherwell, Clyfford Still, Mark Rothko, Adolph Gottlieb, Hans Hofmann, Helen Frankenthaler, Sam Francis, Mark Tobey, and especially Ad Reinhardt and Barnett Newman, whose masterpiece \"Vir heroicus sublimis\" is in the collection of MoMA, used greatly reduced references to nature, and they painted with a highly articulated and psychological use of color. In general these artists eliminated recognizable imagery, in the case of Rothko and Gottlieb sometimes using symbol and sign as replacement of imagery. Certain artists quoted references to past or present art, but in general color field painting presents abstraction as an end in itself. In pursuing this direction of modern art, artists wanted to present each painting as one unified, cohesive, monolithic image.\n\nIn distinction to the emotional energy and gestural surface marks of abstract expressionists such as Jackson Pollock and Willem de Kooning, the Color Field painters initially appeared to be cool and austere, effacing the individual mark in favor of large, flat areas of color, which these artists considered to be the essential nature of visual abstraction, along with the actual shape of the canvas, which later in the 1960s Frank Stella in particular achieved in unusual ways with combinations of curved and straight edges. However Color Field painting has proven to be both sensual and deeply expressive albeit in a different way from gestural abstract expressionism.\n\nAlthough abstract expressionism spread quickly throughout the United States, the major centers of this style were New York City and California, especially in the New York School, and the San Francisco Bay area. Abstract expressionist paintings share certain characteristics, including the use of large canvases, an \"all-over\" approach, in which the whole canvas is treated with equal importance (as opposed to the center being of more interest than the edges). The canvas as the \"arena\" became a credo of Action painting, while the \"integrity of the picture plane\" became a credo of the Color field painters. Younger artists began exhibiting their abstract expressionist related paintings during the 1950s as well including Alfred Leslie, Sam Francis, Joan Mitchell, Helen Frankenthaler, Cy Twombly, Milton Resnick, Michael Goldberg, Norman Bluhm, Grace Hartigan, Friedel Dzubas, and Robert Goodnough among others.\nAlthough Pollock is closely associated with Action Painting because of his style, technique, and his painterly \"touch\" and his physical application of paint, art critics have likened Pollock to both Action painting and color field painting. Another critical view advanced by Clement Greenberg connects Pollock's allover canvasses to the large-scale Water Lilies of Claude Monet done during the 1920s. Greenberg, art critic Michael Fried, and others have observed that the overall feeling in Pollock's most famous works – his \"drip\" paintings – read as vast fields of built-up linear elements often reading as vast complexes of similar valued paint skeins that read as all over fields of color and drawing, and are related to the mural-sized late Monets that are constructed of many passages of close valued brushed and scumbled marks that also read as close valued fields of color and drawing that Monet used in building his picture surfaces. Pollock's use of all-over composition lend a philosophical and a physical connection to the way the color field painters like Newman, Rothko and Still construct their unbroken and in Still's case broken surfaces. In several paintings that Pollock painted after his classic \"drip\" painting period of 1947–1950, he used the technique of staining fluid oil paint and house paint into raw canvas. During 1951 he produced a series of semi-figurative black stain paintings, and in 1952 he produced stain paintings using color. In his November 1952 exhibition at the Sidney Janis Gallery in New York City Pollock showed \"Number 12, 1952\", a large, masterful stain painting that resembles a brightly colored stained landscape (with an overlay of broadly dripped dark paint); the painting was acquired from the exhibition by Nelson Rockefeller for his personal collection. In 1960 the painting was severely damaged by fire in the Governors Mansion in Albany that also severely damaged an Arshile Gorky painting and several other works in the Rockefeller collection. However, by 1999 it had been restored and was installed in Albany Mall.\n\nWhile Arshile Gorky is considered to be one of the founding fathers of abstract expressionism and a surrealist, he was also one of the first painters of the New York School who used the technique of \"staining.\" Gorky created broad fields of vivid, open, unbroken color that he used in many of his paintings as \"grounds.\" In Gorky's most effective and accomplished paintings between the years 1941–1948, he consistently used intense stained fields of color, often letting the paint run and drip, under and around his familiar lexicon of organic and biomorphic shapes and delicate lines. Another abstract expressionist whose works in the 1940s call to mind the stain paintings of the 1960s and the 1970s is James Brooks. Brooks regularly used stain as a technique in his paintings from the late 1940s. Brooks began diluting his oil paint in order to have fluid colors with which to pour and drip and stain into the mostly raw canvas that he used. These works often combined calligraphy and abstract shapes. During the final three decades of his career, Sam Francis' style of large-scale bright abstract expressionism was closely associated with Color field painting. His paintings straddled both camps within the abstract expressionist rubric, Action painting and Color Field painting.\n\nHaving seen Jackson Pollock's 1951 paintings of thinned black oil paint stained into raw canvas, Helen Frankenthaler began to produce \"stain paintings\" in varied oil colors on raw canvas in 1952. Her most famous painting from that period is \"Mountains and Sea\". She is one of the originators of the Color Field movement that emerged in the late 1950s. Frankenthaler also studied with Hans Hofmann.\n\nHofmann's paintings are a symphony of color as seen in \"The Gate,\" 1959–1960. Hofmann was renowned not only as an artist but also as a teacher of art, both in his native Germany and later in the U.S. Hans Hofmann, who came to the United States from Germany in the early 1930s, brought with him the legacy of Modernism. Hofmann was a young artist working in Paris who painted there before World War I. Hofmann worked in Paris with Robert Delaunay, and he knew firsthand the innovative work of both Pablo Picasso and Henri Matisse. Matisse's work had an enormous influence on him, and on his understanding of the expressive language of color and the potentiality of abstraction. Hofmann was one of the first theorists of color field painting, and his theories were influential to artists and to critics, particularly to Clement Greenberg, as well as to others during the 1930s and 1940s. In 1953 Morris Louis and Kenneth Noland were both profoundly influenced by Helen Frankenthaler's stain paintings after visiting her studio in New York City. Returning to Washington, DC., they began to produce the major works that created the \"color field movement\" in the late 1950s.\n\nIn 1972 then Metropolitan Museum of Art curator Henry Geldzahler said:\n\nIn abstract painting during the 1950s and 1960s, several new directions, like the Hard-edge painting exemplified by John McLaughlin, emerged. Meanwhile, as a reaction against the subjectivism of abstract expressionism, other forms of Geometric abstraction began to appear in artist studios and in radical avant-garde circles. Clement Greenberg became the voice of \"Post-painterly abstraction;\" by curating an influential exhibition of new painting that toured important art museums throughout the United States in 1964. Color field painting, Hard-edge painting and Lyrical Abstraction emerged as radical new directions.\n\nSince the mid-1970s it has been argued by revisionist historians that the style attracted the attention, in the early 1950s, of the CIA, who saw it as representative of the USA as a haven of free thought and free markets, as well as a challenge to both the socialist realist styles prevalent in communist nations and the dominance of the European art markets. The book by Frances Stonor Saunders, \"The Cultural Cold War—The CIA and the World of Arts and Letters\", (published in the UK as \"Who Paid the Piper?: CIA and the Cultural Cold War\") details how the CIA financed and organized the promotion of American abstract expressionists as part of cultural imperialism via the Congress for Cultural Freedom from 1950 to 1967. Notably Robert Motherwell's series \"Elegy to the Spanish Republic\" addressed some of those political issues. Tom Braden, founding chief of the CIA's International Organizations Division (IOD) and ex-executive secretary of the Museum of Modern Art said in an interview, \"I think it was the most important division that the agency had, and I think that it played an enormous role in the Cold War.\"\n\nAgainst this revisionist tradition, an essay by Michael Kimmelman, chief art critic of \"The New York Times\", called \"Revisiting the Revisionists: The Modern, Its Critics and the Cold War\", argues that much of this information (as well as the revisionists' interpretation of it) concerning what was happening on the American art scene during the 1940s and 50s is flatly false, or at best (contrary to the revisionists' avowed historiographic principles) decontextualized. Other books on the subject include \"Art in the Cold War\" by Christine Lindey, which also describes the art of the Soviet Union at the same time; and \"Pollock and After\" edited by Francis Frascina, which reprinted the Kimmelman article.\n\nCanadian painter Jean-Paul Riopelle (1923–2002), a member of the Montreal-based surrealist-inspired group Les Automatistes, helped introduce a related style of abstract impressionism to the Parisian art world from 1949. Michel Tapié's groundbreaking book, \"Un Art Autre\" (1952), was also enormously influential in this regard. Tapié was also a curator and exhibition organizer who promoted the works of Pollock and Hans Hofmann in Europe. By the 1960s, the movement's initial affect had been assimilated, yet its methods and proponents remained highly influential in art, affecting profoundly the work of many artists who followed. Abstract expressionism preceded Tachisme, Color Field painting, Lyrical Abstraction, Fluxus, Pop Art, Minimalism, Postminimalism, Neo-expressionism, and the other movements of the sixties and seventies and it influenced all those later movements that evolved. Movements which were direct responses to, and rebellions against abstract expressionism began with Hard-edge painting (Frank Stella, Robert Indiana and others) and Pop artists, notably Andy Warhol, Claes Oldenburg and Roy Lichtenstein who achieved prominence in the US, accompanied by Richard Hamilton in Britain. Robert Rauschenberg and Jasper Johns in the US formed a bridge between abstract expressionism and Pop art. Minimalism was exemplified by artists such as Donald Judd, Robert Mangold and Agnes Martin.\n\nHowever, many painters, such as Jules Olitski, Joan Mitchell and Antoni Tàpies continued to work in the abstract expressionist style for many years, extending and expanding its visual and philosophical implications, as many abstract artists continue to do today, in styles described as Lyrical Abstraction, Neo-expressionist and others.\n\nIn the years after World War II, a group of New York artists started one of the first true schools of artists in America, bringing about a new era in American artwork: abstract expressionism. This led to the American art boom that brought about styles such as Pop Art. This also helped to make New York into a cultural and artistic hub.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51738550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51738550", "title": "Accademia di Belle Arti di Urbino", "text": "Accademia di Belle Arti di Urbino\n\nThe Accademia di Belle Arti di Urbino is an academy of fine arts located in Urbino, Marche. It was founded in 1967.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "18053430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18053430", "title": "Anti-clerical art", "text": "Anti-clerical art\n\nAnti-clerical art is a genre of art portraying clergy, especially Roman Catholic clergy, in unflattering contexts. It was especially popular in France during the second half of the 19th century, at a time that the anti-clerical message suited the prevailing political mood. Typical paintings show cardinals in their bright red robes engaging in unseemly activities within their lavish private quarters.\n\nNineteenth and early twentieth century artists known for their anti-clerical art include Francesco Brunery, Georges Croegaert, Charles Édouard Delort, Jehan Georges Vibert, Jules Benoit-Levy and Eduardo Zamacois y Zabala. Masami Teraoka is among the contemporary painters producing anti-clerical art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3264956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3264956", "title": "Apotropaic magic", "text": "Apotropaic magic\n\nApotropaic magic (from Greek \"to ward off\" from \"away\" and \"to turn\") is a type of magic intended to turn away harm or evil influences, as in deflecting misfortune or averting the evil eye. Apotropaic observances may also be practiced out of vague superstition or out of tradition, as in good luck charms (perhaps some token on a charm bracelet), amulets, or gestures such as crossed fingers or knocking on wood. The Greeks made offerings to the \"averting gods\" (), chthonic deities and heroes who grant safety and deflect evil.\n\nApotropaic magical rituals were practiced throughout the ancient Near East and Egypt. Fearsome deities were invoked via ritual in order to protect individuals by warding away evil spirits. In ancient Egypt, these household rituals (performed in the home, not in state-run temples) were embodied by the deity who personified magic itself, Heka. The two gods most frequently invoked in these rituals were the hippopotamus-formed fertility goddess, Taweret, and the lion-demon, Bes (who developed from the early apotropaic dwarf demon-god, Aha, literally \"fighter\").\n\nObjects were often used in these rituals in order to facilitate communication with the gods. One of the most commonly found magical objects, the ivory apotropaic wand (birth tusk), gained widespread popularity in the Middle Kingdom (ca. 1550 – 1069 BCE). These wands were used to protect expectant mothers and children from malevolent forces, and were adorned with processions of apotropaic solar deities. Likewise, protective amulets bearing the likenesses of gods and goddesses like Taweret were commonly worn. Water came to be used frequently in ritual as well, wherein libation vessels in the shape of Taweret were used to pour healing water over an individual. In much later periods (when Egypt came under the Greek Ptolemies), stele featuring the god Horus were used in similar rituals; water would be poured over the stele and—after ritually acquiring healing powers—was collected in a basin for an afflicted person to drink.\n\nAmong the ancient Greeks, the most widely used image intended to avert evil was that of the Gorgon, the head of which now may be called the \"Gorgoneion\", which features wild eyes, fangs, and protruding tongue. The full figure of the Gorgon holds the apex of the oldest remaining Greek temple where she is flanked by two lionesses. The Gorgon head was mounted on the aegis and shield of Athena.\n\nEyes were often painted to ward off the evil eye. An exaggerated apotropaic eye or a pair of eyes were painted on Greek drinking vessels called \"kylikes\" (eye-cups) from the 6th century BCE. The exaggerated eyes may have been intended to prevent evil spirits from entering the mouth while drinking. Fishing boats in some parts of the Mediterranean region still have stylised eyes painted on the bows. The defunct Turkish budget airline, Fly Air, adopted the symbol \"nazar boncuğu\" (\"nazar bonjuk\") on the vertical stabilizer (fin) of its aeroplanes. The apotropaic Yiddish expression, \"\" (\"no evil eye\", , in modern Hebrew \"בלי עין הרע\"-\"Bli ein ha'ra\") is somewhat equivalent to the expression, \"Knock on wood.\"\n\nPeople believed that the doorways and windows of buildings were particularly vulnerable to the entry or passage of evil. On churches and castles, gargoyles or other grotesque faces and figures such as \"sheela na gigs\" and hunky punks were carved to frighten away witches and other malign influences. Figures may also have been carved at fireplaces or chimneys; in some cases, simple geometric or letter carvings were used for these. When a wooden post was used to support a chimney opening, this was often an easier material for amateur carving. To discourage witchcraft, rowan wood may have been chosen for the post or mantel.\n\nSimilarly the grotesque faces carved into pumpkin lanterns (and their earlier counterparts, made from turnips, swedes or beets) at Halloween are meant to avert evil: this season was \"Samhain\", the Celtic new year. As a \"time between times\", it was believed to be a period when souls of the dead and other dangerous spirits walked the earth. Many European peoples had such associations with the period following the harvest in the fall. (\"See also:\" Celtic calendar)\n\nMirrors and other shiny objects were believed to deflect the evil eye. Traditional English \"Plough Jags\" (performers of a regional variant of the mummers play) sometimes decorated their costumes (particularly their hats) with shiny items, to the extent of borrowing silver plate for the purpose. \"Witch balls\" are shiny blown glass ornaments, like Christmas baubles, that were hung in windows.\n\nItems and symbols such as crosses, crucifixes, silver bullets, wild roses and garlic were believed to ward off or destroy vampires.\n\nIn Ireland and Great Britain, magpies are traditionally thought to bring bad luck. Many people repeated various rhymes or salutations to placate them.\n\nA worn-out man's buckle shoe from the 18th century was found in the wainscoting of the Combination Room, St John's College, Cambridge. This was placed in the wall \"as an apotropaic item intended to ward off evil and bad luck.\" The discovery was interesting, because this kind of magic is a silent tradition in England. After the repairs were done to the wall, the shoe was re-interred along with some current coins, a custom when dealing with finds like this. Replacing the shoe and concealing it respects the original desire of the owner.\n\nIn Ancient Greece, \"phalloi\" were believed to have apotropaic qualities. Often stone reliefs would be placed above doorways, and three-dimensional versions were erected across the Greek world. Most notable of these were the urban monuments found on the island of Delos. Grotesque, satyr-like bearded faces, sometimes with the pointed cap of the workman, were carved over the doors of ovens and kilns, to protect the work from fire and mishap.\n\nA similar use of phallic representations to ward off the evil eye remains popular in modern Bhutan. It is associated with the 500-year-old Buddhist tradition of Drukpa Kunley. It is paralleled by other South Asian uses of the lingam symbol.\n\nIn Roman art, apotropaic imagery was a common theme. Envy was thought to bring bad luck to the person envied. To avoid envy, Romans sought to incite laughter in their guests by using humorous images. Images such as large phalluses (see \"fascinus\"), deformities like hunchbacks, or Pygmies and other non-Roman subjects were common. Romans saw deformity as comical and believed that such images could be used to deflect the evil eye.\n\nIn Europe, apotropaic figureheads carved onto the prow of sailing ships are considered to have been a replacement for the sacrifice of a thrall during the Age of Invasions by Saxon and Viking sailors, to avoid bad luck on the voyage. Dredging of the Thames under London Bridge led to the discovery of a large number of bent and broken knives, daggers, swords and coins, from the modern period and dating back to Celtic times. This custom seems to have been to avoid bad luck, particularly when setting off on a voyage. Similarly, the burial of an old boot or shoe by the lintel of the back door of a house seems to have had a similar intention.\n\nApotropaic marks such as the initials of the Virgin Mary were scratched near the openings of buildings in England to ward off witches.\n\nIt is difficult to differentiate between items supposed to avert evil and items intended to attract good fortune, but generally a talisman brings good luck whereas an amulet wards off or protects against and is therefore apotropaic.\nIn Western culture, a horseshoe was often nailed up over, or close by, doorways, normally with the ends pointing upwards; it is said to collect good luck, or to stop the luck from falling out (see Oakham's horseshoes). Model horseshoes (of card or plastic) are given as good-luck tokens, particularly at weddings, and small paper horseshoes feature in confetti.\nIrish Travelers and Roma often sell white heather to \"bring good luck\". (Sometimes white sea-lavender, a species of \"Limonium\", is sold instead.)\n\nIn Ireland, St Brigid's crosses, woven from rush, were kept indoors (in houses and animal houses) to keep away illness for the year.\n\nIn some Native American cultures, a dreamcatcher made of yarn like a web is placed above a bed or sleeping area to protect sleeping children from nightmares.\n\nAshkenazi Jews' apotropaic names were often given not at birth but during serious illness. An example is Nekras (\"Некрас\", \"not handsome\" in Russian), with the hope the child would be handsome, and Yiddish names Alter and Alte (\"old\").\n\nAmong Serbian names are many apotropaic names (\"zaštitna imena\", \"protective names\"), such as Vuk (and its many derivatives) and Staniša.\n\nSome traditional Taiwanese names referenced domestic animals such as \"buffalo\" (水牛) and \"dog\" (狗, 犬), or humble elements of the landscape like \"soil\" and \"water\" (土, 水). They conveyed contentment with a peaceful and low-profile life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57043484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57043484", "title": "Archives of Traditional Music", "text": "Archives of Traditional Music\n\nThe Indiana University Archives of Traditional Music holds over 100,000 audio and video individual recordings across over 3500 collections of field, broadcast, and commercial recordings. Its holdings are primarily focused on audiovisual recordings relating to research in the academic disciplines of ethnomusicology, folklore, anthropology, linguistics, and various area studies.\n\nThe archive was initiated by George Herzog at Columbia University in 1936. It was modeled on the Berliner Phonogramm-Archiv, where Herzog had worked as an assistant to Erich M. von Hornbostel from 1921–1924. Herzog brought the nascent archive to Indiana University in 1948 when he was appointed as professor in the Department of Anthropology. The archive was formally established at Indiana University in 1954 under its second director, George List, as the Archives of Folk and Primitive Music. Its present name, the Archives of Traditional Music, was adopted in 1964 when it became a division of the Folklore Institute.\n\n\nFollowing insights gained through the Sound Directions Project about a looming crisis in time-based media preservation, staff at the ATM pursued a collaborative strategy for saving its media holdings. In 2008, they participated in a small coalition of archivists and librarians at Indiana University that began a survey of the audio-visual materials held on the Bloomington Campus. The survey was prompted by the recognition that the university held a large amount of time-based media in danger of deterioration and playback obsolescence. This survey revealed that the Bloomington campus held more than a half-million audiovisual recordings across eighty units and that large portions of the University's holdings were at risk for loss. Following the publication of a survey report in 2009, the Office of the Vice Provost for Research funded a preservation planning document under the aegis of what was known as the Media Preservation Initiative (MPI). Based on the recommendations of the planning document, Indiana University President Michael McRobbie announced a 15 million dollar commitment to the preservation of audio and video recordings on the Bloomington campus. The resulting endeavor was renamed the Media Preservation and Digitization Initiative (MDPI) which formed a partnership with Memnon Archiving Services to digitally preserve 280,000 audio and video recordings by 2020. In 2017, 12,000 films from Indiana University's Moving Image Archives and other campus collections, including the Archives of Traditional Music were added to the efforts of MDPI. As the largest holder of unique and rare audiovisual recordings at Indiana University, nearly all of the archives' 100,000 recordings will be digitized by 2020 through this initiative. MDPI was the first – and as of 2018 the only – university-based media preservation effort in the United States on this scale.\n\nThe AHEYM Project has collected nearly 400 interviews related to Jewish life before, during, and after World War II. Conducted primarily in Yiddish, the interviewees come from small towns throughout Ukraine, Moldova, Romania, Hungary and Slovakia. The current online exhibit cover daily life, foodways, Jewish life between the wars, religion, World War II and the Holocaust, and Jewish life after World War II. The archive can be explored by location, person, or subject. Preservation and cataloging of AHEYM Project recordings was funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities.\n\nThe EVIA Digital Archive is a project created to host a digital archive of ethnographic videos for educational use. The projected originated from a collaboration between Indiana University and University of Michigan.\n\nEM publishes books and supplemental audiovisual material on Ethnomusicology in order to aid scholars in research. EM offers access to Annotation Management System (AMS), which allows authors to upload audiovisual material and link it to content in their text. EM is a joint project between Indiana and Temple Universities.\n\nThe Hoagy Carmichael Project at Indiana University was a project funded by IMLS between 1999 and 2000 to digitize and preserve the extensive collection of items related to Hoagy Carmichael that are housed at Indiana University. This early digital collection website aimed to present in its entirety the complete Carmichael collection. The collection contains sound recordings, letters, photographs, lyric sheets, correspondence, as well as personal effects. It offers a biography and a virtual tour of the Carmichael Room located at the Archives of Traditional Music.\n\nThe Liberian Collection was established in 2002. The Archives of Traditional Music is home to the audiovisual part of the collection.\n\nThe Sound Directions Project was a joint project between Indiana University’s Archives of Traditional Music and Harvard University’s Archive of World Music and funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities between 2005 and 2011. Phase 1 consisted of testing and determining the best practices and workflows for digital audio preservation. The following two phases focused on the preservation of archive holdings and on the development of software tools for media assessment and technical metadata collection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25456072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25456072", "title": "Art Association NYTE", "text": "Art Association NYTE\n\nArt Association NYTE ry is founded in 1987 in Pori as an artist group and art association. It is as a launching platform for young artists in Satakunta Region.\n\nArt Association NYTE ry begun as an interdisciplinary artist group which included artists from various fields including, fine-art, Cinema and Live-Arts.\n\nMany of NYTE's activities take place in the social centre 3h+k. Which translates as 3 rooms and a kitchen. It includes a theatre, gallery space and computer resource room. There is also an outside yard used for some performances and was started in the 1980s.\n"}
{"id": "36758112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36758112", "title": "Art squat", "text": "Art squat\n\nAn art squat is a name used to describe the action of artists to occupy (or squat in) an abandoned building, thereby creating studio space to create art. Art squats often have a semi-legal or illegal status.\n\nTacheles, in Berlin, Germany, was one of many buildings occupied by artists in the years after World War II and continued to operate as a studio space and gallery until 2012, when the authorities closed it for redevelopment.\n\nParis, France, has experienced several decades of art squats, a result of high rents and a large Bohemian artist population. Early examples include the Bateau-Lavoir (destroyed during the 1970s) and Hôpital Éphémère, occupied during the 1980s and 90s. In the 2000s the Paris city hall began an initiative to redevelop and legalise the city's art squats, beginning with a 6-storey squat on rue de Rivoli which was renovated and reopened in 2009.\n\nArt Squat was also the name of an Artists Collective co-founded by Johnny Otto in Los Angeles in the early 90's, which took over abandoned properties in the Fairfax District and converted them into Galleries. \n"}
{"id": "6400749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6400749", "title": "Automobile folklore", "text": "Automobile folklore\n\nThe major effects of the automobile on societies include the development of diverse customs and traditions.\nSome drivers believe that a new car is in greater danger than a used car of getting into an accident or having a collision. Some drivers will leave change under their seats. Others use one coin to scratch the car, based on the (false) belief that since the car is new and nothing has happened to it yet, the chances of something bad happening to the car is greater when compared to a used car which already has its fair share of dents and scratches. In hopes of preventing a high damaging accident, they will place a small nick or scratch on the car in an area where it will not be seen. The inside of the wheel well is one commonly scratched area.\n\nThere are also a few practices associated with graduations. In the days leading up to a graduation, some drivers (and in some cases friends of the driver) will write on the car windows with washable paint. The messages usually congratulate the driver of the car and list the driver’s school and year of graduation. After graduating from high school or college, some drivers choose to hang their tassel from the rearview mirror.\n\nSome people throw change under a bed in hopes of bringing good luck to the new home. Change is known world wide as a good luck charm.\n\nThere are also religious acts that are associated with automobiles. This can include getting the car blessed by a cleric or placing an object of religious significance inside the car.\n\nA predominately Roman Catholic practice is to place a medal of Saint Christopher, the patron saint of truck drivers and travelers in general, inside the car. Usually, the driver will have this medal blessed by a priest. An ancient legend, mentioned by Erasmus in the \"Praise of Folly\", holds that those who see an image of Saint Christopher cannot die through misadventure during that day. Not surprisingly, images of Saint Christopher became popular automobile accessories. Through the presence of the medal, the driver is asking the Saint to pray on his or her behalf for a safe and uneventful journey.\n\nA somewhat more sombre purpose originally stood behind the familiar plastic Jesus that some Christians have mounted on their dashboards. The original plastic Jesus was circulated by the Sacred Heart Auto League, founded in 1955 by Father Gregory Bezy, SCJ. This devotional society placed the traditional Roman Catholic figure of Jesus displaying his Sacred Heart on the dashboard. Father Bezy was moved to do this as a \"practical answer to what he considered the ever-increasing dangers of our overcrowded streets and highways.\" In other words, in the event of a fatal accident, Father Bezy hoped that the last thing the riders would see would be the image of Jesus, and as such face Eternity with faith and contrition.\n\nThe plastic dashboard Jesus proved popular among non-Catholic Christians as well. The figure is well known enough to have inspired a folk song \"Plastic Jesus\", originally attributed to Ed Rush and George Cromarty, which has acquired many anonymous folk variants. One frequent set of verses has it open:\n\nSome Catholics will also hang rosary beads from their rearview mirror.\n\nCatholics and other Christians may also hang crosses or crucifixes from the rearview mirror.\n\nCars are often decorated, and have wishes written on them, and various streamers or trailing objects attached, in celebrations of weddings and graduations.\n\nA frequent wedding tradition in the United States involves the decoration of the vehicle the bride and groom drive take at the conclusion of the wedding ceremony. Typically, various ribbons and streamers are attached, and words written upon the surface of the vehicle, and often tin cans are attached to its fenders or bumpers by strings to serve as noisemakers. Jan Brunvand's \"American Folklore: An Encyclopedia\" speculates that the decoration of the car and its equipment with noisemakers may perpetuate the shivaree, a custom in which newlyweds were given a noisy serenade; when honeymoon travel became a custom, it made a traditional local shivaree impractical, so the vehicle is given a noisy sendoff instead.\n\nSome cars are used chiefly for special occasions and social rituals, such as limousines.\n\nVarious professions revolving around motor vehicles acquire a folklore of their own. Truck drivers, since they tend to work in isolation, tend to develop a social network of their own. They circulate a number of tall tales that relate generally to their profession, usually involving the outwitting of state police and other traffic or tax authorities. They also create an elaborate body of customs and lore surrounding the use of citizen's band radio, with its own jargon and \"handles\", which came to national notice in the 1970s. A widespread bit of popular folklore circulated among other motorists that truck drivers knew which restaurants to patronize and which to avoid, so eateries that were obviously frequented by truck drivers were esteemed by the general public. With the arise of national restaurant chains, this bit of folklore is fading.\n\nSimilar folklore surrounds taxicab drivers, involving the tales they tell among each other, and the tales that circulate about them.\n\nThere is a practice in New Jersey and New York of tossing a few coins onto the floor of a newly purchased car as a sign of good luck. This practice originated as a practical one. Because of the area's many toll roads, many drivers would carry change in their cars. The friends and family of the new car owner would throw coins onto the floor of the new car so if the driver ever ran out of his own money, he could always reach down and find some extra money on the floor.\n"}
{"id": "2493017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2493017", "title": "Benjamin Franklin Parkway", "text": "Benjamin Franklin Parkway\n\nBenjamin Franklin Parkway, commonly abbreviated to Ben Franklin Parkway, is a scenic boulevard that runs through the cultural heart of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Named for Founding Father Benjamin Franklin, the mile-long Parkway cuts diagonally across the grid plan pattern of Center City's Northwest quadrant. It starts at Philadelphia City Hall, curves around Logan Circle, and ends before the Philadelphia Museum of Art.\n\nThe Parkway is the spine of Philadelphia's Museum District. Some of the city's most famous sights are here: Cathedral Basilica of Saints Peter and Paul; Swann Memorial Fountain; Parkway Central Library, the Family Court Building, the Franklin Institute, Moore College of Art and Design, the Academy of Natural Sciences, the Rodin Museum, Eakins Oval, the Barnes Foundation and the Philadelphia Museum of Art. From its northern end, the Parkway provides access to Fairmount Park through Kelly Drive (formerly East River Drive), Martin Luther King Drive (formerly West River Drive), the Schuylkill River Trail, and the Schuylkill Expressway (I-76).\n\nThe Parkway also is an outdoor sculpture garden. Works include: \"The Thinker\" by Auguste Rodin; \"Gates of Hell\" also by Rodin; \"LOVE\" by Robert Indiana; \"The Ideal Scout\" by Robert Tait McKenzie; \"Three-Way Piece\" by Henry Moore; the three River figures in the Swann Memorial Fountain by Alexander Stirling Calder; \"Shakespeare Memorial\" also by Calder; \"Philadelphia Holocaust Memorial\" by Nathan Rapoport; \"Joseph Leidy\" by Samuel Murray; \"Aero Memorial\" by Paul Manship; \"General Galusha Pennypacker\" by Charles Grafly and Albert Laessle; \"Jesus Breaking Bread\" by Walter Erlebacher, \"All Wars Colored Soldiers and Sailors Memorial\" by J. Otto Schweizer; \"Thaddeus Kosciuszko\" by Robert Aitken; \"Civil War Soldiers and Sailors Memorial\" by Hermon Atkins MacNeil; \"Kopernik\" by Dudley Vaill Talcott; \"Joan of Arc\" by Emmanuel Fremiet; Washington Monument by Rudolf Siemering; and the \"Rocky\" statue by A. Thomas Schomberg.\n\nIn a city famous for its urban planning, the Parkway represents one of the earliest examples of urban renewal in the United States. The road was constructed to ease heavy industrial congestion in Center City and to restore Philadelphia's natural and artistic beauty, as part of the City Beautiful movement.\n\nPreliminary proposals for the Parkway had been produced and added to the City Plan by 1906, but the first comprehensive plan for the Parkway was commissioned in 1907 by the Fairmount Park Art Association (now the Association for Public Art). The Association commissioned architects Horace Trumbauer, Clarence Zantzinger, and Paul Philippe Cret, who created a detailed parkway design that was formally added to the City Plan in 1909. Construction on the Parkway did not begin until 1917, when French landscape architect Jacques Gréber submitted a revised plan to the Commissioners of Fairmount Park. \n\nGréber designed the Parkway in 1917 to emulate the Champs-Élysées in Paris, France. The route was determined by an axis drawn from City Hall Tower to a fixed point on the hill that William Penn called \"Fairmount\", now the site of the Philadelphia Museum of Art. The Champs-Élysées terminates at the Arc de Triomphe, and the Parkway's terminating at the Art Museum gives the notion of \"a slice of Paris in Philadelphia.\" The Parkway also has an international flavor by being lined with flags of countries from around the world. \n\nThe traffic rotary on the western end of the Parkway, at the foot of the Art Museum's Rocky Steps, is named Eakins Oval after Philadelphia painter Thomas Eakins. The traffic lanes around Eakins Oval originally formed a regular oval; this pattern was modified in the early 1960s to its present elongated circular shape, with the truncated lanes serving as staging areas for various events.\n\nBecause of its central location, the Parkway is the site for many concerts and parades. On July 2, 2005, the steps of the museum played host to the Philadelphia venue of Live 8, where artists such as Dave Matthews Band, Linkin Park and Maroon 5 performed. The Parkway was also the site of Jay-Z's Made in America Festival on September 1-2, 2012 featuring Jay-Z, Pearl Jam, Skrillex and Calvin Harris, among others. On September 26th and 27th, 2015, Pope Francis visited Philadelphia and the Parkway was flooded with over a million visitors both weekend days, a Celebration of Families on Saturday, and a Holy Mass on Sunday.\n\nIn recent years, there has been concern that the original plan of a wide, multi-sectioned, multi-laned, tree-lined boulevard, while beautiful to travel on, is not very engaging for pedestrian or other public use. Traffic along the Parkway has decreased considerably because of the completion of Interstate 676 (Vine Street Expressway), linking the Schuylkill Expressway with the Benjamin Franklin Bridge. In response, the roadway has been narrowed somewhat and the sidewalks expanded around Logan Circle. Various plans for the rest of the Parkway, some of which would insert shops and other smaller structures into the long stretches between museums, have been proposed, but none so far have been thought feasible or financially sound.\n\nA new museum for the Barnes Foundation collection of Impressionist art on the site between the Free Library and the Rodin Museum opened in Spring 2012.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55833800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55833800", "title": "Bhoma", "text": "Bhoma\n\nIn a Balinese temple architecture, a Bhoma is a carved or formed grotesque which decorates certain parts in the Balinese temple complex. The statue is similar to the Javanese Kala, and was intended to protect the temple complex from malevolent spirit.\n\nIn Balinese mythology, Bhoma is the son of Dewa Wisnu and Dewi Pertiwi, the god of rain and the goddess of earth. One day, when Wisnu was digging the earth in the form of Varaha, his avatar in the form of a wild boar, he encountered a beautiful earth goddess named Dewi Pertiwi. The encounter leads to a union between Wisnu and Pertiwi, which produce a terrifying son named Bhoma. \n\nThe story of Wisnu as a wild boar digging up to the bottom of the earth to meet Pertiwi symbolizes torrents of stormy rainwater entering the earth. The figure of Bhoma that was produced by this union is seen as the growth of vegetation or forest (Vanaspati) as a result of the earth receiving the (rain) water. In Javanese and Balinese culture, Vanaspati is the king of the plant, not different with the European Green Man. The word Bhoma came from the Sanskrit word \"bhaumá\", which means something that grows or is born from earth or something related to the earth. \n\nBhoma is basically the Balinese kirtimukha. In Balinese temple architecture, Bhoma has the same function as the Javanese Kala which act as a guardian spirit of the temple complex. The head of Bhoma can be found carved at the temple gate which marks the entrance to the holiest part of the shrine (paduraksa) and at the base of the padmasana, the holiest and most central shrine in the Balinese temple.\n\nThe Padmasana is the holiest shrine in a Balinese temple complex. The padmasana is attributed to the Supreme God, the Sang Hyang Widhi Wasa). Like many religious constructions in Indonesia, the shrine padmasana is divided into three sections, from the base to the top, the \"bhur\" (world of demons), \"bhuwah\" (world of men), and \"swah\" (world of gods). The head figure of Bhoma normally added the base of the padmasana, together with other monstrous figures e.g. the Bedawang Nala, the world-supporting turtle, and the two snakes, Anantaboga, and Basuki, a symbol of man's earthly needs. In this context, the head of Bhoma at the base of the padmasana symbolizes the forest which surrounds the foot of a mountain (\"batur pepalihan\"). \n\nIn some Balinese houses, the doorway to some enclosed pavilion (e.g. the \"bale meten\") is decorated with ornaments to form ventilation grill which is sometimes paneled. This is usually topped with a decorative frieze, which is sometimes carved in the form of the Bhoma's head.\n\nThe head of Bhoma is also seen in the Balinese cremation towers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45287496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45287496", "title": "Bloor Street Culture Corridor", "text": "Bloor Street Culture Corridor\n\nThe Bloor Street Culture Corridor is a cluster of arts and cultural organizations in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It is located on Bloor St. W, between Bathurst and Bay Streets.\n\nThe Bloor Street Culture Corridor has a wide variety of art genres, from museum experiences to films, art exhibitions to music concerts. The area also is culturally diverse, including Aboriginal, French, Jewish, Italian, Japanese, Estonian, African and Caribbean arts and culture.\n\nOfficially launched in April 2014, the collective shares a website, social media and a mobile app to promote exhibitions at its member institutions. In 2016, the Corridor was successful in working with the City of Toronto to have the section of Bloor St. West designated an official City of Toronto cultural corridor. Each year more than three million persons visit the Corridor's arts and culture destinations, and attend exhibitions, performances, and events. Together, the Bloor St. Culture Corridor organizations employ more than 5,500 culture workers and generate more than $629,500,000 in economic impact each year.\n\nBloor St. Culture Corridor Partner Destinations\n\n"}
{"id": "934991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=934991", "title": "Body proportions", "text": "Body proportions\n\nWhile there is significant variation in anatomical proportions between people, there are many references to body proportions that are intended to be canonical, either in art, measurement, or medicine.\n\nIn measurement, body proportions are often used to relate two or more measurements based on the body. A cubit, for instance, is supposed to be six palms. A span is taken to be 9 inches and was previously considered as half a cubit. While convenient, these ratios may not reflect the physiognomic variation of the individuals using them.\n\nSimilarly, in art, body proportions are the study of relation of human or animal body parts to each other and to the whole. These ratios are used in depictions of the figure (to varying degrees naturalistic, idealized or stylized), and may become part of an aesthetic canon within a culture.\n\nIt is important in figure drawing to draw the human figure in proportion. Though there are subtle differences between individuals, human proportions fit within a fairly standard range, though artists have historically tried to create idealised standards, which have varied considerably over different periods and regions. In modern figure drawing, the basic unit of measurement is the 'head', which is the distance from the top of the head to the chin. This unit of measurement is reasonably standard, and has long been used by artists to establish the proportions of the human figure. Ancient Egyptian art used a canon of proportion based on the \"fist\", measured across the knuckles, with 18 fists from the ground to the hairline on the forehead. This was already established by the Narmer Palette from about the 31st century BC, and remained in use until at least the conquest by Alexander the Great some 3,000 years later.\n\nThe proportions used in figure drawing are:\n\n\nA study using Polish participants by Sorokowski found 5% longer legs than an individual used as a reference was considered most attractive. The study concluded this preference might stem from the influence of leggy runway models. The Sorokowski study was criticized for using a picture of the same person with digitally altered leg lengths which Marco Bertamini felt were unrealistic.\n\nAnother study using British and American participants, found \"mid-ranging\" leg-to-body ratios to be most ideal.\n\nA study by Swami et al. of American men and women showed a preference for men with legs as long as the rest of their body and women with 40% longer legs than the rest of their body The researcher concluded that this preference might be influenced by American culture where long-legged women are portrayed as more attractive. The Swami et al. study was criticized for using a picture of the same person with digitally altered leg lengths which Marco Bertamini felt were unrealistic. Bertamini also criticized the Swami study for only changing the leg length while keeping the arm length constant. Bertamini's own study which used stick figures mirrored Swami's study, however, by finding a preference for leggier women.\n\nAnother common measurement of related to leg-to-body ratio is sitting-height ratio (SHR). Sitting height ratio is the ratio of the head plus spine length to total height which is highly correlated to leg-to-body ratio. SHR has been found to be very different between individuals of different ancestry. It has been reported that individuals with African ancestry have on average longer leg length, i.e. lower SHR than individuals of European ancestry. A study in 2015 revealed that this difference is mainly due to genetic differences and the SHR difference between African and European individuals is as large as 1 standard deviation.\n\nA 1999 study found that \"the (action) figures have grown much more muscular over time, with many contemporary figures far exceeding the muscularity of even the largest human bodybuilders,\" reflecting an American cultural ideal of a super muscular man. Also, female dolls reflect the cultural ideal of thinness in women.\n\nThe ancient Greek sculptor Polykleitos (c.450–420 BC), known for his ideally proportioned bronze \"Doryphoros\", wrote an influential \"Canon\" describing the proportions to be followed in sculpture. \nThe \"Canon\" applies the basic mathematical concepts of Greek geometry, such as the ratio, proportion, and \"symmetria\" (Greek for \"harmonious proportions\") creating a system capable of describing the human form through a series of continuous geometric progressions. Polykleitos uses the distal phalanx of the little finger as the basic module for determining the proportions of the human body, scaling this length up repeatedly by to obtain the ideal size of the other phalanges, the hand, forearm, and upper arm in turn.\n\nLeonardo da Vinci believed that the ideal human proportions were determined by the harmonious proportions that he believed governed the universe, such that the ideal man would fit cleanly into a circle as depicted in his famed drawing of \"Vitruvian man\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1480650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1480650", "title": "Bridges in art", "text": "Bridges in art\n\nA bridge can play many roles in art, for example\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBridges are often used as locations for sculptures. Especially popular are animals such as lions, perhaps serving as guardians. Examples are the 485 carved stone lions of the Marco Polo Bridge in China, which was first constructed in 1192, and the four Centre Street Bridge lions of Calgary, which date to 1917.\n\nAnother well-known example of a bridge hosting statues is the Charles Bridge in Prague, which is home to 30 statues and statuaries, mostly baroque, dating to around 1700.\n\n"}
{"id": "49021304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49021304", "title": "C6.org", "text": "C6.org\n\nc6.org was an international media art and street art collective centred in London active from 1997 to 2010.\n\nThe group combined graffiti, new media art and performance art with political commentary throughout the 90s.\n\nThe founder of the group Leon Sessix also makes street art and stencil graffiti under the name Dotmasters.\n"}
{"id": "164332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=164332", "title": "Chiaroscuro", "text": "Chiaroscuro\n\nChiaroscuro (; ; Italian for \"light-dark\"), in art, is the use of strong contrasts between light and dark, usually bold contrasts affecting a whole composition. It is also a technical term used by artists and art historians for the use of contrasts of light to achieve a sense of volume in modelling three-dimensional objects and figures. Similar effects in cinema and photography also are called chiaroscuro.\n\nFurther specialized uses of the term include chiaroscuro woodcut for coloured woodcuts printed with different blocks, each using a different coloured ink; and chiaroscuro drawing for drawings on coloured paper in a dark medium with white highlighting.\n\nThe underlying principle is that solidity of form is best achieved by the light falling against it. Artists known for developing the technique include Leonardo da Vinci, Caravaggio and Rembrandt. It is a mainstay of black and white and low-key photography. It is one of the modes of painting colour in Renaissance art (alongside cangiante, sfumato and unione).\n\nThe term chiaroscuro originated during the Renaissance as drawing on coloured paper, where the artist worked from the paper's base tone toward light using white gouache, and toward dark using ink, bodycolour or watercolour. These in turn drew on traditions in illuminated manuscripts going back to late Roman Imperial manuscripts on purple-dyed vellum. Such works are called \"chiaroscuro drawings\", but may only be described in modern museum terminology by such formulae as \"pen on prepared paper, heightened with white bodycolour\". Chiaroscuro woodcuts began as imitations of this technique. When discussing Italian art, the term sometimes is used to mean painted images in monochrome or two colours, more generally known in English by the French equivalent, grisaille. The term broadened in meaning early on to cover all strong contrasts in illumination between light and dark areas in art, which is now the primary meaning.\n\nThe more technical use of the term chiaroscuro is the effect of light modelling in painting, drawing, or printmaking, where three-dimensional volume is suggested by the value gradation of colour and the analytical division of light and shadow shapes—often called \"shading\". The invention of these effects in the West, \"skiagraphia\" or \"shadow-painting\" to the Ancient Greeks, traditionally was ascribed to the famous Athenian painter of the fifth century BC, Apollodoros. Although few Ancient Greek paintings survive, their understanding of the effect of light modelling still may be seen in the late-fourth-century BC mosaics of Pella, Macedonia, in particular the \"Stag Hunt Mosaic\", in the House of the Abduction of Helen, inscribed \"gnosis epoesen\", or 'knowledge did it'.\n\nThe technique also survived in rather crude standardized form in Byzantine art and was refined again in the Middle Ages to become standard by the early fifteenth-century in painting and manuscript illumination in Italy and Flanders, and then spread to all Western art.\n\nAccording to the theory of the art historian Marcia B. Hall, which has gained considerable acceptance, chiaroscuro is one of four modes of painting colours available to Italian High Renaissance painters, along with \"cangiante\", sfumato and \"unione\".\n\nThe Raphael painting illustrated, with light coming from the left, demonstrates both delicate modelling chiaroscuro to give volume to the body of the model, and strong chiaroscuro in the more common sense, in the contrast between the well-lit model and the very dark background of foliage. To further complicate matters, however, the compositional chiaroscuro of the contrast between model and background probably would not be described using this term, as the two elements are almost completely separated. The term is mostly used to describe compositions where at least some principal elements of the main composition show the transition between light and dark, as in the Baglioni and Geertgen tot Sint Jans paintings illustrated above and below.\n\nChiaroscuro modelling is now taken for granted, but it has had some opponents; namely: the English portrait miniaturist Nicholas Hilliard cautioned in his treatise on painting against all but the minimal use we see in his works, reflecting the views of his patron Queen Elizabeth I of England: \"seeing that best to show oneself needeth no shadow of place but rather the open light... Her Majesty... chose her place to sit for that purpose in the open alley of a goodly garden, where no tree was near, nor any shadow at all...\"\n\nIn drawings and prints, modelling chiaroscuro often is achieved by the use of hatching, or shading by parallel lines. Washes, stipple or dotting effects, and \"surface tone\" in printmaking are other techniques.\n\nChiaroscuro woodcuts are old master prints in woodcut using two or more blocks printed in different colours; they do not necessarily feature strong contrasts of light and dark. They were first produced to achieve similar effects to chiaroscuro drawings. After some early experiments in book-printing, the true chiaroscuro woodcut conceived for two blocks was probably first invented by Lucas Cranach the Elder in Germany in 1508 or 1509, though he backdated some of his first prints and added tone blocks to some prints first produced for monochrome printing, swiftly followed by Hans Burgkmair the Elder. Despite Vasari's claim for Italian precedence in Ugo da Carpi, it is clear that his, the first Italian examples, date to around 1516 But other sources suggest, the first chiaroscuro woodcut to be the \"Triumph of Julius Caesar\", which was created by Andrea Mantegna, an Italian painter, between 1470 and 1500. Another view states that: \"Lucas Cranach backdated two of his works in an attempt to grab the glory\" and that the technique was invented \"in all probability\" by Burgkmair \"who was commissioned by the emperor Maximilian to find a cheap and effective way of getting the imperial image widely disseminated as he needed to drum up money and support for a crusade\".\n\nOther printmakers who have used this technique include Hans Wechtlin, Hans Baldung Grien, and Parmigianino. In Germany, the technique achieved its greatest popularity around 1520, but it was used in Italy throughout the sixteenth century. Later artists such as Goltzius sometimes made use of it. In most German two-block prints, the keyblock (or \"line block\") was printed in black and the tone block or blocks had flat areas of colour. In Italy, chiaroscuro woodcuts were produced without keyblocks to achieve a very different effect.\n\nManuscript illumination was, as in many areas, especially experimental in attempting ambitious lighting effects since the results were not for public display. The development of compositional chiaroscuro received a considerable impetus in northern Europe from the vision of the Nativity of Jesus of Saint Bridget of Sweden, a very popular mystic. She described the infant Jesus as emitting light; depictions increasingly reduced other light sources in the scene to emphasize this effect, and the Nativity remained very commonly treated with chiaroscuro through to the Baroque. Hugo van der Goes and his followers painted many scenes lit only by candle or the divine light from the infant Christ. As with some later painters, in their hands the effect was of stillness and calm rather than the drama with which it would be used during the Baroque.\n\nStrong chiaroscuro became a popular effect during the sixteenth century in Mannerism and Baroque art. Divine light continued to illuminate, often rather inadequately, the compositions of Tintoretto, Veronese, and their many followers. The use of dark subjects dramatically lit by a shaft of light from a single constricted and often unseen source, was a compositional device developed by Ugo da Carpi (c. 1455 – c. 1523), Giovanni Baglione (1566–1643), and Caravaggio (1571–1610), the last of whom was crucial in developing the style of tenebrism, where dramatic chiaroscuro becomes a dominant stylistic device.\n\nTenebrism was especially practiced in Spain and the Spanish-ruled Kingdom of Naples, by Jusepe de Ribera and his followers. Adam Elsheimer (1578–1610), a German artist living in Rome, produced several night scenes lit mainly by fire, and sometimes moonlight. Unlike Caravaggio's, his dark areas contain very subtle detail and interest. The influences of Caravaggio and Elsheimer were strong on Peter Paul Rubens, who exploited their respective approaches to tenebrosity for dramatic effect in paintings such as \"The Raising of the Cross\" (1610–1611). Artemisia Gentileschi (1593–1656), a Baroque artist who was a follower of Caravaggio, was also an outstanding exponent of tenebrism and chiaroscuro.\n\nA particular genre that developed was the nocturnal scene lit by candlelight, which looked back to earlier northern artists such as Geertgen tot Sint Jans and more immediately, to the innovations of Caravaggio and Elsheimer. This theme played out with many artists from the Low Countries in the first few decades of the seventeenth century, where it became associated with the Utrecht Caravaggisti such as Gerrit van Honthorst and Dirck van Baburen, and with Flemish Baroque painters such as Jacob Jordaens. Rembrandt van Rijn's (1606–1669) early works from the 1620s also adopted the single-candle light source. The nocturnal candle-lit scene re-emerged in the Dutch Republic in the mid-seventeenth century on a smaller scale in the works of fijnschilders such as Gerrit Dou and Gottfried Schalken.\n\nRembrandt's own interest in effects of darkness shifted in his mature works. He relied less on the sharp contrasts of light and dark that marked the Italian influences of the earlier generation, a factor found in his mid-seventeenth-century etchings. In that medium he shared many similarities with his contemporary in Italy, Giovanni Benedetto Castiglione, whose work in printmaking led him to invent the monotype.\n\nOutside the Low Countries, artists such as Georges de La Tour and Trophime Bigot in France and Joseph Wright of Derby in England, carried on with such strong, but graduated, candlelight chiaroscuro. Watteau used a gentle chiaroscuro in the leafy backgrounds of his fêtes galantes, and this was continued in paintings by many French artists, notably Fragonard. At the end of the century Fuseli and others used a heavier chiaroscuro for romantic effect, as did Delacroix and others in the nineteenth century.\n\nThe French use of the term, \"clair-obscur\", was introduced by the seventeenth-century art-critic Roger de Piles in the course of a famous argument (\"Débat sur le coloris\"), on the relative merits of drawing and colour in painting (his \"Dialogues sur le coloris\", 1673, was a key contribution to the \"Débat\").\n\nIn English, the Italian term has been used since at least the late seventeenth century. The term is less frequently used of art after the late nineteenth century, although the Expressionist and other modern movements make great use of the effect.\n\nEspecially since the strong twentieth-century rise in the reputation of Caravaggio, in non-specialist use the term is mainly used for strong chiaroscuro effects such as his, or Rembrandt's. As the Tate puts it: \"Chiaroscuro is generally only remarked upon when it is a particularly prominent feature of the work, usually when the artist is using extreme contrasts of light and shade\". Photography and cinema also have adopted the term. For the history of the term, see René Verbraeken, \"Clair-obscur, histoire d’un mot\" (Nogent-le-Roi, 1979).\n\n\"Chiaroscuro\" also is used in cinematography to indicate extreme low key and high-contrast lighting to create distinct areas of light and darkness in films, especially in black and white films. Classic examples are \"The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari\" (1920), \"Nosferatu\" (1922), \"Metropolis\" (1927) \"The Hunchback of Notre Dame\" (1939), \"The Devil and Daniel Webster\" (1941), and the black and white scenes in Andrei Tarkovsky's \"Stalker\" (1979).\n\nFor example, in \"Metropolis\", chiaroscuro lighting is used to create contrast between light and dark mise-en-scene and figures. The effect of this is primarily to highlight the differences between the capitalist elite and the workers.\n\nIn photography, chiaroscuro can be achieved with the use of \"Rembrandt lighting\". In more highly developed photographic processes, this technique also may be termed \"ambient/natural lighting\", although when done so for the effect, the look is artificial and not generally documentary in nature. In particular, Bill Henson along with others, such as W. Eugene Smith, Josef Koudelka, Garry Winogrand, Lothar Wolleh, Annie Leibovitz, Floria Sigismondi, and Ralph Gibson may be considered some of the modern masters of chiaroscuro in documentary photography.\n\nPerhaps the most direct intended use of chiaroscuro in filmmaking would be Stanley Kubrick's \"Barry Lyndon\". When informed that no lens currently had a wide enough aperture to shoot a costume drama set in grand palaces using only candlelight, Kubrick bought and retrofitted a special lens for these purposes: a modified Mitchell BNC camera and a Zeiss lens manufactured for the rigors of space photography, with a maximum aperture of f/.7. The naturally unaugmented lighting situations in the film exemplified low-key, natural lighting in filmwork at its most extreme outside of the Eastern European/Soviet filmmaking tradition (itself exemplified by the harsh low-key lighting style employed by Soviet filmmaker Sergei Eisenstein).\n\nSven Nykvist, the longtime collaborator of Ingmar Bergman, also informed much of his photography with chiaroscuro realism, as did Gregg Toland, who influenced such cinematographers as László Kovács, Vilmos Zsigmond, and Vittorio Storaro with his use of deep and selective focus augmented with strong horizon-level key lighting penetrating through windows and doorways. Much of the celebrated film noir tradition relies on techniques Toland perfected in the early thirties that are related to chiaroscuro (though high-key lighting, stage lighting, frontal lighting, and other effects are interspersed in ways that diminish the chiaroscuro claim).\n\nChiaroscuro in modelling; paintings\nChiaroscuro in modelling; prints and drawings\nChiaroscuro as a major element in composition: painting\nChiaroscuro as a major element in composition: photography\nChiaroscuro faces\nChiaroscuro drawings and woodcuts\n\n"}
{"id": "43390516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43390516", "title": "Databending", "text": "Databending\n\nDatabending (or data bending) is the process of manipulating a media file of a certain format, using software designed to edit files of another format. Distortions in the medium typically occur as a result, and the process either falls under a broader category of, or is frequently employed in glitch art.\n\nThe term \"databending\" is derived from circuit bending, in which objects such as children's toys, effects pedals and electronic keyboards are deliberately short circuited by bending the circuit board to produce erratic and spontaneous sounds. Like circuit bending, databending involves the (often unpredictable) alteration of its target's behavior. Databending achieves this alteration by manipulating the information within a media file of a certain format, using software designed to edit files of a different format; distortions in the medium typically occur as a result. \n\nMany techniques exist, including the use of hex editors to manipulate certain components of a compression algorithm, to comparatively simple methods. Michael Betancourt has posed a short set of instructions, included in the \"Signal Culture Cookbook,\" that involves the direct manipulation of the digital file using a hexadecimal editing program. One such method involves the addition of audio effects through audio editing software to distort raw data interpretations of image files. Some effects produce optical analogues: adding an echo filter duplicated elements of a photo, and inversion contributed to the flipping over of an image. The similarities result from the waveforms corresponding with the layers of pixels in a linear fashion, ordered from top to bottom. Another method, dubbed \"the WordPad effect\", uses the program WordPad to manipulate images through converting the raw data to the Rich Text Format.\n\nAccording to the artist Benjamin Berg, different techniques of the process can be grouped into three categories:\nThe \"WordPad effect\" would fall under \"incorrect editing\", while \"reinterpretation\" contains a subcategory called \"sonification\", in which data other than audio is introduced simultaneously with musical audio data. The last technique is the hardest of the three to accomplish, often yielding highly unpredictable results.\n\nDatabending is frequently employed in glitch art, and is considered a sub-category of the genre. The \"sonification\" technique is commonly used by glitch musicians such as Alva Noto. Ahuja and Lu summarized the process through a quote by Adam Clark Estes of \"Gizmodo\" as \"the internet's code-heavy version of graffiti.\" Various groups on Flickr explore the effects of databending on imagery; an Internet bot named \"GlitchBot\" was created to scrape Creative Commons-licensed imagery and apply the process and upload the results. Users on Vimeo who deal explicitly with databending and glitch art in general exist, and a Chicago-based digital art project named GLI.TC/H was funded using Kickstarter in 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9633995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9633995", "title": "Decadentism", "text": "Decadentism\n\nDecadentism (also called Decadentismo) was an Italian artistic style based mainly on the Decadent movement in the arts in France and England around the end of the 19th century. The main authors associated with decadentism were Antonio Fogazzaro, Italo Svevo, Giovanni Pascoli and Gabriele D'Annunzio. Although differing stylistically, they championed idiosyncrasy and irrationality against scientific rationalism. A later critic, Walter Binni, analyzed the style favorably in his 1936 book \"La poetica del decadentismo\" and distinguished between moral and aesthetic decadence. Another scholar of decadentism was Norberto Bobbio, noted especially for his 1945 book, \"La filosofia del decadentismo\".\n\n"}
{"id": "25826523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25826523", "title": "Delphic Games of the modern era", "text": "Delphic Games of the modern era\n\nDelphic Games of the modern era involve presentations, exhibitions, competitions and other activities in six different fields of art. They are inspired by the Delphic Games of ancient Greece.\n\nOne of the four Panhellenic Games were the Pythian Games in Delphi. Held every four years, they included competitions in athletics, theatre, music, poetry, and painting to praise the god Apollo, the symbol of the Oracle. In the year 394 A.D., Theodosius I, the emperor of the Byzantine Empire banned all Panhellenic Games as being pagan events.\n\nSince 1912 till 1948, on the initiative of Pierre de Coubertin, art competitions at the Summer Olympics were held in various countries. Medals were awarded for works related solely to sport.\n\nThere was also an attempt to revive Pythian Games at the archeological site of Delphi, at the initiative by the Greek poet Angelos Sikelianos and his wife Eva Palmer. In 1927, the first Delphic Festival was held in Greece, but the revival was then abandoned.\n\nNowadays there are so-called Delphi Festivals, which are the closest to their Panhellenic counterparts. They include religious rituals and activities like poetry competition, religious offerings, sports and of course feasting.\nIn the second half of the 20th century, there was another attempt to restore Delphic Games. Since the 1990s, representatives from Argentina, Austria, China, Cyprus, Ecuador, France, Germany, Greece, Kazakhstan, Libya, Lithuania, Mexico, Nigeria, Philippines, Poland, Russia, Slovakia, and the United States came together and organized First International Delphic Games, which took place in 2000 in Moscow, Russia (before that the concept was tested out in Tbilisi, Georgia, where First Junior Delphic Games took place.)\n\nCurrently, there are two organizations conducting Delphic Games.\n\nThe International Delphic Council (IDC) with headquarters in Berlin was founded in 1994 at the Schönhausen Palace. Since 1995 the IDC actively supports the creation of the National Delphic organizations. Since 1997 the IDC has organized the International Youth Delphic Games in Georgia, Germany, Philippines, South Africa, as well as, since 2000, the International Delphic Games for adult participants in Russia, Malaysia, South Korea. The IDC held Delphic Games and Junior Delphic Games in the four-year cycle, two years offset from one another, such as the Olympic Games, held at different locations in the world. The International Delphic Games and Congresses receive greetings, patronage and support from various international organizations and celebrities.\n\nA newer organization, International Delphic Committee (IDC) with headquarters in Moscow, was registered in 2004. It organizes International Delphic Games, Youth Delphic Games of Russia and Youth Delphic Games of CIS. Since 2005 the Junior Delphic Games in Russia and the Junior Delphic Games in Commonwealth of Independent States are conducted by the International Delphic Committee. These Junior Delphic Games are dedicated to significant domestic events. This International Delphic Committee conducted also in September 2008 the Second International Delphic Games in Saratov / Russia, but some Saratov Sunday editions and news portals questioned the status and legitimacy of the games.\n\nUnder the patronage of the International Delphic Committee (headquartered in Moscow) and UNESCO, the First Open Youth European Delphic Games were held in Volgograd, Russia, on May 2–7, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "35563221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35563221", "title": "Electronic Art Cafè", "text": "Electronic Art Cafè\n\nThe Electronic Art Café (EAC) is a touring art project, which consists of events and exhibitions by artists of international avant-garde. The seat was in the Exhibition Palace in Rome.\n\nLocated in New York City in 1994 from an idea of Umberto Scrocca, was hosted in the Great Hall of The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art at the symposium \"New York City - Sarajevo\", was attended by Vanessa Redgrave, Susan Sontag and Lisa Gaye.\nCurrently the seat is in Rome in Piazza Farnese at the Wine Bar Camponeschi and is curated by Achille Bonito Oliva, which invites artists on stage to perform with their work, a performance or a video, thus creating the brand of artist EAC.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1325505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1325505", "title": "Escapist fiction", "text": "Escapist fiction\n\nEscapist fiction is fiction that provides a psychological escape from thoughts of everyday life by immersing the reader in exotic situations or activities.\n\nThe term is not used favorably, though the condemnation contained in it may be slight. Those who defend works described as escapist from the charge either assert that they are not escapist—such as that a science fiction novel's satiric aspects address real life—or defend the notion of \"escape\" as such, not \"escapism\"—as in J. R. R. Tolkien's \"On Fairy-Stories\" and C. S. Lewis's quotation, in his \"On Science Fiction\" of Tolkien's question of who would be most hostile to the idea of escape, and his answer: jailers.\n\nGenres that can include elements of escapist fiction include:\n\n"}
{"id": "32823526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32823526", "title": "Face of Canada", "text": "Face of Canada\n\nFace of Canada is an art exhibition displaying paintings of notable Canadians. It was showcased on July 1, 2011 at Canada Place in Vancouver, displaying over 100 oil portraits of notable individuals, both past and present, that helped shape the nation.\n\nThe concept was derived by Canadian artist, William Meire. Born in Vancouver, September 2, 1966, Meire traveled to 49 countries studying art. Painting impressionist landscapes professionally, in an array of mediums over the past 10 years, Meire turned his interest to portraiture work in oil. After seeing Team Canada win the men's hockey in the 2010 Olympic Games and feeling a sense of national pride, he started the 'Great Canadians,' a small series which eventually led to the Face of Canada. After much research, Meire realized the great number of notable Canadians who have shaped and changed the nation, and affected many lives. On July 1, 2011, crowds came to see the one-day solo exhibition of over 100 oil portraits at Canada Place, which has now become part of Canada's national heritage.\n\nThe exhibition includes numerous portraits, including:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43494", "title": "Fairy tale", "text": "Fairy tale\n\nA fairy tale, wonder tale, magic tale, or Märchen is a folklore genre that takes the form of a short story. Such stories typically feature entities such as dwarfs, dragons, elves, fairies, giants, gnomes, goblins, griffins, mermaids, talking animals, trolls, unicorns, or witches, and usually magic or enchantments. Fairy tales may be distinguished from other folk narratives such as legends (which generally involve belief in the veracity of the events described) and explicit moral tales, including beast fables. The term is mainly used for stories with origins in European tradition and, at least in recent centuries, mostly relates to children's literature.\n\nIn less technical contexts, the term is also used to describe something blessed with unusual happiness, as in \"fairy-tale ending\" (a happy ending) or \"fairy-tale romance\". Colloquially, the term \"fairy tale\" or \"fairy story\" can also mean any far-fetched story or tall tale; it is used especially of any story that not only is not true, but could not possibly be true. Legends are perceived as real; fairy tales may merge into legends, where the narrative is perceived both by teller and hearers as being grounded in historical truth. However, unlike legends and epics, fairy tales usually do not contain more than superficial references to religion and to actual places, people, and events; they take place \"once upon a time\" rather than in actual times.\n\nFairy tales occur both in oral and in literary form; the name \"fairy tale\" was first ascribed to them by Madame d'Aulnoy in the late 17th century. Many of today's fairy tales have evolved from centuries-old stories that have appeared, with variations, in multiple cultures around the world. The history of the fairy tale is particularly difficult to trace because only the literary forms can survive. Still, according to researchers at universities in Durham and Lisbon, such stories may date back thousands of years, some to the Bronze Age more than 6,500 years ago. Fairy tales, and works derived from fairy tales, are still written today.\n\nFolklorists have classified fairy tales in various ways. The Aarne-Thompson classification system and the morphological analysis of Vladimir Propp are among the most notable. Other folklorists have interpreted the tales' significance, but no school has been definitively established for the meaning of the tales.\n\nSome folklorists prefer to use the German term \"Märchen\" or \"wonder tale\" to refer to the genre over \"fairy tale\", a practice given weight by the definition of Thompson in his 1977 [1946] edition of \"The Folktale\": \"a tale of some length involving a succession of motifs or episodes. It moves in an unreal world without definite locality or definite creatures and is filled with the marvellous. In this never-never land, humble heroes kill adversaries, succeed to kingdoms and marry princesses.\" The characters and motifs of fairy tales are simple and archetypal: princesses and goose-girls; youngest sons and gallant princes; ogres, giants, dragons, and trolls; wicked stepmothers and false heroes; fairy godmothers and other magical helpers, often talking horses, or foxes, or birds; glass mountains; and prohibitions and breaking of prohibitions.\n\nA fairy tale with a tragic rather than a happy end is called an anti-fairy tale.\n\nAlthough the fairy tale is a distinct genre within the larger category of folktale, the definition that marks a work as a fairy tale is a source of considerable dispute. The term itself comes from the translation of Madame D'Aulnoy's \"Conte de fées\", first used in her collection in 1697.) Common parlance conflates fairy tales with beast fables and other folktales, and scholars differ on the degree to which the presence of fairies and/or similarly mythical beings (e.g., elves, goblins, trolls, giants, huge monsters) should be taken as a differentiator. Vladimir Propp, in his \"Morphology of the Folktale\", criticized the common distinction between \"fairy tales\" and \"animal tales\" on the grounds that many tales contained both fantastic elements and animals. Nevertheless, to select works for his analysis, Propp used all Russian folktales classified as a folklore Aarne-Thompson 300-749 – in a cataloguing system that made such a distinction – to gain a clear set of tales. His own analysis identified fairy tales by their plot elements, but that in itself has been criticized, as the analysis does not lend itself easily to tales that do not involve a quest, and furthermore, the same plot elements are found in non-fairy tale works.\n\nAs Stith Thompson points out, talking animals and the presence of magic seem to be more common to the fairy tale than fairies themselves. However, the mere presence of animals that talk does not make a tale a fairy tale, especially when the animal is clearly a mask on a human face, as in fables.\n\nIn his essay \"On Fairy-Stories\", J. R. R. Tolkien agreed with the exclusion of \"fairies\" from the definition, defining fairy tales as stories about the adventures of men in \"Faërie\", the land of fairies, fairytale princes and princesses, dwarves, elves, and not only other magical species but many other marvels. However, the same essay excludes tales that are often considered fairy tales, citing as an example \"The Monkey's Heart\", which Andrew Lang included in \"The Lilac Fairy Book\".\n\nSteven Swann Jones identified the presence of magic as the feature by which fairy tales can be distinguished from other sorts of folktales. Davidson and Chaudri identify \"transformation\" as the key feature of the genre. From a psychological point of view, Jean Chiriac argued for the necessity of the fantastic in these narratives.\n\nIn terms of aesthetic values, Italo Calvino cited the fairy tale as a prime example of \"quickness\" in literature, because of the economy and concision of the tales.\n\nOriginally, stories that would contemporarily be considered fairy tales were not marked out as a separate genre. The German term \"Märchen\" stems from the old German word \"Mär\", which means story or tale. The word \"Märchen\" is the diminutive of the word \"Mär\", therefore it means a \"little story\". Together with the common beginning \"once upon a time\" it means a fairy tale or a märchen was originally a little story from a long time ago when the world was still magic. (Indeed, one less regular German opening is \"In the old times when wishing was still effective\".)\n\nThe English term \"fairy tale\" stems from the fact that the French \"contes\" often included fairies.\n\nRoots of the genre come from different oral stories passed down in European cultures. The genre was first marked out by writers of the Renaissance, such as Giovanni Francesco Straparola and Giambattista Basile, and stabilized through the works of later collectors such as Charles Perrault and the Brothers Grimm. In this evolution, the name was coined when the \"précieuses\" took up writing literary stories; Madame d'Aulnoy invented the term \"Conte de fée\", or fairy tale, in the late 17th century.\n\nBefore the definition of the genre of fantasy, many works that would now be classified as fantasy were termed \"fairy tales\", including Tolkien's \"The Hobbit\", George Orwell's \"Animal Farm\", and L. Frank Baum's \"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz\". Indeed, Tolkien's \"On Fairy-Stories\" includes discussions of world-building and is considered a vital part of fantasy criticism. Although fantasy, particularly the subgenre of fairytale fantasy, draws heavily on fairy tale motifs, the genres are now regarded as distinct.\n\nThe fairy tale, told orally, is a sub-class of the folktale. Many writers have written in the form of the fairy tale. These are the literary fairy tales, or \"Kunstmärchen\". The oldest forms, from \"Panchatantra\" to the \"Pentamerone\", show considerable reworking from the oral form. The Brothers Grimm were among the first to try to preserve the features of oral tales. Yet the stories printed under the Grimm name have been considerably reworked to fit the written form.\n\nLiterary fairy tales and oral fairy tales freely exchanged plots, motifs, and elements with one another and with the tales of foreign lands. The literary fairy tale came into fashion during the 17th century, developed by aristocratic women as a parlour game. This, in turn, helped to maintain the oral tradition. According to Jack Zipes, \"The subject matter of the conversations consisted of literature, mores, taste, and etiquette, whereby the speakers all endeavoured to portray ideal situations in the most effective oratorical style that would gradually have a major effect on literary forms.\" Many 18th-century folklorists attempted to recover the \"pure\" folktale, uncontaminated by literary versions. Yet while oral fairy tales likely existed for thousands of years before the literary forms, there is no pure folktale, and each literary fairy tale draws on folk traditions, if only in parody. This makes it impossible to trace forms of transmission of a fairy tale. Oral story-tellers have been known to read literary fairy tales to increase their own stock of stories and treatments.\n\nThe oral tradition of the fairy tale came long before the written page. Tales were told or enacted dramatically, rather than written down, and handed down from generation to generation. Because of this, the history of their development is necessarily obscure and blurred. Fairy tales appear, now and again, in written literature throughout literate cultures, as in \"The Golden Ass\", which includes \"Cupid and Psyche\" (Roman, 100–200 AD), or the \"Panchatantra\" (India 3rd century BC), but it is unknown to what extent these reflect the actual folk tales even of their own time. The stylistic evidence indicates that these, and many later collections, reworked folk tales into literary forms. What they do show is that the fairy tale has ancient roots, older than the \"Arabian Nights\" collection of magical tales (compiled \"circa\" 1500 AD), such as \"Vikram and the Vampire\", and \"Bel and the Dragon\". Besides such collections and individual tales, in China, Taoist philosophers such as Liezi and Zhuangzi recounted fairy tales in their philosophical works. In the broader definition of the genre, the first famous Western fairy tales are those of Aesop (6th century BC) in ancient Greece.\n\nJack Zipes writes in \"When Dreams Came True\", \"There are fairy tale elements in Chaucer's \"The Canterbury Tales\", Edmund Spenser's \"The Faerie Queene\", and ... in many of William Shakespeare plays.\" \"King Lear\" can be considered a literary variant of fairy tales such as \"Water and Salt\" and \"Cap O' Rushes\". The tale itself resurfaced in Western literature in the 16th and 17th centuries, with \"The Facetious Nights of Straparola\" by Giovanni Francesco Straparola (Italy, 1550 and 1553), which contains many fairy tales in its inset tales, and the Neapolitan tales of Giambattista Basile (Naples, 1634–36), which are all fairy tales. Carlo Gozzi made use of many fairy tale motifs among his Commedia dell'Arte scenarios, including among them one based on \"The Love For Three Oranges\" (1761). Simultaneously, Pu Songling, in China, included many fairy tales in his collection, \"Strange Stories from a Chinese Studio\" (published posthumously, 1766). The fairy tale itself became popular among the \"précieuses\" of upper-class France (1690–1710), and among the tales told in that time were the ones of La Fontaine and the \"Contes\" of Charles Perrault (1697), who fixed the forms of \"Sleeping Beauty\" and \"Cinderella\". Although Straparola's, Basile's and Perrault's collections contain the oldest known forms of various fairy tales, on the stylistic evidence, all the writers rewrote the tales for literary effect.\n\nIn the mid-17th century, a vogue for magical tales emerged among the intellectuals who frequented the salons of Paris. These salons were regular gatherings hosted by prominent aristocratic women, where women and men could gather together to discuss the issues of the day.\n\nIn the 1630s, aristocratic women began to gather in their own living rooms, salons, in order to discuss the topics of their choice: arts and letters, politics, and social matters of immediate concern to the women of their class: marriage, love, financial and physical independence, and access to education. This was a time when women were barred from receiving a formal education. Some of the most gifted women writers of the period came out of these early salons (such as Madeleine de Scudéry and Madame de Lafayette), which encouraged women's independence and pushed against the gender barriers that defined their lives. The salonnières argued particularly for love and intellectual compatibility between the sexes, opposing the system of arranged marriages.\n\nSometime in the middle of the 17th century, a passion for the conversational parlour game based on the plots of old folk tales swept through the salons. Each salonnière was called upon to retell an old tale or rework an old theme, spinning clever new stories that not only showcased verbal agility and imagination but also slyly commented on the conditions of aristocratic life. Great emphasis was placed on a mode of delivery that seemed natural and spontaneous. The decorative language of the fairy tales served an important function: disguising the rebellious subtext of the stories and sliding them past the court censors. Critiques of court life (and even of the king) were embedded in extravagant tales and in dark, sharply dystopian ones. Not surprisingly, the tales by women often featured young (but clever) aristocratic girls whose lives were controlled by the arbitrary whims of fathers, kings, and elderly wicked fairies, as well as tales in which groups of wise fairies (i.e., intelligent, independent women) stepped in and put all to rights.\n\nThe salon tales as they were originally written and published have been preserved in a monumental work called \"Le Cabinet des Fées\", an enormous collection of stories from the 17th and 18th centuries.\n\nThe first collectors to attempt to preserve not only the plot and characters of the tale, but also the style in which they were told, was the Brothers Grimm, collecting German fairy tales; ironically, this meant although their first edition (1812 & 1815) remains a treasure for folklorists, they rewrote the tales in later editions to make them more acceptable, which ensured their sales and the later popularity of their work.\n\nSuch literary forms did not merely draw from the folktale, but also influenced folktales in turn. The Brothers Grimm rejected several tales for their collection, though told orally to them by Germans, because the tales derived from Perrault, and they concluded they were thereby French and not German tales; an oral version of \"Bluebeard\" was thus rejected, and the tale of \"Little Briar Rose\", clearly related to Perrault's \"The Sleeping Beauty\", was included only because Jacob Grimm convinced his brother that the figure of Brynhildr, from much earlier Norse mythology, proved that the sleeping princess was authentically Germanic folklore.\n\nThis consideration of whether to keep \"Sleeping Beauty\" reflected a belief common among folklorists of the 19th century: that the folk tradition preserved fairy tales in forms from pre-history except when \"contaminated\" by such literary forms, leading people to tell inauthentic tales. The rural, illiterate, and uneducated peasants, if suitably isolated, were the \"folk\" and would tell pure \"folk\" tales. Sometimes they regarded fairy tales as a form of fossil, the remnants of a once-perfect tale. However, further research has concluded that fairy tales never had a fixed form, and regardless of literary influence, the tellers constantly altered them for their own purposes.\n\nThe work of the Brothers Grimm influenced other collectors, both inspiring them to collect tales and leading them to similarly believe, in a spirit of romantic nationalism, that the fairy tales of a country were particularly representative of it, to the neglect of cross-cultural influence. Among those influenced were the Russian Alexander Afanasyev (first published in 1866), the Norwegians Peter Christen Asbjørnsen and Jørgen Moe (first published in 1845), the Romanian Petre Ispirescu (first published in 1874), the English Joseph Jacobs (first published in 1890), and Jeremiah Curtin, an American who collected Irish tales (first published in 1890). Ethnographers collected fairy tales throughout the world, finding similar tales in Africa, the Americas, and Australia; Andrew Lang was able to draw on not only the written tales of Europe and Asia, but those collected by ethnographers, to fill his \"coloured\" fairy books series. They also encouraged other collectors of fairy tales, as when Yei Theodora Ozaki created a collection, \"Japanese Fairy Tales\" (1908), after encouragement from Lang. Simultaneously, writers such as Hans Christian Andersen and George MacDonald continued the tradition of literary fairy tales. Andersen's work sometimes drew on old folktales, but more often deployed fairytale motifs and plots in new tales. MacDonald incorporated fairytale motifs both in new literary fairy tales, such as \"The Light Princess\", and in works of the genre that would become fantasy, as in \"The Princess and the Goblin\" or \"Lilith\".\n\nTwo theories of origins, have attempted to explain the common elements in fairy tales found spread over continents. One is that a single point of origin generated any given tale, which then spread over the centuries; the other is that such fairy tales stem from common human experience and therefore can appear separately in many different origins.\n\nFairy tales with very similar plots, characters, and motifs are found spread across many different cultures. Many researchers hold this to be caused by the spread of such tales, as people repeat tales they have heard in foreign lands, although the oral nature makes it impossible to trace the route except by inference. Folklorists have attempted to determine the origin by internal evidence, which can not always be clear; Joseph Jacobs, comparing the Scottish tale \"The Ridere of Riddles\" with the version collected by the Brothers Grimm, \"The Riddle\", noted that in \"The Ridere of Riddles\" one hero ends up polygamously married, which might point to an ancient custom, but in \"The Riddle\", the simpler riddle might argue greater antiquity.\n\nFolklorists of the \"Finnish\" (or historical-geographical) school attempted to place fairy tales to their origin, with inconclusive results. Sometimes influence, especially within a limited area and time, is clearer, as when considering the influence of Perrault's tales on those collected by the Brothers Grimm. \"Little Briar-Rose\" appears to stem from Perrault's \"The Sleeping Beauty\", as the Grimms' tale appears to be the only independent German variant. Similarly, the close agreement between the opening of the Grimms' version of \"Little Red Riding Hood\" and Perrault's tale points to an influence, although the Grimms' version adds a different ending (perhaps derived from \"The Wolf and the Seven Young Kids\").\nFairy tales tend to take on the color of their location, through the choice of motifs, the style in which they are told, and the depiction of character and local color.\n\nThe Brothers Grimm believed that European fairy tales derived from the cultural history shared by all Indo-European peoples and were therefore ancient, far older than written records. This view is supported by research by the anthropologist Jamie Tehrani and the folklorist Sara Graca Da Silva using phylogenetic analysis, a technique developed by evolutionary biologists to trace the relatedness of living and fossil species. Among the tales analysed were \"Jack and the Beanstalk\", traced to the time of splitting of Eastern and Western Indo-European, over 5000 years ago. Both \"Beauty and the Beast\" and \"Rumpelstiltskin\" appear to have been created some 4000 years ago. The story of \"The Smith and the Devil\" (Deal with the Devil) appears to date from the Bronze Age, some 6000 years ago.\n\nOriginally, adults were the audience of a fairy tale just as often as children. Literary fairy tales appeared in works intended for adults, but in the 19th and 20th centuries the fairy tale became associated with children's literature.\n\nThe \"précieuses\", including Madame d'Aulnoy, intended their works for adults, but regarded their source as the tales that servants, or other women of lower class, would tell to children. Indeed, a novel of that time, depicting a countess's suitor offering to tell such a tale, has the countess exclaim that she loves fairy tales as if she were still a child. Among the late \"précieuses\", Jeanne-Marie Le Prince de Beaumont redacted a version of \"Beauty and the Beast\" for children, and it is her tale that is best known today. The Brothers Grimm titled their collection \"Children's and Household Tales\" and rewrote their tales after complaints that they were not suitable for children.\n\nIn the modern era, fairy tales were altered so that they could be read to children. The Brothers Grimm concentrated mostly on sexual references; Rapunzel, in the first edition, revealed the prince's visits by asking why her clothing had grown tight, thus letting the witch deduce that she was pregnant, but in subsequent editions carelessly revealed that it was easier to pull up the prince than the witch. On the other hand, in many respects, violenceparticularly when punishing villainswas increased. Other, later, revisions cut out violence; J.R.R.Tolkien noted that \"The Juniper Tree\" often had its cannibalistic stew cut out in a version intended for children. The moralizing strain in the Victorian era altered the classical tales to teach lessons, as when George Cruikshank rewrote \"Cinderella\" in 1854 to contain temperance themes. His acquaintance Charles Dickens protested, \"In an utilitarian age, of all other times, it is a matter of grave importance that fairy tales should be respected.\"\n\nPsychoanalysts such as Bruno Bettelheim, who regarded the cruelty of older fairy tales as indicative of psychological conflicts, strongly criticized this expurgation, because it weakened their usefulness to both children and adults as ways of symbolically resolving issues. Fairy tales do teach children how to deal with difficult times. To quote Rebecca Walters (2017, p. 56) “Fairytales and folktales are part of the cultural conserve that can be used to address children’s fears …. and give them some role training in an approach that honors the children’s window of tolerance”. These fairy tales teach children how to deal with certain social situations and helps them to find their place in society. Fairy tales teach children other important lessons too. For example, Tsitsani et al. carried out a study on children to determine the benefits of fairy tales. Parents of the children who took part in the study found that fairy tales, especially the color in them, triggered their child's imagination as the read them.Jungian Analyst and fairy tale scholar, Marie Louise Von Franz interprets fairy tales based on Jung‘s view of fairy tales as a spontaneous and naive product of soul, which can only express what soul is. That means, she looks at fairy tales as images of different phases of experiencing the reality of the soul. They are the “purest and simplest expression of collective unconscious psychic processes” and “they represent the archetypes in their simplest, barest and most concise form” because they are less overlaid with conscious material than myths and legends. “In this pure form, the archetypal images afford us the best clues to the understanding of the processes going on in the collective psyche”. “The fairy tale itself is its own best explanation; that is, its meaning is contained in the totality of its motifs connected by the thread of the story. [...] Every fairy tale is a relatively closed system compounding one essential psychological meaning which is expressed in a series of symbolical pictures and events and is discoverable in these”. “I have come to the conclusion that all fairy tales endeavour to describe one and the same psychic fact, but a fact so complex and far-reaching and so difficult for us to realize in all its different aspects that hundreds of tales and thousands of repetitions with a musician’s variation are needed until this unknown fact is delivered into consciousness; and even then the theme is not exhausted. This unknown fact is what Jung calls the Self, which is the psychic reality of the collective unconscious. [...] Every archetype is in its essence only one aspect of the collective unconscious as well as always representing also the whole collective unconscious.\n\nOther famous people commented on the importance of fairy tales, especially for children. For example, Albert Einstein once showed how important he believed fairy tales were for children’s intelligence in the quote “If you want your children to be intelligent, read them fairytales. If you want them to be more intelligent, read them more fairytales.\"\n\nThe adaptation of fairy tales for children continues. Walt Disney's influential \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\" was largely (although certainly not solely) intended for the children's market. The anime \"Magical Princess Minky Momo\" draws on the fairy tale \"Momotarō\". Jack Zipes has spent many years working to make the older traditional stories accessible to modern readers and their children.\n\nIn contemporary literature, many authors have used the form of fairy tales for various reasons, such as examining the human condition from the simple framework a fairytale provides. Some authors seek to recreate a sense of the fantastic in a contemporary discourse. Some writers use fairy tale forms for modern issues; this can include using the psychological dramas implicit in the story, as when Robin McKinley retold \"Donkeyskin\" as the novel \"Deerskin\", with emphasis on the abusive treatment the father of the tale dealt to his daughter. Sometimes, especially in children's literature, fairy tales are retold with a twist simply for comic effect, such as \"The Stinky Cheese Man\" by Jon Scieszka and \"The ASBO Fairy Tales\" by Chris Pilbeam. A common comic motif is a world where all the fairy tales take place, and the characters are aware of their role in the story, such as in the film series Shrek.\n\nOther authors may have specific motives, such as multicultural or feminist reevaluations of predominantly Eurocentric masculine-dominated fairy tales, implying critique of older narratives. The figure of the damsel in distress has been particularly attacked by many feminist critics. Examples of narrative reversal rejecting this figure include \"The Paperbag Princess\" by Robert Munsch, a picture book aimed at children in which a princess rescues a prince, and Angela Carter's \"The Bloody Chamber\", which retells a number of fairy tales from a female point of view.\n\nThere are also many contemporary erotic retellings of fairy tales, which explicitly draw upon the original spirit of the tales, and are specifically for adults. Modern retellings focus on exploring the tale through use of the erotic, explicit sexuality, dark and/or comic themes, female empowerment, fetish and BDSM, multicultural, and heterosexual characters. Cleis Press has released several fairy tale themed erotic anthologies, including \"Fairy Tale Lust\", \"Lustfully Ever After\", and \"A Princess Bound\".\n\nIt may be hard to lay down the rule between fairy tales and fantasies that use fairy tale motifs, or even whole plots, but the distinction is commonly made, even within the works of a single author: George MacDonald's \"Lilith\" and \"Phantastes\" are regarded as fantasies, while his \"The Light Princess\", \"The Golden Key\", and \"The Wise Woman\" are commonly called fairy tales. The most notable distinction is that fairytale fantasies, like other fantasies, make use of novelistic writing conventions of prose, characterization, or setting.\n\nFairy tales have been enacted dramatically; records exist of this in commedia dell'arte, and later in pantomime. The advent of cinema has meant that such stories could be presented in a more plausible manner, with the use of special effects and animation. The Walt Disney Company has had a significant impact on the evolution of the fairy tale film. Some of the earliest short silent films from the Disney studio were based on fairy tales, and some fairy tales were adapted into shorts in the musical comedy series \"Silly Symphony\", such as \"Three Little Pigs\". Walt Disney's first feature-length film \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\", released in 1937, was a ground-breaking film for fairy tales and, indeed, fantasy in general. Disney and his creative successors have returned to traditional and literary fairy tales numerous times with films such as \"Cinderella\" (1950), \"Sleeping Beauty\" (1959) and \"Beauty and the Beast\" (1991). Disney's influence helped establish the fairy tale genre as a genre for children, and has been accused by some of bowdlerizing the gritty naturalism – and sometimes unhappy endings – of many folk fairy tales. However, others note that the softening of fairy tales occurred long before Disney, some of which was even done by the Grimm brothers themselves.\n\nMany filmed fairy tales have been made primarily for children, from Disney's later works to Aleksandr Rou's retelling of \"Vasilissa the Beautiful\", the first Soviet film to use Russian folk tales in a big-budget feature. Others have used the conventions of fairy tales to create new stories with sentiments more relevant to contemporary life, as in \"Labyrinth\", \"My Neighbor Totoro\", \"Happily N'Ever After\", and the films of Michel Ocelot.\n\nOther works have retold familiar fairy tales in a darker, more horrific or psychological variant aimed primarily at adults. Notable examples are Jean Cocteau's \"Beauty and the Beast\" and \"The Company of Wolves\", based on Angela Carter's retelling of \"Little Red Riding Hood\". Likewise, \"Princess Mononoke\", \"Pan's Labyrinth\", \"Suspiria\", and \"Spike\" create new stories in this genre from fairy tale and folklore motifs.\n\nIn comics and animated TV series, \"The Sandman\", \"Revolutionary Girl Utena\", \"Princess Tutu\", \"Fables\" and \"MÄR\" all make use of standard fairy tale elements to various extents but are more accurately categorised as fairytale fantasy due to the definite locations and characters which a longer narrative requires.\n\nA more modern cinematic fairy tale would be Luchino Visconti's \"Le Notti Bianche\", starring Marcello Mastroianni before he became a superstar. It involves many of the romantic conventions of fairy tales, yet it takes place in post-World War II Italy, and it ends realistically.\n\nAny comparison of fairy tales quickly discovers that many fairy tales have features in common with each other. Two of the most influential classifications are those of Antti Aarne, as revised by Stith Thompson into the Aarne-Thompson classification system, and Vladimir Propp's \"Morphology of the Folk Tale\".\n\nThis system groups fairy and folk tales according to their overall plot. Common, identifying features are picked out to decide which tales are grouped together. Much therefore depends on what features are regarded as decisive.\n\nFor instance, tales like \"Cinderella\" – in which a persecuted heroine, with the help of the fairy godmother or similar magical helper, attends an event (or three) in which she wins the love of a prince and is identified as his true brideare classified as type 510, the persecuted heroine. Some such tales are \"The Wonderful Birch\"; \"Aschenputtel\"; \"Katie Woodencloak\"; \"The Story of Tam and Cam\"; \"Ye Xian\"; \"Cap O' Rushes\"; \"Catskin\"; \"Fair, Brown and Trembling\"; \"Finette Cendron\"; \"Allerleirauh\".\n\nFurther analysis of the tales shows that in \"Cinderella\", \"The Wonderful Birch\", \"The Story of Tam and Cam\", \"Ye Xian\", and \"Aschenputtel\", the heroine is persecuted by her stepmother and refused permission to go to the ball or other event, and in \"Fair, Brown and Trembling\" and \"Finette Cendron\" by her sisters and other female figures, and these are grouped as 510A; while in \"Cap O' Rushes\", \"Catskin\", and \"Allerleirauh\", the heroine is driven from home by her father's persecutions, and must take work in a kitchen elsewhere, and these are grouped as 510B. But in \"Katie Woodencloak\", she is driven from home by her stepmother's persecutions and must take service in a kitchen elsewhere, and in \"Tattercoats\", she is refused permission to go to the ball by her grandfather. Given these features common with both types of 510, \"Katie Woodencloak\" is classified as 510A because the villain is the stepmother, and \"Tattercoats\" as 510B because the grandfather fills the father's role.\n\nThis system has its weaknesses in the difficulty of having no way to classify subportions of a tale as motifs. \"Rapunzel\" is type 310 (The Maiden in the Tower), but it opens with a child being demanded in return for stolen food, as does \"Puddocky\"; but \"Puddocky\" is not a Maiden in the Tower tale, while \"The Canary Prince\", which opens with a jealous stepmother, is.\n\nIt also lends itself to emphasis on the common elements, to the extent that the folklorist describes \"The Black Bull of Norroway\" as the same story as \"Beauty and the Beast\". This can be useful as a shorthand but can also erase the coloring and details of a story.\n\nVladimir Propp specifically studied a collection of Russian fairy tales, but his analysis has been found useful for the tales of other countries. Having criticized Aarne-Thompson type analysis for ignoring what motifs \"did\" in stories, and because the motifs used were not clearly distinct, he analyzed the tales for the \"function\" each character and action fulfilled and concluded that a tale was composed of thirty-one elements ('functions') and seven characters or 'spheres of action' ('the princess and her father' are a single sphere). While the elements were not all required for all tales, when they appeared they did so in an invariant order – except that each individual element might be negated twice, so that it would appear three times, as when, in \"Brother and Sister\", the brother resists drinking from enchanted streams twice, so that it is the third that enchants him. Propp's 31 functions also fall within six 'stages' (preparation, complication, transference, struggle, return, recognition), and a stage can also be repeated, which can affect the perceived order of elements.\n\nOne such element is the \"donor\" who gives the hero magical assistance, often after testing him. In \"The Golden Bird\", the talking fox tests the hero by warning him against entering an inn and, after he succeeds, helps him find the object of his quest; in \"The Boy Who Drew Cats\", the priest advised the hero to stay in small places at night, which protects him from an evil spirit; in \"Cinderella\", the fairy godmother gives Cinderella the dresses she needs to attend the ball, as their mothers' spirits do in \"Bawang Putih Bawang Merah\" and \"The Wonderful Birch\"; in \"The Fox Sister\", a Buddhist monk gives the brothers magical bottles to protect against the fox spirit. The roles can be more complicated. In \"The Red Ettin\", the role is split into the motherwho offers the hero the whole of a journey cake with her curse or half with her blessingand when he takes the half, a fairy who gives him advice; in \"Mr Simigdáli\", the sun, the moon, and the stars all give the heroine a magical gift. Characters who are not always the donor can act like the donor. In \"Kallo and the Goblins\", the villain goblins also give the heroine gifts, because they are tricked; in \"Schippeitaro\", the evil cats betray their secret to the hero, giving him the means to defeat them. Other fairy tales, such as \"The Story of the Youth Who Went Forth to Learn What Fear Was\", do not feature the donor.\n\nAnalogies have been drawn between this and the analysis of myths into the Hero's journey.\n\nMany fairy tales have been interpreted for their (purported) significance. One mythological interpretation saw many fairy tales, including \"Hansel and Gretel\", \"Sleeping Beauty\", and \"The Frog King\", as solar myths; this mode of interpretation subsequently became rather less popular. Freudian, Jungian, and other psychological analyses have also explicated many tales, but no mode of interpretation has established itself definitively.\n\nSpecific analyses have often been criticized for lending great importance to motifs that are not, in fact, integral to the tale; this has often stemmed from treating one instance of a fairy tale as the definitive text, where the tale has been told and retold in many variations. In variants of \"Bluebeard\", the wife's curiosity is betrayed by a blood-stained key, by an egg's breaking, or by the singing of a rose she wore, without affecting the tale, but interpretations of specific variants have claimed that the precise object is integral to the tale.\n\nOther folklorists have interpreted tales as historical documents. Many German folklorists, believing the tales to have preserved details from ancient times, have used the Grimms' tales to explain ancient customs.\n\nOne approach sees the topography of European Märchen as echoing the period immediately following the last Ice Age.\nOther folklorists have explained the figure of the wicked stepmother in a historical/sociological context: many women did die in childbirth, their husbands remarried, and the new stepmothers competed with the children of the first marriage for resources.\n\nIn a 2012 lecture, Jack Zipes reads fairy tales as examples of what he calls \"childism\". He suggests that there are terrible aspects to the tales, which (among other things) have conditioned children to accept mistreatment and even abuse.\n\nFairy tales have inspired music, namely opera, such as the French Opéra féerie and the German Märchenoper. French examples include Gretry's \"Zémire et Azor\", and Auber's \"Le cheval de bronze\", German operas are Mozart's \"Die Zauberflöte\", Humperdinck's \"Hänsel und Gretel\", Siegfried Wagner's \"An allem ist Hütchen schuld!\", which is based on many fairy tales, and Carl Orff's \"Die Kluge\". Even contemporary fairy tales have been written for the purpose of inspiration in the music world. \"Raven Girl\" by Audrey Niffenegger was written to inspire a new dance for the Royal Ballet in London.\n\nAuthors and works:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "405304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=405304", "title": "Figure painting", "text": "Figure painting\n\nA figure painting is a work of fine art in any of the painting media with the primary subject being the human figure, whether clothed or nude.\nFigure painting may also refer to the activity of creating such a work. The human figure has been one of the constant subjects of art since the first stone age cave paintings, and has been reinterpreted in various styles throughout history.\nUnlike figure drawings which are usually nudes, figure paintings are often historical, mythological, allegorical or imaginary depictions that may have figures in appropriate costumes. A portrait painting is a figure painting that focuses on the creation of a likeness of a particular individual or group.\n\nThe nude has been a theme in Western art since classical antiquity and again in the Renaissance, after being largely absent during the Middle Ages.\n\nOil paint historically has been the ideal media for depicting the figure. By blending and layering paint, the surface can become more like skin. \"Its slow drying time and various degrees of viscosity enable the artist to achieve rich and subtle blends of color and texture, which can suggest transformations from one human substance to another.\" Although working from live models is preferred, the length of time needed to complete a painting has led most modern painters to use photographs as references at least part of the time if not for the entire work.\n\nFigure painting is not synonymous with figurative art, which may depict real objects of any kind (including humans and animals).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40352406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40352406", "title": "Fukinuki yatai", "text": "Fukinuki yatai\n\nFukinuki yatai (吹抜屋台) describes a feature of Japanese Art particularly associated with \"e-maki\"(絵巻) painted scrolls, famously for example, yamato-e.\n\nLiterally meaning 'blown off roof', \"fukinuki yatai\" relates to the depiction of both interior and exterior environments - including rooms, screens and architecture where the roof and walls are removed and the beams are preserved. The basic visual feature depicts the interior scene from an upper diagonal with the roof, ceiling and sometimes inner partitions removed. From an artistic perspective, it also importantly describes the composition by which character relations, or even feelings, are depicted in the layout.\n\nThis technique was used in early Japanese (Heian Period 平安時代) scrolls with very few exceptions until realism in Kamakura (鎌倉) art has flourished. The rudimentary function of fukinuki yatai is to portrait multiple narrative stories on the same painting using different spaces. The earliest usage of Fukinuki yatai was found in the biography of Prince Shōtoku (聖徳太子絵伝). Other typical examples are found in The Tale of Genji (源氏物語絵巻), Murasaki Shikibu Diary Emaki (紫式部日記絵巻), and Kasuga Gongen Genki E (春日権現験記絵巻) .\n"}
{"id": "8810712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8810712", "title": "Guqin aesthetics", "text": "Guqin aesthetics\n\nWhen the guqin is played, the modern name for a plucked seven-string Chinese musical instrument of the zither family, a number of aesthetic elements are involved. \n\nThe first aesthetic is musicality. In the second section of \"Pingsha Luoyan\", for example, the initial few bars contain a \"nao\" vibrato followed by a phase of sliding up and down the string, even when the sound has already become inaudible . The average person trained in music may question whether this is really \"music\". Normally, some players would pluck the string very lightly to create a very quiet sound. For some players, this plucking isn't necessary. Instead of trying to force a sound out of the string one should allow the natural sounds emit from the strings. Some players say that the sliding on the string even when the sound has disappeared is a distinctive feature in qin music. It creates a \"space\" or \"void\" in a piece, playing without playing, sound without sound. In fact, when the viewer looks at the player sliding on the string without sounds, the viewer automatically \"fills in the notes\" with their minds. This creates a connection between player, instrument and listener. This, of course, cannot happen when listening to a recording, as one cannot see the performer. It can also be seen as impractical in recording, as the player would want to convey sound as much as possible towards a third audience. But in fact, there is sound, the sound coming from the fingers sliding on the string. With a really good qin, silk strings, and a perfectly quiet environment, all the tones can be sounded. And since the music is more player oriented than listener oriented, and the player knows the music, he/she can hear it even if the sound is not there. And with silk strings the sliding sound might be called the qi or \"life force\" of the music. The really empty sounds are the pauses between notes. However, if one cannot create a sound that can be heard when sliding on a string, it is generally acceptable to lightly pluck the string to create a very quiet sound.\n\nIn the music of the qin, we often come across (especially in harmonics) the use of the same note to two different strings. A good example of this would be in the main harmonic sections of \"Meihua Sannong\", where at the last three notes of the first two phrases all play sol (first sol on the sixth string at 7th hui, second on third string at 9th hui, then again on the sixth string at 7th hui) . The question would be why does one need to play the sol on the third string when one can play sol thrice on the sixth string. One reason is timbre; although both these two positions sound the same note, they sound different or have a different quality to them. Another reason is to add flavor during performance. We have other examples, like the first two phrases of \"Shenren Chang\", where the playing of the harmonics is on the left of the qin on the first phrase, then the same notes are played on the right of the qin. This adds symmetry to the play, and we often see this in many qin melodies where the same notes are mimicked in a different way. \n\nQin music tends to linger on certain notes, with an emphasis on silence and timbre, giving it a meditative quality. Being an instrument historically associated with literati, its aim is Confucian (in trying to cultivate one's mind) as well as Daoist (in seeking harmony between man and nature). 「琴棋書畫」 (qin qi shu hua) refers to the Four Arts of the Chinese Scholar, wherein 『琴』 qin/music refers specifically to guqin. [This phrase is a rather late invention of the Song period (according to the \"Wuzhizhai Qinpu\"), so it is not clear how essential it was to the pedagogy of earlier scholar classes]. It is rarely used to play popular and fast tunes which are deemed to be vulgar to the instrument of the scholars. \n\nBecause of this, the qin is not so popular amongst the uninitiated, and because of the decline of its popularity in the periods of political disturbances (when the qin was seen as an elitist and feudal instrument. These days, the qin is referred to as a \"folk instrument\" to move away from these connotations), very few people are familiar with it, even in China. However, there has been a revival of interest in recent years, especially among Westerners, as the qin embodies a philosophy which appeals to those who wish to escape the stress and confusion of the modern world. Some may argue that the spiritual side is one of the most appealing aspects of qin music, since much other music concerned with entertainment, social bonding or academic issues, the music of the qin offers a breath of fresh air, concerning with the individual and his/her connection with nature and surroundings. Of course, there is no reason why one cannot submit to a realist and/or idealistic view of the purpose of the qin music. It all depends on the player's preference of what s/he wants out of qin music. \n\nThere is much comment in qin texts decrying \"vulgar\" music, but this really only means that there was much of it around. And it is interesting to hear people decry \"popular and fast tunes\" and then find out their favorite qin melody is \"Flowing Water\". By focusing only on what the scholars have idealized, people can miss a lot of the reality and beauty of pure music. \n\nSome people (particularly the younger generation) find qin music difficult to appreciate upon first listening. The reason for this may be because they rate it against music that they only heard in their life, namely modern or popular music. Because qin music is very simple and plain (minimalist, some might say), they may find it boring when compared to the fast beat and sound saturated songs of the modern era. This can lead to a misunderstanding of the true nature of qin music and its aesthetic purposes. Perhaps some people's perceptions of qin music can be summed up in a quote:\n\nOn the other hand, musicians and music lovers can easily appreciate qin music because they can hear music objectively and have a better understanding of music in an ethnomusicological context. \n\nThere has also been a move to a more Western approach to qin music. A handful of professional players prefer to look at the qin from a purely realist and scientific approach, treating the qin as a purely musical instrument, rather than a cultural phenomenon. This is due to some traditionalists treating the instrument as an 'other-worldly' object than a 'this-worldly' one. \nThis move to a much more technical approach signifies a progression in qin study and appreciation; holding on to too much old values tends to impede the transmission of qin. An example would be composition. Although around 60-odd new compositions have been composed for the qin since the 1960s, all in all, no one plays them. The reason is that many believe these new compositions do not compare with ancient scores. But technically, these ancient scores were new at the time when they were composed. Some fear that in 100 years' time, people then might say that we have contributed nothing new to qin. That is not to say that the qin cannot be viewed in a traditional way, but to say that the qin is also capable of a progression into new territory. There is no reason why players cannot embrace both traditional and scientific study of the qin.\n\nIn the past, written in a lot of literature, there is discussion and analysis of what is called \"shengjiang\" 〔聲像〕 or \"manifestations of sound\" of the qin. These are basically single words used to describe the mood or theme of the piece. The number of these 'manifestations' are disputed. Some say only 4, some say 13-16, and some say over 24. Listed in some \"qinpu\" they have very lengthy descriptions of each manifestation, going into every detail. \n\nThe most basic words used to describe qin music are, for example, Yushan school's \"qing\" 『清』, \"wei\" 『微』, \"dan\" 『淡』 and \"yuan\" 『遠』, or \"pure\", \"profound\", \"light\" and \"distant\". Another important essay on qin manifestations is \"Xishan Qinkuang\" 【谿山琴况】 which lists 24 qin manifestations in great detail. This essay has several layers; some words describe the playing method, some describe ornamentation and some describe the body of the music. They also explain the union between musician and instrument and how to achieve unity with the music.\n\n"}
{"id": "1764568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1764568", "title": "Here be dragons", "text": "Here be dragons\n\n\"Here be dragons\" means dangerous or unexplored territories, in imitation of a medieval practice of putting illustrations of dragons, sea-monsters and other mythological creatures on uncharted areas of maps.\n\nAlthough several early maps, such as the \"Theatrum Orbis Terrarum\", have illustrations of mythological creatures for decoration, the phrase itself is an anachronism. There are just two known historical uses of this phrase in the Latin form \"HC SVNT DRACONES\" (i.e. \"hic sunt dracones,\" 'here are dragons'). One is on the Hunt–Lenox Globe (c. 1503–07), on which the term appeared around the east coast of Asia. This might be related to the Komodo dragons on the Indonesian islands, tales of which were quite common throughout East Asia. The other appearance of the term is on a globe engraved on two conjoined halves of ostrich eggs, dated to 1504. Earlier maps contain a variety of references to mythical and real creatures, but the Lenox Globe and the egg globe are the only known surviving maps to bear this phrase. Furthermore, the two maps may be closely linked: an investigation of the egg globe performed by collector Stefaan Missinne concluded that the Hunt–Lenox Globe is in fact a cast of it.\n\"'Here be dragons,' [is] a very interesting sentence,\" said Thomas Sander, editor of the \"Portolan\", the journal of the Washington Map Society. \"In early maps, you would see images of sea monsters; it was a way to say there's bad stuff out there.\"\n\nThe classical phrase used by ancient Roman and Medieval cartographers was \"HIC SVNT LEONES\" (literally, \"here are lions\") when denoting unknown territories on maps.\n\nDragons appear on a few other historical maps:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "429063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429063", "title": "Information art", "text": "Information art\n\nInformation art (also data art or informatism) is an emerging field of electronic art that synthesizes computer science, information technology, and more classical forms of art, including performance art, visual art, new media art and conceptual art. Information Art often includes interaction with computers that generate artistic content based on the processing of large amounts of data.\n\nInformatism follows on the 1970 exhibition organized by Kynaston McShine called \"Information\", held at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City - a show that formally established conceptual art as a leading tendency in the United States. Conceptual art had emerged simultaneously in dozens of international locations around 1966. At the same time arose the activities of Experiments in Art and Technology known as E.A.T.\n\nInformation art data can be manifested using photographs, census data, micropayments, personal profiles and expressions, video clips, search engine results, digital painting, network signals, and prose.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42307809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42307809", "title": "Interior portrait", "text": "Interior portrait\n\nThe interior portrait (portrait d'intérieur) or, in German, Zimmerbild (room picture), is a pictorial genre that appeared in Europe near the end of the 17th century and enjoyed a great vogue in the second half of the 19th century. It involves a careful, detailed representation of a living space, without any people. These paintings were generally rendered as watercolors and required great technical mastery, if little creativity. By the mid-20th century, although such scenes were still being created, photography had changed this style of painting into a form of intentional archaism.\n\nThe interior portrait should not be confused with what is called a \"conversation piece\" in England; a term which designates a scene with a group of people engaged in some activity and often placed outdoors. The true interior piece shows only the room and decor, although previous activity may be suggested by the placement of articles in the room.\n\nThis type of scene first appears near the end of the 17th century. At that time, the intent was entirely descriptive. They were usually done specifically to show the contents of an art gallery, personal library or cabinet of curiosities. One of the first known examples depicts the library of Samuel Pepys in London, dating from 1693. They are still valued today by researchers and decorators. In the case of Pepys, it can be seen, firsthand, how a scholar of that time arranges his books in a bookcase (an innovation at that time), uses a lectern, places cushions for his comfort, hangs maps, etc. \n\nIt was not until the last quarter of the 18th century that a new type of interior portrait with a different intent made its appearance. This type first arose in architectural firms and was done for the benefit of their clients. Great architects such as the James Adam and his brother Robert Adam of Scotland and François-Joseph Bélanger would execute watercolors of their previous projects to entice prospective customers. This created a fad among the wealthy and the nobility to commission paintings of their own rooms, to show off and preserve for posterity. These paintings were often compiled into albums. This craze was particularly prevalent in England. From there, it spread widely throughout Europe.\n\nThe first historically important example of the interior portrait represents a small art gallery set up by the Empress Josephine at Malmaison in 1812. In this watercolor by Auguste-Siméon Garneray, we can see her harp, art collection and her shawl, left on an armchair. Thus a new element appears: the psychological elements of the décor and a palpable human presence. One can feel the owner's emotions and thoughts. In this sense, the paintings have truly become \"portraits\".\nThe immense popularity of these paintings in the 19th century can be explained by many factors. Among the nouveau-riche and the bourgeoisie, great importance was given to the home as a place of comfort, intimacy and family. This period also saw a specialization (e.g. separate dining rooms) that were once known only to the very wealthy. These new \"middle-classes\" were also eager to copy aristocratic tastes and industrialization made a much wider variety of furniture easily affordable. Finally, decorative styles were constantly being changed and resurrected, so interior portraits were a way of preserving one's memories and bequeathing them to the next generation.\n\nQueen Victoria was very fond of these portraits as they allowed her to give the public a look at her loving family life and the comforts of home in a tasteful manner. The craze was thereby spread throughout the Royal Families of Europe. Due to the number of lavishly decorated palaces they possessed (The Winter Palace, Tsarskoye Selo, Gatchina Palace, Peterhof Palace, Pavlovsk Palace...), the Tsars were among the most enthusiastic commissioners of interior portraits. Virtually all of their rooms (except the most private ones) were rendered at least once; some several times. These watercolors are considered to be among the best of their genre.\n\nAt a time when every cultured young woman learned to paint watercolors, many painted their own rooms or the ones where they were given their lessons. Most of the surviving examples are anonymous and rarely of high quality, but they often have a charm that compensates for what they lack in technical expertise.\n\nHowever, some members of the aristocracy had real talent, verging on the professional. The Polish Count Artur Potocki, for example, travelled widely, painting watercolors of the hotel rooms and other places where he stayed, from Rome to London.\n\nNevertheless, virtually all the highest-quality works were produced by professionals with exceptional virtuosity in watercolors and a mastery of perspective...especially conical perspective, with two or three vanishing points, which produces an eerily photographic effect for modern eyes.\n\nWith only a few exceptions, such as Jean-Baptiste Isabey and Eugène Lami of France, architect John Nash and furniture-maker Thomas Sheraton (both of England), few artists who dealt exclusively with these portraits are still familiar today. Among some notable artists who produced them, not previously mentioned:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9797150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9797150", "title": "John Trobaugh", "text": "John Trobaugh\n\nJohn Trobaugh (born 1968) in Lansing, Michigan is an American artist specializing in photography and based in Birmingham, Alabama. Trobaugh received his BFA in 1996 with honors from University of Alabama at Birmingham and went on to study photography at the School of Visual Arts. In 2003 he received his Masters in Fine Art from the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, Alabama.\n\nHis photography has been published in Art Papers, selected as the cover artist. He has also been published in The Chronicle of Higher Education, NY Arts Magazine, The Washington Post and The Advocate as well as The Birmingham News and World of Wonder, among many others.\n\nWhile teaching at Sheldon State in Tuscaloosa Alabama, Trobaugh's work was censored before a planned exhibition. The case has yet to be resolved but gained national attention due to censorship issues. He was forbidden to discuss this censorship as part of his art appreciation class. Trobaugh later resigned his post.\n\nRichard Meyer, Chair of the Art Department at The University of Southern California in Los Angeles, California, spoke about Trobaugh's work at various national conferences about censorship. Trobaugh was also presented in The Smithsonian National Gallery and is the author of several articles including Art Papers.\n\nIn 2005, Space One Eleven exhibited Trobaugh's work alongside Karen Graffeo for\"In This Place\". M. K. Matalon organized this exhibition to investigate place and location in relationship to contemporary Southern issues.\n\nTrobaugh's work was selected to be part of \"Patterns of Nature\" in Denver, Colorado.\n\nTrobaugh was included in \"Politics, Politics: Nine Artists Explore the Political Landscape\" curated by Anne Arrasmith and Peter Prinz of Space One Eleven. This exhibition was funded by the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts and included Pinky Bass, Clayton Colvin, Peggy Dobbins, Randy Gachet, binx Newton, Arthur Price, Paul Ware, and Stan Woodard.\n\nTrobaugh was a presenter for \"Photography in the Digital Age\" by The Society For Photographic Education South Central Regional Conference, 2003. This meeting took place at the University of Alabama at Birmingham and Birmingham Museum of Art in Birmingham, Alabama \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6742937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6742937", "title": "Kalliroscope", "text": "Kalliroscope\n\nA Kalliroscope is an art device/technique based on rheoscopic fluids invented by artist Paul Matisse.\n\n"}
{"id": "27646456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27646456", "title": "List of Fellows of the American Academy in Rome 1971–1990", "text": "List of Fellows of the American Academy in Rome 1971–1990\n\nList of Fellows of the American Academy in Rome is a list of those who have been awarded the Rome Prize.\nThe Rome Prize is a prestigious American award made annually by the American Academy in Rome, through a national competition, to 15 emerging artists (working in Architecture, Landscape Architecture, Design, Historic Preservation and Conservation, Literature, Musical Composition, or Visual Arts) and to 15 scholars (working in Ancient, Medieval, Renaissance and early Modern, or Modern Italian Studies).\n\n"}
{"id": "59174239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59174239", "title": "List of folk heroes", "text": "List of folk heroes\n\nThis is a list of folk heroes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "228566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228566", "title": "Mail art", "text": "Mail art\n\nMail art (also known as postal art and correspondence art) is a populist artistic movement centered on sending small scale works through the postal service. It initially developed out of what eventually became Ray Johnson's New York Correspondence School in the 1950s and the Fluxus movement in the 1960s, though it has since developed into a global movement that continues to the present.\n\nMedia commonly used in mail art include postcards, paper, a collage of found or recycled images and objects, rubber stamps, artist-created stamps (called artistamps), and paint, but can also include music, sound art, poetry, or anything that can be put in an envelope and sent via post. Mail art is considered art once it is dispatched. Mail artists regularly call for thematic or topical mail art for use in (often unjuried) exhibition.\n\nMail artists appreciate interconnection with other artists. The artform promotes an egalitarian way of creating that frequently circumvents official art distribution and approval systems such as the art market, museums, and galleries. Mail artists rely on their alternative \"outsider\" network as the primary way of sharing their work, rather than being dependent on the ability to locate and secure exhibition space.\n\nMail art can be seen as anticipating the cyber communities founded on the Internet.\n\nArtist Edward M. Plunkett has argued that communication-as-art-form is an ancient tradition; he posits (tongue in cheek) that mail art began when Cleopatra had herself delivered to Julius Caesar in a rolled-up carpet.\n\nThe American artist Ray Johnson is considered to be the first mail artist. Johnson's experiments with art in the mail began in 1943, while the posting of instructions and soliciting of activity from his recipients began in the mid-1950s with the mailing of his \"moticos\", and thus provided mail art with a blueprint for the free exchange of art via post.\n\nThe term \"mail art\" was coined in the 1960s. In 1962, Plunkett coined the term \"New York Correspondence School\" to refer to Johnson's activities; Johnson adopted this moniker but sometimes intentionally misspelled it as \"correspondance.\" The deliberate misspelling was characteristic of the playful spirit of the Correspondance School and its actions.\n\nMost of the Correspondance School members are fairly obscure, and the letters they sent, often featuring simple drawings or stickers, often instructed the recipient to perform some fairly simple action. Johnson's work consists primarily of letters, often with the addition of doodles and rubber stamped messages, which he mailed to friends and acquaintances. The Correspondance School was a network of individuals who were artists by virtue of their willingness to play along and appreciate Johnson's sense of humor. One example of the activities of the Correspondance School consisted in calling meetings of fan clubs, such as one devoted to the actress Anna May Wong. Many of Johnson's missives to his network featured a hand drawn version of what became a personal logo or alter-ego, a bunny head.\n\nIn a 1968 interview, Johnson explained that he found mailed correspondence interesting because of the limits it puts on the usual back and forth interaction and negotiation that comprises communication between individuals. Correspondence is \"a way to convey a message or a kind of idea to someone which is not verbal; it is not a confrontation of two people. It's an object which is opened in privacy, probably, and the message is looked at ... You look at the object and, depending on your degree of interest, it very directly gets across to you what is there ...\"\n\nIn 1970, Johnson and Marcia Tucker organized The New York Correspondence School Exhibition at the Whitney Museum in New York, which was the first significant public exhibition of the mail art genre.\n\nOn April 5, 1973, Johnson declared the \"death\" of the New York Correspondance School in an unpublished letter to the Obituary Department of \"The New York Times\" and in copies that he circulated to his network. However, he continued to practice mail art even after this.\n\nAlthough much of Johnson's work was initially given away, this hasn't prevented it from attaining a market value. Andy Warhol is quoted as saying he would pay ten dollars for anything by Johnson.\"\n\nIn his 1973 diagram showing the development and scope of Fluxus, George Maciunas included mail art among the activities pursued by the Fluxus artist Robert Filliou. Filliou coined the term the \"Eternal Network\" that has become synonymous with mail art. Other Fluxus artists have been involved since the early 1960s in the creation of artist's postage stamps (Robert Watts, Stamp Dispenser, 1963), postcards (Ben Vautier, The Postman's Choice, 1965: a postcard with a different address on each side) and other works connected to the postal medium. \"Indeed, the mail art network counts many Fluxus members among its earliest participants. While Johnson did not consider himself directly as a member of the Fluxus school, his interests and attitudes were consistent with those of a number of Fluxus artists.\n\nIn the 1970s, the practice of mail art grew considerably, providing a cheap and flexible channel of expression for cultural outsiders. It was particularly widespread where state censorship prevented a free circulation of alternative ideas, as in certain countries behind the Iron Curtain or in South America.\n\nThe growth of a sizable mail art community, with friendships born out of personal correspondence and, increasingly, mutual visits, led in the 1980s to the organization of several festivals, meetings and conventions where networkers could meet, socialize, perform, exhibit and plan further collaborations. Among these events were the Inter Dada Festivals organized in California in the early 1980s and the Decentralized Mail Art Congress of 1986.\n\nIn 1984 curator Ronny Cohen organized an exhibition for the Franklin Furnace, New York, called \"Mail Art Then and Now.\" The exhibition was to have an historical aspect as well as showing new mail art, and to mediate the two aspects Cohen edited the material sent to Franklin Furnace, breaking an unwritten but commonly accepted custom that all works submitted must be shown. The intent to edit, interpreted as censorship, resulted in a two-part panel discussion sponsored by Artists Talk on Art (organized by mail artist Carlo Pittore and moderated by art critic Robert C. Morgan) in February of that year, where Cohen and the mail artists were to debate the issues.\n\nThe night preceding the second panel on February 24, Carlo Pittore, John P. Jacob, Chuck Welch a.k.a. CrackerJack Kid, David Cole and John Held, Jr. crafted a statement asking Dr. Cohen to step down as the panel moderator. Welch delivered the statement whereby Dr. Cohen was asked to remain on the panel but forfeit her right to serve as moderator. Instead of remaining, Cohen chose to leave the event. After some give and take with both panelists and audience, Dr. Cohen left, saying, \"Have fun boys.\" Her entourage walked out with her during the ensuing melee. \n\nThe excluded works were ultimately added to the exhibition by the staff of the Franklin Furnace, but the events surrounding it and the panels revealed ideological rifts within the mail art community. Simultaneously fanning the flames and documenting the extent to which it was already dominated by a small, mostly male, coterie of artists, the discussions were transcribed and published by panelist John P. Jacob in his short-lived mail art zine PostHype. In a letter to panelist Mark Bloch, Ray Johnson (who was not a panelist) commented on the reverse-censorship and sexism of the event.\n\nThe rise of mail art meetings and congresses during the late 80s, and the articulation of various \"isms\" proclaimed by their founders as movements within mail art, were in part a response to fractures made visible by the events surrounding the Franklin Furnace exhibition. Even if \"tourism\" was proposed satirically as a new movement by H.R. Fricker, a Swiss mail artist who was one of the organizers of the 1986 Mail Art Congress, nevertheless mail art in its pure form would continue to function without the personal meeting between so-called networkers.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, Fricker and Bloch, in a bilingual \"Open Letter To Everybody in the Network\" stated, \"1) An important function of he exhibitions and other group projects in the network is: to open channels to other human beings. 2) After your exhibition is shown and the documentation sent, or after you have received such a documentation with a list of addresses, \"use the channels\"! 3) Create person-to-person correspondence... 4) You have your own unique energy which you can give to others through your work: visual audio, verbal, etc. 5) This energy is best used when it is exchanged for energy from another person with the same intentions. 6) the power of the network is in the quality of the direct correspondence, not the quantity.\" The manifesto concludes, \"We have learned this from our own mistakes.\" \n\nIn 1994, Dutch mail artist Ruud Janssen began a series of mail-interviews which became an influential contribution in the field of mail art.\n\nBy the 1990s, mail art's peak in terms of global postal activities had been reached, and mail artists, aware of increasing postal rates, were beginning the gradual migration of collective art projects towards the web and new, cheaper forms of digital communication. The Internet facilitated faster dissemination of mail art calls (invitations) and precipitated the involvement of a large number of newcomers. Mail art blogs and websites became ever more frequently used to display contributions and online documentation, even if many mail artists still preferred the surprise of a catalogue found in their mailbox.\n\nIn spite of the many links and similarities between historical avant-garde, alternative art practices (visual poetry, copy art, artist's books) and mail art, one aspect that distinguishes the creative postal network from other artistic movements, schools or groups (including Fluxus) is the way it disregards and circumvents for the commercial art market. Any person with access to a mailbox can participate in the postal network and exchange free artworks, and each mail artist is free to decide how and when to answer (or not answer) a piece of incoming mail. Participants are invited by network members to take part in collective projects or unjuried exhibitions in which entries are not selected or judged. While contributions may be solicited around a particular theme, work to a required size, or sent in by a deadline, mail art generally operates within a spirit of \"anything goes.\"\n\nThe mail art philosophy of openness and inclusion is exemplified by the \"rules\" included in invitations (calls) to postal projects: a mail art show has no jury, no entry fee, there is no censorship, and all works are exhibited. The original contributions are not to be returned and remain the property of the organizers, but a catalogue or documentation is sent free to all the participants in exchange for their works. Although these rules are sometimes stretched, they have generally held up for four decades, with only minor dissimilarities and adjustments, like the occasional requests to avoid works of explicit sexual nature, calls for projects with specific participants, or the recent trend to display digital documentation on blogs and websites instead of personally sending printed paper to contributors.\nMail art has been exhibited in alternative spaces such as private apartments, municipal buildings, and shop windows, as well as in galleries and museums worldwide. Mail art shows, periodicals, and projects represent the \"public\" side of postal networking, a practice that has at its core the direct and private interaction between the individual participants. Mail artists value the process of exchanging ideas and the sense of belonging to a global community that is able to maintain a peaceful collaboration beyond differences of language, religion and ideology; this is one aspect that differentiates the mail art network from the world of commercial picture postcards and of simply \"mailed art.\"\n\nA mail artist may have hundreds of correspondents from many different countries, or build a smaller core circle of favorite contacts. Mail art is widely practiced in Europe, North and South America, Russia, Australia and Japan, with smaller numbers of participants also in Africa, and China. In addition to being kept by the recipient, mail art archives have attracted the interest of libraries, archives, museums, and private collectors. Or, the works may be 'worked into' and recycled back to the sender or to another networker.\nRay Johnson suggested (with a pun) that \"mail art has no history, only a present\", and mail artists have followed his playful attitude in creating their own mythologies. Parody art movements like neoism and plagiarism have challenged notions of originality, as have the shared pseudonymous names Monty Cantsin and Karen Eliot, which were proposed for serial use by anyone. Semi-fictional organizations have been set up and virtual lands invented, imaginary countries for which artistamps are issued. Furthermore, attempts have been made to document and define the history of a complex and underestimated phenomenon that has spanned five decades. Various essays, graduate theses, guides and anthologies of mail art writings have appeared in print and on the Internet, often written by veteran networkers.\nA sub-group of envelope art has its genesis in the Grateful Dead Ticket Service. Looking to help their fans avoid the high fees that are generated by national ticket services the Grateful Dead started their own service, commonly referred to as mail order. At some point fans started decorating their envelopes with art. Some for art's sake, others to grab the attention of the people that dole out tickets in hope of better seats.http://www.gdtstoo.com/\n\nBecause the democratic ethos of mail art is one of inclusion, both in terms of participants ('anyone who can afford the postage') and in the scope of art forms, a broad range of media are employed in creation of mail artworks. Certain materials and techniques are commonly used and frequently favored by mail artists due to their availability, convenience, and ability to produce copies.\n\nMail art has adopted and appropriated several of graphic forms already associated with the postal system. The rubber stamp officially used for franking mail, already utilized by Dada and Fluxus artists, has been embraced by mail artists who, in addition to reusing ready-made rubber stamps, have them professionally made to their own designs. They also carve into erasers with linocut tools to create handmade ones. These unofficial rubber stamps, whether disseminating mail artists' messages or simply announcing the identity of the sender, help to transform regular postcards into artworks and make envelopes an important part of the mail art experience.\nMail art has also appropriated the postage stamp as a format for individual expression. Inspired by the example of Cinderella stamps and Fluxus faux-stamps, the artistamp has spawned a vibrant sub-network of artists dedicated to creating and exchanging their own stamps and stamp sheets. Artist Jerry Dreva of the conceptual art group Les Petits Bonbons created a set of stamps and sent them to David Bowie who then used them as the inspiration for the cover of the single \"Ashes to Ashes\" released in 1980. Artistamps and rubber stamps, have become important staples of mail artworks, particularly in the enhancement of postcards and envelopes. The most important anthology of rubberstamp art was published by the artist Hervé Fischer in his book \"Art and Marginal Communication\", Balland, Paris, 1974 - in French, English and German, to note also the catalog of the exhibition \"Timbres d'artistes\", Published of Musée de la Poste, Paris, 1993, organized by the french artist Jean-Noël Laszlo - in French, English.\n\nSome mail artists lavish more attention on the envelopes than the contents within. Painted envelopes are one-of-a-kind artworks with the handwritten address becoming part of the work. Stitching, embossing and an array of drawing materials can all be found on postcards, envelopes and on the contents inside.\n\nPrinting is suited to mail artists who distribute their work widely. Various printmaking techniques, in addition to rubber stamping, are used to create multiples. Copy art (xerography, photocopy) is a common practice, with both mono and color copying being extensively used within the network. Ubiquitous 'add & pass' sheets that are designed to be circulated through the network with each artist adding and copying, chain-letter fashion, have also received some unfavorable criticism. However, Xerography has been a key technology in the creation of many short-run periodicals and zines about mail art, and for the printed documentation that has been the traditional project culmination sent to participants. Inkjet and laserprint computer printouts are also used, both to disseminate artwork and for reproducing zines and documentation, and PDF copies of paperless periodicals and unprinted documentation are circulated by email. Photography is widely used as an art form, to provide images for artistamps and rubber stamps, and within printed and digital magazines and documentation, while some projects have focused on the intersection of mail art with the medium itself.\n\nLettering, whether handwritten or printed, is integral to mail art. The written word is used as a literary art form, as well as for personal letters and notes sent with artwork and recordings of the spoken word, both of poetry and prose, are also a part of the network. Although English has been the de facto language, because of the movement's inception in America, an increasing number of mail artists, and mail artist groups on the Internet, now communicate in Breton, French, Italian, German, Spanish, and Russian.\n\nIn addition to appropriating the postage stamp model, mail artists have assimilated other design formats for printed artworks. Artists' books, decobooks and friendship books, banknotes, stickers, tickets, artist trading cards (ATCs), badges, food packaging, diagrams and maps have all been used.\nMail artists routinely mix media; collage and photomontage are popular, affording some mail art the stylistic qualities of pop art or Dada. Mail artists often use collage techniques to produce original postcards, envelopes and work that may be transformed using copy art techniques or computer software, then photocopied or printed out in limited editions.\n\nPrinted matter and ephemera are often circulated among mail artists, and after artistic treatment, these common items enter into the mail art network. Small assemblages, sculptural forms or found objects of irregular shapes and sizes are parceled up or sent unwrapped to deliberately tease and test the efficiency of the postal service. Mailable fake fur (\"Hairmail\") and Astroturf postcards were circulated in the late 1990s.\n\nHaving borrowed the notion of intermedia from Fluxus, mail artists are often active simultaneously in several different fields of expression. Music and sound art have long been celebrated aspects of mail art, at first using cassette tape, then on CD and as sound files sent via the Internet.\n\nPerformance art has also been a prominent facet, particularly since the advent of mail art meetings and congresses. Performances recorded on film or video are communicated via DVD and movie files over the internet. Video is also increasingly being employed to document mail art shows of all kinds.\n\n\"Correspondence art is an elusive art form, far more variegated by its very nature than, say, painting. Where a painting always involves paint and a support surface, correspondence art can appear as any one of dozens of media transmitted through the mail. While the vast majority of correspondence art or mail art activities take place in the mail, today's new forms of electronic communication blur the edges of that forum. In the 1960s, when correspondence art first began to blossom, most artists found the postal service to be the most readily available - and least expensive - medium of exchange. Today's micro-computers with modern facilities offer anyone computing and communicating power that two decades ago were available only to the largest institutions and corporations, and only a few decades previous weren't available to anyone at any price.\" - Ken Friedman\n\"Cultural exchange is a radical act. It can create paradigms for the reverential sharing and preservation of the earth's water, soil, forests, plants and animals. The ethereal networker aesthetic calls for guiding that dream through action. Cooperation and participation, and the celebration of art as a birthing of life, vision, and spirit are first steps. The artists who meet each other in the Eternal Network have taken these steps. Their shared enterprise is a contribution to our common future.\" - Chuck Welch\n\n\"The purpose of mail art, an activity shared by many artists throughout the world, is to establish an aesthetical communication between artists and common people in every corner of the globe, to divulge their work outside the structures of the art market and outside the traditional venues and institutions: a free communication in which words and signs, texts and colours act like instruments for a direct and immediate interaction.\" - Loredana Parmesani\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "15229303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15229303", "title": "Marmotinto", "text": "Marmotinto\n\nMarmotinto is the art of creating pictures using coloured sand or marble dust and otherwise known as sand painting.\n\nOriginating in Europe, and probably based on the Japanese craft of \"bonseki\" (aka 'tray-painting'), \"marmotinto\" was fleetingly popular in England following a 1783 dinner party given by George III at Windsor Castle who was taken with a display of unfixed coloured sands, sugars and marble dust arranged under glass upon the surface of the dinner table in decorative patterns and including fruit and flowers, and exotic birds which was executed by the Bavarian table-decker Benjamin Zobel (Memmingen, 21 September 1762 - London, 24 October 1830), a friend of George Morland, a painter prominent in the \"Isle of Wight School\". The King and his courtiers was so impressed with the resulting picture, it was suggested that Zobel find a way to make his compositions permanent and hence the craft of \"marmotinto\" or sandpainting was born and proved most successful under the patronage of various members of the royal household including the then Duke of York. \n\nWoburn Abbey in Bedford, England possesses a fine example of the table deckers' craft in the form of an ornate folding room screen with three panels, decorated with sand pictures protected by glass. The centre one has five spaces for sweetmeat pyramid dishes while the two side leaves of the screen have three spaces for fruit trays. There are four sand pictures in each corner of the side panels of the screen, featuring 18th-century pastoral scenes, while the remaining areas of the screen are decorated with butterflies, doves, fruit, flowers, etc. The screen would be laid upon the surface of a side table where it doubled as a serving base for elaborate porcelain dishes and glass trays containing fruits, bonbons and sweetmeats, from which the hosts and their guests could help themselves while socializing or stretching their legs between the multiple courses being served on the main table in the dining hall. This screen is believed to be the work of F. Schweikhardt, Zobel's predecessor at Windsor who specialised in still-life studies in the style of the Dutch painter Jan van Huysum.\nLater the craft became popular in the early 19th century as the tourist industry began to develop on the Isle of Wight particularly at Alum Bay where coloured sands were readily available to the visitors should they wish to try their hand at creating their own souvenirs when they disembarked directly onto the beach from the decks of mainland steamers. The locals soon realised an opportunity to develop and market small framed sand pictures and also compressed sand patterns inside glass jars to supplement their meagre income. There are some examples of Alum Bay sand pictures at Osborne House and Carisbrook Castle while at the Victoria and Albert Museum, the late Queen Mary's collection of Georgian sandpaintings may be viewed by request.\n\nAlthough \"marmotinto\" using coloured sands and marble dust was popular across England and on the continent for a while, it declined after an initial fashionable period. The art saw a comeback in the 20th century using natural coloured sands, supplemented by discarded, recycled and found materials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23956012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23956012", "title": "Meditative poetry", "text": "Meditative poetry\n\nMeditative poetry combines the religious practice of meditation with verse. It occurs in many cultures, especially in Asian, European and Hindu cultures. Especially Buddhist and Hindu writers have developed extensive theories and phase models for meditation (Bevis 1988;73-88).\n\nIn Christianity, meditation became a major devotional practice during the Middle Ages, closely associated with the life in monasteries. Definitions vary, but there were various attempts to distinguish meditation from contemplation. While meditation focuses the mind on a text, preferably from the Bible, contemplation will take a concrete object, such as a candle, to concentrate the thoughts of the mind. Both, contemplation and meditation had the same end, to seek unity with God.\n\nDuring the Protestant Reformation and Counter-Reformation, Jesuits like Ignatius of Loyola formalized the process of meditation, as a channeling of memory, understanding and will. His method of meditation fell into three main parts: A) prayer and composition of place; B) the examination of points (analysis); the colloquies (the dialogue with God as a climax) (Martz 1962, 27-32). Jesuits brought this practice to England (Daly 1978: 72). Calvinist and other Protestants adapted meditation to Bible studies.\n\nPuritan meditation emphasized self-examination, applying Bible verses to contemporary, everyday life. In 1628, Thomas Taylor wrote a Puritan handbook \"Meditation from the Creatures\", recommending to include images from the sensible world (metaphorical of God's glory). In colonial New England, Thomas Hooker defined meditation in \"The Souls Preparation for Christ\" (1632) as follows: \"It is a settled exercise for two ends: first to make a further inquiry of the truth: and secondly, to make the heart affected therewith.\"\n\nIn 1648, the \"Shorter Catechism of the Westminster Assembly\" made meditation a duty for Puritans, and in 1649/50 Richard Baxter's \"The Saints' Everlasting Rest\" became the standard Puritan text, at its core prescribing meditation. Like Taylor and Hooker, Baxter admitted the use of the senses, that is, he included contemplation with meditation, based on figural correspondences with the Bible. By including contemplation with meditation, the Puritans laid the foundation for a rich tradition of verse meditation in the USA from its colonial beginnings to the twenty-first century (Daly 1978, 74-76, 79-81; Martz 1962).\n\nSoon Puritan ministers like Edward Taylor began to write meditations in verse, based on lines from the Bible and on sense perceptions, both allegorical of the greater glory of God. Anne Bradstreet provided the first published meditations purely based on the senses, celebrating nature's beauties as the creation of God. Using the analogy of Nature as God's second book, poetic meditations gradually secularized, replacing the early allegoric technique with a more symbolic reading of nature and affirming the self-reliant individual (Pearce 1961, 42-57). \n\nRalph Waldo Emerson's essay \"Nature\" (1836) freed the meditation from its theological underpinnings and its reliance on the Bible. He encouraged poets to view nature as a storehouse of symbols that they could use simply relying on their imagination. Walt Whitman and Emily Dickinson took meditation into this direction and paved the way for Modernist and Postmodernist practices in poetry (Lawson 1994).\n\nThe method of the three main steps (composition of place, examination of points, colloquies) had survived into the twentieth century in many poems, as had the devotional practice of verse meditation. Leading modernist poets like T. S. Eliot and Wallace Stevens began to fragmentarize the process, blending thoughts and sense perceptions in a sort of spiritual diary (Parini 1993,12). Postmodernist poets like John Ashbery deconstruct the contemplative aspect, the reference of the poem to an object outside itself, dissolving narrative or episodic structures of the spiritual diary in an ironic and open association (Bevis 1988:280-90), and thereby turning the poem itself into the object the reader can use for contemplation or meditation. \n\nMeditative poetry has often been correlated to Relaxation Through Poetry, which is simply using poetry to relax or relieve stress whenever someone is in need. It can also be seen in group visualization sessions where a speaker tries to get the audience to forget all about their stress by the use of calm and relaxing poetry.\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "329625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=329625", "title": "Mimesis", "text": "Mimesis\n\nMimesis (; \"mīmēsis\", from μιμεῖσθαι \"mīmeisthai\", \"to imitate\", from \"mimos\", \"imitator, actor\") is a critical and philosophical term that carries a wide range of meanings, which include imitation, representation, mimicry, \"imitatio\", receptivity, nonsensuous similarity, the act of resembling, the act of expression, and the presentation of the self.\n\nIn ancient Greece, mimesis was an idea that governed the creation of works of art, in particular, with correspondence to the physical world understood as a model for beauty, truth, and the good. Plato contrasted mimesis, or imitation, with diegesis, or narrative. After Plato, the meaning of mimesis eventually shifted toward a specifically literary function in ancient Greek society, and its use has changed and been reinterpreted many times since.\n\nOne of the best-known modern studies of mimesis, understood as a form of realism in literature, is Erich Auerbach's \"\", which opens with a famous comparison between the way the world is represented in Homer's \"Odyssey\" and the way it appears in the \"Bible\". From these two seminal Western texts, Auerbach builds the foundation for a unified theory of representation that spans the entire history of Western literature, including the Modernist novels being written at the time Auerbach began his study. In art history, \"mimesis\", \"realism\" and \"naturalism\" are used, often interchangeably, as terms for the accurate, even \"illusionistic\", representation of the visual appearance of things.\n\nMimesis has been theorised by thinkers as diverse as Plato, Aristotle, Philip Sidney, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Adam Smith, Gabriel Tarde, Sigmund Freud, Walter Benjamin, Theodor Adorno, Erich Auerbach, Paul Ricœur, Luce Irigaray, Jacques Derrida, René Girard, Nikolas Kompridis, Philippe Lacoue-Labarthe, Michael Taussig, Merlin Donald, and Homi Bhabha.\n\nBoth Plato and Aristotle saw in mimesis the representation of nature, including human nature, as reflected in the dramas of the period. Plato wrote about mimesis in both \"Ion\" and \"The Republic\" (Books II, III, and X). In \"Ion\", he states that poetry is the art of divine madness, or inspiration. Because the poet is subject to this divine madness, instead of possessing \"art\" or \"knowledge\" – \"techne\" – of the subject (532c), the poet does not speak truth (as characterized by Plato's account of the Forms). As Plato has it, truth is only the concern of the philosopher. As culture in those days did not consist in the solitary reading of books, but in the listening to performances, the recitals of orators (and poets), or the acting out by classical actors of tragedy, Plato maintained in his critique that theatre was not sufficient in conveying the truth (540c). He was concerned that actors or orators were thus able to persuade an audience by rhetoric rather than by telling the truth (535b).\n\nIn Book II of \"The Republic\", Plato describes Socrates' dialogue with his pupils. Socrates warns we should not seriously regard poetry as being capable of attaining the truth and that we who listen to poetry should be on our guard against its seductions, since the poet has no place in our idea of God.\n\nIn developing this in Book X, Plato told of Socrates' metaphor of the three beds: one bed exists as an idea made by God (the Platonic ideal, or form); one is made by the carpenter, in imitation of God's idea; one is made by the artist in imitation of the carpenter's.\n\nSo the artist's bed is twice removed from the truth. Those who copy only touch on a small part of things as they really are, where a bed may appear differently from various points of view, looked at obliquely or directly, or differently again in a mirror. So painters or poets, though they may paint or describe a carpenter, or any other maker of things, know nothing of the carpenter's (the craftsman's) art, and though the better painters or poets they are, the more faithfully their works of art will resemble the reality of the carpenter making a bed, nonetheless the imitators will still not attain the truth (of God's creation).\n\nThe poets, beginning with Homer, far from improving and educating humanity, do not possess the knowledge of craftsmen and are mere imitators who copy again and again images of virtue and rhapsodise about them, but never reach the truth in the way the superior philosophers do.\n\nSimilar to Plato's writings about mimesis, Aristotle also defined mimesis as the perfection, and imitation of nature. Art is not only imitation but also the use of mathematical ideas and symmetry in the search for the perfect, the timeless, and contrasting being with becoming. Nature is full of change, decay, and cycles, but art can also search for what is everlasting and the first causes of natural phenomena. Aristotle wrote about the idea of four causes in nature. The first, the formal cause, is like a blueprint, or an immortal idea. The second cause is the material cause, or what a thing is made out of. The third cause is the efficient cause, that is, the process and the agent by which the thing is made. The fourth, the final cause, is the good, or the purpose and end of a thing, known as \"telos\".\n\nAristotle's \"Poetics\" is often referred to as the counterpart to this Platonic conception of poetry. \"Poetics\" is his treatise on the subject of mimesis. Aristotle was not against literature as such; he stated that human beings are mimetic beings, feeling an urge to create texts (art) that reflect and represent reality.\n\nAristotle considered it important that there be a certain distance between the work of art on the one hand and life on the other; we draw knowledge and consolation from tragedies only because they do not happen to us. Without this distance, tragedy could not give rise to catharsis. However, it is equally important that the text causes the audience to identify with the characters and the events in the text, and unless this identification occurs, it does not touch us as an audience. Aristotle holds that it is through \"simulated representation\", mimesis, that we respond to the acting on the stage which is conveying to us what the characters feel, so that we may empathise with them in this way through the mimetic form of dramatic roleplay. It is the task of the dramatist to produce the tragic enactment in order to accomplish this empathy by means of what is taking place on stage.\n\nIn short, catharsis can only be achieved if we see something that is both recognisable and distant. Aristotle argued that literature is more interesting as a means of learning than history, because history deals with specific facts that have happened, and which are contingent, whereas literature, although sometimes based on history, deals with events that could have taken place or ought to have taken place.\n\nAristotle thought of drama as being \"an imitation of an action\" and of tragedy as \"falling from a higher to a lower estate\" and so being removed to a less ideal situation in more \"tragic\" circumstances than before. He posited the characters in tragedy as being better than the average human being, and those of comedy as being worse.\n\nMichael Davis, a translator and commentator of Aristotle writes:\nIt was also Plato and Aristotle who contrasted mimesis with diegesis (Greek διήγησις). Mimesis \"shows\", rather than \"tells\", by means of directly represented action that is enacted. Diegesis, however, is the \"telling\" of the story by a narrator; the author narrates action indirectly and describes what is in the characters' minds and emotions. The narrator may speak as a particular character or may be the \"invisible narrator\" or even the \"all-knowing narrator\" who speaks from above in the form of commenting on the action or the characters.\n\nIn Book III of his \"Republic\" (c. 373 BCE), Plato examines the style of poetry (the term includes comedy, tragedy, epic and lyric poetry): All types narrate events, he argues, but by differing means. He distinguishes between narration or report (diegesis) and imitation or representation (mimesis). Tragedy and comedy, he goes on to explain, are wholly imitative types; the dithyramb is wholly narrative; and their combination is found in epic poetry. When reporting or narrating, \"the poet is speaking in his own person; he never leads us to suppose that he is any one else\"; when imitating, the poet produces an \"assimilation of himself to another, either by the use of voice or gesture\". In dramatic texts, the poet never speaks directly; in narrative texts, the poet speaks as himself or herself.\n\nIn his \"Poetics\", Aristotle argues that kinds of poetry (the term includes drama, flute music, and lyre music for Aristotle) may be differentiated in three ways: according to their \"medium\", according to their \"objects\", and according to their \"mode\" or \"manner\" (section I); \"For the medium being the same, and the objects the same, the poet may imitate by narration—in which case he can either take another personality, as Homer does, or speak in his own person, unchanged—or he may present all his characters as living and moving before us\" (section III).\n\nThough they conceive of mimesis in quite different ways, its relation with diegesis is identical in Plato's and Aristotle's formulations.\n\nIn ludology, mimesis is sometimes used to refer to the self-consistency of a represented world, and the availability of in-game rationalisations for elements of the gameplay. In this context, mimesis has an associated grade: highly self-consistent worlds that provide explanations for their puzzles and game mechanics are said to display a higher degree of mimesis. This usage can be traced back to the essay \"Crimes Against Mimesis\".\n\nDionysian imitatio is the influential literary method of imitation as formulated by Greek author Dionysius of Halicarnassus in the 1st century BCE, which conceived it as technique of rhetoric: emulating, adaptating, reworking and enriching a source text by an earlier author.\n\nDionysius' concept marked a significant depart from the concept of \"mimesis\" formulated by Aristotle's in the 4th century BCE, which was only concerned with \"imitation of nature\" instead of the \"imitation of other authors\". Latin orators and rhetoricians adopted the literary method of Dionysius' \"imitatio\" and discarded Aristotle's \"mimesis\".\n\nMimesis, or imitation, as he referred to it, was a crucial concept for Samuel Taylor Coleridge's theory of the imagination. Coleridge begins his thoughts on imitation and poetry from Plato, Aristotle, and Philip Sidney, adopting their concept of imitation of nature instead of other writers. His middling departure from the earlier thinkers lies in his arguing that art does not reveal a unity of essence through its ability to achieve sameness with nature. Coleridge claims:\nHere, Coleridge opposes imitation to copying, the latter referring to William Wordsworth's notion that poetry should duplicate nature by capturing actual speech. Coleridge instead argues that the unity of essence is revealed precisely through different materialities and media. Imitation, therefore, reveals the sameness of processes in nature.\n\nThe Belgian feminist Luce Irigaray used the term to describe a form of resistance where women imperfectly imitate stereotypes about themselves so as to show up these stereotypes and undermine them.\n\nIn \"Mimesis and Alterity\" (1993), the anthropologist Michael Taussig examines the way that people from one culture adopt another's nature and culture (the process of mimesis) at the same time as distancing themselves from it (the process of alterity). He describes how a legendary tribe, the \"white Indians\", or Cuna, have adopted in various representations figures and images reminiscent of the white people they encountered in the past (without acknowledging doing so).\n\nTaussig, however, criticises anthropology for reducing yet another culture, that of the Cuna, for having been so impressed by the exotic technologies of the whites that they raised them to the status of gods. To Taussig this reductionism is suspect, and he argues this from both sides in his \"Mimesis and Alterity\" to see values in the anthropologists' perspective while simultaneously defending the independence of a lived culture from the perspective of anthropological reductionism.\n\nIn \"Things Hidden Since the Foundation of the World\" (1978), René Girard posits that human behavior is based upon mimesis, and that imitation can engender pointless conflict. Girard notes the productive potential of competition: \"It is because of this unprecedented capacity to promote competition within limits that always remain socially, if not individually, acceptable that we have all the amazing achievements of the modern world,\" but states that competition stifles progress once it becomes an end in itself: \"rivals are more apt to forget about whatever objects are the cause of the rivalry and instead become more fascinated with one another.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1038052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1038052", "title": "Neuroesthetics", "text": "Neuroesthetics\n\nNeuroesthetics (or neuroaesthetics) is a relatively recent sub-discipline of empirical aesthetics. Empirical aesthetics takes a scientific approach to the study of aesthetic perceptions of art, music, or any object that can give rise to aesthetic judgments. Neuroesthetics received its formal definition in 2002 as the scientific study of the neural bases for the contemplation and creation of a work of art. Neuroesthetics uses neuroscience to explain and understand the aesthetic experiences at the neurological level. The topic attracts scholars from many disciplines including neuroscientists, art historians, artists, psychologists,\n\nNeuroaesthetics is a field of experimental science that aims to combine (neuro-)psychological research with aesthetics by investigating the \"perception, production, and response to art, as well as interactions with objects and scenes that evoke an intense feeling, often of pleasure.\". The recently developed field seeks among other things the neural correlates of aesthetic judgment and creativity. It is argued that visual aesthetics, namely the capacity of assigning different degrees of beauty to certain forms, colors, or movements, is a human trait acquired after the divergence of human and other ape lineages, rendering the experience of beauty a defining characteristic of humankind.\n\nOne core question for the field is whether art or aesthetic preferences are guided by a set of universal laws or principles. Additionally, the evolutionary rationale for the formation and characteristics of these principles are sought. It is believed that identification of the brain circuitry involved in aesthetic judgments (e.g., by using through the use of brain imaging) can help pinpoint the origin of these responses.\n\nResearchers who have been prominent in the field combine principles from perceptual psychology, evolutionary biology, neurological deficits, and functional brain anatomy in order to address the evolutionary meaning of beauty that may be the essence of art. It is felt that neuroscience is a very promising path for the search for the quantified evaluation of art.\nWith the aim of discovering general rules about aesthetics, one approach is the observation of subjects viewing art and the exploration of the mechanics of vision. It is proposed that pleasing sensations are derived from the repeated activation of neurons due to primitive visual stimuli such as horizontal and vertical lines. In addition to the generation of theories to explain this, such as Ramachandran's set of laws, it is important to use neuroscience to determine and understand the neurological mechanisms involved.\n\nThe link between specific brain areas and artistic activity is of great importance to the field of neuroesthetics. This can be applied both to the ability to create and interpret art. A common approach to uncover the neural mechanisms is through the study of individuals, specifically artists, with neural disorders such as savant syndrome or some form of traumatic injury. The analysis of art created by these patients provides valuable insights to the brain areas responsible for capturing the essence of art.\n\nThe aesthetic enjoyment of individuals can be investigated using brain imaging experiments. When subjects are confronted with images of a particular level of aesthetics, the specific brain areas that are activated can be identified. It is argued that the sense of beauty and aesthetic judgment presupposes a change in the activation of the brain's reward system.\n\nA crucial aspect of research lies in whether aesthetic judgment can be thought of as a bottom-up process driven by neural primitives or as a top-down process with high level cognition. Neurologists have had success researching primitives. However, there is a need to define higher level abstract philosophical concepts objectively with neural correlates. It is suggested that aesthetic experience is a function of the interaction between top-down, intentional orientation of attention and the bottom-up perceptual facilitation of image construction. In other words, because untrained persons automatically apply the object-identification habit to viewing artworks, top-down control to reduce this habit may be necessary to engage aesthetic perception. This suggests that artists would show different levels of activation than non-artists.\n\nAesthetic responses to different types of art and techniques has recently been explored. Cubism is the most radical departure from Western forms of art, with the proposed purpose of forcing the viewer to discover less unstable elements of the object to be represented. It eliminates interferences such as lighting and perspective angle to capture objects as they really are. This may be compared to how the brain maintains an object's identity despite varying conditions. Modern, representational, and impressionistic art has also been studied for the purpose of explaining visual processing systems. Yet aesthetic judgments exists in all domains, not just art.\n\nSemir Zeki, professor of neuroesthetics at the University College of London, views art as an example of the variability of the brain. Thus a neurological approach to the source of this variability may explain particular subjective experiences as well as the ranges of abilities to create and experience art. Zeki theorizes that artists unconsciously use techniques to create visual art to study the brain. Zeki suggests that\n\n\"...the artist is in a sense, a neuroscientist, exploring the potentials and capacities of the brain, though with different tools. How such creations can arouse aesthetic experiences can only be fully understood in neural terms. Such an understanding is now well within our reach.\"He proposes two supreme laws of the visual brain.\n\nDespite the changes that occur when processing visual stimuli (distance, viewing angle, illumination, etc.), the brain has the unique ability to retain knowledge of constant and essential properties of an object and discard irrelevant dynamic properties. This applies not only to the ability to always see a banana as the color yellow but also the recognition of faces at varying angles.\n\nComparatively, a work of art captures the essence of an object. The creation of art itself may be modeled off of this primitive neural function. The process of painting for example involves distilling an object down to represent it as it really is, which differs from the way the eyes see it. Zeki also tried to represent the Platonic Ideal and the Hegelian Concept through the statement: forms do not have an existence without a brain and the ability for stored memory, referring to how artists such as Monet could paint without knowing what the objects in order to capture their true form.\n\nThis process refers to the hierarchical coordination where a general representation can be applied to many particulars, allowing the brain to efficiently process visual stimuli. The ability to abstract may have evolved as a necessity due to the limitations of memory. In a way, art externalizes the functions of abstraction in the brain. The process of abstraction is unknown to cognitive neurobiology. However, Zeki proposes an interesting question of whether there is a significant difference in the pattern of brain activity when viewing abstract art as opposed to representational art.\n\nVilayanur S. Ramachandran and his fellow researchers including William Hirstein, developed a highly speculative theory of human artistic experience and the neural mechanisms that mediate it. These \"laws\" combine to develop underlying high order concepts of the human artistic experience. Although not all encompassing as there are undoubtedly many other principles of artistic experience, the theorists claim that they provide a framework for understanding aspects of visual art, aesthetics and design. Although testing of these principles quantitatively may provide future evidence for specific areas of the brain responsible for one kind of aesthetic appeal, the theory faces substantial philosophical and historical objections.\n\nThis psychological phenomenon is typically known for its application in animal discrimination learning. In the peak shift effect, animals sometimes respond more strongly to exaggerated versions of the training stimuli. For instance, a rat is trained to discriminate a square from a rectangle by being rewarded for recognizing the rectangle. The rat will respond more frequently to the object for which it is being rewarded to the point that a rat will respond to a rectangle that is longer and more narrow with a higher frequency than the original with which it was trained. This is called a supernormal stimulus. The fact that the rat is responding more to a 'super' rectangle implies that it is learning a rule.\n\nThis effect can be applied to human pattern recognition and aesthetic preference. Some artists attempt to capture the very essence of something in order to evoke a direct emotional response. In other words, they try to make a 'super' rectangle to get the viewer to have an enhanced response. To capture the essence of something, an artist amplifies the differences of that object, or what makes it unique, to highlight the essential features and reduce redundant information. This process mimics what the visual areas of the brain have evolved to do and more powerfully activates the same neural mechanisms that were originally activated by the original object.\n\nSome artists deliberately exaggerate creative components such as shading, highlights, and illumination to an extent that would never occur in a real image to produce a caricature. These artists may be unconsciously producing heightened activity in the specific areas of the brain in a manner that is not obvious to the conscious mind. It should be noted here that a significant portion of the experience of art is not self-consciously reflected upon by audiences, so it is not clear whether the peak-shift thesis has any special explanatory power in understanding the creation and reception of art.\n\nIsolating a single visual cue helps the organism allocate attention to the output of a single module thereby allowing it to more effectively enjoy the peak shift along the dimensions represented in that module. In other words, there is a need to isolate the desired visual form before that aspect is amplified. This is why an outline drawing or sketch is sometimes more effective as art than an original color photograph. For example, a cartoonist may exaggerate certain facial features which are unique to the character and remove other forms which it shares such as skin tones. This efficiency prevents non-unique features from detracting from the image. This is why one can predict that an outline drawing would be more aesthetically pleasing than a color photograph.\n\nThe viewers attention is drawn towards this single area allowing one's attention to be focused on this source of information. Enhancements introduced by the artist more carefully noted resulting in the amplification of limbic system activation and reinforcement.\n\nPerceptual grouping to delineate a figure from the background may be enjoyable. The source of the pleasure may have come about because of the evolutionary necessity to give organisms an incentive to uncover objects, such as predators, from noisy environments. For example, when viewing ink blots, the visual system segments the scene to defeat camouflage and link a subset of splotches together. This may be accomplished most effectively if limbic reinforcement is fed back to early vision at every stage of visual processing leading up to the discovery of the object. The key idea is that due to the limited attentional resources, constant feedback facilitates processing of features at earlier stages due to the discovery of a clue which produces limbic activation to draw one's attention to important features. Though not spontaneous, this reinforcement is the source of the pleasant sensation. The discovery of the object itself results in a pleasant 'aha' revelation causing the organism to hold onto the image.\n\nAn artist can make use of this phenomenon by teasing the system. This allows for temporary binding to be communicated by a signal to the limbic system for reinforcement which is a source of the aesthetic experience.\n\nExtracting contrast involves eliminating redundant information and focusing attention. Cells in the retina, the lateral geniculate body or relay station in the brain, and in the visual cortex respond predominantly to step changes in luminance rather than homogeneous surface colors. Smooth gradients are much harder for the visual system to detect rather than segmented divisions of shades resulting in easily detectable edges. Contrasts due to the formation of edges may be pleasing to the eye. The importance of the visual neuron's varying responses to the orientation and presence of edges has previously been proven by David H. Hubel and Torsten Wiesel. This may hold evolutionary significance since regions of contrast are information rich requiring reinforcement and the allocation of attention. In contrast to the principle of grouping, contrasting features are typically in close proximity eliminating the need to link distant, but similar features.\n\nTied to the detection of contrast and grouping is the concept that discovery of an object after a struggle is more pleasing than one which is instantaneously obvious. The mechanism ensures that the struggle is reinforcing so that the viewer continues to look until the discovery. From a survival point of view, this may be important for the continued search for predators. Ramachandran suggests for the same reason that a model whose hips and breasts are about to be revealed is more provocative than one who is already completely naked. A meaning that is implied is more alluring than one that is explicit.\n\nThe visual system dislikes interpretations which rely on a unique vantage point. Rather it accepts the visual interpretation for which there is an infinite set of viewpoints that could produce the class of retinal images. For example, in a landscape image, it will interpret an object in the foreground as obscuring an object in the background, rather than assuming that the background figure has a piece missing. \nIn theory, if an artist is trying to please the eye, they should avoid such coincidences. However, in certain applications, the violation of this principle can also produce a pleasing effect.\n\nRamachandran defines a metaphor as a mental tunnel between two concepts that appear grossly dissimilar on the surface, but instead share a deeper connection. Similar to the effects of perceptual problem solving, grasping an analogy is rewarding. It enables the viewer to highlight crucial aspects that the two objects share. Although it is uncertain whether the reason for this mechanism is for effective communication or purely cognitive, the discovery of similarities between superficially dissimilar events leads to activation of the limbic system to create a rewarding process.\n\nSupport for this view is highlighted by the symptoms of Capgras delusion, where sufferers experience reduced facial recognition due to impairments in the connections from the inferotemporal cortex to the amygdala, which is responsible for emotions. The result is that a person no longer experiences the warm fuzzy feeling when presented with a familiar face. A person's 'glow' is lost through what is suggested as due to the lack of limbic activation.\n\nThe aesthetic appeal of symmetry is easily understandable. Biologically it is important during the detection of a predator, location of prey, and the choosing of a mate as all of these tend to display symmetry in nature. It complements other principles relating to the discovering of information rich objects. Additionally, evolutionary biologists suggest that the predisposition towards symmetry is because biologically, asymmetry is associated with infection and disease, which can lead to poor mate selection. However, departures from symmetry in visual art are also widely considered beautiful, suggesting that while symmetry may explain the judgment that a particular individual's face is beautiful, it cannot explain the judgment that a work of art is beautiful.\n\nAesthetic perception relies heavily on the processing by the visual centers in the brain such as the V1 cortex. Signals from V1 are distributed to various specialized areas of the brain. There is no single area where all specialized visual circuitry connect, reducing the chances of determining a single neural center responsible for aesthetics, rather a neural network is more likely. Therefore, the visual brain consists of several parallel multistage processing systems, each specialized in a given task such as color or motion. Functional specializations of the visual brain are already known.\n\nPhysiological phenomenon can explain several aspects of art appreciation. Different extrastriate areas of the visual cortex may have evolved to extract correlations of different visual features. The discovery and linking of various visual stimuli is facilitated and reinforced by direct connections from these areas to limbic structures. Additionally, art may be most appealing if it produces heightened activity in a single dimension rather than redundant activation of multiple modules, restricted by the allocation of attentional resources. In experimentation to determine specific areas, many researchers allow the viewer to decide the aesthetic appeal prior to the use of imaging techniques to account for the varying perceptions of beauty. When individuals contemplate the aesthetic appeal, different neural processes are engaged than when pragmatically viewing an image. However, processes of object identification and aesthetic judgment are involved simultaneously in the overall perception of aesthetics. \n\nThe prefrontal cortex is previously known for its roles in the perception of colored objects, decision making, and memory. Recent studies have also linked it to the conscious aesthetic experience because it is activated during aesthetic tasks such as determining the appeal of a visual stimuli. This may be because a judgment is needed, requiring visiospatial memory. In a study performed by Zeki and Kawabata, it was found that the orbito-frontal cortex (OFC) is involved in the judgment of whether a painting is beautiful or not. There is high activation in this region when a person views paintings which they consider beautiful. Surprisingly, when a person views a painting which they consider ugly, no separate structures are activated. Therefore, it is proposed that changes in the intensity of activation in the orbito-frontal cortex correlate with the determination of beauty (higher activation) or ugliness (lower activation). Additionally, the medial OFC has been found to respond aesthetics in terms of the context of which it is presented, such as text or other descriptions about the artwork. The current evidence linking the OFC to attributed hedonistic values across gustatory, olfactory, and visual modalities, suggests that the OFC is a common center for the assessment of a stimulus's value. The perception of aesthetics for these areas must be due to the activation of the brain's reward system with a certain intensity.\nAdditionally, the prefrontal dorsalateral cortex (PDC) is selectively activated only by stimuli considered beautiful whereas prefrontal activity as a whole is activated during the judgment of both pleasing and unpleasing stimuli. The prefrontal cortex may be generally activated for directing the attention of the cognitive and perceptual mechanisms towards aesthetic perception in viewers untrained in visual arts. In other words, related directly to a person viewing art from an aesthetic perception due to the top-down control of their cognition. The lateral prefrontal cortex is shown to be linked to higher order self-referential procession and the evaluation of internally generated information. The left lateral PFC, Brodmann area 10, may be involved in maintaining attention on the execution of internally generated goals associated with approaching art from an aesthetic orientation. As previously mentioned, directing of attention towards aesthetics may have evolutionary significance.\n\nEmotions play a large role in aesthetic processing. Experiments designed specifically to force the subjects to view the artwork subjectively (by inquiring of its aesthetic appeal) rather than simply with the visual systems, revealed a higher activation in the brain's emotional circuitry. Results from these experiments revealed high activation in the bilateral insula which can be attributed to the emotional experience of viewing art. This correlates with other known emotional roles of the insula. However, the correlation between the insula's varying states of activation and positive or negative emotions in this context is unknown. The emotional view of art can be contrasted with perception related to object recognition when pragmatically viewing art. The right fusiform gyrus has been revealed to show activation to visual stimuli such as faces and representational art. This holds importance in the field because as Ramachandran also speculated, object recognition and the search for meaning can evoke a pleasant emotional response. The motor cortex was also shown to be involved in aesthetic perception. However, it displayed opposite trends of activation from the OFC. It may be a common correlate for the perception of emotionally charged stimuli despite its previously known roles. Several other areas of the brain were shown to be slightly activated during certain studies such as the anterior cingulate cortex, previously known for its involvement in the feeling of romance, and the left parietal cortex, whose purpose may be to direct spatial attention.\n\nDifferent artistic styles may also be processed differently by the brain. In a study between filtered forms of abstract and representation art, the bilateral occipital gyri, left cingulate sulcus, and bilateral fusiform gyrus showed increased activation with increased preference when viewing art. However, activation in the bilateral occipital gyri may be caused by the large processing requirements placed on the visual system when viewing high levels of visual detail in artwork such as representational paintings. Several areas of the brain have been shown to respond particularly to forms representational art perhaps due to the brain's ability to make object associations and other functions relating to attention and memory. This form of stimuli leads to increased activation in the left frontal lobe and bilaterally in the parietal and limbic lobes. Also, the left superior parietal lobule, Brodmann's area 7, has been shown to play a role in active image construction during the viewing of art specifically containing indeterminate forms such as soft edge paintings. Bottom up processes such as edge detection and the exploration of visual stimuli are engaged during this type of aesthetic perception. These roles are consistent with previously known parietal lobe responsibilities in spatial cognition and visual imagery.\n\nThere are several objections to researchers' attempts to reduce aesthetic experience to a set of physical or neurological laws. It is questionable whether the theories can capture the evocativeness or originality of individual works of art. Experiments performed may not account for these theories directly. Also, current experimentation measures a person's verbal response to how they feel about art which is often selectively filtered. Ramachandran suggests the use of galvanic skin response to quantify the judgment associated viewing aesthetics. Overall, it can be argued that there is lack of proportion between the narrow approach to art taken by researchers versus the grand claims they make for their theories.\n\nSince 2005 the notion of bridging brain science and the visual arts has blossomed into a field of increasing international interest. In his 2008 book, \"Neuroarthistory: from Aristotle and Pliny to Baxandall and Zeki\", Professor John Onians of the University of East Anglia considers himself to be at the forefront of the field of neural scientific biased art historical research, although such a 'history' is much shorter than Onians would have us believe. Many historical figures he deals with as precursors for neuroarthistory (Karl Marx, for example) have very little to do with modern neuroscience as it is understood today. Contemporary artists like Mark Stephen Smith (William Campbell Gallery, USA) and others have developed extensive bodies of work mapping the convergence of brain science and painting. Smith's work explores fundamental visual analogies between neural function and self-expression in abstract art. The past decade has also seen a corresponding growth in the aesthetics of music studied from neuroscientific approaches. Psychological and social approaches to art help provide other theories of experience. Additional research on disorders and psychological conditions that affect visual processing such as dementia may provide other valuable insights.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31782815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31782815", "title": "Nomen à clef", "text": "Nomen à clef\n\nIn romance languages, nomen à clef or nomen à clé (, French for \"name with a key\"), is a name describing a real person, behind a façade of fiction. \"Key\" in this context means a table one can use to swap out the names. \nIt is the nomenclature complement of the roman à clef.\n\n"}
{"id": "3287616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3287616", "title": "Pointillé", "text": "Pointillé\n\nPointillé is a decorative technique in which patterns are formed on a surface by a means of punched dots. The technique is similar to embossing or engraving but is done manually and does not cut into the surface being decorated. Pointillé was commonly used to decorate arms and armor starting in the fifteenth century . The Holy Thorn Reliquary in the British Museum, made in France at the end of the 14th century, has very fine and delicate pointillé work in gold.\n\nPointillé is commonly used:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "995952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=995952", "title": "Protest art", "text": "Protest art\n\nProtest art is a broad term that refers to creative works that concern or are produced by activists and social movements. There are also contemporary and historical works and currents of thought that can be characterized in this way.\n\nSocial movements produce such works as the signs, banners, posters, and other printed materials used to convey a particular cause or message. Often, such art is used as part of demonstrations or acts of civil disobedience. These works tend to be ephemeral, characterized by their portability and disposability, and are frequently not authored or owned by any one person. The various peace symbols, and the raised fist are two examples that highlight the democratic ownership of these signs.\n\nProtest art also includes (but is not limited to) performance, site-specific installations, graffiti and street art, and crosses the boundaries of art genres, media, and disciplines.\nWhile some protest art is associated with trained and professional artists, an extensive knowledge of art is not required to take part in protest art. Protest artists frequently bypass the art-world institutions and commercial gallery system in an attempt to reach a wider audience. Furthermore, protest art is not limited to one region or country, but is rather a method that is used around the world. \n\nThere are many politically charged pieces of fine art — such as Picasso's \"Guernica\", some of Norman Carlberg's Vietnam war-era work, or Susan Crile's images of torture at Abu Ghraib.\n\nIt is difficult to establish a history for protest art because many variations of it can be found throughout history. While many cases of protest art can be found during the early 1900s, like Picasso's Guernica in 1937, the last thirty years has experienced a large increase in the number of artists adopting protest art as a style to relay a message to the public.\n\nAs awareness of social justices around the world became more common among the public, an increase in protest art can be seen. Some of the most critically effective artworks of the recent period were staged outside the gallery, away from the museum and in that sense, protest art has found a different relationship to the public.\n\nActivist art represents and includes aesthetic, sociopolitical, and technological developments that have attempted to challenge and complicate the traditional boundaries and hierarchies of culture as represented by those in power. Like protest art, activist art practice emerged partly out of a call for art to be connected to a wider audience, and to open up spaces where the marginalized and disenfranchised can be seen and heard.\n\nActivist art incorporates the use of public space to address socio-political issues and to encourage community and public participation as a means of bringing about social change. It aims to affect social change by engaging in active processes of representation that work to foster participation in dialogue, raise consciousness, and empower individuals and communities. The need to ensure the continued impact of a work by sustaining the public participation process it initiated is also a challenge for many activist artists. It often requires the artist to establish relationships within the communities where projects take place.\n\nIf social movements are understood as “repeated public displays” of alternative political and cultural values, then activist art is significant in articulating such alternative views. Activist art is also important to the dimension of culture and an understanding of its importance alongside political, economical, and social forces in movements and acts of social change. One should be wary of conflating activist art with political art, as doing so obscures critical differences in methodology, strategy, and activist goals.\n\nActivist art cites its origins from a particular artistic and political climate. In the art world, performance art of the late 1960s to the 70s worked to broaden aesthetic boundaries within visual arts and traditional theatre, blurring the rigidly construed distinction between the two. The transient, interdisciplinary, and hybrid nature of performance art allowed for audience engagement. The openness and immediacy of the medium invited public participation, and the nature of the artistic medium was a hub for media attention.\n\nEmerging forms of feminism and feminist art of the time was particularly influential to activist art. The idea that “the personal is the political,” that is, the notion that personal revelation through art can be a political tool, guided much activist art in its study of the public dimensions to private experience. The strategies deployed by feminist artists parallel those by artists working in activist art. Such strategies often involved “collaboration, dialogue, a constant questioning of aesthetic and social assumptions, and a new respect for audience” and are used to articulate and negotiate issues of self-representation, empowerment, and community identity.\n\nConceptual Art sought to expand aesthetic boundaries in its critique of notions of the art object and the commodity system within which it is circulated as currency. Conceptual artists experimented with unconventional materials and processes of art production. Grounded by strategies rooted in the real world, projects in conceptual art demanded viewer participation and were exhibited outside of the traditional and exclusive space of the art gallery, thus making the work accessible to the public. Similarly, collaborative methods of execution and expertise drawn from outside the art world are often employed in activist art so as to attain its goals for community and public participation. Parallel to the emphasis on ideas that conceptual art endorsed, activist art is process-oriented, seeking to expose embedded power relationships through its process of creation.\n\nIn the political sphere, the militancy and identity politics of the period fostered the conditions out of which activist art arose.\n\nIn practice, activist art may often take the form of temporal interventions, such as performance, media events, exhibitions, and installations. It is also common to employ mainstream media techniques (through the use of billboards, posters, advertising, newspaper inserts…etc.). By making use of these commercial distributive channels of commerce, this technique is particularly effective in conveying messages that reveal and subvert its usual intentions.\n\nThe use public participation as a strategy of activating individuals and communities to become a “catalyst for change” is important to activist art. In this context, participation becomes an act of self-expression or self-representation by the entire community. Creative expression empowers individuals by creating a space in which their voices can be heard and in which they can engage in a dialogue with one another, and with the issues in which they have a personal stake.\n\nThe Artist and Homeless Collaborative is an example of a project that works with strategies of public participation as a means of individual and community empowerment. It is an affiliation of artists, arts professionals and women, children and teenagers living in NYC shelters, the A & HC believe that their work in a collaborative project of art-making offers the residents a “positive experience of self-motivation and helps them regain what the shelter system and circumstances of lives destroy: a sense of individual identity and confidence in human interaction.” The process of engaging the community in a dialogue with dominant and public discourses about the issue of homelessness is described in a statement by its founder, Hope Sandrow: “The relevancy of art to a community is exhibited in artworks where the homeless speak directly to the public and in discussion that consider the relationship art has to their lives. The practice of creating art stimulates those living in shelters from a state of malaise to active participation in the artistic process”\n\nThe A & HC came into being at a time when a critique of the makers, sellers, and consumers of art that addressed social concerns became increasingly pronounced. Critics argued that the very works of art whose purpose was to provoke political, social and cultural conversation were confined within the exclusive and privileged space of galleries museums, and private collections. By contrast, the A & HC was an attempt to bridge the gap between art production and social action, thus allowing for the work subjects that were previously excluded and silenced to be heard.\n\nResistance art is art used as a way of showing their opposition to powerholders. This includes art that opposed such powers as the German Nazi party, as well as that opposed to apartheid in South Africa. Willie Bester is one of South Africa's most well known artists who originally began as a resistance artist. Using materials assembled from garbage, Bester builds up surfaces into relief and then paints the surface with oil paint. His works commented on important black South African figures and aspects important to his community. South African resistance artists do not exclusively deal with race nor do they have to be from the townships. Another artist, Jane Alexander, has dealt with the atrocities of apartheid from a white perspective. Her resistance art deals with the unhealthy society that continues in post-apartheid South Africa.\n\nThe Center for the Study of Political Graphics archive currently contains more than 85,000 posters and has the largest collection of post-World War II social justice posters in the United States and the second largest in the world. Many university libraries have extensive collections including the Joseph A. Labadie Collection at University of Michigan documents the history of social protest movements and marginalized political communities from the 19th century to the present.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38928070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38928070", "title": "Puppy pregnancy syndrome", "text": "Puppy pregnancy syndrome\n\nPuppy pregnancy syndrome is a psychosomatic illness in humans brought on by mass hysteria.\n\nThe syndrome is thought to be localized to villages in several states of India, including West Bengal, Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand, Orissa, and Chhattisgarh, and has been reported by tens of thousands of individuals. It is far more prevalent in areas with little access to education.\n\nPeople suffering from this condition believe that shortly after being bitten by a dog, puppies are conceived within their abdomen. This is said to be especially likely if the dog is sexually excited at the time of the attack. Victims are said to bark like dogs, and have reported being able to see the puppies inside them when looking at water, or hear them growling in their abdomen. It is believed that the victims will eventually die – especially men, who will give birth to their puppies through the penis.\n\nWitch doctors offer oral cures, which they claim will dissolve the puppies, allowing them to pass through the digestive system and be excreted \"without the knowledge of the patient\".\n\nDoctors in India have tried to educate the public about the dangers of believing in this condition. Most sufferers are referred to psychiatric services, but in rare instances patients fail to take anti-rabies medication in time, thinking that they have puppy pregnancy syndrome and thus the witch doctor's medicine will cure them. This is further compounded by witch doctors stating that their medicine will fail if sufferers seek conventional treatment.\n\nSome psychiatrists believe that the syndrome meets the criteria for a culture-bound disorder.\n\n"}
{"id": "19182784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19182784", "title": "Queen Street Arts and Culture District (Niagara Falls, Ontario)", "text": "Queen Street Arts and Culture District (Niagara Falls, Ontario)\n\nThe Queen Street Arts and Culture District is the old downtown area of Niagara Falls, Ontario, Canada. The street is now populated with art galleries, restaurants, and performing spaces. Home to the Niagara Region's largest Festival, Springlicious.\n\nThe art galleries feature works from a number of well-known artists, including John Newby. Most of the galleries feature an inviting sitting area from which patrons can view the various pieces in the galleries.\n\nLive venues such as the new Q Club regularly hold community driven concerts that are open to the public. The once prominent Seneca theater has been rebuilt to its former glory with the help of the Trillium Foundation. The new Seneca theater presents live performances. \nThe building that was once known as the Cell Block is being converted into an open concept theater that will host a variety of live performances.\n\nThere are also a number of restaurants and cafés such as: Paris Crepes Bistro.\n"}
{"id": "68062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68062", "title": "Remodernism", "text": "Remodernism\n\nRemodernism revives aspects of modernism, particularly in its early form, and follows postmodernism, to which it contrasts. Adherents of remodernism advocate it as a forward and radical, not reactionary, impetus.\n\nIn 2000, Billy Childish and Charles Thomson, founders of the stuckism art movement instigated remodernism, with a manifesto, \"Remodernism\" in an attempt to introduce a period of new spirituality into art, culture and society to replace postmodernism, which they said was cynical and spiritually bankrupt. In 2002, a remodernism art show in Albuquerque was accompanied by an essay from University of California, Berkeley art professor, Kevin Radley, who said there was a renewal of artists working without the limitation of irony and cynicism, and that there was a renewal of the sense of beauty.\n\nIn 2006, the Stedelijk Museum and the University of Amsterdam held a talk on remodernism with Daniel Birnbaum and Alison Gingeras; the introduction to this talked of the revival of painting as a possible return to traditional modernist values, such as authenticity, self-expression and autonomy, as opposed to multimedia practice.\n\nCharles Thomson and Billy Childish, the founders of the stuckism art movement, inaugurated the period of remodernism. Their \"Remodernism\" manifesto was published on March 1, 2000 to promote vision, authenticity and self-expression, with an emphasis on painting, and subtitled \"towards a new spirituality in art.\" Its premise is that the potential of the modernist vision has not been fulfilled, that its development has been in the wrong direction and that this vision needs to be reclaimed, redefined and redeveloped. It advocates the search for truth, knowledge and meaning, and challenges formalism. \n\nIt has a short introduction, summing up: \"Modernism has progressively lost its way, until finally toppling into the bottomless pit of Postmodern balderdash.\" This is followed by 14 numbered points, stressing bravery, individuality, inclusiveness, communication, humanity and the perennial against nihilism, scientific materialism and the \"brainless destruction of convention.\" Point 7 states:\n\nPoint 9 states: \"Spiritual art is not religion. Spirituality is humanity's quest to understand itself and finds its symbology through the clarity and integrity of its artists.\" Point 12 links its use of the word \"God\" to enthusiasm—from the Greek root \"en theos\" (to be possessed by God).\n\nThe summary at the end starts, \"It is quite clear to anyone of an uncluttered mental disposition that what is now put forward, quite seriously, as art by the ruling elite, is proof that a seemingly rational development of a body of ideas has gone seriously awry,\" and finds the solution is a spiritual renaissance because \"there is nowhere else for art to go. Stuckism's mandate is to initiate that spiritual renaissance now.\"\n\nChildish and Thomson sent their remodernism manifesto to Sir Nicholas Serota, Director of the Tate Gallery, who replied, \"You will not be surprised to learn that I have no comment to make on your letter, or your manifesto \"Remodernism\".\"\n\nIn March 2000 the Stuckists declared themselves to be the first remodernist art group at a show \"The Resignation of Sir Nicholas Serota\". In April, remodernism was quoted in \"The Gulf News\" (UAE). In May \"The Observer\" newspaper announced a stuckist show: \"As the founding group of a self-named art movement called Remodernism, they stand on an art ticket that's against clever conceptualism and in favour of a more emotional and spiritual integrity in art via figurative painting.\"\n\nIn June, Thomson and Childish gave a talk on stuckism and remodernism at the Salon des Arts, Kensington, promoted by the Institute of Ideas. The same month the \"Students for Stuckism\" also gave \"a Remodernist show and talk.\" The Institute of Remodernism was founded by Dr Khatereh Ahmadi.\n\nIn 2001, Thomson stood in the UK general election, stating, \"The Stuckist Party aims to bring the ideas of Stuckism and Remodernism into the political arena.\" \n\nIn January 2002, Magnifico Arts presented a show \"ReMo: ReModernism\" of graduate students from the University of New Mexico. At an artists' talk, Kevin Radley, an art professor at the University of California, Berkeley said, \"Remodernism isn't about going backwards, but about surging forward.\" In an essay that accompanied the exhibition, Radley wrote:\nThe show curator, Yoshimi Hayashi, said:\nIn 2003, an independent group, the Stuckist Photographers, was founded by Andy Bullock and Larry Dunstan with a statement of endorsement for remodernism.\n\nIn 2004, the Defastenists, a new group of creatives in Ireland, declared themselves remodernist. A Remodernist art gallery, The Deatrick Gallery was founded in Louisville, Kentucky.\nAmerican film makers/photographers Jesse Richards and Harris Smith co-founded a new group remodernist film and photography with an emphasis on emotional meaning and characterised by elements of new-wave, no-wave, expressionist and transcendental film-making.\n\nStuckist artist Bill Lewis, interviewed by the BBC at the 2004 Liverpool Biennial, said that remodernism was \"not a movement as such,\" but a return to the start of modernism in order to move forward with an art for a new paradigm. To \"remodernise\" is to go \"back to the root again, starting with painting ... and see where it goes.\" He said that this had been called reactionary, but it was radical \"in the true sense of the word.\" New York stuckist artist, Terry Marks said that remodernism posited that modernism had started in a good direction, but veered from that into \"pure idea\" and that it was necessary to return to the starting point to take an as-yet unexplored alternative direction: \"to pursue art-making that's more concrete and accessible to more people, and find out where that leads us.\"\n\nIn 2004, Luke Heighton wrote in \"The Future\" magazine, \"Remodernism, it seems, is here to stay whether we like it or not.\" Alex Kapranos of Franz Ferdinand declared 2004 \"a good year for remodernism—for having the gall to suggest that artists can have souls.\" \n\nIn August 2005 an art show \"\" (a title taken from a line in the stuckist remodernism manifesto) was held at CBGBs 313 gallery in New York City. Artist and blogger Mark Vallen said, \"In the mid-1970s punk rock was born in a dank little New York nightclub called CBGB's. It all started when rockers like Television, the Ramones and Patti Smith launched a frontal assault on the monolith of corporate rock 'n roll. Now another artistic revolt, Remodernism, is about to widen its offensive from the birthplace of punk.\"\n\nOn May 10, 2006, the Stedelijk Museum and the University of Amsterdam staged a talk on remodernism by Daniel Birnbaum, contributing editor of \"Artforum\", and Alison Gingeras, Assistant Curator, Guggenheim Museum. The summary is:\nIn August 2006, an online group called \"The Remodernists of Deviantart\" was founded by Clay Martin. The group is composed of artists who are active on the website deviantart.com. \n\nIn 2006, artist Matt Bray said, \"I do not wish to be considered a Stuckist, as I find some of there (sic) antics unnecessary. The Stuckists are however the first and most famous Remodernist group, so for that, and for bringing this particular manifesto to my attention; I thank them.\" In May 2007, with punk singer Adam Bray, he created the Mad Monk Collective in Folkestone, England, to promote remodernism.\n\nIn January 2008, London \"Evening Standard\" critic, Ben Lewis, said the year would see \"the invention of a new word to describe the modernist revival: 'remodernism,'\" which he applied later in the year to Turner Prize nominees Mark Leckey, Runa Islam and Goshka Macuga, as \"part of a whole movement reviving early 20th-century formalism,\" praising Macuga for her \"heartfelt, modest and generous-spirited aesthetic,\" of which he said there was more needed today. In April 2009, he described Catalina Niculescu, a Romanian artist using \"nostalgic\" 16mm film, as among a significant trend in art of fetishising the offcuts of modernism: \"Let's call it Remodernism.\"\n\nOn August 27, 2008, Jesse Richards published a \"Remodernist Film Manifesto\", calling for a \"new spirituality in cinema,\" use of intuition in filmmaking, as well as describing the remodernist film as being a \"stripped down, minimal, lyrical, punk kind of filmmaking\". The manifesto criticizes Stanley Kubrick, filmmakers who use digital video, and Dogme 95. Point 4 says: \nIn 2009, Nick Christos and other students from Florida Atlantic University founded the Miami Stuckists group. Christos said, \n\"Stuckism is a renaissance of modernism—it's re-modernism.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "471937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=471937", "title": "Scandinavian folklore", "text": "Scandinavian folklore\n\nScandinavian folklore or Nordic folklore is the folklore of Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Iceland and the Faroe Islands.\n\nCollecting folklore began when Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden sent out instructions to all of the priests in all of the parishes to collect the folklore of their area in the 1630s. They collected customs, beliefs that were not sanctioned by the church, and other traditional material.\n\nIceland, Hove and the Faroe Islands are not part of Scandinavia (although they are Nordic countries), but can nevertheless be regarded as Scandinavian in folkloric terms. As a result of their common Germanic origin, Scandinavian folklore shows a large correspondence with folklores elsewhere, such as England and Germany, among others. Most of what has survived there might be found, of a similar nature, in Finland, Sapmi and Estonia and to a lesser extent in other Baltic countries.\n\nA large number of different mythological creatures from Norse mythology continue to live on in Scandinavian folklore, little affected by Christian beliefs, though the wicked ones at times find an ally in the Devil or have problems with Christian symbols. These beings could be scared by a piece of iron or steel, such as a strategically placed pair of scissors or a knife, or with salt and fire. The stories about the livings and doings of these beings, and their interaction with humans, constitute the major part of Scandinavian folklore. Even the helpful tomte, nisse, gårdbo or gårdbuk could turn into a fearsome adversary if not treated with caution and respect. Many of them blend into each other when their morals and/or place of residence are similar, and equally when one moves from one region in Scandinavia to another. When the folktales were collected and printed, the illustrators started to give shape to the creatures that had hitherto lingered in obscurity. The creatures underwent a metamorphosis and became concrete figures to the people of Scandinavian countries.\n\nPerhaps most abundant are the stories about the race of trolls (Danish: trolde, Swedish/Norwegian: troll). Scandinavian trolls tend to be very big, hairy, stupid, and slow to act. Any human with courage and presence of mind can outwit a troll, and those whose faith is strong can even challenge them to mortal combat. They are said to have a temperament like a bear—which are, incidentally, their favorite pets—good-natured when they are left in peace, and savage when they are teased. Trolls come in many different shapes and forms, and are generally not fair to behold, as they can have as many as nine heads. Trolls live throughout the land, dwelling in mountains, under bridges, and at the bottom of lakes. While the trolls who live in the mountains are very wealthy, hoarding mounds of gold and silver in their cliff dwellings, the most dangerous trolls live in lonely huts in the forest. While few trolls have female trolls, trollkoner, as wives, most possess a regrettable tendency to spirit away beautiful maidens, preferably princesses, who are forced to spin by day and scratch the troll's head by night. The trolls have their own king, called Dovregubben, who lives inside the Dovre Mountains with his court. Dovregubben and his court are described in detail in Ibsen's \"Peer Gynt\". After the integration of Christianity into Scandinavian folklore, trolls developed a hatred of church-bells and the smell of Christians.\nTrolls are often said to be able to change their appearance and did so in order to trick humans into doing what they wanted. For example, Trolls may present a beautiful appearance in order to trick a character into following them into their mountain home, then hold the character captive for years (Danish: bjergtagen, Norwegian: bergtatt/bergteken, Swedish: bergtagen). (See the similarities with Irish \"elven/faery hills.\") In older tales, the word troll/trold (trolla as a verb) may simply mean \"to badly harm/hurt someone\"; someone who is a troll is someone who may eat human flesh or engage in other socially-unacceptable acts, such as rape. Luckily, trolls are said to turn into stone when exposed to sunlight.\n\nThe \"Huldra\", Hylda, Skogsrå or Skogfru (Forest wife/woman) is a dangerous seductress who lives in the forest. The Huldra is said to lure men down into endless cavesystems, that they would not be able to find their way out from, or lure them into the forest in order to secure her freedom or sometimes to suck the life out of a man. One of her methods is to appear suddenly out of the rain and mist, friendly and enticing to the point that no man can resist her charm. She has a long cow's tail that she ties under her skirt in order to hide it from men. If she can manage to get married in a church, her tail falls off and she becomes human. However, she also becomes very ugly. It is often said, however, that the young and beautiful Huldra is moody and dangerous, but when she becomes old and ugly, she also becomes gentle and caring to the man who made her Christian. She has an aquatic counterpart called \"havsfrun\" or \"Havsrå\" (sea wife/woman) who is very similar to the Sirens Odysseus meets in The Odyssey.\n\nIn Scandinavia, there existed the famous race of she-werewolves known with a name of Nattmara. The mara (or nightmare, as is the English word for them) appears as a skinny young woman, dressed in a night gown, with pale skin and long black hair and nails. As sand they could slip through the slightest crack in the wood of a wall and terrorize the sleeping by \"riding\" on their chest, thus giving them nightmares. They would sometimes ride cattle that, when touched by the Mara, would have their hair or fur tangled and energy drained, while trees would curl up and wilt. In some tales they had a similar role to the Banshee as an omen of death and if one were to leave a dirty doll in a family livingroom, one of the members would soon fall ill and die of tuberculosis (also called \"lung soot\", referring to how the lack of proper chimneys in old 18–19th century homes led to many contracting aforementioned disease due to inhaling smoke at a daily basis).\n\nThere is controversy as to how they came into being and in some tales the Maras are simply restless children, whose souls leave their body at night to haunt the living. If a woman were to have a horse placenta pulled over her head before giving birth, the children would be delivered safely; but all the boys will turn into werewolves, and all the girls will become Maras.\n\nTo avoid being haunted by a Mara a man could place his shoes at the front of the bed, as it is from there that the mara climbs up and seeing as something is in the way will deter her, or nail a horse shoe over it.\n\nMermaids in most mythology have a bad reputation of luring men to their watery demise. In Scandinavian folklore, they are good-natured beings who sit on rocks and comb their beautiful gold hair. Quite unlike their wicked sister, Lorelei, who does lure men to their death, mermaids warn seafaring men of storms and other dangers. They can foretell the future, and because of this, there is often an air of melancholy around them.\n\nWitches in Scandinavian folklore in particular are recognized by their long noses and cats, just as in other lands. There are at least three species of witch in this branch of folklore.\n\n\"Fossegrim\" is a spirit who lives in waterfalls and is neither good nor evil. The Fossegrim is a magnificent musician who plays the fiddle day and night. If an aspiring fiddle player ventures to seek his help, the Fossegrim will gladly help for a price. The fiddle player must go to the waterfall and offer him a nice meal, usually a good plump joint of meat. Many stories tell of travelers who have tried to palm the Fossegrim off with an inadequate piece of meat, resulting in him just teaching the student how to tune his fiddle rather than play it. He is said to be young and handsome though never leaves his waterfall.\n\n\"Nøkken\", \"näcken\", or \"strömkarlen\", is a fresh water dwelling relative of Fossegrimen, but unlike his kinsman, the nøkk is both dangerous and clever. The nøkk plays a violin to lure his victims out onto thin ice or in leaky boats and then draws them down to the bottom of the water where he is waiting for them. The nøkk is also a known shapeshifter, usually changing into a horse or a man in order to lure his victims to him. His horse form often has a long tail, and he will try to make the person touch it, if the person is to touch it, they get stuck and are dragged with him into the depths of the lake, where they would drown.\n\nIn the depths of the sea, lives the \"draug\" or the \"Strandvasker\". The draug is the spirit of a person who died at sea. He sails through the sea in half a boat. If someone happens to see a draug, they are in mortal danger unless they race the draug and win. The word Strandvaskere is found in Danish, Swedish and Norwegian. It refers to a drowned person washing up on the shore.\n\nWater spirits, among others the nix, are often presented in the shape of a devil. A water spirit would hide in the rapids and lure people into the water to drown. The brook horse was believed to be one and the same (\"bäckahästen\").\n\nIn Scandinavian folklore, dragons are commonly known as \"lindworms\", monstrous serpents with or without hind legs. In Sweden, Norway and Denmark, they typically live in the ocean, and here, tales of marine monsters appear to have the widest dissemination, although a famous specimen is also said to reside in the Swedish lake \"Storsjön\". The Norwegian lake \"Seljordsvatnet\" is also famous for its claimed inhabitant, a serpent known as \"Selma\". The coasts of Scandinavia are reportedly also haunted by the terrifying \"Kraken\". Sea serpents, with their glowing eyes and long manes, are also prevalent in Scandinavian folklore, as well as their invisible kin the sea-whip.\n\nThe \"Nisse\" or \"tomte\" (in the southern Sweden and Norway and Denmark) is a good wight who takes care of the house and barn when the farmer is asleep, but only if the farmer reciprocates by setting out food for the nisse and he himself also takes care of his family, farm and animals. If the nisse is ignored or maltreated or the farm is not cared for, he can sabotage a lot of the work on the farm to teach the farmer a lesson or two. Although the nisse should be treated with respect and some degree of kindness, he should not be treated too kindly. In fact, there's a Swedish story in which a farmer and his wife enter their barn an early morning and find the little grey old man brushing the floor. They see his clothing, which is nothing more than torn rags, so the wife decides to make him some new clothes; but when the nisse finds them in the barn he now thinks he is too elegant to perform any more farm labour and thus disappears from the farm. Nisser are also usually associated with Christmas and the yule time. It is normal that farms may place bowls of rice porridge on the doorsteps in a similar manner that cookies and milk are put out for Santa Claus. In the morning the porridge would have been eaten. Some believe that the nisse brings the presents as well. In Swedish, the word Tomten (Tomte in singular) is very closely linked to the word for the plot of land where a house or cottage is built, which spells the same both in singular and plural (Tomten/tomterna) but is pronounced with slightly longer vocals. Therefore some scholars believe that the wight Tomten originates from some sort of general house god or deity from before the \"Asa\" belief. A Nisse/Tomte is said to be able to change his size between that of a 5-year-old child and a thumb, and also to have the ability to make himself invisible.\n\nA type of wight from Northern Sweden called \"Vittra\" lives underground, is invisible most of the time and has its own cattle. Most of the time Vittra are rather distant and do not meddle in human affairs, but are fearsome when enraged. This can be achieved by not respecting them properly, for example by neglecting to perform certain rituals (such as saying \"look out\" when putting out hot water or going to the toilet so they can move out of the way) or building your home too close to or, even worse, on top of their home, disturbing their cattle or blocking their roads. They can make your life very very miserable or even dangerous – they do whatever it takes to drive you away, even arrange accidents that will harm or even kill you. Even in modern days, people have rebuilt or moved houses in order not to block a \"Vittra-way\", or moved from houses that are deemed a \"Vittra-place\" (Vittra ställe) because of bad luck – although this is rather uncommon. In tales told in the north of Sweden, Vittra often take the place that trolls, tomte and vättar hold in the same stories told in other parts of the country. Vittra are believed to sometimes \"borrow\" cattle that later would be returned to the owner with the ability to give more milk as a sign of gratitude. This tradition is heavily influenced by the fact that it was developed during a time when people let their cattle graze on mountains or in the forest for long periods of the year.\n\nSome say that the \"dwarves\" of Scandinavian folklore lived on as wights (\"vättar\" or \"huldrefolk\"), although with somewhat different characteristics. Wights live underground, often right next to human settlements, and are commonly a menace to their ground-dwelling neighbors.\n\nThe race of dwarves (or Svartálfar/dark/black elves as opposite of the \"light elves\" \"ljusalfer\") were not short in the beginning, lived underground, had dark hair and gray or pale skin, and were not very fond of the sun. They were master smiths with good knowledge in various kinds of magic and rather greedy folk – in short, not very pleasant to do business with. Some scholars believe that they may have originated from some kind of Indo-European worship of dead spirits or ancestors with great knowledge, hence their original physical appearance. Over time, they grew short and less and less ghoulish and evolved into the dwarves whom we see in Snorres Edda and later tales. The actual Dwarven size is believed by some to have originated from German tales which were in their turn influenced by Roman stories of child slave labor in mines – but this cannot be proven.\nElves (in Swedish, \"Älva\" if female and \"Alf\" if male, \"Alv\" in Norwegian, and Elver in Danish) are in some parts mostly described as female (in contrast to the light and dark elves in the Edda), otherworldly, beautiful and seductive residents of forests, meadows and mires. They are skilled in magic and illusions. Sometimes they are described as small fairies, sometimes as full-sized women and sometimes as half transparent spirits, or a mix thereof. They are closely linked to the mist and it is often said in Sweden that, \"the Elves are dancing in the mist\". The female form of Elves may have originated from the female deities called \"Dís\" (singular) and \"Díser\" (plural) found in pre-Christian Scandinavian religion. They were very powerful spirits closely linked to the \"seid\" magic. Even today the word \"dis\" is a synonym for mist or very light rain in Swedish, Norwegian and Danish. Particularly in Denmark, the female elves have merged with the dangerous and seductive \"huldra\", \"skogsfrun\" or \"keeper of the forest\", often called \"hylde\". In some parts of Sweden the elves also got some features from \"Skogsfrun\", \"Huldra\", or \"Hylda\", and can seduce and bewitch careless men and suck the life out of them or make them go down in the mire and drown. But at the same time the \"Skogsrå\" exists as its own being, with other distinct features clearly separating it from the elves. In more modern tales, it isn't uncommon for a rather ugly male Tomte, Troll, Vätte or a Dwarf to fall in love with a beautiful Elven female, as the beginning of a story of impossible or forbidden love.\n\nEllepiger (alder tree girls) are the most famous of the Ellefolket (the alder tree people) in Danish folklore. The girls dance around at night, luring many a young man to join them and to never be heard of again. They are beautiful but their backs are hollow.\n\nOne of the most notable, and evil, creatures from folklore is the Devil himself, called \"\" in Scandinavian folklore. He is depicted with horns, a goatee, and a hoof instead of a left foot. He is also tall and lean and wears a top-hat. The Norwegian devil has no wife, but his great-grandmother keeps house for him. While he tends to be very cunning, it is hard for him to outwit a human, as he is extremely gullible and prideful. For example, in one story, the human escapes after betting the devil he cannot fit inside an empty nutshell (which the devil does just to prove he can).\n\nMany of the terms in Nordic beliefs are used for different kinds of creatures, and to really know what is meant, one usually needs to put them into context. That characteristics are sometimes flowing into each other does not make it easier. Vættir, Underjordiske (the hidden ones/they below ground) and \"småfolk\" (little people) can be used loosely as terms for nearly all of the small beings in the old beliefs.\n\nThe \"myling\" is the ghost of a child left to die in the wilderness, often out to exact vengeance on its mother. Stories also tell of the will o' the wisp (\"irrbloss\", \"lyktgubbar\" or \"lygtemænd\"), often assumed to be the spirits of people who had drowned in lakes and marshes. According to some stories, they could lead a lost wanderer to a death similar to their own; according to others, they could lead him home.\n\nThese are only a few of the mythical creatures, and only shortly explained.\n\nThe Christianization of Scandinavia completed by the 11th century meant that the high-mythology more or less phased out of use. This process may have been quite rapid because these never were the beliefs of the lower classes. While mythology was phased out, the gods, heroes and stories are brought to life through folklore. Folklore was a key instrument in integrating Christianity into Scandinavian society, and legends once focused on the pagan religion picked up Christian aspects. After Christian beliefs and traditions were introduced into society, there was a noticeable change in the characteristics of some of the creatures. For example, the horrid and evil trolls of the mountains developed a fear of church-bells, and the \"huldre\" preyed on good Christian men. The \"evil\" creatures of folklore began to fight the heroes and great kings over Christian symbols, such in the tale of King Olav Haraldsson and the trolls, with the Christians always appearing to prevail. Folklore also started to develop morals about being good Christian citizens. For example, only the strong of faith could defeat the \"draugr\".\n\nThe creatures, symbols, and themes of Scandinavian folklore can be seen readily in the \"Lord of the Rings\" series by J.R.R Tolkien. For example, the \"one ring\" comes from folklore, such as the famous legend, \"The Volsunga Saga\". In this story, a magic ring owned by a dwarf named Andvari is stolen. When Loki, the god of Deceit and tricks, steals the ring, Andvari shouts \"I curse you for this! The ring will carry my curse forever. All who possesses the ring will be destroyed!\" This only leads to death and destruction, and later Fafnir morphs into a serpentdragon, whose outer body matches his inner evil created by the ring. This theme seems to carry over into the story behind the character Gollum. Also, there is a parallel between the Nordic legend of \"Frotha-Firth\" who stood as a peacemaker, and Frodo, the seeker of peace.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19162979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19162979", "title": "The Blind Leading the Blind", "text": "The Blind Leading the Blind\n\nThe Blind Leading the Blind, Blind, or The Parable of the Blind () is a painting by the Netherlandish Renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, completed in 1568. Executed in distemper on linen canvas, it measures . It depicts the Biblical parable of the blind leading the blind from the Gospel of Matthew 15:14, and is in the collection of the Museo di Capodimonte in Naples, Italy.\n\nThe painting reflects Bruegel's mastery of observation. Each figure has a different eye affliction, including corneal leukoma, atrophy of globe and removed eyes. The men hold their heads aloft to make better use of their other senses. The diagonal composition reinforces the off-kilter motion of the six figures falling in progression. It is considered a masterwork for its accurate detail and composition. Copies include a larger version by Bruegel's son Pieter Brueghel the Younger, and the work has inspired literature such as poetry by Charles Baudelaire and William Carlos Williams, and a novel by Gert Hofmann.\n\nBruegel painted \"The Blind\" the year before his death. It has a bitter, sorrowful tone, which may be related to the establishment of the Council of Troubles in 1567 by the government of the Spanish Netherlands. The council ordered mass arrests and executions to enforce Spanish rule and suppress Protestantism. The placement of Sint-Anna Church of the village Sint-Anna-Pede has led to both pro- and anti-Catholic interpretations, though it is not clear that the painting was meant as a political statement.\n\nThe painting depicts a procession of six blind, disfigured men. They pass along a path bordered by a river on one side and a village with a church on the other. The leader of the group has fallen on his back into a ditch and, because they are all linked by their staffs, seems about to drag his companions down with him. A cowherd stands in the background.\n\nBruegel based the work on the Biblical parable of the blind leading the blind from Matthew 15:14, in which Christ refers to the Pharisees. According to art critic Margaret Sullivan, Bruegel's audience was likely as familiar with classical literature as with the Bible. Erasmus had published his \"Adagia\" two years before Bruegel's painting, and it contained the quotation \"\" (\"the blind leader of the blind\") by Roman poet Horace. Bruegel expands the two blind men in the parable to six; they are well dressed, rather than wearing the peasant clothing that typifies his late work. The first blind man's face is not visible; the second twists his head as he falls, perhaps to avoid landing face-first. The shinguard-clad third man, on his toes with knees bent and face to the sky, shares a staff with the second, by which he is being pulled down. The others have yet to stumble, but the same fate seems implied.\n\nThe faces and bodies of the blind men, and background detail including the church, are rendered in exceptionally fine detail. The backward-falling posture of the guide demonstrates Bruegel's mastery of foreshortening. Bruegel's settings tend to be fictional, but that of \"The Blind Leading the Blind\" has been identified as the village Sint-Anna-Pede, and the church as Sint-Anna Church.\n\nOne of four surviving Bruegel paintings in distemper, the work is a tüchlein, a type of light painting that uses tempera made from pigment mixed with water-soluble glue. This medium was widely used in painting and manuscript illumination before the advent of oil paint. It is not known from whom Bruegel learnt its use, but amongst those speculated are his mother-in-law, illuminator Mayken Verhulst; his teacher Pieter Coecke van Aelst; and painter and illuminator Giulio Clovio, with whom he resided in Italy and whom he helped paint miniatures in distemper. Due to the high perishability of linen cloth and the solubility of hide glue, tüchleins do not preserve well and are difficult to restore. \"The Blind Leading the Blind\" is in good condition and has suffered no more than some erosion, such as of a herdsman and some fowl in the middle ground. The grain of the linen canvas is visible beneath the delicate brushstrokes. The work is signed and dated \"\". The painting measures , the largest of 1568.\n\nThe austere tone is achieved through pigments in a colour scheme of mostly greys, greens, brownish-reds, and blacks. The diagonal movement of the bodies creates a dramatic tension in the foreground which is divided diagonally from the landscape background. The flat country features are distinctly Flemish, unlike in most of Bruegel's landscapes, in which he introduced foreign elements such as mountain ranges even into local scenery.\n\nIn contrast to earlier depictions of the blind as beneficiaries of divine gifts, Bruegel's men are stumbling and decrepit, and portrayed without sympathy. The eyeless figure would have been interpreted as a man who had suffered punishment for wrongdoing or fighting.\n\nBruegel painted with the empirical objectivity of the Renaissance. In earlier paintings the blind were typically depicted with eyes closed. Here, Bruegel gives each man a different ocular affliction, all painted with a realism that allowed identification of their conditions by later experts, though there is still some diagnostic disagreement. French anatomical pathologist Jean-Martin Charcot and anatomical artist Paul Richer published an early account, \" (\"The deformed and sick in art\"\", 1889), and French pathologist Tony-Michel Torrillhon followed with more research on Bruegel's figures in 1957. The first man's eyes are not visible; the second has had his eyes removed, along with the eyelids: the third suffers from corneal leukoma; the fourth atrophy of the globe; the fifth is either blind with no light perception, or photophobic; and the sixth has pemphigus or bullous pemphigoid. Charcot and Richer noted Bruegel's accuracy in portraying the blind men facing not forward but with their faces raised in the air, as they would have had to rely on their senses of smell and hearing.\n\nSixteenth-century Europe was undergoing many societal changes: the Protestant Reformation and its rejection of public religious imagery; Renaissance humanism and its emphasis on empiricism at the expense of religious faith; and the growth of the middle class amidst the rise of mercantilism. It was a time of rapid advances in learning and knowledge, and a move towards the empirical sciences—the age of the heliocentric theory of Copernicus and of Gutenberg's printing presses. The cartography of Ortelius influenced the painting of landscapes, and the advances Vesalius brought to the study of anatomy via the direct observation of dissected bodies, motivated artists to pay greater attention to the accuracy of the anatomy in their works.\n\nArt was now traded in open markets; artists sought to distinguish themselves with subjects different from traditional noble, mythological, and Biblical ones, and developed new, realistic techniques based on empirical observation. Classical literature provided precedents for dealing with \"low\" subjects in art. Genre art and its depiction of ordinary people and everyday life emerged against this background.\n\nPieter Bruegel the Elder began his career illustrating landscapes and fantastic scenes in a dense style that earned him a reputation as artistic heir to Hieronymus Bosch. He soon came to follow the example of another master, Pieter Aertsen, who had made a name for himself in the 1550s depicting everyday scenes in a highly realistic style, such as the detailed array of meat products that dominate his large \"Butcher's Stall\" of 1551. Bruegel's subjects became more quotidian and his style observational. He achieved fame for detailed, accurate and realistic portrayals of peasants, with whom his paintings were popular. He painted on linen canvas and oak panel, and avoided scenes of magnificence and portraits of nobility or royalty. The peasants Bruegel at first depicted were featureless and undifferentiated; as his work matured, their physiognomy became markedly more detailed and expressive.\n\nIn 1563, Bruegel married Mayken, the daughter of his teacher Pieter Coecke van Aelst, and moved to Brussels, the seat of government in the Spanish Netherlands (1556–1714). In 1567 the governor of the Netherlands, the Duke of Alba, established the Council of Troubles (popularly called the \"Blood Council\") to suppress non-Catholic religions and enforce Spanish rule, leading to mass arrests and executions. Whether Bruegel had Calvinist sympathies or intended a political message in \"The Blind\" is not clear, but the evidence indicates he likely held views critical of the Catholic Church. A bitter, sorrowful tone characterizes his last works, such as \"The Blind\" and \"The Magpie on the Gallows\".\n\nIn ancient Greece the blind were depicted as having received gifts from the gods, and blind singers were held in high regard. In mediaeval Europe, the blind were depicted as the subjects of miracles, such as Bartimaeus in the healing the blind near Jericho in Mark 10:46–52. Following the Reformation, painted depictions of saints and miracles fell out of favour in Protestant areas. In Catholic thought, charitable works of mercy, such as giving alms to the blind and poor, were good works which, together with faith, helped the salvation of the doer. However, the Protestant doctrine of \"sola fide\" rejected the efficacy of works in achieving salvation, prescribing that it depended on faith alone (and the complication of God's predestined will for each individual). The status of charity for the poor and infirm diminished, and beggars saw their circumstances deteriorate. In popular literature of the time, the blind were depicted as rogues or targets of pranks. The parable of the blind leading the blind also appears as one of the illustrated proverbs in Bruegel's \"Netherlandish Proverbs\" (1559).\n\nCharles Bouleau wrote of the tension in Bruegel's compositional rhythms. The picture is divided into nine equal parts divided by a set of parallel oblique lines. These are divided by another network of lines at constant angles to the first. The composition invites the reader to follow the action rather than dwell on the individual figures. The blind men resemble each other in dress and facial features, and they appear as if they succeed one another in a single movement culminating in a fall, beginning on the left with \"rambling, then hesitation, alarm, stumbling, and finally falling\". The succession of heads follows a curve, and the further the succession, the greater the space between heads, suggesting increasing speed. The steep roofs of the background houses contribute to the composition's feeling of motion.\n\nArt historian Gustav Glück noted incongruities in that the beggars are well-dressed and carry staves and full purses. Academics Kenneth C. Lindsay and Bernard Huppé suggest Bruegel may have implied that the blind men represent false priests who ignored Christ's admonitions not to carry gold, purses, or staves; the leader carries a hurdy-gurdy, a musical instrument associated with beggars in Bruegel's time; this perhaps implies a false minstrel, one who sings praises not for God.\n\nThe church in the background, identified as the Sint-Anna Church at Dilbeek in modern Belgium, has sparked much commentary. One view holds that the church is evidence of the painting's moralistic intent—that while the first two blind men stumble and are beyond redemption, the other four are behind the church and thus may be saved. Another interpretation has it that the church, with a withered tree placed before it, is an anti-Catholic symbol, and that those who follow it will fall following a blind leader as do the men in the ditch. Others deny any symbolism in the church, noting that churches frequently appear in Bruegel's village scenes as they were a common part of the village landscape. Medical researcher Zeynel A. Karcioglu suggests the church represents indifference to the plight of the handicapped.\n\nIn contrast to the posed, static figures typical of paintings of the period, Bruegel suggests the trajectory of time and space through the accelerated movement of the figures. Critics Charcot and Richer wrote that the concept of visualizing movement was not formulated until the 17th century, and that Bruegel prefigures motion pictures and Duchamp's \"Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2\". Karcioglu sees the painting as anticipating the 19th-century chronophotography of Étienne-Jules Marey. Dutch film director Joris Ivens stated, \"If Bruegel were alive today he would be a film director.\"\n\n\"The Blind Leading the Blind\" has been considered one of the great masterpieces of painting. Bruegel's is the earliest surviving painting whose subject is the parable of the blind leading the blind, though there are earlier engravings from the Low Countries known that Bruegel was likely aware of, including attributed to Bosch, and by Cornelis Massijs. Bruegel's paintings have enjoyed worldwide popularity and have been the subjects of scholarly works in disciplines even outside the arts, such as medicine.\n\nBruegel's depictions of beggars in paintings such as \"The Blind Leading the Blind\" left a strong influence on those who followed him, such as David Vinckboons. Hieronymus Wierix incorporated a copy of \"The Blind Leading the Blind\" into the series \"Twelve Flemish Proverbs\". A forgery attributed to Jacob Savery called \"The Blind\" appeared bearing a false inscription dating it 1562. Bruegel's son Pieter Brueghel the Younger painted a larger copy in with extra details, including a flock of sheep, that hangs in the Louvre; this copy was in the collection of Ferdinando Gonzaga, Duke of Mantua, patron of Italian Baroque painter Domenico Fetti, who may have been influenced by the painting when he executed his own version of the parable around 1621–22.\n\nThe painting has been the subject of poetry, including works by the Germans Josef Weinheber and Walter Bauer, and Frenchman Charles Baudelaire's \"The Blind\". American William Carlos Williams wrote a series of poems on Bruegel's paintings; his \"Parable of the Blind\" focuses on the meaning of \"The Blind\"s composition—a word that appears three times in the poems eight tercets. The figures stumble diagonally downward, and—\n\nBruegel's painting served as a model for Belgian playwright Maurice Maeterlinck's one-act \"The Blind\". West German writer Gert Hofmann's 1985 novel \"The Parable of the Blind\" features Bruegel and the six blind men: to accomplish a realistic portrayal, Bruegel repeatedly has the men cross a bridge and fall into a creek in midwinter until their expressions achieve the desolation Bruegel believes represents the human condition. A 1987 historical novel \"Bruegel, or the Workshop of Dreams\" by has Bruegel painting the blind out of fear of losing his own eyesight.\n\nFrench comics artist F'murr's comic strip \"Les Aveugles\" (1991) was directly inspired by Bruegel's painting \"The Blind Leading the Blind\". \n\n\"The Blind Leading the Blind\" and \"The Misanthrope\" were discovered in the collection of the Count Giovanni Battista Masi of Parma in 1612, when Ranuccio I Farnese, Duke of Parma confiscated Masi's property for his part in a conspiracy against the House of Farnese. How the painting arrived in Italy is uncertain, though it is known that Masi's father Cosimo returned from the Netherlands in 1595 with a number of Netherlandish paintings. The Farnese art collection came to be one of the largest of the Renaissance era, divided amongst the Farnese residences in Parma and Rome.\n\nIn the 18th century, Charles III of Spain inherited the collection from his mother, Elisabeth Farnese, heiress of the Duchy of Parma in north Italy, who became Queen consort of Spain. As a younger son, Charles had been made Duke of Parma, then boldly seized the Kingdom of Naples, becoming Charles VII of Naples, before inheriting the Spanish throne. Charles housed the collection in what is now the National Museum of Capodimonte in Naples. The painting hangs in the Capodimonte with \"The Misanthrope\", as part of the Farnese collection.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39704556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39704556", "title": "Tracking the Chupacabra", "text": "Tracking the Chupacabra\n\nTracking the Chupacabra: The Vampire Beast in Fact, Fiction and Folklore is a non-fiction book by Benjamin Radford, an American writer and investigator. The book documents Radford's five-year investigation into accounts of the chupacabra. The chupacabra is said to be a vampiric predatory animal that drains the blood of animal victims while avoiding human detection.\n\nThe author, Benjamin Radford, attempts to solve the mystery of the chupacabra, including whether it is a legend or real animal, what its physical and behavior characteristics are, its origin and connection to folklore, and what exactly is happening to the animals reported to be its victims.\n\n\"Tracking the Chupacabra\" documents Radford's five-year investigation, including his travels into the mysteries surrounding the chupacabra. It also includes his research, with interviews and documentation collected during this process.\n\nOpening with \"The Goatsucker Mystery,\" Radford introduced the essential portions of the chupacabra legend and its different versions, comparing the creatures' characteristics with another, Bigfoot, which he writes is known for leaving large footprints. In his overview Radford summarized theories concerning the origin of the chupacabra, some paranormal or religious in nature, and interviewed several cryptozoologists.\n\nIn \"A Brief history of Vampires,\" Radford wrote about common themes of vampire folklore. While exploring 18th-century accounts of European vampires, Radford notes that reports of vampire predation are used to explain otherwise unexplained misfortunes, such as disease, malnutrition, or loss of livestock. \n\n\"Chupacabras in Popular Culture\" described how, in Radford's view, the legend grew in Puerto Rico from observations by locals of apparent animal predations into rumors of a mysterious creature that was responsible. According to Radford, the news media leapt to conclusions, which, in his opinion, further drove alleged sightings and reports, to the extent that \"any odd event\" was attributed to the chupacabra.\n\nThe chapter \"Searching for Chupacabras in Nicaragua\" deals with Radford's investigation in Nicaragua near the Río San Juan, where one of the best known alleged chupacabra remains had been discovered. While performing a physical search for the animal, Radford interviewed local experts, such as guide Fernando Casanova of Nicaragua's Indio Maiz Biological Reserve, about the local understanding of the chupacabra's \"character or description,\" as well as examining tracks found in the area and comparing them to casts reportedly taken from scenes surrounding chupacabra victims.\n\nIn \"The Dead Vampires Speak: Chupacabra Carcasses,\" Radford discussed the analyses of various recovered corpses put forward as candidates for identification of the chupacabra animal. \"The Curious Case of the Cuero Chupacabra\" covers the analysis of a carcass of the American canid version of the chupacabra, discovered by a rancher in Cuero, Texas. The chapter also discusses Radford's participation in an episode of MonsterQuest, which aired in 2008 during the series' second season. Having analyzed the various forms of chupacabra remains and reports, in \"Reconsidering the Goatsucker,\" Radford attempted to determine the origins of the chupacabra creature.\n\nRadford concluded his investigation with the chapter \"The Zoology of Chupacabras and the Science of Vampires.\" Compiling reports of researchers who examined victims of animal predation in apparent chupacabra attacks, Radford noted that the reports' claims that the animals had been exsanguinated were inaccurate. The apparent loss of blood could be explained by internal hemorrhaging and pooling of blood at the bottom of the corpse. The attribution of the attacks on livestock to a vampiric entity can be explained by the puncture wounds resulting from the canine teeth left by most predators, who often instinctively go for the neck, according to taxidermist Jerry Ayer. Radford attributes much of the spread of chupacabra sightings to factors including the mass media (especially the Internet and television shows), eyewitness misperceptions, ignorance of forensic science, social contagion, and mass hysteria, and concludes that \"every supposedly mysterious detail of the bloodsucking 'monster-thing' and its victims was explained.\"\n\nMatt Crowley, reviewing the book for \"The Skeptical Inquirer\" in July 2011, recapped Radford's process of tracing the origins of reported chupacabra sightings, tracking the changing physical attributes of the creature based on its description as reports journeyed from Puerto Rico eventually traveling to the United States. Crowley praised what he described as the \"elegance\" of Radford's investigation, stating that it \"lies in the process of the proof, not just the result.\"\n\nReviewing \"Tracking the Chupacabra\" for \"Library Journal\", Janet Tapper described Radford as \"thorough in his investigation; interviewing witnesses, providing creepy photographs of otherworldly creatures, serving up DNA analysis, and contemplating theories of mass psychosis.\" Tapper recommended the work, stating \"this objective probe will appeal to readers interested in exploring and exploding modern mysteries.\"\n\nReviewing the book for the \"Journal of Folklore Research\", Memorial University of Newfoundland's Virginia Fugarino stated that \"to date, few books have been dedicated to taking a serious look at this creature,\" and commented on Radford's treatment of folklore, saying \"he particularly explores how the chupacabra and other Latin American vampiric creatures can be seen to represent metaphorically postcolonial concerns and resentment of intrusion from outside political forces, specifically the U.S. government.\" While criticizing Radford for what Fugarino states is an \"at times [...] dismissive tone toward individuals who believe in the creature,\" she stated that the work was \"clear and well presented.\"\n\nThe American Folklore Society invited Radford to speak at its 2011 Annual Meeting, where he presented an abstract, \"The Chupacabra and Folklore.\" At the same meeting, Radford participated in a panel on \"Fairy Animals, Demonic Beasts and Fantastic Creatures in International Tradition I.\"\n\nCryptozoologist Karl Shuker performed a review of Radford's work in a March 2012 issue of \"Fortean Times\", stating that \"the chupacabra has met its match,\" recommending the book's \"scientific detachment and common sense\" for readers looking for those traits.\n\nIn a review for \"Aztlán\", an interdisciplinary journal of Chicano studies published by the University of California, Los Angeles, San Diego State University's William A. Nericcio wrote that \"the power of Radford's work is the depth of his research.\" Nericcio went on to discuss the impact of Radford's investigation on the dialogue regarding the cultural impact of the chupacabra in the Latin American community. According to Nericcio, \"the rise of evangelical churches in Latin America and the American Southwest [...] coincides with sightings of the chupacabra and the virus-like spread of its mythology,\" referring to the perceived connection by some proponents between the chupacabra and satanic or occult phenomena.\n\nA reviewer for \"The Latin Americanist\", the University of Oklahoma's J. Justin Castro noted that chupacabra reports have \"captured the imagination of people around the world,\" and praised Radford's \"insightful and entertaining book,\" stating that \"Radford sets the record straight, debunking many of the myths about the goatsucker.\" While Castro criticized some of Radford's arguments concerning feelings of U.S. exploitation of Puerto Rico as \"largely unfounded,\" Castro stated that \"His concluding arguments, on the other hand, are more viable. He makes a strong case that cinema greatly influenced the chupacabra phenomenon.\"\n\nTim Hull, in \"Tucson Weekly\", stated that \"Radford's most interesting revelations are about the psychological and sociopolitical structures behind the folklore, especially as they relate to the monster's origins in Puerto Rico, where some people believe that the chupacabra is a secret U.S. government experiment gone wrong.\" Hull also went on to say that \"While Radford's book—which is well-written and a fun read—should be the last word on the chupacabra's real-world existence, it won't be. As the author points out, the beast has entered the realm of conspiracy, where no amount of evidence, or logic, can sway the true believer.\"\n\nJay Koester, in \"El Paso Times\", called Radford's book \"[...] an enjoyable ride.\" Koester also went on to say that \"The legend doesn't hold up well under Radford's scientific microscope, but the curious will still love this tour through the tall tales.\"\n\nRosanne Boyett, in the Cibola County Beacon, stated that \"Radford questions documented reports and the resulting conclusions. But the author’s criticisms leave him vulnerable to accusations of racial prejudice, particularly the references to eyewitnesses’ reports.\"\n\nThe staff at \"Fate\" magazine stated that \"[...] Tracking the Chupacabra is by no means another collection of witness accounts and unsubstantiated facts. The author has not only gone on an expedition to find the elusive beast (complete with all the expected disappointment) but has researched just about every reported Chupacabra encounter with the journalistic zeal of Woodward and Bernstein.\"\n\nIn a review for The Skeptics Society, Sharon A. Hill called the book \"[...] satisfying for those willing to consider a legitimate, evidence-based explanation.\" Hill went on to say that \"I’m hard pressed to find any stone unturned in this stunning exposé of the first Internet-age cryptid.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "413746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=413746", "title": "Vernacular", "text": "Vernacular\n\nA vernacular, or vernacular language, is the language or variety of a language used in everyday life by the common people of a specific population. It is distinguished from a standard, national or literary language or a \"lingua franca\", used to facilitate communication across a large area. It is usually native, mostly spoken rather than written and usually seen as of lower status than more standardized forms. It can be a language, dialect or sociolect.\n\nSome linguists use \"vernacular\" and \"nonstandard dialect\" as synonyms.\n\nUsage of the word \"vernacular\" is not recent. In 1688, James Howell wrote:\n\nConcerning Italy, doubtless there were divers before the Latin did spread all over that Country; the Calabrian, and Apulian spoke Greek, whereof some Relicks are to be found to this day; but it was an adventitious, no Mother-Language to them: 'tis confess'd that Latium it self, and all the Territories about Rome, had the Latin for its maternal and common first vernacular Tongue; but Tuscany and Liguria had others quite discrepant, viz. the Hetruscane and Mesapian, whereof though there be some Records yet extant; yet there are none alive that can understand them: The Oscan, the Sabin and Tusculan, are thought to be but Dialects to these.\n\nHere, vernacular, mother language and dialect are already in use in a modern sense. According to Merriam-Webster, \"vernacular\" was brought into the English language as early as 1601 from the Latin \"vernaculus\" (\"native\") which had been in figurative use in Classical Latin as \"national\" and \"domestic\", having originally been derived from \"vernus\" and \"verna\", a male or female slave respectively born in the house rather than abroad. The figurative meaning was broadened from the diminutive extended words \"vernaculus, vernacula\". Varro, the classical Latin grammarian, used the term \"vocabula vernacula\", \"termes de la langue nationale\" or \"vocabulary of the national language\" as opposed to foreign words.\n\nIn general linguistics, a vernacular is contrasted with a \"lingua franca\", a third-party language in which persons speaking different vernaculars not understood by each other may communicate. For instance, in Western Europe until the 17th century, most scholarly works had been written in Latin, which was serving as a lingua franca. Works written in Romance languages are said to be in the vernacular. The \"Divina Commedia\", the \"Cantar de Mio Cid\", and The Song of Roland are examples of early vernacular literature in Italian, Spanish, and French, respectively.\n\nIn Europe, Latin was used widely instead of vernacular languages in varying forms until c. 1701, in its latter stage as New Latin.\n\nIn religion, Protestantism was a driving force in the use of the vernacular in Christian Europe, the Bible being translated from Latin into vernacular languages with such works as the Bible in Dutch: published in 1526 by Jacob van Liesvelt; Bible in French: published in 1528 by Jacques Lefevre d’Étaples (or Faber Stapulensis); German Luther Bible in 1534 (New Testament 1522); Bible in Spanish: published in Basel in 1569 by Casiodoro de Reina (Biblia del Oso); Bible in Czech: Bible of Kralice, printed between 1579 and 1593; Bible in English: King James Bible, published in 1611; Bible in Slovene, published in 1584 by Jurij Dalmatin. In Catholicism, vernacular bibles were later provided, but Latin was used at Tridentine Mass until the Second Vatican Council of 1965. Certain groups, notably Traditionalist Catholics, continue to practice Latin Mass.\n\nIn India, the 12th century Bhakti movement led to the translation of Sanskrit texts to the vernacular.\n\nIn science, an early user of the vernacular was Galileo, writing in Italian c. 1600, though some of his works remained in Latin. A later example is Isaac Newton, whose 1687 \"Principia\" was in Latin, but whose 1704 \"Opticks\" was in English. Latin continues to be used in certain fields of science, notably binomial nomenclature in biology, while other fields such as mathematics use vernacular; see scientific nomenclature for details.\n\nIn diplomacy, French displaced Latin in Europe in the 1710s, due to the military power of Louis XIV of France.\n\nCertain languages have both a classical form and various vernacular forms, with two widely used examples being Arabic and Chinese: see Varieties of Arabic and Chinese language. In the 1920s, due to the May Fourth Movement, Classical Chinese was replaced by written vernacular Chinese.\n\nThe vernacular is also often contrasted with a liturgical language, a specialized use of a former \"lingua franca\". For example, until the 1960s, Roman Rite Catholics held Masses in Latin rather than in vernaculars; to this day the Coptic Church holds liturgies in Coptic, not Arabic; the Ethiopian Orthodox Church holds liturgies in Ge'ez though parts of Mass are read in Amharic.\n\nSimilarly, in Hindu culture, traditionally religious or scholarly works were written in Sanskrit (long after its use as a spoken language) or in Tamil in Tamil country. Sanskrit was a lingua franca among the non-Indo-European languages of the Indian subcontinent and became more of one as the spoken language, or prakrits, began to diverge from it in different regions. With the rise of the bhakti movement from the 12th century onwards, religious works were created in the other languages: Hindi, Kannada, Telugu and many others. For example, the Ramayana, one of Hinduism's sacred epics in Sanskrit, had vernacular versions such as \"Ranganadha Ramayanam\" composed in Telugu by Gona Buddha Reddy in the 15th century; and \"Ramacharitamanasa\", a Hindi version of the Ramayana by the 16th-century poet Tulsidas.\n\nThese circumstances are a contrast between a vernacular and language variant used by the same speakers. According to one school of linguistic thought, all such variants are examples of a linguistic phenomenon termed diglossia (\"split tongue\", on the model of the genetic anomaly). In it, the language is bifurcated, i.e. the speaker learns two forms of the language and ordinarily uses one but under special circumstances the other. The one most frequently used is the low (L) variant, equivalent to the vernacular, while the special variant is the high (H). The concept was introduced to linguistics by Charles A. Ferguson (1959), but Ferguson explicitly excluded variants as divergent as dialects or different languages or as similar as styles or registers. H must not be a conversational form; Ferguson had in mind a literary language. For example, a lecture is delivered in a different variety than ordinary conversation. Ferguson's own example was classical and spoken Arabic, but the analogy between Vulgar Latin and Classical Latin is of the same type. Excluding the upper-class and lower-class register aspects of the two variants, Classical Latin was a literary language; the people spoke Vulgar Latin as a vernacular.\n\nJoshua Fishman redefined the concept in 1964 to include everything Fergusen had excluded. Fishman allowed both different languages and dialects and also different styles and registers as the H variants. The essential contrast between them was that they be \"functionally differentiated\"; that is, H must be used for special purposes, such as a liturgical or sacred language. Fasold expanded the concept still further by proposing that multiple H exist in society from which the users can select for various purposes. The definition of an H is intermediate between Ferguson's and Fishman's. Realizing the inappropriateness of the term diglossia (only two) to his concept, he proposes the term broad diglossia.\n\nWithin sociolinguistics, the term \"vernacular\" has been applied to several concepts. Context, therefore, is crucial to determining its intended sense.\n\nIn variation theory, pioneered by William Labov, language is a large set of styles or registers from which the speaker selects according to the social setting of the moment. The vernacular is \"the least self-conscious style of people in a relaxed conversation\", or \"the most basic style\"; that is, casual varieties used spontaneously rather than self-consciously, informal talk used in intimate situations. In other contexts the speaker does conscious work to select the appropriate variations. The one he can use without this effort is the first form of speech acquired.\n\nIn another theory, the vernacular is opposed to the standard. The non-standard varieties thus defined are dialects, which are to be identified as complexes of factors: \"social class, region, ethnicity, situation, and so forth.\" Both the standard and the non-standard language have dialects, but in contrast to the standard, the non-standard have \"socially disfavored\" structures. The standard are primarily written (in traditional print media) but the non-standard are spoken. An example of a vernacular dialect is African American Vernacular English.\n\nA vernacular is not a real language but is \"an abstract set of norms.\"\n\nVernaculars acquired the status of official languages through metalinguistic publications. Between 1437 and 1586, the first grammar of Italian, Spanish, French, Dutch, German and English were written, though not always immediately published. It is to be understood that the first vestiges of those languages preceded their standardization by up to several hundred years.\n\nIn the 16th century, the \"rederijkerskamers\", learned literary societies founded throughout Flanders and Holland from the 1420s onward, attempted to impose a Latin structure on Dutch, on the presumption that Latin grammar had a \"universal character.\" However, in 1559 John III van de Werve, Lord of Hovorst published his grammar \"Den schat der Duytsscher Talen\" in Dutch and so did Dirck Volckertszoon Coornhert (\"Eenen nieuwen ABC of Materi-boeck\") in 1564. The Latinizing tendency changed course with the joint publication in 1584 by De Eglantier, the rhetoric society of Amsterdam, of the first comprehensive Dutch grammar, \"Twe-spraack vande Nederduitsche letterkunst/ ófte Vant spellen ende eyghenscap des Nederduitschen taals\". Hendrick Laurenszoon Spieghel was a major contributor but others contributed as well.\n\nModern English is considered to have begun at a conventional date of about 1550, most notably at the end of the Great Vowel Shift (for example, \"bot\", the footwear, more as in \"boat\" to \"boot\"). It was created by the infusion of Old French into Old English after the Norman conquest of 1066 AD and of Latin at the instigation of the clerical administration. While present-day English-speaking students may be able to read Middle English authors such as Geoffrey Chaucer with some schooling, Old English is much more difficult.\n\nMiddle English is known for its alternative spellings and pronunciations. The British Isles, although geographically limited, have always supported populations of widely variant dialects (as well as a few different languages). Being the language of a maritime power, English was of necessity formed from elements of many different languages. Standardization has been an ongoing issue. Even in the age of modern communications and mass media, according to one study, \"… although the Received Pronunciation of Standard English has been heard constantly on radio and then television for over 60 years, only 3 to 5% of the population of Britain actually speaks RP … new brands of English have been springing up even in recent times ...\" What the vernacular would be in this case is a moot point: \"… the standardisation of English has been in progress for many centuries.\"\n\nModern English came into being as the standard Middle English, i.e. as the preferred dialect of the monarch, court and administration. That dialect was East Midland, which had spread to London where the king resided and from which he ruled. It contained Danish forms not often used in the north or south, as the Danes had settled heavily in the midlands. Chaucer wrote in an early East Midland style, John Wycliffe translated the New Testament into it, and William Caxton, the first English printer, wrote in it. Caxton is considered the first modern English author. The first printed book in England was Chaucer's \"Canterbury Tales\", published by Caxton in 1476.\n\nThe first English grammars were written in Latin, with some in French. After a general plea for mother-tongue education in England: \"The first part of the elementary\", published in 1582 by Richard Mulcaster, William Bullokar wrote the first English grammar to be written in English: \"Pamphlet for Grammar\", followed by \"Bref Grammar\", both in 1586. Previously he had written \"Booke at Large for the Amendment of Orthography for English Speech\" (1580) but his orthography was not generally accepted and was soon supplanted, and his grammar shared a similar fate. Other grammars in English followed rapidly: Paul Greaves' \"Grammatica Anglicana\", 1594; Alexander Hume's \"Orthographie and Congruitie of the Britain Tongue\", 1617, and many others. Over the succeeding decades many literary figures turned a hand to grammar in English: Alexander Gill, Ben Jonson, Joshua Poole, John Wallis, Jeremiah Wharton, James Howell, Thomas Lye, Christopher Cooper, William Lily, John Colet and so on, all leading to the massive dictionary of Samuel Johnson.\n\nFrench (as Old French) emerged as a Gallo-Romance language from Vulgar Latin during late antiquity. The written language is known from at least as early as the 9th century. That language contained many forms still identifiable as Latin. Interest in standardizing French began in the 16th century. Because of the Norman conquest of England and the Anglo-Norman domains in both northwestern France and Britain, English scholars retained an interest in the fate of French as well as of English. Some of the numerous 16th-century surviving grammars are:\n\n\nThe development of a standard German was impeded by political disunity and strong local traditions until the invention of printing made possible a \"High German-based book language.\" This literary language was not identical to any specific variety of German. The first grammar evolved from pedagogical works that also tried to create a uniform standard from the many regional dialects for various reasons. Religious leaders wished to create a sacred language for Protestantism that would be parallel to the use of Latin for the Roman Catholic Church. Various administrations wished to create a civil service, or chancery, language that would be useful in more than one locality. And finally, nationalists wished to counter the spread of the French national language into German-speaking territories assisted by the efforts of the French Academy.\n\nWith so many linguists moving in the same direction a standard German (\"hochdeutsche Schriftsprache\") did evolve without the assistance of a language academy. Its precise origin, the major constituents of its features, remains uncertainly known and debatable. Latin prevailed as a lingua franca until the 17th century, when grammarians began to debate the creation of an ideal language. Before 1550 as a conventional date \"supraregional compromises\" were used in printed works, such as the one published by Valentin Ickelsamer (\"Ein Teutsche Grammatica\") 1534. Books published in one of these artificial variants began to increase in frequency replacing the Latin then in use. After 1550 the supraregional ideal broadened to a universal intent to create a national language from Early New High German by deliberately ignoring regional forms of speech, which practice was considered to be a form of purification parallel to the ideal of purifying religion in Protestantism.\n\nIn 1617, the Fruitbearing Society, a language club, was formed in Weimar in imitation of the Accademia della Crusca in Italy. It was one of many such clubs; however, none became a national academy. In 1618–1619 Johannes Kromayer wrote the first all-German grammar. In 1641 Justin Georg Schottel in \"teutsche Sprachkunst\" presented the standard language as an artificial one. By the time of his work of 1663, \"ausführliche Arbeit von der teutschen Haubt-Sprache\", the standard language was well established.\n\n\"Auraicept na n-Éces\" is a grammar of the Irish language which is thought to date back as far as the 7th century: the earliest surviving manuscripts are 12th-century.\n\nItalian appears before standardization as the \"lingua Italica\" of Isidore and the \"lingua vulgaris\" of subsequent medieval writers. Documents of mixed Latin and Italian are known from the 12th century, which appears to be the start of writing in Italian.\n\nThe first known grammar of a Romance language was a book written in manuscript form by Leon Battista Alberti between 1437 and 1441 and entitled \"Grammatica della lingua toscana\", \"Grammar of the Tuscan Language.\" In it Alberti sought to demonstrate that the vernacular – here Tuscan, known today as modern Italian – was every bit as structured as Latin. He did so by mapping vernacular structures onto Latin.\n\nThe book was never printed until 1908. It was not generally known, but it was known, as an inventory of the library of Lorenzo de'Medici lists it under the title \"Regule lingue florentine\" (\"Rules of the Florentine language\"). The only known manuscript copy, however, is included in the codex, Reginense Latino 1370, located at Rome in the Vatican library. It is therefore called the \"Grammatichetta vaticana.\"\n\nMore influential perhaps were the 1516 \"Regole grammaticali della volgar lingua\" of Giovanni Francesco Fortunio and the 1525 \"Prose della vulgar lingua\" of Pietro Bembo. In those works the authors strove to establish a dialect that would qualify for becoming the Italian national language.\n\nThe very first grammar in a vernacular language in western Europe was published in Toulouse in 1327. Known as the \"Leys d'amor\" and written by Guilhèm Molinièr, an advocate of Toulouse, it was published in order to codify the use of the Occitan language in poetry competitions organized by the company of the Gai Saber in both grammar and rherotical ways.\n\nSpanish (more accurately, \"la lengua castellana\") has a development chronologically similar to that of Italian: some vocabulary in Isidore of Seville, traces afterward, writing from about the 12th century, standardization beginning in the 15th century, coincident with the rise of Castile as an international power. The first Spanish grammar by Antonio de Nebrija (\"Tratado de gramática sobre la lengua Castellana\", 1492) was divided into parts for native and nonnative speakers, pursuing a different purpose in each: Books 1–4 describe the Spanish language grammatically in order to facilitate the study of Latin for its Spanish speaking readers. Book 5 contains a phonetical and morphological overview of Spanish for nonnative speakers.\n\nThe \"Grammar Books of the Master-poets\" () are considered to have been composed in the early fourteenth century, and are present in manuscripts from soon after. These tractates draw on the traditions of the Latin grammars of Donatus and Priscianus and also on the teaching of the professional Welsh poets. The tradition of grammars of the Welsh Language developed from these through the Middle Ages and to the Renaissance.\n\nA dictionary is to be distinguished from a glossary. Although numerous glossaries publishing vernacular words had long been in existence, such as the Etymologiae of Isidore of Seville, which listed many Spanish words, the first vernacular dictionaries emerged together with vernacular grammars.\n\nGlossaries in Dutch began about 1470 AD leading eventually to two Dutch dictionaries:\n\nShortly after (1579) the Southern Netherlands came under the dominion of Spain, then of Austria (1713) and of France (1794). The Congress of Vienna created the United Kingdom of the Netherlands in 1815 from which southern Netherlands (being Catholic) seceded in 1830 to form the Kingdom of Belgium, which was confirmed in 1839 by the Treaty of London. As a result of this political instability no standard Dutch was defined (even though much in demand and recommended as an ideal) until after World War II. Currently the Dutch Language Union, an international treaty organization founded in 1980, supports a standard Dutch in the Netherlands, while Afrikaans is regulated by Die Taalkommissie founded in 1909.\n\nStandard English remains a quasi-fictional ideal, despite the numerous private organizations publishing prescriptive rules for it. No language academy was ever established or espoused by any government past or present in the English-speaking world. In practice the British monarchy and its administrations established an ideal of what good English should be considered to be, and this in turn was based on the teachings of the major universities, such as Cambridge University and Oxford University, which relied on the scholars whom they hired. There is a general but far from uniform consensus among the leading scholars about what should or should not be said in standard English, but for every rule examples from famous English writers can be found that break it. Uniformity of spoken English never existed and does not exist now, but usages do exist, which must be learnt by the speakers, and do not conform to prescriptive rules.\n\nUsages have been documented not by prescriptive grammars, which on the whole are less comprehensible to the general public, but by comprehensive dictionaries, often termed unabridged, which attempt to list all usages of words and the phrases in which they occur as well as the date of first use and the etymology where possible. These typically require many volumes, and yet not more so than the unabridged dictionaries of many languages.\n\nBilingual dictionaries and glossaries precede modern English and were in use in the earliest written English. The first monolingual dictionary was Robert Cawdrey's \"Table Alphabeticall\" (1604) which was followed by Edward Phillips's \"A New World of English Words\" (1658) and Nathaniel Bailey's \"An Universal Etymological English Dictionary\" (1721). These dictionaries whetted the interest of the English-speaking public in greater and more prescriptive dictionaries until Samuel Johnson published \"Plan of a Dictionary of the English Language\" (1747), which would imitate the dictionary being produced by the French Academy. He had no problem acquiring the funding, but not as a prescriptive dictionary. This was to be a grand comprehensive dictionary of all English words at any period, \"A Dictionary of the English Language\" (1755).\n\nBy 1858, the need for an update resulted in the first planning for a new comprehensive dictionary to document standard English, a term coined at that time by the planning committee. The dictionary, known as the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", published its first fascicle in 1884. It attracted significant contributions from some singular minds, such as William Chester Minor, a former army surgeon who had become criminally insane and made most of his contributions while incarcerated. Whether the OED is the long-desired standard English Dictionary is debatable, but its authority is taken seriously by the entire English-speaking world. Its staff is currently working on a third edition.\n\nSurviving dictionaries are a century earlier than their grammars. The Académie française founded in 1635 was given the obligation of producing a standard dictionary. Some early dictionaries are:\n\nHigh German dictionaries began in the 16th century and were at first multi-lingual. They were preceded by glossaries of German words and phrases on various specialized topics. Finally interest in developing a vernacular German grew to the point where Maaler could publish a work called by Jacob Grimm \"the first truly German dictionary\", Joshua Maaler's \"Die Teutsche Spraach: Dictionarium Germanico-latinum novum\" (1561).\n\nIt was followed along similar lines by Georg Heinisch: \"Teütsche Sprache und Weißheit\" (1616). After numerous dictionaries and glossaries of a less-than-comprehensive nature came a thesaurus that attempted to include all German, Kaspar Stieler's \"Der Teutschen Sprache Stammbaum und Fortwachs oder Teutschen Sprachschatz\" (1691), and finally the first codification of written German, Johann Christoph Adelung's \"Versuch eines vollständigen grammatisch-kritischen Wörterbuches Der Hochdeutschen Mundart\" (1774–1786).Schiller called Adelung an \"Orakel\" and Wieland is said to have nailed a copy to his desk.\n\nIn the early 15th century a number of glossaries appeared, such as that of Lucillo Minerbi on Boccaccio in 1535, and those of Fabrizio Luna on Ariosto, Petrarca, Boccaccio and Dante in 1536. In the mid-16th the dictionaries began, as listed below. In 1582 the first language academy was formed, called Accademia della Crusca, \"bran academy\", which sifted language like grain. Once formed, its publications were standard-setting.\n\nMonolingual \n\nItalianFrench\n\nItalianEnglish\n\nItalianSpanish\n\nThe first Spanish dictionaries in the 15th century were Latin-Spanish/Spanish-Latin, followed by monolingual Spanish. In 1713 the Real Academia Española, \"Royal Spanish Academy,\" was founded to set standards. It published an official dictionary, 1726–1739.\n\n\nSlavonic-SerbianGerman\n\n"}
{"id": "2956764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2956764", "title": "White space (visual arts)", "text": "White space (visual arts)\n\nIn page layout, illustration and sculpture, white space is often referred to as negative space. It is the portion of a page left unmarked: margins, gutters, and space between columns, lines of type, graphics, figures, or objects drawn or depicted. The term arises from graphic design practice, where printing processes generally use white paper. White space should not be considered merely \"blank\" space — it is an important element of design which enables the objects in it to exist at all; the balance between positive (or non-white) and the use of negative spaces is key to aesthetic composition. Inexpert use of white space, however, can make a page appear incomplete.\n\nWhen space is at a premium, such as in some types of magazine, newspaper, and yellow pages advertising, white space is limited in order to get as much vital information on to the page as possible. A page crammed full of text or graphics with very little white space runs the risk of appearing busy or cluttered, and is typically difficult to read. Some designs compensate for this problem through the careful use of leading and typeface. Conversely, judicious use of white space can give a page a classic, elegant, or rich appearance. For example, upscale brands often use ad layouts with little text and a lot of white space. For publication designers, white space is very important. Publications can be printed on a variety of different papers, which can have different colours, textures, etc. In these cases, white space is used for good presentation and for showcasing the different stocks.\n\n\n"}
