{"id": "50057988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50057988", "title": "A Nervous Smile", "text": "A Nervous Smile\n\nA Nervous Smile is a play written by John Belluso that was originally commissioned by the Actors Theatre of Louisville. It opened March 4, 2005 for the 29th annual Humana Festival of New American Plays. The play was originally directed by David Esbjornson and starred Sean Haberle as Brian, Maureen Mueller as Eileen, Mhari Sandoval as Nic, and Dale Soules as Blanka. Unseen characters include heavy reference to Brian and Eileen's child Emily and Nic's son Dominic, both of whom have severe cerebral palsy as well as to Nic's ex-husband and Blanka's adult daughter. The story is set in a present-day Manhattan apartment.\n\nBrian: Husband to Eileen in his late 30s, a college professor and failed novelist. Throughout the play he struggles to understand his place as father to a child with cerebral palsy and also grapples with his relationship to his wife and to the woman he is having an affair with.\n\nEileen: Wife to Brian in her early 40s. A multi-millionaire from investing in her father's company, she is snobbish, alcoholic, and regularly pops pills (Vicodine and Oxycontin being the two primarily mentioned and utilized drugs). She doesn't have any desire to be raising a child with cerebral palsy but also feels a motherly instinct to remain with Emily that Brian doesn't appear to feel.\n\nNic: A single mom who was once good friends with Eileen. She is now having an affair with Brian. She works as a lawyer who can hardly support her son Dominic, who has severe cerebral palsy. She initially agrees to run away with Brian but freezes up at the last moment and decides she must stay with her son.\n\nBlanka: Brian and Eileen's maid in her late 50s. She is originally from Russia and is the one who actually cares for Emily. Blanka knows Emily's secrets and is the only character in this play to acknowledge Emily as a real person.\n\nThe play begins with Brian, Eileen, and Nic returning to Brian and Eileen's apartment in Manhattan. They've just come from the funeral of a child from the Cerebral Palsy Support Group that the three attend. They stopped at a bar on their way home and seem to show an overall lack of empathy for the family of the child that passed. There are clear tensions among the three and while Eileen is out of the room it is revealed that Brian is having an affair with Nic. You then find out that offstage Emily is having a seizure and Eileen once again exits to calm her daughter. While she is away Brian admits his and Eileen's plan. He tells Nic of his dreams to live with her in Buenos Aires and this can happen because Eileen is going to grant him a divorce as well as half of his money ($10 million) and a promise that they will never see one another again. The couple have planned to abandon Emily at the emergency room in the middle of the night. Brian wants Nic to come with him and insists that she call Dominic's father to have him pick up their son so Nic can run away with Brian. The act ends with Eileen returning to the living room and encouraging Nic to go with the plan and to love Brian. Just before the blackout, Nic agrees to go.\n\nThis act opens during the middle of the next night, the night in which they plan on abandoning their children and running away. Nic arrives at the apartment early feeling overwhelmed and needing to begin the plan immediately. Brian agrees and goes to wake Eileen and gather her things. While he does so, Nic is left alone. Suddenly, Blanka wakes from where she is sleeping under a blanket on the living room couch. She speaks with Nic and tries to understand why Nic feels the need to abandon her child and Blanka works desperately to convince Nic to stay. Nic, in response, tells her of one of the 'bad days' Dominic had recently and how overwhelmed she has become caring for him, reasoning that because of this her only option is to leave. The scene ends with Brian carrying a sleeping Emily out the door with Nic and Eileen close on his heels.\n\nThis act begins once more in the Manhattan apartment. Nic and Eileen sit in the living room. The audience learns that Brian left Nic at the airport security check when she began to have second thoughts about running away with him and abandoning her son. It is also revealed that Eileen had fallen into a drug-induced sleep at her own gate and missed her flight to London. Police found them both and they were quickly arrested for child abandonment. Nic has luckily been granted shared custody of her son. However, Eileen is likely to lose Emily and is having to pack up her things which will be picked up by social workers as Emily is going into foster care. As the two women reflect on their shared experiences the image of Brian (wherever he is in the world) appears and he expresses his true hatred for Emily and everything she represents to him. Blanka then returns, having spent all of the money that Brian originally paid her to not go to the police. In an emotional outburst, she convinces Eileen to listen to some of Emily's poems which is the last thing the audience hears as the lights go out. They hear a robotic communication board voice slowly becoming the voice of a little girl.\n\n\nIn some cases of cerebral palsy, the damage is so severe that is affects the person's speech and language abilities. While they may be able to have complex thoughts and ideas, their muscles and vocal chords are unable to form the words that they are trying to express. Augmented forms of communication can vary greatly and include non-technology picture boards, text boards and digitized speech. In \"A Nervous Smile,\" we see the two different ends of the augmented communication spectrum, with Dominic possessing a basic communication board and Emily having both an advanced wheelchair and advanced augmented communication that can provide a voice, save things she's said, and predict what she will say.\n\n"}
{"id": "6317953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6317953", "title": "Acrylic retarder", "text": "Acrylic retarder\n\nIn painting, a retarder is a substance, usually added to water, used to slow the drying time of acrylic paints, giving more time for blending or layering highlights.\n\nRetarders are used to counter the fast drying properties of acrylic paints making possible the usage of wet on wet or other techniques which would otherwise require oil paints. Even if they will never give acrylic the working time oil paints permits, depending how much it is adding to paint, they can give anywhere from half an hour to a full day's working time.\n\nThey generally contain glycol (such as propylene glycol) or glycerin-based additives.\n\nFor home-made acrylic retarder, water glycerol down about 5:1 (water: glycerol) and apply to paint. Non-toxic car anti-freeze, which contains propylene glycol can also be used.\n"}
{"id": "24106777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24106777", "title": "Added art", "text": "Added art\n\nAdded Art uses an existing piece of artwork for its canvas, just as traditional graffiti uses the wall of a building for the canvas. It is essentially the graffiti of artwork. Added Art is a merging of high and low art, using the concepts of graffiti, in a high art environment. Adding to someone else’s work has been a very common occurrence in graffiti for decades. In the urban environment, it is typically considered aggressive or antagonistic in nature, but also form of competition. However, it is still considered a taboo in the more established high arts, even though it has been practiced for over fifty years by stalwarts such as Rauschenberg in his \"Erased de Kooning Drawing\". In more recent examples, Banksy has done several added art pieces over Damien Hirst's \"spot\" painting, and Mat Benote used an untitled work by Robert Morris at the MoMA in NYC as a canvas. A very interesting example was done by the Chapman Brothers, who painted over sketches originally created by Adolf Hitler.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58942351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58942351", "title": "Aesthetic judgement", "text": "Aesthetic judgement\n\nAesthetic judgement, often also referred to as ‘taste’, is a concept in aesthetics which attempts to explain the nature of judgements of beauty and whether or not these judgements are legitimate.\n\nThe key idea for most traditional theories of taste was that objects possessed concrete properties that the perceiver ought to judge as beautiful or not. Failure to make the correct judgement was considered as something deficient within the beholder, whether that be a flaw within the person’s virtue or connected to a lack of knowledge that hinders their ability to perceive the beauty of the object. \n\nAesthetic judgement as a concept rose to prominence in the eighteenth century, however its roots can be traced back many years to ancient Greek and medieval philosophers.\n\nAncient Greek philosophers did not possess an explicit concept of aesthetic judgement, however their ideas regarding aesthetics inspired later developments.  \n\nPlato’s metaphysical theory held that there is an incorporeal realm in which the perfect Forms of reality exist. This includes the perfect Form of Beauty, which one can rise up to through a dialectical method. Thus, in Plato’s terms, knowledge is critical to developing a better understanding of beauty and thus, a better capacity for aesthetic judgement.\n\nAristotle purported a more experiential approach to aesthetic judgement, in that beauty was a property of objects being related to their size and proportion. To develop a capacity for aesthetic judgement, one has to observe enough objects of the same kind to uncover the correct form of those things. Both Aristotle and Plato perceived beauty as a property existing outside of human experience, with aesthetic judgement being the capacity to recognise that beauty, developed by the search for beauty in things. \n\nAlthough Medieval philosophers did not possess a particular notion of individual preference or taste, they were particularly preoccupied with a cosmological interpretation of beauty, with relation to specific ontological properties. This is attributed to the fact that philosophers of the medieval age had an object notion of beauty, and also because it was a common belief that morality was linked with beauty.\n\nExpanding upon Plato’s Theory of the Forms, Augustine believed that perfect beauty existed within God. Augustine proposed equality and unity as the two properties that made physical objects beautiful. Aesthetic judgement is thus the ability of an individual to recognise the unity and equality of an object, thus involving an exercise of reason and knowledge, similar to the theories of previous thinkers. Since the ultimate state of beauty exists in God’s mind, an observer can only recognise this through divine illumination. Thus, one’s capacity for aesthetic judgement is improved the closer one is to God.\n\nAquinas also presented properties that make an object beautiful: proportion, wholeness and radiance. Thus, similar to his philosophical predecessors, he constituted the judgement of beauty to be dependent on knowledge and occurring through the function of cognition. Possessing a capacity for aesthetic judgement is therefore determined by one’s ability to recognise these properties in observed objects. Aquinas does however diverge from previous philosophers on certain notions. His definition of that beauty as \"that which, when seen, pleases\" can be interpreted as an implication of the subjectivity of beauty and thus judgements about it. Furthermore, he rejects Plato’s Theory of Forms, stating that beauty is a real quality present within objects. Ultimately however he converges upon Augustine’s view that God is the source of all beauty.\n\nExplicit theories of aesthetic judgement emerged and predominated in the 18 century, being referred to as “the century of taste”.  Philosophers developed a more introspective stance to attempt to understand their personal dispositions to beauty.\n\nAnthony Cooper (1671-1713), the Third Earl of Shaftesbury, purported his philosophical ideas through his Socratic dialogue “The Moralists, a Philosophical Rhapsody”, which stands in almost direct contrast to the theories and assumptions posited by Addison. Shaftesbury claimed that taste was a quality innate within human beings. One’s capacity to observe and make correct judgements of beauty was dependent on one’s moral righteousness. The key property Shaftesbury ascribed to beautiful objects is harmony, the prime source of which is nature, which in turn is formed by God who is constituted as the ultimate source of beauty.\n\nJoseph Addison (1672-1719) posited theories that were in almost direct contrast to those of Shaftesbury. Central to Addison’s theory of aesthetic judgement is the concept that pleasures of taste are essentially “pleasures of the imagination”. Addison’s fundamental divergence from Shaftesbury is that he views taste to be a judgement of visual representation as exercised by the imagination, rather than as an exercise of the intellect and of moral righteousness. Addison constituted two types of pleasures of the imagination: primary pleasures, as in those derived from visual images directly observed by an individual of an object in front of them and secondary pleasures, which arise from images of objects that are absent from sight and therefore exist only in the mind. Addison’s materialist basis predisposes his theory to subjectivism and relativism, leading Addison to declare that there “is not perhaps any real beauty”.\n\nAlexander Gerard (1728-1795) considered taste in a similar fashion to the six external senses, in that experiences of aesthetic judgement are also simple and instantaneous. He also developed his views from the philosophical framework of associationism. Aesthetic judgements are exercises of the faculty of imagination, in which a newly observed object is associated to previous ideas in the mind of the observer. Gerard determines that taste is improved when a person exercises their capacities for judgment and taste to recognise the four core elements of sensibility, refinement, correctness and proportion within objects.\n\nDavid Hume’s theories on aesthetic judgement were purported in his 1757 essay \"Of the Standard of Taste\". Hume ascribed some normative quality to aesthetic judgements whilst providing critiques of the more relativist positions on the matter. Whilst acknowledging that judgements cannot reasonably be determined to be objectively true or false, he championed the notion of “common sense”, which held that some evaluations are better than others. Hume also reinforced the conception of aesthetic judgements as an exercise of the faculty of the imagination, determining beauty to not be a property of objects but existing only in the mind, and the ones that are deemed more beautiful are the ones that affect the higher sentiments, or high cognitive or intellectual capacities of the observer. Hume also sought to establish a universal standard of aesthetic judgement, seeking a basis upon which we can “confirm” one sentiment and “condemn” another. In doing this he refers to classic texts which seemingly have received universal acclaim beyond through different times and cultures. Hume asserts that such universal acclamation identifies a work of real genius, and such works should be examined to provide us with guidelines for the composition of good art. Hume provides characteristics of what he refers to as a true judge in matters of aesthetics:\n\nThe consensus of these critics constitutes what Hume called a “joint verdict”, which composes the \"true standard\" for aesthetic judgements. This standard is constituted as universally correct, and failure to recognise pleasure in the object is considered a defect within the observer.\n\nHume does concede however that certain subjectivities affecting aesthetic judgements cannot be eliminated. He indicates two circumstances that will create irrevocable prejudices. First he refers to natural, generational and cultural dispositions which are fundamental and relative to individuals. The second is determined by the critics’ degree of moral righteousness. Ascribing a normative characteristic to morality, Hume declares that aesthetic merit is influenced by “the natural boundaries of vice and virtue”, and if the artist does not conform to these moral regulations then they and their art will inevitably divert from Hume’s true standard.\n\nCentral to the concept of aesthetic judgement is Kant’s notion of the “judgement of taste”, introduced in his seminal 1790 book the \"Critique of Judgement.\" In the text, Kant determined two essential conditions for a judgement to be classified as a judgement of taste – subjectivity and universality. \n\nSubjectivity refers to the fact that a judgement of taste is based on a feeling of pleasure or displeasure. The second necessary condition of a judgement of taste is that it claims “universal validity”, which Kant describes as follows:\nKant emphasises the fact that requiring the agreement of others is an inextricable characteristic of aesthetic judgements. We think that others “ought” to share our judgement, and we blame them if they don’t, as if there was a deficiency within them to recognise beauty and make judgements upon it. Aesthetic judgements, unique from other types of judgements that Kant lists, therefore make a claim to universal validity. Kant also states that pleasure in beauty is disinterested in that it is desire-free. Whilst agreeing that pleasure in beauty can generate desire, he states that it is an essential characteristic of aesthetic judgements that they are found to be pleasurable because they are judged to be beautiful, rather than being judged as beautiful because they are found to be pleasurable.\n\nKant provides a “deep” account of the nature of pleasure in beauty, which states that it accomplished through the simultaneous exercise of the cognitive faculties of imagination and understanding. This is the premise upon which Kant asserts his normative claim on aesthetic judgements. Because these judgements are a function of cognitive faculties, which Kant assumed can be shared by humans, it must be possible for them to be shared.\nKant also purported that pleasure in beauty can be attributed to our recognition that the qualities of an object conform to basic functions of human cognition. We maintain a presupposition that all objects seemed to be formed in a way that enables them to be analysed by human observers. Beauty is the quality of an object assuming a “form of purposiveness”, despite the absence of an identification of a specific purpose. When we respond to an object’s appearance without any comprehension of utility, we respond in an aesthetic manner. The feeling of pleasure is a signal that the object is able to be comprehended through exercising the human faculty of understanding. An aesthetic judgement is therefore a judgement about human cognition rather than a material object.\n\nPhilosophical concerns with aesthetic judgement declined rapidly after the 19 century, with the majority of discourse shifting to the concept of an aesthetic attitude. Despite this, there have been philosophers who have persisted with the concept of aesthetic taste, which has resulted in some notable contributions in contemporary times. \n\nFrank Sibley (1929-1996) defined aesthetic judgements to be evaluations that apply aesthetic concepts to objects through aesthetic terminology. Taste is thus an individual’s capacity to recognise these properties and employ aesthetic concepts and terms appropriately to describe them. Sibley also asserts that aesthetic judgements are objective and that beauty is an objective property present within objects, departing from the 18 century philosophical norm of subjectivist interpretation.\n"}
{"id": "15022410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15022410", "title": "Africa Beyond", "text": "Africa Beyond\n\nAfrica Beyond is a project celebrating African arts and culture in the UK, supported by Arts Council England, the British Broadcasting Corporation, the British Museum, the Southbank Centre, iniva (Institute for International Visual Arts) and other partners.\n\nAfrica Beyond was founded in March 2006, based in London. It was created as a legacy of Africa 05, a major celebration of African arts, held throughout 2005. It organises artist residencies linking Africa and the UK, runs public events such as the Word from Africa festival (first hosted at the British Museum in May 2007), and works with arts venues to improve their links with African audiences and artists.\n\nThe BBC hosted the Africa Beyond website, which features articles on African music, film, theatre, dance, literature and visual arts, with a special focus on artists and stories relevant to audiences in the UK. The website is no longer updated.\n\n"}
{"id": "18368611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18368611", "title": "Arts criticism", "text": "Arts criticism\n\nArts criticism is the process of describing, analyzing, interpreting, and judging works of art. It is distinct from art criticism (which focuses on visual arts) due to its broader remit. The disciplines of arts criticism can be defined by the object being considered rather than the methodology (through analysis of its philosophy): buildings (architecture criticism), paintings (visual art criticism), performances (dance criticism, theatre criticism), music (music journalism), visual media (film criticism, television criticism), or literary texts (literary criticism).\n\nCriticism of the arts can be broadly divided into two types. There is academic criticism such as that found in scholarly works and specialist journals, then there is criticism of a more journalistic nature (often called 'a review') which is seen by a wider public through newspapers, television and radio. The academic criticism will be of a more vigorous and analytical nature than the journalistic, the journalistic may even focus on entertaining the reader at the expense of detail about the art under discussion.\n\n"}
{"id": "5740294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5740294", "title": "Azlan McLennan", "text": "Azlan McLennan\n\nAzlan McLennan (born 1975 in the United States) is a visual artist and socialist activist based in Melbourne, Australia. He is a graduate of the Victorian College of the Arts. His art is known for its political content and has been the subject of considerable debate and media attention in Australia.\n\nConceptually, McLennan's work tends to be unambiguous and antagonistic from a left-wing perspective, loosely following the traditions of agitprop, anti-art and Institutional Critique, incorporating elements of détournement, readymade or installation. His works have often been characterised as controversial by conservative politicians, journalists and art critics, usually portraying the artist in a negative light. Alternatively, various liberal lawyers, academics and activists have defended his works, usually on the basis of free speech, due to the offence sometimes caused by his art for its often overt left-leaning bias. The artist has expressed public criticisms over Zionism, the War on Terror, Australian nationalism and racism, the mandatory detention of asylum seekers, various political figures and the managerial class of the art world.\n\nMcLennan has cited the artists John Heartfield and Leon Kuhn as influences. He has work in collections of the National Gallery of Australia and the National Library of Australia.\n\nMcLennan is a member of the Trotskyist organisation Socialist Alternative. Previously, he has been associated with the Socialist Alliance, the Stop the War Coalition, Students for Palestine, the Refugee Action Collective, the University of Melbourne Graduate Student Association, the Victorian College of the Arts Student Union and the United Voice trade union. He regularly produces posters for the Australian far left's various political demonstrations and meetings. He has written articles for the publications of both Socialist Alternative and the Socialist Alliance.\n\nIn August 2003, McLennan hired a Group 4 Securicor guard to keep gallery punters out of an exhibition opening at the VCA. Group 4 run immigration detention centres in Australia, such as Baxter Detention Centre and the now closed Woomera Detention Centre. The security guard was reportedly humiliated due to the incident which occurred at a time of high criticism of the John Howard government's treatment of asylum seekers.\n\nIn May 2004, McLennan produced \"Fifty-six,\" an exhibition designed to coincide with Nakba Day, the title drawing on the number of years since the establishment of Israel. The public exhibition in the shop front window space of 24seven Gallery on one of Melbourne CBD's busy streets, was censored by the City of Melbourne days after it was installed. The installation consisted of a large wall painting of an Israeli flag, with \"debatable\" statistics on the gallery's window about Israel's treatment of Palestinians. The scandal made international news, many pro-Israel individuals and groups accusing McLennan of antisemitism. This put a number of Victorian political figures such as former Premier Steve Bracks, Lord Mayor John So and former City of Melbourne councillor Kimberly Kitching under pressure to respond. The use of taxpayer's money to fund the space fuelled a lot of the debate. McLennan also deeply outraged some critics by insinuating that the Nazis had a similar position on what they termed degenerate art. McLennan maintains a strong criticism of Israeli policies.\n\nIn August 2004, McLennan displayed \"State Sponsored\", a collection of portraits of Hamas militants, including Sheikh Ahmed Yassin and Dr. Abdul Aziz Rantisi and the dates they were assassinated. The work was exhibited at Citylights project – a public art space in a Melbourne CBD lane way. McLennan was accused of glorifying terrorism by Ted Lapkin, a senior policy analyst of the Australia/Israel & Jewish Affairs Council. Andrew Mac, Citylights' curator and director defended the work on the grounds of diversity of opinion stating the artist's use of \"state sponsored\" referred to state terrorism.\n\nIn September 2005, the City of Melbourne intervened to terminate McLennan's \"Canberra's 18\" exhibition shortly before it was scheduled to be shown at the Platform artists group's Artist-run initiative (ARI), Platform 2. The exhibition was to include images of the then 18 Islamic organisations proscribed as terrorists by the Australian Government and the basis for their formation. City of Melbourne Deputy Mayor Gary Singer claimed the proper guidelines were not followed. Human rights campaigner and barrister Julian Burnside claimed the censorship was about governments testing how much Australians would tolerate such occurrences. McLennan accused City of Melbourne of political censorship and appeasing Zionists. Singer's areas of special interests ironically include civil liberties.\n\nMonash University Art and Design Faculty in Melbourne withdrew McLennan's video \"Mind the Gap\" in October 2005, ironically made for the same exhibition Monash had agreed to show the censored \"Canberra's 18\" work. The video contained graphic footage of the beheading of British contractor Kenneth Bigley by Tawhid and Jihad in 2004. The video criticised former British Prime Minister Tony Blair for his role in the Iraq war. The censorship is likely to have been motivated by the Australian Anti-Terrorism Bill 2005, particularly the controversial return to the crime of sedition introduced by the Howard government some weeks later and passed into law the following month; a move highly unpopular amongst the arts sector.\n\nCity of Melbourne and acting Transport Minister Bob Cameron censored \"Pay Your Way\" in January 2006 while McLennan was in residency in Indonesia. The posters – part of the Urbanart ARI program – were displayed in public tram shelters and pulled down only hours later due to complaints. The works featured images of Jean Charles de Menezes, a Brazilian man shot dead by London police and accused Muslim terrorist, Jack Thomas. The works were characterised as racist and Islamophobic, yet McLennan claimed the works were satirising the post 9-11 racism and Islamophobia perpetuated by pro-US governments. McLennan is also a Muslim himself. Thomas' lawyer, Rob Stary attacked the work for jeopardising the trial yet weeks later would defend McLennan publicly against the Footscray police.\n\nOnly weeks after the \"Pay Your Way\" affair, McLennan's \"Proudly UnAustralian\" was removed by the Victoria Police in Melbourne. The exhibition – featuring a burnt Australian flag – took place at Trocadero Art Space who rents a public billboard to exhibiting artists. It was to coincide with the 2006 Australia Day in January. The work was removed some days prior this date and McLennan arrived back in Australia days later to a media furore. The scandal had been criticised as offensive by those such as Federal Liberal Party MP Bronwyn Bishop who attempted to introduce a ban on flag burning, and the national president of the Returned and Services League. Free speech advocates such as the National Association for the Visual Arts and criminal defence lawyer Rob Stary denounced the police's actions as an attack on civil rights. This took place only a few short months after the 2005 Cronulla riots and fuelled the broader debate about racism in Australia.\n\nMcLennan wrote an article in 2006 criticising the Artistic Director of the Australian Centre for Contemporary Art (ACCA), Juliana Engberg over her reaction to artist and VCA student, Ash Keating and his appropriation of ACCA's waste disposal for the use of his art. The Engberg/Keating scandal became widely known amongst Melbourne art circles from the ACCA exhibition opening where it took place and later through the independent electronic magazine Crikey. McLennan's polemic further fuelled debate over Engberg's credentials.\n\nMcLennan featured in \"Rules of Engagement\" at Melbourne ARI West Space in May 2007, which dealt with \"relationships, power and exchange within the art system\" according to the show's curator Mark Feary. McLennan's contribution, \"Art in a Capitalist Society\" depicted an authoritative picture of leading private Australian gallerist Anna Schwartz, linked to a quote about exploitation from the Karl Marx treatise \"Das Kapital\". Schwartz has previously criticised McLennan and some have accused McLennan of taking revenge.\n\nIn a July 2009, \"Farrago\" interview, McLennan attacked the University of Melbourne over the merger with the Victorian College of the Arts, the Melbourne Model, the liquidation of the VCA Student Union and likened the Vice-chancellor, Glyn Davis' perceived political censorship to Adolf Hitler's use of Fascist Art and Joseph Stalin's use of Socialist Realism. He also depicted Davis and the Provost, Peter McPhee, as Sex Pistols musicians, Johnny Rotten and Sid Vicious in a parody of the Never Mind the Bollocks album cover as well as depicting Davis as the violent psychopath, Alex DeLarge in Stanley Kubrick's film adaptation of A Clockwork Orange. McLennan had previously attacked Davis and the university administration as the former General Secretary of the VCA Student Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "49321495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49321495", "title": "Bastar Wooden Craft", "text": "Bastar Wooden Craft\n\nBastar Wooden Crafts are traditional Indian wooden crafts that are manufactured in the Bastar district of Chhattisgarh state, India. The wood-crafting work has been protected under the Geographical indication (GI) of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) agreement. It is listed at item 84 as \"Bastar Wooden Craft\" of the GI Act 1999 of the Government of India with registration confirmed by the Controller General of Patents Designs and Trademarks.\n\nGenerally people in Chhattisgarh, especially Bastar people have excellent skills in variety of craft work including Dhokra, bamboo craft, wrought iron craft, tribal dress, traditional textile, Kantha embroidery, terracotta, tribal painting, bell metal, etc. Their skills have been recognized by national and state awards. Badhai people are skilled in this woodcraft work and they are divided into two groups. One group make agricultural instruments and other group make decorative and totemic pillars. Another community, knows as Muria people also has woodcarving skills. The Murias are best in craftsmanship. Their skill apply in various objects that from small to big. They turn craft skills into interpretation of basic lifestyles and basic routines of life such as chaffing of paddy, grinding grains, etc. They express their culture and religious faiths into craft art that reflect through gods, goddess, music culture of the community and wildlife. The craft work heavily depended as hand-made where there is no machinery usage or rare use in particular areas only.\n\nWoodcraft in Bastar has beautiful and unique form of art that was mastered by Bastar tribal and it helps their livelihood. The handicrafts product has decent market in different parts of India as well as in some foreign countries. They use teak wood, Indian Rosewood, whitewood and other finest wood to craft various handicraft items. Bastar Wooden Craft has been exhibited at \"Durbar Hall Art Gallery\" too.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9905728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9905728", "title": "Chocolate box art", "text": "Chocolate box art\n\nChocolate box art originally referred literally to decorations on chocolate boxes. Over the years, however, the terminology has changed; it is now applied broadly as an often pejorative term to describe paintings and designs that are overly idealistic and sentimental.\n\nUsing his own paintings of children, flowers and holiday scenes Richard Cadbury, the son of the founder of Cadbury's, introduced such designs to his chocolate boxes in the late 19th century.\n\nRenoir's paintings have been described as \"chocolate box\" and have been derided by Degas and Picasso for being happy, inoffensive scenes. Constable's landscapes have also been so described.\n\nAelbert Cuyp's \"\" (1660), despite being widely regarded as his best work, has been criticised as having \"chocolate box blandness\". Fred Swan is a modern-day proponent of chocolate box paintings as, to his detractors, was Thomas Kinkade.\n\nThe term has also been applied to sculpture. A young couple standing locked in an embrace forms the centrepiece for the new £800m St Pancras International station in central London. Entitled \"The Meeting Place\", the £1m sculpture is by Briton Paul Day who admitted, \"Some will say it is a chocolate box sculpture\".\n"}
{"id": "26246590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26246590", "title": "Color symbolism", "text": "Color symbolism\n\nColor symbolism in art and anthropology refers to the use of color as a symbol in various cultures. There is great diversity in the use of colors and their associations between cultures and even within the same culture in different time periods. The same color may have very different associations within the same culture at any time. Diversity in color symbolism occurs because color meanings and symbolism occur on an individual, cultural and universal basis. Color symbolism is also context-dependent and influenced by changes over time. Symbolic representations of religious concepts or articles may include a specific color with which the concept or object is associated. There is evidence to suggest that colors have been used for this purpose as early as 90,000 BC.\n\nRed is often associated with love, passion, and lust. It is frequently used in relation to Valentine's Day. It can also be used to signify danger or warning. For instance, it is used for stop signs and fire engines. In China, red is often used to symbolize good luck or happiness, and is used for many holidays or weddings.\n\nBlue is the color of the ocean and the sky; it often symbolizes serenity, stability, or inspiration. It can be a calming color, and symbolize reliability. In the Catholic Church, the Virgin Mary is most often depicted wearing blue, to symbolize her divinity. Blue is widely used for baby boys' clothes or bedrooms, although the reason blue is so strongly associated with boys is debated.\n\nYellow is a color often associated with sunshine or joy. It is sometimes used in association with cowardice or fear, i.e, the phrase \"yellow-bellied\". Children tend to like this color, and it is used to market products to children; it is also used for school buses and taxi cabs since it is such a bright, noticeable color.\n\nGreen is most often used to represent nature, healing, or fertility, since it's such a dominant color in nature. It can be a very relaxing color but is also used in the US to symbolize money, greed, or jealousy. Saying that someone is \"green\" means they're inexperienced or new.\n\nBlack, in Western culture, is considered a negative color and usually symbolizes death, grief, or evil. People often wear black for mourning, although this practice isn't as wide-spread as it was in the past.\n\nWhite most often symbolizes perfection, faith, innocence, softness, and cleanliness. Brides often wear white dresses to symbolize virginity or purity.\n\nPink is associated with softness, femininity, sweetness, and love. However, it was formerly used as a masculine color, frequently used for baby boys; it wasn't until the early 20th century that the gender roles of pink and blue were reversed.\n\nColor plays an important role in setting expectations for a product and communicating its key characteristics. Color is the second most important element that allows consumers to identify brand packaging.\n\nMarketers for products with an international market navigate the color symbolism variances between cultures with targeted advertising. The car manufacturer, Volkswagen ran a commercial in Italy with a black sheep in the middle of a larger flock symbolizing those who owned a VW Golf as someone unique and self-assured among a crowd of others who were not. In several cultures around the world, a black sheep represents an outcast and is seen as something undesirable. In Italy, a black sheep represents confidence and independence. There are many additional variances in color symbolism between cultures. Cold is symbolized by blue in East Asia, the USA, and Sweden while warmth is symbolized by yellow in the USA and by blue in The Netherlands. Sometimes the meanings of colors are in stark opposition across geographic boundaries, requiring products marketed to specific demographics to account for those changes across different markets. For instance, feminity is symbolized by blue in The Netherlands and pink in the USA., whereas masculinity is symbolized by blue in Sweden and the USA, and red in the UK and France. In some instances color symbolism in marketing is constructed. For companies whose products are defined by the name of their color their sales are susceptible to the symbolism and association of that name. In one example, a company selling a paint color named “off white” more than doubled its sales by renaming the same color as “ancient silk.”\n\nColor symbolism has morphed over time. Between the 5th and 17th centuries color was largely related to in a religious context. Blue was symbolic of heaven and white of purity. Today, purity is still symbolized by white in Australia and the USA but by blue in other countries like India. Similarly, the church influenced the perception of colors like crimson and purple. Largely because the dyes for these colors could only be sourced from precious pigments, religious figures like Madonna, Cardinals, and the Virgin were seen in scarlet and purple. Today, purple symbolizes evil and infidelity in Japan, but the same is symbolized by blue in East Asia and by yellow in France. Additionally, the sacred color of Hindu and Buddhist monks is orange. The Renaissance was also a time in which black and purple were colors of mourning. Today, Mourning or death is symbolized by white in East Asia, black in the USA, and blue in Iran, while happiness is symbolized by white in Australia and NZ, and yellow in China.\n\nThere is a general disagreement over whether reactions to color and their symbolism are a result of cultural conditioning or of instinct. Several studies concluded that color is part of the social learning process because of the significant symbolism within the culture. High quality, trustworthiness and dependability are symbolized by blue in the USA, Japan, Korea and green and yellow in China - as well as purple in China, South Korea and Japan. Because of these variances, critical cues vary across cultures. Warning signs are coded differently as danger is symbolized by green in Malaysia, and red in the USA and Mexico. The same color of green symbolizes envy in Belgium and the USA, but envy is symbolized by yellow in Germany and Russia, and purple in Mexico. Even the colors that denote powerful emotions vary. Love is symbolized by green in Japan, red and purple in China, Korea, Japan and the USA. Unluckiness is symbolized by red in Chad, Nigeria and Germany. Luckiness is symbolized by red in China, Denmark and Argentina. The traditional bridal color is red in China and white in the USA. Ambition and desire are symbolized by red in India.\n\nColor has different meanings in different countries.  We can specifically look at the Arabic culture and take it into consideration. We can start with the color white. In the Arabic culture, white is thought of as the color that is symbolic for nature.  Since it related with nature, it has a meaning that is one of positivity. It also relates with that of being clean and pure.  White is a color that is commonly worn during prayers and with that, it symbolizes purity. White’s positive connotation carries out into other aspects.  It is also used as a symbol for positivity in the future. White is also used to symbolize the end of war. You will also see women adorn white at their weddings as a sign of positivity.  Since doves are white, they share the symbolic meaning that comes with the color.  This in turn causes them to be associated with positivity of good news. \n\nWhen you look at the color Black in Arabic culture you can find that it is related to funerals and death. Women will often wear black to funerals in order to show that they are sad for those who have passed.  Also relating to death, black is associated with hell. Black is also used to symbolize dark.  Hell is thought to be a dark black place associating black as negative.  Black in general is looked at as having negative connotations around it. For example, the symbolism of a black heart refers to someone who is unkind.  \n\nGreen is a color that is commonly found in Islam.  It is a color found in nature and with this, it is associated with and represents goodness. Green is a color that has an overall positive meaning.   The color green also has to do with truthfulness, again going with positivity.  If you look at phrases, the symbolic meanings are generally positive.  If you look at the phrase green hand, it relates to being generous which is a positive thing. \n\nRed has an overall positive association with it. Often you will find that red is a color associated with roses and blood.  The color red has to do with love and passion.  In sayings you can find it to have either a negative or positive meaning such as the term red eye relates with anger.  The Arabic culture also associates this color with death.\n\nBlue is related with positivity when discussing it with nature, otherwise it can be related with negative connotations. When used in the phrase blue eyes, it refers to jealousy. A blue body relates with death and therefore is associated with negativity.\n\nYellow is another color that is also associated with nature and the sun.  Again, since it is a color related with nature, it takes on the symbolic meaning of positivity.  Gold is also categorized under here and is also takes on a positive meaning.  Generally, when used in phrases, the color yellow has to do with negativity.  For example, a yellow smile means to be mean. \n\nColor symbolism is displayed in many ways. One of the most common ways we see color symbolism displayed in through our emotions. In this article Color-emotions associations: Past experience and personal preference it takes a look at how we connect colors with our emotions and how it depends on a person’s preference and or their past experiences. \n\n"}
{"id": "12535980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12535980", "title": "Color wash", "text": "Color wash\n\nA color wash is a popular technique in faux painting using paint thinned out with glaze to create a subtle wash of color over walls or other surfaces. \n\nColor washing is an easy and forgiving form of faux finishing often used by beginners, but perfected by professional finishers. It was historically created with oil-based products because of the long drying time, but today's environmental and health conscious companies are producing user-friendly water based glazes. Color washing can be done in any color of paint and is generally applied with brushes over a solid paint color, using long sweeping strokes to meld the glaze colors together.\n"}
{"id": "53368983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53368983", "title": "Commesso", "text": "Commesso\n\nCommesso also known as Florentine Commesso, also referred to as Florentine mosaic, is a method of piecing together cut sections of luminous, narrow gemstones to form works of art. Precise patterns are cut into a slab of (generally black) marble. Gems are then cautiously cut and meticulously inlaid into these patterns. The work is then polished section by section, as it cannot be polished as a whole due to gems having different hardnesses. \n\nThe assembly between each pieces is made using glue made with a mixture of virgin wax and colophony. The Master personally follow the whole creative process and all mosaics are completely produced in the laboratory\n\nThe practice, which began in Florence, Italy, dates back to at least the 14th century and gained prominence just before the 17th century. Some of its uses include making pictures and decorating furniture and architecture. It is know all over the world for its excellence and old tradition and it is still alive today and kept alive from Tuscany masters, with the magnificent and magical atmosphere in their ancient “botteghe”.\n\n\"Commesso is something you will love and admire each day for a life, something that is perfect now and will be perfect forever because stones never change\" \n\n"}
{"id": "49870344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49870344", "title": "Creative computing", "text": "Creative computing\n\nCreative computing covers the interdisciplinary area at the cross-over of the creative arts and computing. Issues of creativity include knowledge discovery, for example. \n\nThe \"International Journal of Creative Computing\" describes creative computing as follows:\n\nCreative computing is interdisciplinary in nature and topics relating to it include applications, development method, evaluation, modeling, philosophy, principles, support environment, and theory.\n\nThe term \"creative computing\" is used both in the United Kingdom and the United States (e.g., at Harvard University and MIT).\n\nA number of university degree programmes in Creative Computing exist, for example at:\n\n\nThe \"International Journal of Creative Computing\" is a quarterly peer-reviewed scientific journal published by Inderscience Publishers, covering creativity in computing and the other way around. The editor-in-chief is Hongji Yang (Bath Spa University).\n\nThe journal was established in 2013 and is abstracted and indexed in CSA, ProQuest, and DBLP databases.\n\n"}
{"id": "43971447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43971447", "title": "Crown Prince Couple's Awards", "text": "Crown Prince Couple's Awards\n\nThe Crown Prince Couple's Awards () are a set of culture and social prizes awarded annually by Crown Prince Frederik and Princess Mary of Denmark. The awards were established in 2004 as a gift from the Bikuben Foundation on the occasion of the couple's marriage.\n\nThere are currently four awards: the Crown Prince Couple's Culture Prize and the Crown Prince Couple's Social Prize, each worth 500,000 Danish kroner and two cultural Stardust prizes of 50,000 kroner each, awarded to rising stars.\n\nThe objective of the awards is to highlight and recognize exceptional achievement in the arts and culture and in social work. The Culture Prize honours a Danish or Greenlandic artist with international potential while the Social Prize honours a groundbreaking Danish or Greenlandic project with international stature in the social sphere. The Stardust Prizes honour and highlight two young Danish or Greenlandic artists who are set to make a name.\n\n"}
{"id": "25245841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25245841", "title": "Crucifixion in the arts", "text": "Crucifixion in the arts\n\nCrucifixions and crucifixes have appeared in the arts and popular culture from before the era of the pagan Roman Empire. The crucifixion of Jesus has been depicted in religious art since the 4th century CE. In more modern times, crucifixion has appeared in film and television as well as in fine art, and depictions of other historical crucifixions have appeared as well as the crucifixion of Christ. Modern art and culture have also seen the rise of images of crucifixion being used to make statements unconnected with Christian iconography, or even just used for shock value.\n\nThe earliest known artistic representations of crucifixion predate the Christian era, including Greek representations of mythical crucifixions inspired by the use of the punishment by the Persians.\n\nThe Alexamenos graffito, currently in the museum in the Palatine Hill, Rome, is a Roman graffito from the 2nd century CE which depicts a man worshiping a crucified donkey. This graffito, though apparently meant as an insult, is the earliest known pictorial representation of the crucifixion of Jesus. The text scrawled around the image reads Αλεξαμενος ϲεβετε θεον, which translates to \"Alexamenos worships God\" or some variant of this sentence.\n\nIn the first three centuries of Early Christian art, the crucifixion was rarely depicted. Some engraved gems thought to be 2nd or 3rd century have survived, but the subject does not appear in the art of the Catacombs of Rome, and it is thought that at this period the image was restricted to heretical groups of Christians. The earliest Western images clearly originating in the mainstream of the church are 5th-century, including the scene on the doors of Santa Sabina, Rome. Constantine I forbade crucifixion as a method of execution, and early church leaders regarded crucifixion with horror, and thus, as an unfit subject for artistic portrayal.\n\nThe purported discovery of the True Cross by Constantine's mother, Helena, and the development of Golgotha as a site for pilgrimage, together with the dispersal of fragments of the relic across the Christian world, led to a change of attitude. It was probably in Palestine that the image developed, and many of the earliest depictions are on the Monza ampullae, small metal flasks for holy oil, that were pilgrim's souvenirs from the Holy Land, as well as 5th-century ivory reliefs from Italy. Prior to the Middle Ages, early Christians preferred to focus on the \"triumphant\" Christ, rather than a dying one, because the concept of the risen Christ was so central to their faith. The plain cross became depicted, often as a \"glorified\" symbol, as the crux gemmata, covered with jewels, as many real early medieval processional crosses in goldsmith work were.\n\nEarly depictions showed a living Christ, and tended to minimize the appearance of suffering, so as to draw attention to the positive message of resurrection and faith, rather than to the physical realities of execution. In the early history of the church in Ireland, important events were often commemorated by erecting pillars with elaborate crucifixes carved into them, such as where Saint Patrick, returning as a missionary bishop, saw the place he was held captive in his youth.\n\nEarly Byzantine depictions such as that in the Rabbula Gospels often show Christ flanked by Longinus and Stephaton with their spear and pole with vinegar. According to the gospels, the vinegar was offered just before Christ died, and the lance used just after, so the presence of the two flanking figures symbolizes the \"double reality of God and man in Christ\". In images from after the end of the Byzantine Iconoclasm, Christ is shown as dead, but his \"body is undamaged and there is no expression of pain\"; the Eastern church held that Christ's body was invulnerable. The \"S\"-shaped slumped body type was developed in the 11th century. These images were one of the complaints against Constantinople given by Rome in the Great Schism of 1054, although the Gero Cross in Cologne is probably nearly a century older.\n\nThe earliest Western images of a dead Christ may be in the Utrecht Psalter, probably before 835. Other early Western examples include the Gero Cross and the reverse of the Cross of Lothair, both from the end of the 10th century. The first of these is the earliest near life-size sculpted cross to survive, and in its large scale represents \"suffering in its extreme physical consequences\", a trend that was to continue in the West. Such figures, especially as roods, large painted or sculpted crucifixes hung high in front of the chancel of churches, became very important in Western art, providing a sharp contrast with Eastern Orthodox traditions, where the subject was never depicted in monumental sculpture, and increasingly rarely even in small Byzantine ivories. By contrast, an altar cross, almost always a crucifix, became compulsory in Western churches in the Middle Ages, and small wall-mounted crucifixes were increasingly popular in Catholic homes from the Counter-Reformation, if not before.\n\nAs a broad generalization, the earliest depictions, before about 900, tended to show all three crosses (those of Jesus, the Good Thief and the Bad Thief), but later medieval depictions mostly showed just Jesus and his cross. From the Renaissance either type might be shown. The number of other figures shown depended on the size and medium of the work, but there was a similar trend for early depictions to show a number of figures, giving way in the High Middle Ages to just the Virgin Mary and Saint John the Evangelist, shown standing on either side of the cross, as in the Stabat Mater depictions, or sculpted or painted on panels at the end of each arm of a rood cross.\n\nThe soldiers were less likely to be shown, but others of the party with Mary and John might be. Angels were often shown in the sky, and the Hand of God in some early depictions gave way to a small figure of God the Father in the heavens in some later ones, those these were always in the minority. Other elements that might be included were the sun and moon (evoking the darkening of the heavens at the moment of Christ’s death), and Ecclesia and Synagoga. Although according to the Gospel accounts his clothing was removed from Jesus before his crucifixion, most artists have thought it proper to represent his lower body as draped in some way. In one type of sculpted crucifix, of which the Volto Santo in Lucca is the classic example, Christ continued to wear the long \"collobium\" robe of the Rabbula Gospels.\nIn the Gothic period more elaborate narrative depictions developed, including many extra figures of Mary Magdalene, disciples, especially The Three Marys behind the Virgin Mary, soldiers often including an officer on a horse, and angels in the sky. The moment when Longinus the centurion pierces Christ with his spear (the \"Holy Lance\") is often shown, and the blood and water spurting from Christ's side is often caught in a chalice held by an angel. In larger images the other two crosses might return, but most often not. In some works donor portraits were included in the scene. Such depictions begin in the late 12th century, and become common where space allows in the 13th century.\n\nRelated scenes such as the \"Deposition of Christ\", \"Entombment of Christ\" and \"Nailing of Christ to the Cross\" developed. In the Late Middle Ages, increasingly intense and realistic representations of suffering were shown, reflecting the development of highly emotional andachtsbilder subjects and devotional trends such as German mysticism; some, like the Throne of Mercy, Man of Sorrows and Pietà, related to the Crucifixion. The same trend affected the depiction of other figures, notably in the \"Swoon of the Virgin\", who is very commonly shown fainting in paintings of between 1300 and 1500, though this depiction was attacked by theologians in the 16th century, and became unusual. After typically more tranquil depictions during the Italian Renaissance—though not its Northern equivalent, which produced works such as the Isenheim Altarpiece—there was a return to intense emotionalism in the Baroque, in works such as Peter Paul Rubens's \"Elevation of the Cross\".\n\nThe scene always formed part of a cycle of images of the \"Life of Christ\" after about 600 (though it is noticeably absent before) and usually in one of the \"Life of the Virgin\"; the presence of Saint John made it a common subject for altarpieces in churches dedicated to him. From the late Middle Ages various new contexts for images were devised, from such large scale monuments as the \"calvaire\" of Brittany and the Sacri Monti of Piedmont and Lombardy to the thousands of small wayside shrines still found in many parts of Catholic Europe, and the Stations of the Cross in the majority of Catholic churches.\n\nCrucifixion has appeared repeatedly as a theme in many forms of modern art.\n\nThe surrealist Salvador Dalí painted \"Crucifixion (Corpus Hypercubus)\", representing the cross as a hypercube. Fiona Macdonald describes the 1954 painting as showing a classical pose of Christ superimposed on a mathematical representation of the fourth dimension that is both unseeable and spiritual; Gary Bolyer assesses it as \"one of the most beautiful works of the modern era.\" The sculpture \"Construction (Crucifixion): Homage to Mondrian\", by Barbara Hepworth, stands on the grounds of Winchester Cathedral. Porfirio DiDonna's abstract \"Crucifixion\" is one of a number of religious works he painted in the 1960s, \"blending the artist's devotion to the liturgy and his commitment to painting\". The \"Welsh Window\", given to the 16th Street Baptist Church after it was bombed by four Ku Klux Klansmen in 1963, is a work of support and solidarity. The stained glass window depicts a black man, arms outstretched, reminiscent of the crucifixion of Jesus; it was sculpted by John Petts, who also initiated a campaign in Wales to raise money to help rebuild the church.\n\nPhotographer Robert Mapplethorpe's 1975 self-portrait shows the artist, nude and smiling, posed as if crucified. The 1983 painting \"Crucifixion\", by Nabil Kanso, employs a perspective that places the viewer behind Christ's cross. In 1987 photographer Andres Serrano created \"Piss Christ\", a controversial photograph that shows a small plastic crucifix submerged in a glass of the artist's urine, in which Serrano intended to depict sympathetically the abuse of Jesus by his executioners. In the 1990s, Marcus Reichert painted a series of crucifixions, though he did not identify the figure as Christ, but as a representation of human suffering.\n\nOther artists have used crucifixion imagery as a form of protest. In 1974, Chris Burden had himself crucified to a Volkswagen. Robert Cenedella painted a crucified Santa Claus as a protest against Christmas commercialization, displayed in the window of New York's Art Students League in December 1997. In August 2000, performance artist Sebastian Horsley had himself crucified without the use of any analgesics.\n\nCrucifixion in popular art, as with modern art, is sometimes used for its shock value. For example, a World War I Liberty bond poster by Fernando Amorsolo depicts a German soldier nailing an American soldier, his arms outspread, to the trunk of a tree. Crucifixion imagery is also used to make points in political cartoons.\n\nCrucifixion figures prominently in graphic novels from many cultures throughout the world. In Western comic books, characters in cruciform are seen more often than actual crucifixions. For example, \"Animal Man\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s fifth issue earned an Eisner Award nomination in 1989 for its \"The Coyote Gospel\", the story of Crafty, a thinly-disguised Wile E. Coyote (of the Road Runner cartoons) and the depiction at the culmination of the issue of his dead body in cruciform. Superman, often seen as a Christ figure, has also been crucified, as well as being shown in cruciform.\n\nCrucifixions and crucifixes have appeared repeatedly in Japanese manga and anime. In manga iconography, crucifixes serve two purposes: as death symbols, and as symbols of justice. Scholars such as Michael Broderick and Susan J. Napier argue that Japanese readers associate crucifixion imagery with apocalyptic themes, and trace this symbolism to Japanese secular views of the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, rather than to religious faith. Producers of anime generally deny any religious motivation for depiction of crucifixion. Concern that Westerners may find these portrayals of crucifixion offensive has led some distributors and localization studios to remove crucifixion imagery from manga such as \"Fullmetal Alchemist\" and anime such as \"Sailor Moon\".\nPassion plays are dramatic presentations of the trial and crucifixion of Jesus. They originated as expressions of devotion in the Middle Ages. In modern times, critics have said that some performances are antisemitic.\n\nNumerous movies have been produced which depict the crucifixion of Jesus. Some of these movies depict the crucifixion in its traditional sectarian form, while others intend to show a more historically accurate account. For example, \"Ben-Hur\" (1959), was probably the first movie to depict the nails being driven through Jesus' wrists, rather than his palms. Mel Gibson's controversial \"The Passion of the Christ\" (2004) depicted an extreme level of violence, but showed the nails being driven into Jesus' palms, as is traditional, with ropes supporting the wrists.\n\nAlthough crucifixion imagery is common, few films depict actual crucifixion outside of a Christian context. \"Spartacus\" (1960) depicts the mass crucifixions of rebellious slaves along the Appian Way after the Third Servile War. The character Big Bob is crucified by cannibals in Wes Craven's horror exploitation film \"The Hills Have Eyes\" (1977) as well as its 2006 remake. \"Conan the Barbarian\" (1982) depicts the protagonist being crucified on the Tree of Woe.\n\nThe 1979 British comedy film \"Monty Python's Life of Brian\" ends with a comical sequence in which several of the cast, including Brian, are crucified by the Romans. The film ends with them all singing the song \"Always Look on the Bright Side of Life\". In this sequence, the characters are not nailed to the crosses, but tied at the wrists to the crossbar, and are standing on smaller crosspieces at foot level.\n\nIn the 2010 film \"Legion\", one of the diner patrons is found crucified upside down and covered with huge boils.\n\nSimulated crucifixions have been performed in professional wrestling. On the December 7, 1998, edition of \"WWF Monday Night Raw\", professional wrestling character The Undertaker crucified Steve Austin. On October 26, 1996, in Extreme Championship Wrestling, Raven, during a feud with The Sandman, instructed his Raven's Nest to crucify Sandman.\n\nOther television performers have used crucifixion to make a point. The Australian comedian John Safran had himself crucified in the Philippines as part of a Good Friday crucifixion ritual for the Australian Broadcasting Corporation show, \"John Safran's Race Relations\" (2009). Singer Robbie Williams performed a stunt on an April 2006 Easter Sunday show shown on the UK television channel Channel 4, in which he was affixed to a cross and pierced with needles.\n\nThe HBO television series \"Rome\" (2005–2007) contained several depictions of crucifixion, as it was a common torture method during the historical period the show takes place in.\n\nIn the 2010 \"Starz\" television series \"\", Segovax, a slave recruit to the gladiatorial ludus of Lentulus Batiatus, attempts to assassinate Spartacus in the ludus washrooms and is crucified for doing so \"after being parted from his cock\".\n\nCrucifixion has been depicted in the television series \"\" (1995–2001), where its depiction has been cited in feminist studies as illustrating violent and misogynist tendencies within a messianic paradigm.\n\nIn the History Channel series \"Vikings\", the character Æthelstan, after being captured by the Saxons and named an apostate, is shown wearing a crown of thorns and being nailed to a cross. After the cross is raised he is taken down at the order of King Ecbert.\n\nThe Japanese science fiction series Neon Genesis Evangelion features crucifixion as a recurring motif.\n\nFamous depictions of crucifixion in classical music include the \"St John Passion\" and \"St Matthew Passion\" by Johann Sebastian Bach, and Giovanni Battista Pergolesi's setting of \"Stabat Mater\". Notable recent settings include the \"St. Luke Passion\" (1965) by Polish composer Krzysztof Penderecki and the \"St. John Passion\" (1982) by Estonian composer Arvo Pärt. The 2000 work, \"La Pasión según San Marcos\" (St. Mark Passion) by Argentinian Jewish composer Osvaldo Golijov, was named one of the top classical compositions of the decade for its fusion of traditional passion motifs with Afro-Cuban, tango, Capoeira, and Kaddish themes.\n\nCrucifixion has figured prominently in Easter cantatas, oratorios, and requiems. The third section of a full mass, the \"Credo\", contains the following passage at its climax: \"Crucifixus etiam pro nobis sub Pontio Pilato, passus et sepultus est,\" which means \"And was crucified also for us under Pontius Pilate; he suffered and was buried.\" This passage was sometimes set to music separately as a \"Crucifixus\", the most famous example being that of Antonio Lotti for eight voices.\n\nThe seven utterances of Jesus while on the Cross, gathered from the four gospels, have inspired many musical compositions, from Heinrich Schütz in 1645 to Ruth Zechlin in 1996, with the best known being Joseph Haydn's \"The Seven Last Words of Christ\", composed in 1787.\n\nDepictions of crucifixion outside the Christian context are rare. One of the few examples is in Ernest Reyer's opera \"Salammbô\" (1890).\n\nThe 1970 rock opera Jesus Christ Superstar by Tim Rice and Andrew Lloyd Webber ends with Jesus' crucifixion.\n\nThe cover art of Tupac Shakur's album features an image of Tupac being crucified on a cross. He stated that the image was not a mockery of Christ; rather, it showed how he was being \"crucified\" by the media. Multiple Marilyn Manson videos such as \"I Don't Like The Drugs But The Drugs Like Me\" and \"Coma White\" feature crucifixion imagery, often oddly staged in surreal modern or near modern-day settings. The Norwegian black metal band Gorgoroth had several people on stage affixed to crosses to give the appearance of crucifixion at a now infamous concert in Kraków, and repeated this act in the music video for \"Carving a Giant.\" In 2006, singer Madonna caused controversy by opening a concert held near Vatican City with a mock crucifixion, complete with a crown of thorns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44223089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44223089", "title": "Dan Park", "text": "Dan Park\n\nDan Park (born May 4, 1968) is a Swedish street artist who has been arrested, fined, and sentenced to jail for hate speech in Swedish Courts several times for his art.\n\nIn 2011, Park was arrested for a collage poster depicting an Afro-Swede student activist naked and in chains along with text saying \"Our negro slave has run away\", and the activist's personal contact information. Park singled out the student activist for reporting a student party with people in blackface. Park was convicted of defamation and racial agitation, and given a suspended sentence, fined, and ordered to pay damages.\n\nIn 2014, Park was arrested at the opening of an exhibition of his collage posters, and was sentenced to 6 months in jail for incitement to racial agitation and defamation, and ordered to pay a total of 60,000 kronor ($8,700) in damages to four people depicted in his pictures. Additionally, the court ordered 9 of his works destroyed.\n\nPark himself insists that his works are not racist, but a satiric commentary on current events and against political correctness in Sweden. Park is mainly notable for the intense public debate about freedom of speech that his case and works have generated, especially in Denmark, where his works have been exhibited in the Parliament building.\n"}
{"id": "8918212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8918212", "title": "David Throsby", "text": "David Throsby\n\n(Charles) David Throsby AO is an Australian economist. He is especially well known as a cultural economist. His book \"Economics and Culture\" (2001) has become a standard reference work in the field. In addition to the performing arts, Throsby's research and writing has covered the economic role of artists, the economics of public intervention in arts markets, cultural development, cultural policy, heritage issues, and sustainability of cultural processes. He has also written extensively on the theory of public goods and the economics of higher education.\n\nThrosby is a Distinguished Professor of Economics at Macquarie University, Sydney. As an undergraduate he studied at the University of Sydney and received his doctorate from the London School of Economics. He is a past-president of the Association for Cultural Economics International (ACEI) and Foundation Chair of the National Association for the Visual Arts. He is on the editorial boards of journals including the Journal of Cultural Economics and the International Journal of Cultural Policy and has served on the boards of the Museum of Contemporary Art, Sydney, The Australian Museum and the Copyright Agency Ltd. His survey of cultural economics in \"JEL\" has been frequently quoted since 1994. His most recent book is \"The Economics of Cultural Policy\" (2010).\n\nHe is the brother of the ABC broadcaster Margaret Throsby and uncle of the singer Holly Throsby.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17165742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17165742", "title": "Elmo Gideon", "text": "Elmo Gideon\n\nElmo Clifford Gideon (January 11, 1924 – December 21, 2010) was an American painter and sculptor of the 20th and 21st centuries.\n\nThursday, April 12, 2001 was declared “Gideon Day” with an official Proclamation by the Miami-Dade County Office of the Mayor and Board of County Commissioners.\n\n"}
{"id": "12859220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12859220", "title": "Fairy path", "text": "Fairy path\n\nAccording to folklore a fairy path (or 'passage', 'avenue', or 'pass') is a route taken by fairies usually in a straight line and between sites of traditional significance, such as fairy forts or raths (a class of circular earthwork dating from the Iron Age), \"airy\" (eerie) mountains and hills, thorn bushes, springs, lakes, rock outcrops, and Stone Age monuments. Ley lines and spirit paths, such as with corpse roads, have some similarities with these fairy paths. A fairy ring is also a path used by fairies, but in a circle, for dancing, as described by poet W. B. Yeats, \"...the fairies dance in a place apart, Shaking their milk-white feet in a ring...\" The concept is usually associated with Celtic folklore, especially that of Ireland.\n\nIn some parts of Ireland, Brittany and Germany there were fairy or spirit paths that while being invisible nevertheless had such perceived geographical reality in the minds of the country people that building practices were adapted to ensure they were not obstructed. A significant number of the characteristics of fairy paths are shared in common with ley lines. In many parts of Northern Europe the round barrows were the traditional homes of the fairies, elves, or trolls and were avoided by the country folk. Such places were Fairy Toot in Somerset, Elf Howe barrow near Folkton, Yorkshire, and a round barrow at Beedon in Berkshire. Cornwall was and is a stronghold of fairy lore: fairies are said to dance on Carn Gluze, near St Just in Penwith. In Danish Jutland there was a belief that \"Barrow-folk\" dwelt in barrows and were descendants of fallen angels cast out of Heaven. Likewise, it was considered bad luck to let cattle graze on any place where the Elf-folk have been, or to let the cattle mingle with the large blue cattle of the elves. However, all evils may be averted if one were to ask at an \"Elf-barrow\" for permission to graze cattle on their mound. Some Danish \"Elf-barrows\" included one near Galtebjerg, another not far from Kalundborg; one between Thisted and Aalborg that was said to be the home of an elfin smith; two near Sundby where a troll-smith would ride from one to the other followed by his apprentices and journeymen; and one at Tröstrup where according to legend a giant was buried, and it was said his daughter wandered across the fields and one day met a ploughman whom she took back to her father who then set the man free, fearing that they'd be driven out of their barrow. In Sweden similar beliefs existed and one barrow called \"Helvetesbacke\" (\"Hell's mouth\") that lies near Kråktorps gård, Småland, was claimed to be the burial mound of Odin. In Germany the Wild Troop of Rodenstein was said to ride a straight path between the castles of Rodenstein and Schnellert. Also throughout Europe are Corpse roads, which are generally believed to be of the same basic belief as \"fairy paths\" and most likely share an origin. In Germany and the Netherlands in particular, these tend to be straight invisible lines and are known by a variety of names including \"Geisterweg\" (\"ghost-way\" or \"ghost-road\") and \"Helweg\" (\"hell-way\" or \"hell-road\") in German and \"Doodweg\" (\"death-way\" or \"death-road\") in Dutch. A similarly straight road did however run straight over various burial mounds at Rösaring, Lassa in southern Sweden.\n\nIn Ireland, people who had illnesses or other misfortune, were said to live in houses that were \"in the way\" or in a \"contrary place\", obstructing a fairy path. An example is that of a family in which four children sickened and died, leaving the doctors baffled. The fifth child sickened and was near death, only to make a sudden and full recovery. The father told the doctor that he had consulted a wise woman who informed him that his new house extension blocked a fairy path between two fairy forts, whereupon he demolished it and his child became healthy again.\n\nAn example of this fairy path straightness is provided by an account concerning a croft (now a cattle shed) at Knockeencreen, Brosna, County Kerry. In an interview in the 1980s, the last human occupant told of the troubles his grandfather had experienced there, with his cattle periodically and inexplicably dying. The front door is exactly opposite the back door. The grandfather was informed by a passing Gypsy that the dwelling stands on a fairy path running between two hills. The Gypsy advised the grandfather to keep the doors slightly ajar at night to allow the fairies free passage. The advice was heeded and the problem ceased. It so happens that the building is indeed on a straight line drawn between two local hilltops, and is, moreover, at one end of a long, straight track.\n\nThe fairies processed from Rath Ringlestown in Ireland every night and parents brought their children in before the fairies were due to pass. The path passed round several bushes which were left undisturbed by the locals. A man who cut down one bush could not get it to burn and sickened and died within a short while as a supposed consequence of his actions. The route also passed between two mud-wall houses and a man who was out at the wrong time was found dead; the fairies having taken him for getting in the way of the procession.\nA traditional folk tale from the Southern Shore of Newfoundland, Canada, concerns a young married couple who discovered that they had built their house on a path used by the good people, and the steps that couple take to rid themselves of fairy mischief. It seems therefore that the fairy folk had emigrated together with their human counterparts or had been in Canada from time immemorial.\n\nHome-owners have knocked corners from houses because the corner blocked the fairy path, and cottages have been built with the front and back doors in line, so that the owners could, in need, leave them both open and let the fairies troop through all night.\n\nIt was believed that a house built on a fairy path would suffer from midnight noises or supernatural manifestations. Ill-luck in the form of sick farm animals or personal illness could be the result and one remedy was to build small fires in several places along the fairy path, using fire from the blessed fire of Saint John's Eve that was lit every year at sunset on 23 June.\n\nSome builders used to use a technique to see if the planned construction was going to be on a fairy path; they would map out the floor plan in the earth and place a pile of stones at each corner and leave it overnight, if the stones were undisturbed it was safe to build, otherwise the work would not continue. There is another theme that states if one's house is on a fairy path, one must leave the doors and windows open at night, front and back, to allow fairies to pass through. Builders were also advised against using white quartz in their stonework, as it is said to be a fairy stone.\n\nWise-women were thought to be able to advise home builders of the existence of fairy paths, however in most folk-tales they are only consulted after the event and as a result of disturbances, bad luck, etc.\n\nA building placed on a fairy path would be demolished by the fairy folk, at least twice, often remaining standing however on the third attempt.\n\nPaths that the fairies travel along are usually stated as being best avoided, however they also had certain benefits to humans, such as with 'trods' in the West of England. These are a straight-line fairy path in the grass of a field with a different shade of green to the rest. People with rheumatism sought relief by walking along these tracks, though animals avoid them. Great danger was still very much associated with using these paths at times when a supernatural procession might be using them. Fairy rings have certain elements in common with this phenomenon and were seen as 'gateways' into the realm of supernatural beings.\n\nThe Tylwyth teg of Wales have paths on which it is death for a mortal to walk.\n\nThe Breton Ankou, who is king of the dead, and his subjects have their own particular paths along which they process.\n\nIrish fairy paths are said to also exist under water, reminiscent of causeways in marshes at sacred sites and those to crannogs and other islands. These paths, only used by the fairy folk, ran from one island to another and were paved with coral, making them and their travellers visible to fishermen in their boats above.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17009946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17009946", "title": "Faithbooking", "text": "Faithbooking\n\nFaithbooking, or spiritual scrapbooking is a creative expression of a family's spiritual journey, values and events that are captured in scrapbooks, diaries or journals that combine the use of photographs, decorated papers, scripture, thoughts, prayers, blessings, stories and embellishments such as buttons, ribbon and other creative art media. The goal of faithbooking is to creatively preserve and tell a story about how a family grows spiritually. Many religions such as Christianity, Judaism and Islam have adopted the concept of faithbooking.\n"}
{"id": "43824631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43824631", "title": "Family folklore", "text": "Family folklore\n\nFamily folklore is the branch of folkloristics concerned with the study and use of folklore and traditional culture transmitted within a family group. This includes items of material culture, crafts produced by family members or memorabilia saved as reminders or remainders of significant family events. It also includes family photos and photo albums in paper and electronic format, along with bundles of other pages held for posterity: certificates, letters, journals, notes and shopping lists. Family stories and sayings, originally recounting actual events, are told and retold until the historical facts give way to a distilled expression of common identity. Family customs are performed, modified, forgotten, created or resurrected with alarming frequency; each time with the goal of defining and solidifying the perception of this family as unique, distinct and different from other families.\n\nFamily folklore has long been included in the documentation of the folklore of regional, ethnic, religious or occupational groups. It is only since the 1970s that this lore has also been investigated as a defining element of the family group itself. Heralded by a call from Mody Boatright to document the \"family saga\" in 1958, folklorists responded with published accounts of stories and traditions passed down in their own families. L. Karen Baldwin’s unpublished dissertation (1975) laid further theoretical groundwork for family folklore \"… not only is the family a folk group, it is the first folk group anyone belongs to.\"\n\nThe field has since blossomed, broadening to include an ever expanding understanding of family. The conventional extended family, consisting of a heterosexual married couple with children and grandparents now incorporates gay partners, unmarried committed relationships and children adopted or born through non-traditional methods and procedures. The family traditions themselves are transformed to meet the needs and expectations of these new members and new relationships. \n\nThe study of family folklore is distinct from family genealogy or family history. Instead of focusing on historical dates, locations and verifiable events, its unique stories, customs and handicrafts identify the family as a distinct social group. At the same time, the family lore passed along has been molded and transformed to relay a sense of family identity and set of values both within and without the family group. The family lore defines the family story. \nFor an individual family, folklore is its creative expression of a common past. As raw experiences are transformed into family stories, expression, and photos, they are codified in forms which can easily be recalled, retold, and enjoyed. Their drama and beauty are heightened, and the family’s past becomes accessible as it is reshaped according to its needs and desires. … Its stories, photographs, and traditions are personalized and often creative distillations of experience, worked and reworked over time. \n\nA new baby is born or a child is adopted into an established family group, which contains a microcosm of social alignments found in many larger groups: the vertical relationship between grandparents and grandchildren, the horizontal relationship between siblings and cousins of a generation or age group, clusters of girls or boys and skill-based family alliances. The child grows up in this family, sees and learns the family lore as it is performed throughout the seasons and the life cycle. Not only is the family the first folk group of the child, it is \"the group in which important primary folkloric socialization takes place and individual aesthetic preference patterns for folkloric exchange are set.\"\n\nThe dynamics of family folklore remain unsettled not only through the addition of newborns and adoptions, but more particularly by the regular incorporation of new adult family members through each marriage or committed relationship. In the formation of each new family node, a unique subset and combination of the customs and traditions of both families is incorporated into a new story, both modifying and enriching the current family lore. \n\nAs part of the ongoing national discussion of \"family\" and what it means, family folklore redefines itself as well. Along with the classic family \"father-mother-child(ren)\", it expands to include single-parent families, blended families, communes, gay and lesbian families. The indicator for family now includes any group which self-identifies as a family based on intimacy, shared space and shared history. Any collection of adults and children in a committed relationship which sees itself as \"us\", unique and separate from other families, will develop and transmit stories and customs which are unique. Non-traditional families frequently strive to re-establish and re-enact traditional family customs and lore. This becomes a demonstration both to themselves and to outsiders that they are indeed a family of \"tradition\".\n\nThe transmission of individual stories and customs within a family depends for the most part upon the personality, character, and lifestyle of individual family members. It is not normally passed along as part of a defined family role. As a family reshapes itself around each birth, death, marriage and other life events, individual members elect to pick up items of family lore to own and perform. This might be learning a skill, telling a story (or story cycle) or baking a traditional pie for the Thanksgiving table. The transmission of individual items can picked up by several different family members, for example when several grown siblings use a family recipe or tradition in their own households. This type of transmission through multiple individuals was first described in an article by Dégh and Vázsonyi as \"multi-conduit transmission\". By choosing to own a piece of the family lore, a family member signifies that this tradition embodies beliefs and values to which he adheres. By successfully transmitting it further within the family, these beliefs and values come to define the family. \n\nThere are multiple spheres within the family and household which are \"traditionally\" defined as in the purview of one gender or the other, making an intersection with gender studies manifest. The transmission of the folklore in these areas will run through either the male or the female lines. An obvious area of gender-related transmission is seen in the kitchen, where food preparation and mealtime customs and forms are generally performed by the women. They are then transmitted from mother to daughter in the course of everyday meal preparation. A variant of this is seen when a man in the family has taken over the preparation of a special meal or special recipe. One common example of this practice is described by Thomas Adler in the article \"Making Pancakes on Sunday: The Male Cook in Family Tradition\". Many families have some variation of this tradition: the BBQ ribs, grilled hamburgers, or deep-fat fried turkey prepared as a single specialty by the non-cook in the family.\n\nA different gender-related variation in folklore transmission is seen in storytelling. The same story will be shaped and told differently by a man and a woman, even though they were both present at the original event. For an event occurring during the apple harvest, a woman’s narration might include details of the apple butter recipe they were cooking up at the time. In contrast, the man's narration gives only enough detail to \"make a point worth telling\". This gender-based variance has been studied by both Baldwin and Margaret Yocum within individual family groups. They found \"… women's telling to be more collaborative, interruptible, and filled with information and genealogy; men's telling, by contrast, is often uninterrupted and more competitive.\"\n\nWithin families, there is also a notable tendency toward traditional deference where one family member becomes the designated performer for a specific custom or tradition, even though it is known to everyone within the family group. So it happens that when the \"last basketmaker\" dies, another member will step up to become \"the last basketmaker\". No one else performs this tradition as long as the designated tradition bearer is available, acknowledging this individual as the (current) keeper of this tradition. Only when this person is no longer available will the tradition be picked up by someone else to carry forward. \"Traditional deference\" can be found in many folk groups, but is particularly evident within the family group.\n\nIf the family lore which is picked up and transmitted represents the chosen familial beliefs and values, then family stories, documents and photographs which do not support and enhance these values become problematic. For the most part news clipping on arrests, photographs of the uncle who deserted the family, stories of a sister who cheated, or dishonorable discharge papers will not be saved. That is not the family story this family wants to preserve. \n\nFamily traditions are also lost or modified in response to difficult events within the family. This is obvious when one of the tradition bearers has died. If no one else steps up to own that tradition, a hole is left in the celebration and this tradition is lost. In a divorce there is also frequently the loss of a parent no longer available to play his or her role in the established traditions. In response to this event, one family decided to change the traditions. The customary tall Christmas tree decorated by the (missing) tall father was traded in for a short tree which the children could decorate. Ornaments were discarded and new ones purchased. The toy train was no longer set up. These became the new traditions for the Christmas celebration, modified to support and tell the new family story. \n\nAnother reason family folklore might be suppressed or lost is when the references are too painful at the present time or to the present generation. When Catherine Noren found photo albums and other old family portraits in her grandmother’s attic, she unwittingly unearthed an entire family history of a prosperous German-Jewish family before the Holocaust. It became her task, one generation removed, to explore and record the family history in a book containing photos, diaries and memories of her family history. It is only because these albums and portraits had not been discarded along with the narrative that Noren came to know her family story.\n\nIt is only since the 1970s that family folklore has been investigated as a defining element of the family group itself. As part of this investigation, the Smithsonian Folklife Festival in Washington, D.C. set up a tent for several years to collect the family lore of visitors to the Festival. The goal was to establish an archive of family folklore as part of the Smithsonian collections. Using the taped interviews collected, representative pieces have been published in the book \"A Celebration of American Family Folklore: Tales and Traditions from the Smithsonian Collection\". Despite its lack of performance data, this collection provides a solid overview of the wide range of family folklore forms. \n\nA family story initially recounts an actual historical event concerning named family members. Seasoned with time and re-telling, the story gets revised and honed to express specific values and character traits valued in the family. Instead of historical accuracies, the narration becomes a medium to re-state and re-enforce shared values of the family group. These stories generally take the form of an anecdote and follow the pattern of many common traditional tales. A favorite family story involves how the parents met, or how they decided on the one true partner among several. In one family, if the story is to be believed, the prospective bride had to untie all the knots in the string to demonstrate her care and diligence. Another family tells how the young couple got stuck at the top of a Ferris wheel when he proposed, and she had to either say yes or jump. Given time and repetition, the anecdotes serve to shape the family story as a whole, populating it with real individuals and historical events made personal. In their transmission, these stories serve to codify the norms of behavior within the family.\n\nThe setting for telling family stories becomes part of the tradition. It can include the family occasions where stories are told, the location and prompt for the storytelling, the family members who initiate the session as well as the designated raconteurs and custodians of the stories. Each of these elements needs to be documented along with the stories themselves as an integral part of the storytelling tradition within this family. In one family following the holiday meal, the men would retire to the study and the women would move into the kitchen. At some point in the cleanup, usually after the best dishes had been washed and put away, the mother would bring out a bottle of schnapps to help complete the work. This became the trigger for family stories and jokes, the laughter from the kitchen frequently bringing the men to join in the storytelling.\n\nAnother type of verbal lore common within family groups is the unique family expression or saying. A saying can be created at any time; it starts as a one-time utterance of a family member to capture a single moment. Through repetition, this then becomes a shorthand reference to both the original and the current situation. In one family, the saying \"… good worker, very strong\" signifies that the speaker wants to come along, and would in fact be a value-add to the planned undertaking. This expression originally referenced a first move of the family, a move that current family members took no part in. Even so, the saying has become code words for all family members, used to communicate encrypted commentary on the present as well as re-enforce and strengthen the family’s shared experience and history.\n\nPapers stacked, bundled or boxed: news clippings, photographs, letters, scrawled notes, journals, receipts. These pages of family artifacts take many forms, and have become a significant part of family archival materials. Frequently jumbled together in cardboard boxes, they commonly pose a problem as to their value-add to the family story. The boxes are passed along until they are either thrown out in a move, destroyed in a fire, or find an owner within the family, someone with the interest and time to house and evaluate them. \n\nThe largest collection of papers is frequently the photographs, either kept in a drawer or labeled and organized into albums. Singly each photo documents only a single moment; taken together they comprise an important visual history of the family. Either way, they serve as triggers for more extensive memories, stories and events in the life of this family. They are brought out at gatherings and used to commemorate lifetime events such as a wedding or funeral. \n\nNoteworthy is the consistency in which American families of all ethnic backgrounds tend to have photographs of the same milestones. Naked babies on carpets or in the wading pool, the first day of school, the birthday cake surrounded by family and guests, generational portraits gathered around the new baby can be found in many family albums. This pictorial repetition by American families of all backgrounds and traditions documents the universality of family photography as an important custom. \n\nAs with storytelling, the occasion for photo-taking becomes a family tradition in and of itself. Year after year, the same pictures are snapped; documenting a family which is growing and changing, adding and subtracting members, detailing a new location. The camera can be as much a part of the celebration as the birthday cake or the menorah. \n\nThe ubiquity of cameras and on-line photos since the rise of cellphone cameras and personal websites is actively changing the tradition of family photos and photo albums. The availability of video recordings and teleconferencing allows for a daily log of family growth and minutiae to be saved and transmitted to family near and far, in real time. Grandparents can get a daily or weekly update on children's growth or milestone events. Family members can video-conference with each other, making geographic distance much less significant in family relations. A new family custom, using the technology of today, is to put together a slideshow or video documenting the story leading up to the current celebration. At this time a folklorist can only speculate on evolving customs of family photography. \n\nSome families have also amassed over decades a collection of letters and other papers written by or about family members. One family, in sorting through boxes of papers, discovered all diplomas for family members from 2nd grade Sunday School up through doctoral degrees. Other family documents include the family Bible, military enlistment or discharge papers and Certificates of Baptism. While certificates authenticate the dates and events in the family history, letters and journals are particularly revealing as to the character and thoughts of individual family members. \n\nSimilar to photographs, letters and journal entries document a single day in the life of a family member. Once these papers have been saved, it falls to members of the following generations to evaluate them. Are they to be preserved as part of the family story or discarded as inconsequential or even damaging to the family? For the most part unfavorable documents are discarded; that is not the family story this family wants to save.\n\nThe introduction of emails, IMs and other electronic messaging means that paper documents of family history are no longer regularly generated. Seldom is electronic communication printed out for the family files. The 19th and 20th centuries, providing access both to widespread literacy and to resources to create and preserve paper documents might mean that these forms of family history and lore are themselves becoming history.\n\nEach family has its own traditions, played out year after year, event after event. These traditions are frequently so engrained that the recognition of them as unique to this family only occurs when compared to other families. This is also an area of family folklore that is most exposed to change or modification. With each additional marriage or committed relationship, a new member from a different family gets added, an individual who does not recognize the family customs as \"traditional\". These new members bring their own traditions which need to be reconciled, perhaps added or even substituted into the current performance. Not only through marriage, but births and deaths also add a fluid dynamic to the family traditions. When the first grandchild is born, everyone moves into a new role, Mom becomes Grandmom, Brother becomes Uncle, and the family Benjamin loses his position to the new baby. These factors lead to a dynamic development of new and renewed family traditions. \n\nOne major and understudied area of family traditions is found in foodways, which includes everything involved in the procurement, preparation, serving and eating of daily meals at home. Most of us go home each evening for dinner, wake up for breakfast and pack up a lunch or snack pack to take with us for the day. All the assumptions about how this occurs, who does what when arise only when the established process (i.e. family custom) hits a snag: we've run out of milk or someone ate the last of the cookies. Maybe Dad is off on a trip and can't make the Sunday morning pancakes. Each of these food customs is understood and accepted by the group as a whole, and followed as a matter of course with little or no discussion. \n\nIt is also customary that family mealtimes differ: breakfast food differs from supper and snacks, weekends frequently vary from the weekday diet. In one busy family a scoop of ice cream on the breakfast cereal turned the meal into an easy, fun supper. There might also be a traditional Sunday Dinner to be prepared and staged weekly with an expanded family group gathered around the table. \n\nHolidays and \"life event\" celebrations, from birthdays to wakes include multiple family customs, either superimposed upon the more broadly defined societal celebrations, or substituting for them. This is seen most obviously in traditions found in the preparation and \"performance\" of a holiday meal. Each family has their own unique traditions, from special dishes prepared only for this dinner, to a single individual who prepares and presents this single dish, to the individual assigned to carve the bird. It is unnecessary to mention examples of this; each North American reader is mentally reviewing the Thanksgiving traditions unique to his own family. This list of special holiday traditions in the family expands easily from the dining table to the family wake-up calls to the distribution of presents under the Christmas tree or Hanukah lights. Each of these, along with countless other details, distinguish this family as a unique social unit. \n\nAnother significant family tradition is that of naming customs. When a new baby is born, incorporating family names into the name for the new baby, or conversely not using family names for the next generation, can become problematic. What rules should be followed? Many ethnic groups have their own naming customs, variations of which might be found within the separate family groups of the parents. There are also differing ethnic customs of who has the authority to pick the name for the baby. When published lists of currently popular names along with expectations of individual family members are added to this mix, it can become a challenge to craft a name which pleases everyone. \n\nAll possessions are considered pieces of material culture - objects with which members of a culture customarily surround themselves. However, only handicrafts produced by family members and memorabilia passed along through generations are of interest in family folklore. \n\nMemorabilia are singular objects which are passed down through the family with the stories and memories about events or individuals attached to them. In one family a doll, given once as a Christmas present, continued to be brought out each year to celebrate Christmas and have her picture taken with the (changing) family. For her hundredth birthday, a birthday cake for the doll was included in the Christmas celebration. Like the doll, almost any object imbued with family stories and memories can become a family heirloom. As such, it holds in the family a value often unrelated to its monetary value. As the stories and memories enveloping the object are slowly lost, the object itself becomes a simple hand-me-down, usually in poor condition and ready to be discarded.\n\nHandicrafts are objects which have been \"homemade\", crafted individually using simple tools by one or more family members. The production skills for these artisanal crafts are generally transmitted within the family; the items might include weaving, welding, pottery, woodworking, quilting, basketry, cooking. They can be used functionally or as decoration in the home. Over time these handicrafts becomes a skill nurtured within the family, as well as a point of family identification for outsiders. The family cultivates both the production knowledge and the objects themselves. \n\nOne aspect of these objects, both family memorabilia and handicrafts, is that they are for the most part one-of-a-kind. Many family members can tell the story of the Christmas doll, or have the family photographs, but only one family branch can actually possess the doll. For handicrafts, a craftsman could decide to create a quilt or a rocking chair for each child in a family. But this just postpones the decision of ownership of the item to the following generation. \n\nEach of these material objects carries along with its stories or memories the ability for family members to experience simultaneity in the home. \"…by gathering around ourselves treasured objects from different times of our lives and our histories, we experience different eras at the same moment and in some way bring the totality of the past to bear upon the present.\" The family history and identity is preserved and transmitted, both for the family member who walks past the bowl sitting on the counter, and the outsider who asks about the origin of the unique item. \"The artifacts that family members make, use, or display can be an unseen backdrop to the duties and demands of family life. Alternatively, they might be carefully crafted statements about the values and expectations of family tradition bearers.\" The candy bowl on the coffee table or the silver tea service set out in the dining room speak of an elegance of hospitality which is customary in this family. \n\n1967 marked the first Smithsonian Folklife Festival, set up on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. to exhibit and demonstrate crafts and customs of diverse ethnic, regional and occupational groups. Originally including only displays from the United States, it later expanded to include traditions and customs from around the world. Each exhibit at the festival endeavors to move beyond the items of tangible culture, the arts and objects we can touch, feel and put in a glass case. Each unique performance or display at the Folklife Festival articulates the goal of the Smithsonian Institution to spread its reach beyond material objects to artifacts of intangible cultural heritage. Festival exhibits such as \"The Changing Soundscape in Indian Country\" (1992), \"American Social Dance\" (1993), \"Mississippi Delta\" (1997), \"Asian Pacific Americans: Local Lives, Global Ties\" (2010) are just a few of the exhibits included since the Festival began. Any of these cultural intangibles, including traditions of performance, ritual, music, dance, traditional knowledge, storytelling or oral transmission, is considered for inclusion at the festival. Its intention is to \"legitimize and celebrate individual Americans and their traditions\". Open to the public at no cost, the festival is devised to enable each visitor to find at least one exhibit which relates to his background, narrates a segment of his story.\nIn 1974 a new tent was added to the Festival. Instead of displaying or performing recognized traditions, its goal was to collect items of family folklore from visitors. This tent was unique at the festival in asking visitors to be active contributors to the folklife on display instead of merely receptive spectators. A sign at the tent was hopeful: \"Family Folklore – Will You Share Yours With Us?\" Card tables with checkered table clothes were set up, tape recorders and folklore interviewers on hand to prompt, listen and record family lore which visitors might share. Not only should each visitor see himself somewhere in the exhibits, but he should also recognize and record parts of his own story as a unique and valued artifact of cultural heritage. \n\nDuring the four years that the tent was included at the festival, it gradually cluttered with objects, memorabilia and photos just like any family home. Taking the taped interviews as a baseline, the stories and customs collected in the tent were used to establish an archive of family folklore as part of the Smithsonian collections. Representative pieces were then published in the book \"A Celebration of American Family Folklore: Tales and Traditions from the Smithsonian Collection\". This collection continues to be supported by the Smithsonian Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage and the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress. \n\nSince this first Smithsonian Folklife Festival, many regional festivals have been established in all parts of the country. These include the Northwest Folklife Festival, the New England Folk Festival and the Philadelphia Folk Festival to name just a few. Each of these is supported by various institutions of public folklore, with the goal of displaying traditions of regional, ethnic and occupational folk groups. None of them however has duplicated the Smithsonian Folklore tent intended to collect original family folklore.\n\nOral history and oral tradition first became recognized as legitimate forms of historical and cultural research in the 1960s and early 1970s. Pioneers in this field used newly developed inexpensive tape-recorders to record oral histories. A Pulitzer Prize was awarded to Studs Terkel in 1985 for his book \"\"The Good War\": An Oral History of World War II\" and a special Pulitzer Prize was awarded to Alex Haley in 1977 for \"Roots: The Saga of an American Family\". With these awards, the importance of oral histories and traditions as a bona fide tool of historical and cultural research was cemented.\n\nHistorical and folklore research using oral interviews has gone mainstream, with multiple organizations dedicated to its collection. One of the best known organizations is StoryCorps, founded in 2003 and modeled on the WPA Federal Writers Project. Its expressed mission is to \"record, preserve, and share stories of Americans from all backgrounds and beliefs\". Special projects reach out to targeted populations to fulfill StoryCorps' commitment to record a diverse array of voices. The only requirement for the 2-person interview is that the 2 participants \"care about each other\", for instance family members. The participants are given a recording of the interview to take with them and add to the family archive. \n\nStoryCorps is just one of many organizations with a goal of recording and preserving interviews of oral history and tradition. Other organizations abound, such as City Lore of New York City and the Oral History Society of London. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10672", "title": "Frank Zappa", "text": "Frank Zappa\n\nFrank Vincent Zappa (December 21, 1940 – December 4, 1993) was an American musician, composer, activist and filmmaker. His work is characterized by nonconformity, free-form improvisation, sound experiments, musical virtuosity, and satire of American culture. In a career spanning more than 30 years, Zappa composed rock, pop, jazz, jazz fusion, orchestral and \"musique concrète\" works, and produced almost all of the 60-plus albums that he released with his band the Mothers of Invention and as a solo artist. Zappa also directed feature-length films and music videos, and designed album covers. He is considered one of the most innovative and stylistically diverse rock musicians of his era.\n\nAs a self-taught composer and performer, Zappa's diverse musical influences led him to create music that was sometimes difficult to categorize. While in his teens, he acquired a taste for 20th-century classical composers such as Edgard Varèse, Igor Stravinsky, and Anton Webern, along with 1950s rhythm and blues and doo-wop music. He began writing classical music in high school, while at the same time playing drums in rhythm and blues bands, later switching to electric guitar. His 1966 debut album with the Mothers of Invention, \"Freak Out!\", combined songs in conventional rock and roll format with collective improvisations and studio-generated sound collages. He continued this eclectic and experimental approach, irrespective of whether the fundamental format was rock, jazz or classical.\n\nZappa's output is unified by a conceptual continuity he termed \"Project/Object\", with numerous musical phrases, ideas, and characters reappearing across his albums. His lyrics reflected his iconoclastic views of established social and political processes, structures and movements, often humorously so. Zappa's often comedic lyrics led AllMusic to describe him as the \"godfather\" of comedy rock. He was a strident critic of mainstream education and organized religion, and a forthright and passionate advocate for freedom of speech, self-education, political participation and the abolition of censorship. Unlike many other rock musicians of his generation, he personally disapproved of drugs and never used them again after briefly trying marijuana, but supported their decriminalization and regulation.\n\nDuring Zappa's lifetime, he was a highly productive and prolific artist with a controversial critical standing; supporters of his music admired its compositional complexity, while critics found it lacking emotional depth. He had some commercial success, particularly in Europe, and worked as an independent artist for most of his career. He remains a major influence on musicians and composers. His honors include his 1995 induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and the 1997 Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award. In 2000, he was ranked number 36 on VH1's \"100 Greatest Artists of Hard Rock\". In 2004, \"Rolling Stone\" magazine ranked him at number 71 on its list of the \"100 Greatest Artists of All Time\", and in 2011 at number 22 on its list of the \"100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time\".\n\nZappa was born on December 21, 1940 in Baltimore, Maryland. His mother, Rosemarie ( Collimore) was of Italian (Neapolitan and Sicilian) and French ancestry; his father, whose name was anglicized to Francis Vincent Zappa, was an immigrant from Partinico, Sicily, with Greek and Arab ancestry.\n\nFrank, the eldest of four children, was raised in an Italian-American household where Italian was often spoken by his grandparents. The family moved often because his father, a chemist and mathematician, worked in the defense industry. After a time in Florida in the 1940s, the family returned to Maryland, where Zappa's father worked at the Edgewood Arsenal chemical warfare facility of the Aberdeen Proving Ground. Due to their home's proximity to the arsenal, which stored mustard gas, gas masks were kept in the home in case of an accident. This had a profound effect on Zappa, and references to germs, germ warfare and the defense industry occur throughout his work.\n\nZappa was often sick as a child, suffering from asthma, earaches and sinus problems. A doctor treated his sinusitis by inserting a pellet of radium into each of Zappa's nostrils. At the time, little was known about the potential dangers of even small amounts of therapeutic radiation, and although it has since been claimed that nasal radium treatment has causal connections to cancer, no studies have provided significant enough evidence to confirm this.\n\nNasal imagery and references appear in his music and lyrics, as well as in the collage album covers created by his long-time collaborator Cal Schenkel. Zappa believed his childhood diseases might have been due to exposure to mustard gas, released by the nearby chemical warfare facility. His health worsened when he lived in Baltimore. In 1952, his family relocated for reasons of health. They next moved to Monterey, California, where his father taught metallurgy at the Naval Postgraduate School. They soon moved to Claremont, California, then to El Cajon, before finally settling in San Diego.\n\nZappa joined his first band at Mission Bay High School in San Diego as the drummer. At about the same time, his parents bought a phonograph, which allowed him to develop his interest in music, and to begin building his record collection. R&B singles were early purchases, starting a large collection he kept for the rest of his life. He was interested in sounds for their own sake, particularly the sounds of drums and other percussion instruments. By age 12, he had obtained a snare drum and began learning the basics of orchestral percussion. Zappa's deep interest in modern classical music began when he read a \"LOOK\" magazine article about the Sam Goody record store chain that lauded its ability to sell an LP as obscure as \"The Complete Works of Edgard Varèse, Volume One\". The article described Varèse's percussion composition \"Ionisation\", produced by EMS Recordings, as \"a weird jumble of drums and other unpleasant sounds\". Zappa decided to seek out Varèse's music. After searching for over a year, Zappa found a copy (he noticed the LP because of the \"mad scientist\" looking photo of Varèse on the cover). Not having enough money with him, he persuaded the salesman to sell him the record at a discount. Thus began his lifelong passion for Varèse's music and that of other modern classical composers. He also liked the Italian classical music listened to by his grandparents, especially Puccini's opera arias.\nBy 1956, the Zappa family had moved to Lancaster, a small aerospace and farming town in the Antelope Valley of the Mojave Desert close to Edwards Air Force Base; he would later refer to Sun Village (a town close to Lancaster) in the 1973 track \"Village of the Sun\". Zappa's mother encouraged him in his musical interests. Although she disliked Varèse's music, she was indulgent enough to give her son a long distance call to the composer as a 15th birthday present. Unfortunately, Varèse was in Europe at the time, so Zappa spoke to the composer's wife and she suggested he call back later. In a letter Varèse thanked him for his interest, and told him about a composition he was working on called \"Déserts\". Living in the desert town of Lancaster, Zappa found this very exciting. Varèse invited him to visit if he ever came to New York. The meeting never took place (Varèse died in 1965), but Zappa framed the letter and kept it on display for the rest of his life.\n\nAt Antelope Valley High School, Zappa met Don Glen Vliet (who later changed his name to Don Van Vliet and adopted the stage name Captain Beefheart). Zappa and Vliet became close friends, sharing an interest in R&B records and influencing each other musically throughout their careers. Around the same time, Zappa started playing drums in a local band, the Blackouts. The band was racially diverse and included Euclid James \"Motorhead\" Sherwood who later became a member of the Mothers of Invention. Zappa's interest in the guitar grew, and in 1957 he was given his first instrument. Among his early influences were Johnny \"Guitar\" Watson, Howlin' Wolf and Clarence \"Gatemouth\" Brown. (In the 1970s/80s, he invited Watson to perform on several albums.) Zappa considered soloing as the equivalent of forming \"air sculptures\", and developed an eclectic, innovative and highly personal style.\n\nZappa's interest in composing and arranging flourished in his last high-school years. By his final year, he was writing, arranging and conducting avant-garde performance pieces for the school orchestra. He graduated from Antelope Valley High School in 1958, and later acknowledged two of his music teachers on the sleeve of the 1966 album \"Freak Out!\" Due to his family's frequent moves, Zappa attended at least six different high schools, and as a student he was often bored and given to distracting the rest of the class with juvenile antics. In 1959, he attended Chaffey College but left after one semester, and maintained thereafter a disdain for formal education, taking his children out of school at age 15 and refusing to pay for their college.\n\nZappa left home in 1959, and moved into a small apartment in Echo Park, Los Angeles. After meeting Kathryn J. \"Kay\" Sherman during his short period of private composition study with Prof. Karl Kohn of Pomona College, they moved in together in Ontario, and were married December 28, 1960. Zappa worked for a short period in advertising. His sojourn in the commercial world was brief, but gave him valuable insights into its workings. Throughout his career, he took a keen interest in the visual presentation of his work, designing some of his album covers and directing his own films and videos.\n\nZappa attempted to earn a living as a musician and composer, and played different nightclub gigs, some with a new version of the Blackouts. Zappa's earliest professional recordings, two soundtracks for the low-budget films \"The World's Greatest Sinner\" (1962) and \"Run Home Slow\" (1965) were more financially rewarding. The former score was commissioned by actor-producer Timothy Carey and recorded in 1961. It contains many themes that appeared on later Zappa records. The latter soundtrack was recorded in 1963 after the film was completed, but it was commissioned by one of Zappa's former high school teachers in 1959 and Zappa may have worked on it before the film was shot. Excerpts from the soundtrack can be heard on the posthumous album \"The Lost Episodes\" (1996).\n\nDuring the early 1960s, Zappa wrote and produced songs for other local artists, often working with singer-songwriter Ray Collins and producer Paul Buff. Their \"Memories of El Monte\" was recorded by the Penguins, although only Cleve Duncan of the original group was featured. Buff owned the small Pal Recording Studio in Cucamonga, which included a unique five-track tape recorder he had built. At that time, only a handful of the most sophisticated commercial studios had multi-track facilities; the industry standard for smaller studios was still mono or two-track. Although none of the recordings from the period achieved major commercial success, Zappa earned enough money to allow him to stage a concert of his orchestral music in 1963 and to broadcast and record it. He appeared on Steve Allen's syndicated late night show the same year, in which he played a bicycle as a musical instrument. Using a bow borrowed from the band's bass player, as well as drum sticks, he proceeded to pluck, bang, and bow the spokes of the bike, producing strange, comical sounds from his new found instrument. With Captain Beefheart, Zappa recorded some songs under the name of the Soots. They were rejected by Dot Records for having \"no commercial potential\", a verdict Zappa subsequently quoted on the sleeve of \"Freak Out!\"\n\nIn 1964, after his marriage started to break up, he moved into the Pal studio and began routinely working 12 hours or more per day recording and experimenting with overdubbing and audio tape manipulation. This established a work pattern that endured for most of his life. Aided by his income from film composing, Zappa took over the studio from Paul Buff, who was now working with Art Laboe at Original Sound. It was renamed Studio Z. Studio Z was rarely booked for recordings by other musicians. Instead, friends moved in, notably James \"Motorhead\" Sherwood. Zappa started performing in local bars as a guitarist with a power trio, the Muthers, to support himself.\n\nAn article in the local press describing Zappa as \"the Movie King of Cucamonga\" prompted the local police to suspect that he was making pornographic films. In March 1965, Zappa was approached by a vice squad undercover officer, and accepted an offer of $100 () to produce a suggestive audio tape for an alleged stag party. Zappa and a female friend recorded a faked erotic episode. When Zappa was about to hand over the tape, he was arrested, and the police stripped the studio of all recorded material. The press was tipped off beforehand, and next day's \"The Daily Report\" wrote that \"Vice Squad investigators stilled the tape recorders of a free-swinging, a-go-go film and recording studio here Friday and arrested a self-styled movie producer\". Zappa was charged with \"conspiracy to commit pornography\". This felony charge was reduced and he was sentenced to six months in jail on a misdemeanor, with all but ten days suspended. His brief imprisonment left a permanent mark, and was central to the formation of his anti-authoritarian stance. Zappa lost several recordings made at Studio Z in the process, as the police only returned 30 out of 80 hours of tape seized. Eventually, he could no longer afford to pay the rent on the studio and was evicted. Zappa managed to recover some of his possessions before the studio was torn down in 1966.\n\nIn 1965, Ray Collins asked Zappa to take over as guitarist in local R&B band the Soul Giants, following a fight between Collins and the group's original guitarist. Zappa accepted, and soon assumed leadership and the role as co-lead singer (even though he never considered himself a singer). He convinced the other members that they should play his music to increase the chances of getting a record contract. The band was renamed the Mothers, coincidentally on Mother's Day. They increased their bookings after beginning an association with manager Herb Cohen, while they gradually gained attention on the burgeoning Los Angeles underground music scene. In early 1966, they were spotted by leading record producer Tom Wilson when playing \"Trouble Every Day\", a song about the Watts riots. Wilson had earned acclaim as the producer for Bob Dylan and Simon & Garfunkel, and was notable as one of the few African-Americans working as a major label pop music producer at this time. Wilson signed the Mothers to the Verve division of MGM, which had built up a strong reputation for its releases of modern jazz recordings in the 1940s and 1950s, but was attempting to diversify into pop and rock audiences. Verve insisted that the band officially rename themselves the Mothers of Invention as \"Mother\" was short for \"motherfucker\"—a term that, apart from its profane meanings, can denote a skilled musician.\n\nWith Wilson credited as producer, the Mothers of Invention, augmented by a studio orchestra, recorded the groundbreaking \"Freak Out!\" (1966), which, after Bob Dylan's \"Blonde on Blonde\", was the second rock double album ever released. It mixed R&B, doo-wop, musique concrète, and experimental sound collages that captured the \"freak\" subculture of Los Angeles at that time. Although he was dissatisfied with the final product, \"Freak Out\" immediately established Zappa as a radical new voice in rock music, providing an antidote to the \"relentless consumer culture of America\". The sound was raw, but the arrangements were sophisticated. While recording in the studio, some of the additional session musicians were shocked that they were expected to read the notes on sheet music from charts with Zappa conducting them, since it was not standard when recording rock music. The lyrics praised non-conformity, disparaged authorities, and had dadaist elements. Yet, there was a place for seemingly conventional love songs. Most compositions are Zappa's, which set a precedent for the rest of his recording career. He had full control over the arrangements and musical decisions and did most overdubs. Wilson provided the industry clout and connections and was able to provide the group with the financial resources needed. Although Wilson was able to provide Zappa and the Mothers with an extraordinary degree of artistic freedom for the time, the recording did not go entirely as planned. In a surviving 1967 radio interview, Zappa explained that the album's outlandish 11-minute closing track, \"Return of the Son of Monster Magnet\" was in fact an unfinished piece. The track (as it appears on the album) was created to act as the backing track for a much more complex work, but MGM refused to approve the additional recording time Zappa needed to complete it, so (much to his chagrin) it was issued in this unfinished form.\n\nDuring the recording of \"Freak Out!\", Zappa moved into a house in Laurel Canyon with friend Pamela Zarubica, who appeared on the album. The house became a meeting (and living) place for many LA musicians and groupies of the time, despite Zappa's disapproval of their illicit drug use. After a short promotional tour following the release of \"Freak Out!\", Zappa met Adelaide Gail Sloatman. He fell in love within \"a couple of minutes\", and she moved into the house over the summer. They married in 1967, had four children and remained together until Zappa's death.\n\nWilson nominally produced the Mothers' second album \"Absolutely Free\" (1967), which was recorded in November 1966, and later mixed in New York, although by this time Zappa was in \"de facto\" control of most facets of the production. It featured extended playing by the Mothers of Invention and focused on songs that defined Zappa's compositional style of introducing abrupt, rhythmical changes into songs that were built from diverse elements. Examples are \"Plastic People\" and \"Brown Shoes Don't Make It\", which contained lyrics critical of the hypocrisy and conformity of American society, but also of the counterculture of the 1960s. As Zappa put it, \"[W]e're satirists, and we are out to satirize everything.\" At the same time, Zappa had recorded material for an album of orchestral works to be released under his own name, \"Lumpy Gravy\", released by Capitol Records in 1967. Due to contractual problems, the album was pulled. Zappa took the opportunity to radically restructure the contents, adding newly recorded, improvised dialogue. After the contractual problems were resolved, the album was reissued by Verve in 1968. It is an \"incredible ambitious musical project\", a \"monument to John Cage\", which intertwines orchestral themes, spoken words and electronic noises through radical audio editing techniques.\n\nThe Mothers of Invention played in New York in late 1966 and were offered a contract at the Garrick Theater (at 152 Bleecker Street, above the Cafe au Go Go) during Easter 1967. This proved successful and Herb Cohen extended the booking, which eventually lasted half a year. As a result, Zappa and his wife, along with the Mothers of Invention, moved to New York. Their shows became a combination of improvised acts showcasing individual talents of the band as well as tight performances of Zappa's music. Everything was directed by Zappa using hand signals. Guest performers and audience participation became a regular part of the Garrick Theater shows. One evening, Zappa managed to entice some U.S. Marines from the audience onto the stage, where they proceeded to dismember a big baby doll, having been told by Zappa to pretend that it was a \"gook baby\".\n\nZappa uniquely contributed to the avant-garde, anti-establishment music scene of the 1960s, sampling radio tape recordings and incorporating his own philosophical ideals to music and freedom of expression in his pieces. Bands such as AMM and Faust also contributed to the radio sampling techniques of the 1960s. Situated in New York, and only interrupted by the band's first European tour, the Mothers of Invention recorded the album widely regarded as the peak of the group's late 1960s work, \"We're Only in It for the Money\" (released 1968). It was produced by Zappa, with Wilson credited as executive producer. From then on, Zappa produced all albums released by the Mothers of Invention and as a solo artist. \"We're Only in It for the Money\" featured some of the most creative audio editing and production yet heard in pop music, and the songs ruthlessly satirized the hippie and flower power phenomena. He sampled plundered surf music in \"We're only in It for the Money\", as well as the Beatles' tape work from their song \"Tomorrow Never Knows\". The cover photo parodied that of the Beatles' \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\". The cover art was provided by Cal Schenkel whom Zappa met in New York. This initiated a lifelong collaboration in which Schenkel designed covers for numerous Zappa and Mothers albums.\n\nReflecting Zappa's eclectic approach to music, the next album, \"Cruising with Ruben & the Jets\" (1968), was very different. It represented a collection of doo-wop songs; listeners and critics were not sure whether the album was a satire or a tribute. Zappa later noted that the album was conceived in the way Stravinsky's compositions were in his neo-classical period: \"If he could take the forms and clichés of the classical era and pervert them, why not do the same ... to doo-wop in the fifties?\" A theme from Stravinsky's \"The Rite of Spring\" is heard during one song.\n\nDuring the late 1960s, Zappa continued to develop the business sides of his career. He and Herb Cohen formed the Bizarre Records and Straight Records labels, distributed by Warner Bros. Records, as ventures to aid the funding of projects and to increase creative control. Zappa produced the double album \"Trout Mask Replica\" for Captain Beefheart, and releases by Alice Cooper, The Persuasions, Wild Man Fischer, and the GTOs, as well as Lenny Bruce's last live performance.\n\nIn 1967 and 1968, Zappa made two appearances with the Monkees. The first appearance was on an episode of their TV series, \"The Monkees Blow Their Minds\", where Zappa, dressed up as Mike Nesmith, interviews Nesmith who is dressed up as Zappa. After the interview, Zappa destroys a car with a sledgehammer as the song \"Mother People\" plays. He later provided a cameo in the Monkees' movie \"Head\" where, leading a cow, he tells Davy Jones \"the youth of America depends on you to show them the way.\" Zappa had respect for what the Monkees were doing, and offered Micky Dolenz a position in the Mothers. RCA/Columbia/Colgems would not allow Dolenz out of his contract.\n\nIn the Mothers' second European tour in September/October 1968 they performed for the at the Grugahalle in Essen, Germany; at the Tivoli in Copenhagen, Denmark; for TV programs in Germany (\"Beat-Club\"), France, and England; at the Concertgebouw in Amsterdam; at the Royal Festival Hall in London; and at the Olympia in Paris.\n\nZappa and the Mothers of Invention returned to Los Angeles in mid-1968, and the Zappas moved into a house on Laurel Canyon Boulevard, only to move again to one on Woodrow Wilson Drive. This was Zappa's home for the rest of his life. Despite being a success with fans in Europe, the Mothers of Invention were not faring well financially. Their first records were vocally oriented, but Zappa wrote more instrumental jazz and classical oriented music for the band's concerts, which confused audiences. Zappa felt that audiences failed to appreciate his \"electrical chamber music\".\n\nIn 1969 there were nine band members and Zappa was supporting the group himself from his publishing royalties whether they played or not. 1969 was also the year Zappa, fed up with MGM Records' interference, left them for Warner Bros. Records' Reprise subsidiary where Zappa/Mothers recordings would bear the Bizarre Records imprint.\n\nIn late 1969, Zappa broke up the band. He often cited the financial strain as the main reason, but also commented on the band members' lack of sufficient effort. Many band members were bitter about Zappa's decision, and some took it as a sign of Zappa's concern for perfection at the expense of human feeling. Others were irritated by 'his autocratic ways', exemplified by Zappa's never staying at the same hotel as the band members. Several members played for Zappa in years to come. Remaining recordings with the band from this period were collected on \"Weasels Ripped My Flesh\" and \"Burnt Weeny Sandwich\" (both released in 1970).\n\nAfter he disbanded the Mothers of Invention, Zappa released the acclaimed solo album \"Hot Rats\" (1969). It features, for the first time on record, Zappa playing extended guitar solos and contains one of his most enduring compositions, \"Peaches en Regalia\", which reappeared several times on future recordings. He was backed by jazz, blues and R&B session players including violinist Don \"Sugarcane\" Harris, drummers John Guerin and Paul Humphrey, multi-instrumentalist and previous member of the Mothers of Invention Ian Underwood, and multi-instrumentalist Shuggie Otis on bass, along with a guest appearance by Captain Beefheart (providing vocals to the only non-instrumental track, \"Willie the Pimp\"). It became a popular album in England, and had a major influence on the development of the jazz-rock fusion genre.\n\nIn 1970 Zappa met conductor Zubin Mehta. They arranged a May 1970 concert where Mehta conducted the Los Angeles Philharmonic augmented by a rock band. According to Zappa, the music was mostly written in motel rooms while on tour with the Mothers of Invention. Some of it was later featured in the movie \"200 Motels\". Although the concert was a success, Zappa's experience working with a symphony orchestra was not a happy one. His dissatisfaction became a recurring theme throughout his career; he often felt that the quality of performance of his material delivered by orchestras was not commensurate with the money he spent on orchestral concerts and recordings.\n\nLater in 1970, Zappa formed a new version of the Mothers (from then on, he mostly dropped the \"of Invention\"). It included British drummer Aynsley Dunbar, jazz keyboardist George Duke, Ian Underwood, Jeff Simmons (bass, rhythm guitar), and three members of the Turtles: bass player Jim Pons, and singers Mark Volman and Howard Kaylan, who, due to persistent legal and contractual problems, adopted the stage name \"The Phlorescent Leech and Eddie\", or \"Flo & Eddie\".\n\nThis version of the Mothers debuted on Zappa's next solo album \"Chunga's Revenge\" (1970), which was followed by the double-album soundtrack to the movie \"200 Motels\" (1971), featuring the Mothers, the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, Ringo Starr, Theodore Bikel, and Keith Moon. Co-directed by Zappa and Tony Palmer, it was filmed in a week at Pinewood Studios outside London. Tensions between Zappa and several cast and crew members arose before and during shooting. The film deals loosely with life on the road as a rock musician. It was the first feature film photographed on videotape and transferred to 35 mm film, a process that allowed for novel visual effects. It was released to mixed reviews. The score relied extensively on orchestral music, and Zappa's dissatisfaction with the classical music world intensified when a concert, scheduled at the Royal Albert Hall after filming, was canceled because a representative of the venue found some of the lyrics obscene. In 1975, he lost a lawsuit against the Royal Albert Hall for breach of contract.\n\nAfter \"200 Motels\", the band went on tour, which resulted in two live albums, \"Fillmore East – June 1971\" and \"Just Another Band from L.A.\"; the latter included the 20-minute track \"Billy the Mountain\", Zappa's satire on rock opera set in Southern California. This track was representative of the band's theatrical performances—which used songs to build sketches based on \"200 Motels\" scenes, as well as new situations that often portrayed the band members' sexual encounters on the road.\n\nOn December 4, 1971, Zappa suffered his first of two serious setbacks. While performing at Casino de Montreux in Switzerland, the Mothers' equipment was destroyed when a flare set off by an audience member started a fire that burned down the casino. Immortalized in Deep Purple's song \"Smoke on the Water\", the event and immediate aftermath can be heard on the bootleg album \"Swiss Cheese/Fire\", released legally as part of Zappa's \"Beat the Boots II\" compilation. After losing $50,000 () worth of equipment and a week's break, the Mothers played at the Rainbow Theatre, London, with rented gear. During the encore, audience member Trevor Howell pushed Zappa off the stage and into the concrete-floored orchestra pit. The band thought Zappa had been killed—he had suffered serious fractures, head trauma and injuries to his back, leg, and neck, as well as a crushed larynx, which ultimately caused his voice to drop a third after healing.\n\nThis attack resulted in an extended period of wheelchair confinement, making touring impossible for over half a year. Upon return to the stage in September 1972, Zappa was still wearing a leg brace, had a noticeable limp and could not stand for very long while on stage. Zappa noted that one leg healed \"shorter than the other\" (a reference later found in the lyrics of songs \"Zomby Woof\" and \"Dancin' Fool\"), resulting in chronic back pain. Meanwhile, the Mothers were left in limbo and eventually formed the core of Flo and Eddie's band as they set out on their own.\n\nDuring 1971–72 Zappa released two strongly jazz-oriented solo LPs, \"Waka/Jawaka\" and \"The Grand Wazoo\", which were recorded during the forced layoff from concert touring, using floating line-ups of session players and Mothers alumni. Musically, the albums were akin to \"Hot Rats,\" in that they featured extended instrumental tracks with extended soloing. Zappa began touring again in late 1972. His first effort was a series of concerts in September 1972 with a 20-piece big band referred to as the Grand Wazoo. This was followed by a scaled-down version known as the Petit Wazoo that toured the U.S. for five weeks from October to December 1972.\n\nZappa then formed and toured with smaller groups that variously included Ian Underwood (reeds, keyboards), Ruth Underwood (vibes, marimba), Sal Marquez (trumpet, vocals), Napoleon Murphy Brock (sax, flute and vocals), Bruce Fowler (trombone), Tom Fowler (bass), Chester Thompson (drums), Ralph Humphrey (drums), George Duke (keyboards, vocals), and Jean-Luc Ponty (violin).\n\nBy 1973 the Bizarre and Straight labels were discontinued. In their place, Zappa and Cohen created DiscReet Records, also distributed by Warner Bros. Zappa continued a high rate of production through the first half of the 1970s, including the solo album \"Apostrophe (')\" (1974), which reached a career-high No. 10 on the Billboard pop album charts helped by the No. 86 chart hit \"Don't Eat The Yellow Snow\". Other albums from the period are \"Over-Nite Sensation\" (1973), which contained several future concert favorites, such as \"Dinah-Moe Humm\" and \"Montana\", and the albums \"Roxy & Elsewhere\" (1974) and \"One Size Fits All\" (1975) which feature ever-changing versions of a band still called the Mothers, and are notable for the tight renditions of highly difficult jazz fusion songs in such pieces as \"Inca Roads\", \"Echidna's Arf (Of You)\" and \"Be-Bop Tango (Of the Old Jazzmen's Church)\". A live recording from 1974, \"You Can't Do That on Stage Anymore, Vol. 2\" (1988), captures \"the full spirit and excellence of the 1973–75 band\". Zappa released \"Bongo Fury\" (1975), which featured a live recording at the Armadillo World Headquarters in Austin from a tour the same year that reunited him with Captain Beefheart for a brief period. They later became estranged for a period of years, but were in contact at the end of Zappa's life.\n\nZappa's relationship with long-time manager Herb Cohen ended in 1976. Zappa sued Cohen for skimming more than he was allocated from DiscReet Records, as well as for signing acts of which Zappa did not approve. Cohen filed a lawsuit against Zappa in return, which froze the money Zappa and Cohen had gained from an out-of-court settlement with MGM over the rights of the early Mothers of Invention recordings. It also prevented Zappa having access to any of his previously recorded material during the trials. Zappa therefore took his personal master copies of the rock-oriented \"Zoot Allures\" (1976) directly to Warner Bros., thereby bypassing DiscReet.\n\nIn the mid-1970s Zappa prepared material for \"Läther\" (pronounced \"leather\"), a four-LP project. \"Läther\" encapsulated all the aspects of Zappa's musical styles—rock tunes, orchestral works, complex instrumentals, and Zappa's own trademark distortion-drenched guitar solos. Wary of a quadruple-LP, Warner Bros. Records refused to release it. Zappa managed to get an agreement with Phonogram Inc., and test pressings were made targeted at a Halloween 1977 release, but Warner Bros. prevented the release by claiming rights over the material. Zappa responded by appearing on the Pasadena, California radio station KROQ, allowing them to broadcast \"Läther\" and encouraging listeners to make their own tape recordings. A lawsuit between Zappa and Warner Bros. followed, during which no Zappa material was released for more than a year. Eventually, Warner Bros. issued different versions of much of the \"Läther\" material in 1978 and 1979 as four individual albums (five full-length LPs) with limited promotion.\n\nAlthough Zappa eventually gained the rights to all his material created under the MGM and Warner Bros. contracts, the various lawsuits meant that for a period Zappa's only income came from touring, which he therefore did extensively in 1975–77 with relatively small, mainly rock-oriented, bands. Drummer Terry Bozzio became a regular band member, Napoleon Murphy Brock stayed on for a while, and original Mothers of Invention bassist Roy Estrada joined. Among other musicians were bassist Patrick O'Hearn, singer-guitarist Ray White and keyboardist/violinist Eddie Jobson. In December 1976, Zappa appeared as a featured musical guest on the NBC television show \"Saturday Night Live\". Zappa's song \"I'm the Slime\" was performed with a voice-over by \"SNL\" booth announcer Don Pardo, who also introduced \"Peaches En Regalia\" on the same airing. In 1978, Zappa served both as host and musical act on the show, and as an actor in various sketches. The performances included an impromptu musical collaboration with cast member John Belushi during the instrumental piece \"The Purple Lagoon\". Belushi appeared as his Samurai Futaba character playing the tenor sax with Zappa conducting.\n\nZappa's band at the time, with the additions of Ruth Underwood and a horn section (featuring Michael and Randy Brecker), performed during Christmas in New York, recordings of which appear on one of the albums Warner Bros. culled from the \"Läther\" project, \"Zappa in New York\" (1978). It mixes complex instrumentals such as \"The Black Page\" and humorous songs like \"Titties and Beer\". The former composition, written originally for drum kit but later developed for larger bands, is notorious for its complexity in rhythmic structure and short, densely arranged passages.\n\"Zappa in New York\" featured a song about sex criminal Michael H. Kenyon, \"The Illinois Enema Bandit\", which featured Don Pardo providing the opening narrative in the song. Like many songs on the album, it contained numerous sexual references, leading to many critics objecting and being offended by the content. Zappa dismissed the criticism by noting that he was a journalist reporting on life as he saw it. Predating his later fight against censorship, he remarked: \"What do you make of a society that is so primitive that it clings to the belief that certain words in its language are so powerful that they could corrupt you the moment you hear them?\" The remaining albums released by Warner Bros. Records without Zappa's consent were \"Studio Tan\" in 1978 and \"Sleep Dirt\" and \"Orchestral Favorites\" in 1979, which contained complex suites of instrumentally-based tunes recorded between 1973 and 1976, and whose release was overlooked in the midst of the legal problems.\n\nResolving the lawsuits successfully, Zappa ended the 1970s by releasing two of his most successful albums in 1979: the best-selling album of his career, \"Sheik Yerbouti\", and in Kelley Lowe's opinion the \"bona fide masterpiece\", \"Joe's Garage\".\n\nThe double album \"Sheik Yerbouti\" was the first release on Zappa Records, and contained the Grammy-nominated single \"Dancin' Fool\", which reached No. 45 on the \"Billboard\" charts, and \"Jewish Princess\", which received attention when a Jewish group, the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), attempted to prevent the song from receiving radio airplay due to its alleged anti-Semitic lyrics. Zappa vehemently denied any anti-Semitic sentiments, and dismissed the ADL as a \"noisemaking organization that tries to apply pressure on people in order to manufacture a stereotype image of Jews that suits their idea of a good time.\" The album's commercial success was attributable in part to \"Bobby Brown\". Due to its explicit lyrics about a young man's encounter with a \"dyke by the name of Freddie\", the song did not get airplay in the U.S., but it topped the charts in several European countries where English is not the primary language. The triple LP \"Joe's Garage\" featured lead singer Ike Willis as the voice of the character \"Joe\" in a rock opera about the danger of political systems, the suppression of freedom of speech and music—inspired in part by the Islamic revolution that had made music illegal within its jurisdiction at the time—and about the \"strange relationship Americans have with sex and sexual frankness\". The album contains rock songs like \"Catholic Girls\" (a riposte to the controversies of \"Jewish Princess\"), \"Lucille Has Messed My Mind Up\", and the title track, as well as extended live-recorded guitar improvisations combined with a studio backup band dominated by drummer Vinnie Colaiuta (with whom Zappa had a particularly good musical rapport) adopting the xenochrony process. The album contains one of Zappa's most famous guitar \"signature pieces\", \"Watermelon in Easter Hay\".\n\nOn December 21, 1979, Zappa's movie \"Baby Snakes\" premiered in New York. The movie's tagline was \"A movie about people who do stuff that is not normal\". The 2 hour and 40 minutes movie was based on footage from concerts in New York around Halloween 1977, with a band featuring keyboardist Tommy Mars and percussionist Ed Mann (who would both return on later tours) as well as guitarist Adrian Belew. It also contained several extraordinary sequences of clay animation by Bruce Bickford who had earlier provided animation sequences to Zappa for a 1974 TV special (which became available on the 1982 video \"The Dub Room Special\").282 The movie did not do well in theatrical distribution, but won the Premier Grand Prix at the First International Music Festival in Paris in 1981.\n\nZappa later expanded on his television appearances in a non-musical role. He was an actor or voice artist in episodes of \"Shelley Duvall's Faerie Tale Theatre\", \"Miami Vice\" and \"The Ren & Stimpy Show\". A voice part in \"The Simpsons\" never materialized, to creator Matt Groening's disappointment (Groening was a neighbor of Zappa and a lifelong fan).\n\n1976 saw the release of Good Singin', Good Playin' by Grand Funk Railroad and produced by Zappa.\n\nIn 1980, Zappa cut his ties with record distributor Phonogram after the label refused to release his song \"I Don't Wanna Get Drafted\". It was picked up by CBS Records and released on the Zappa label in the United States and Canada, and by the CBS label internationally.\n\nAfter spending much of 1980 on the road, Zappa released \"Tinsel Town Rebellion\" in 1981. It was the first release on his own Barking Pumpkin Records, and it contains songs taken from a 1979 tour, one studio track and material from the 1980 tours. The album is a mixture of complicated instrumentals and Zappa's use of \"sprechstimme\" (speaking song or voice)—a compositional technique utilized by such composers as Arnold Schoenberg and Alban Berg—showcasing some of the most accomplished bands Zappa ever had (mostly featuring drummer Vinnie Colaiuta). While some lyrics still raised controversy among critics, some of whom found them sexist, the political and sociological satire in songs like the title track and \"The Blue Light\" have been described as a \"hilarious critique of the willingness of the American people to believe anything\". The album is also notable for the presence of guitarist Steve Vai, who joined Zappa's touring band in late 1980.\n\nThe same year the double album \"You Are What You Is\" was released. Most of it was recorded in Zappa's brand new Utility Muffin Research Kitchen (UMRK) studios, which were located at his house, thereby giving him complete freedom in his work. The album included one complex instrumental, \"Theme from the 3rd Movement of Sinister Footwear\", but mainly consisted of rock songs with Zappa's sardonic social commentary—satirical lyrics directed at teenagers, the media, and religious and political hypocrisy. \"Dumb All Over\" is a tirade on religion, as is \"Heavenly Bank Account\", wherein Zappa rails against TV evangelists such as Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson for their purported influence on the U.S. administration as well as their use of religion as a means of raising money. Songs like \"Society Pages\" and \"I'm a Beautiful Guy\" show Zappa's dismay with the Reagan era and its \"obscene pursuit of wealth and happiness\".\n\nIn 1981, Zappa also released three instrumental albums, \"Shut Up 'n Play Yer Guitar\", \"Shut Up 'N Play Yer Guitar Some More\", and \"The Return of the Son of Shut Up 'N Play Yer Guitar\", which were initially sold via mail order, but later released through the CBS label due to popular demand.\n\nThe albums focus exclusively on Frank Zappa as a guitar soloist, and the tracks are predominantly live recordings from 1979 to 1980; they highlight Zappa's improvisational skills with \"beautiful performances from the backing group as well\". Another guitar-only album, \"Guitar\", was released in 1988, and a third, \"Trance-Fusion\", which Zappa completed shortly before his death, was released in 2006.\nIn May 1982, Zappa released \"Ship Arriving Too Late to Save a Drowning Witch\", which featured his biggest selling single ever, the Grammy Award-nominated song \"Valley Girl\" (topping out at No. 32 on the \"Billboard\" charts). In her improvised lyrics to the song, Zappa's daughter Moon Unit satirized the patois of teenage girls from the San Fernando Valley, which popularized many \"Valspeak\" expressions such as \"gag me with a spoon\", \"fer sure, fer sure\", \"grody to the max\", and \"barf out\".\n\nIn 1983, two different projects were released, beginning with \"The Man from Utopia,\" a rock-oriented work. The album is eclectic, featuring the vocal-led \"Dangerous Kitchen\" and \"The Jazz Discharge Party Hats\", both continuations of the sprechstimme excursions on \"Tinseltown Rebellion.\" The second album, \"London Symphony Orchestra, Vol. I\", contained orchestral Zappa compositions conducted by Kent Nagano and performed by the London Symphony Orchestra (LSO). A second record of these sessions, \"London Symphony Orchestra, Vol. II\" was released in 1987. The material was recorded under a tight schedule with Zappa providing all funding, helped by the commercial success of \"Valley Girl\". Zappa was not satisfied with the LSO recordings. One reason is \"Strictly Genteel\", which was recorded after the trumpet section had been out for drinks on a break: the track took 40 edits to hide out-of-tune notes.\n\nConductor Nagano, who was pleased with the experience, noted that \"in fairness to the orchestra, the music is humanly very, very difficult\". Some reviews noted that the recordings were the best representation of Zappa's orchestral work so far. In 1984 Zappa teamed again with Nagano and the Berkeley Symphony Orchestra for a live performance of \"A Zappa Affair\" with augmented orchestra, life-size puppets, and moving stage sets. Although critically acclaimed the work was a financial failure, and only performed twice. Zappa was invited by conference organizer Thomas Wells to be the keynote speaker at the American Society of University Composers at the Ohio State University. It was there Zappa delivered his famous \"Bingo! There Goes Your Tenure\" address, and had two of his orchestra pieces, \"Dupree's Paradise\" and \"Naval Aviation in Art?\" performed by the Columbus Symphony and ProMusica Chamber Orchestra of Columbus.\n\nFor the remainder of his career, much of Zappa's work was influenced by his use of the Synclavier as a compositional and performance tool. Even considering the complexity of the music he wrote, the Synclavier could realize anything he could dream up. The Synclavier could be programmed to play almost anything conceivable, to perfection: \"With the Synclavier, any group of imaginary instruments can be invited to play the most difficult passages ... with \"one-millisecond\" accuracy—every time\". Even though it essentially did away with the need for musicians, Zappa viewed the Synclavier and real-life musicians as separate.\n\nIn 1984, he released four albums. \"\" contains orchestral works commissioned and conducted by celebrated conductor, composer and pianist Pierre Boulez (who was listed as an influence on \"Freak Out!\"), and performed by his Ensemble InterContemporain. These were juxtaposed with premiere Synclavier pieces. Again, Zappa was not satisfied with the performances of his orchestral works, regarding them as under-rehearsed, but in the album liner notes he respectfully thanks Boulez's demands for precision. The Synclavier pieces stood in contrast to the orchestral works, as the sounds were electronically generated and not, as became possible shortly thereafter, sampled.\n\nThe album \"Thing-Fish\" was an ambitious three-record set in the style of a Broadway play dealing with a dystopian \"what-if\" scenario involving feminism, homosexuality, manufacturing and distribution of the AIDS virus, and a eugenics program conducted by the United States government. New vocals were combined with previously released tracks and new Synclavier music; \"the work is an extraordinary example of bricolage\".\n\n\"Francesco Zappa\", a Synclavier rendition of works by 18th-century composer Francesco Zappa was also released in 1984.\n\nAround 1986, Zappa undertook a comprehensive re-release program of his earlier vinyl recordings. He personally oversaw the remastering of all his 1960s, 1970s and early 1980s albums for the new digital compact disc medium. Certain aspects of these re-issues were criticized by some fans as being unfaithful to the original recordings. Nearly twenty years before the advent of online music stores, Zappa had proposed to replace \"phonographic record merchandising\" of music by \"direct digital-to-digital transfer\" through phone or cable TV (with royalty payments and consumer billing automatically built into the accompanying software). In 1989, Zappa considered his idea a \"miserable flop\".\n\nThe album \"Jazz from Hell,\" released in 1986, earned Zappa his first Grammy Award in 1988 for Best Rock Instrumental Performance. Except for one live guitar solo (\"St. Etienne\"), the album exclusively featured compositions brought to life by the Synclavier. Although an instrumental album, containing no lyrics, Meyer Music Markets sold \"Jazz from Hell\" featuring an \"explicit lyrics\" sticker—a warning label introduced by the Recording Industry Association of America in an agreement with the Parents Music Resource Center (PMRC).\n\nZappa's last tour in a rock and jazz band format took place in 1988 with a 12-piece group which had a repertoire of over 100 (mostly Zappa) compositions, but which split under acrimonious circumstances before the tour was completed. The tour was documented on the albums \"Broadway the Hard Way\" (new material featuring songs with strong political emphasis); \"The Best Band You Never Heard in Your Life\" (Zappa \"standards\" and an eclectic collection of cover tunes, ranging from Maurice Ravel's \"Boléro\" to Led Zeppelin's \"Stairway to Heaven\"); and \"Make a Jazz Noise Here\". Parts are also found on \"You Can't Do That on Stage Anymore\", volumes 4 and 6. Recordings from this tour also appear on the 2006 album Trance-Fusion.\n\nIn 1990, Zappa was diagnosed with terminal prostate cancer. The disease had been developing unnoticed for ten years and was considered inoperable. After the diagnosis, Zappa devoted most of his energy to modern orchestral and Synclavier works. Shortly before his death in 1993 he completed \"Civilization Phaze III\", a major Synclavier work which he had begun in the 1980s.\n\nIn 1991, Zappa was chosen to be one of four featured composers at the Frankfurt Festival in 1992 (the others were John Cage, Karlheinz Stockhausen, and Alexander Knaifel). Zappa was approached by the German chamber ensemble Ensemble Modern which was interested in playing his music for the event. Although ill, he invited them to Los Angeles for rehearsals of new compositions and new arrangements of older material. Zappa also got along with the musicians, and the concerts in Germany and Austria were set up for later in the year. Zappa also performed in 1991 in Prague, claiming that \"was the first time that he had a reason to play his guitar in 3 years\", and that that moment was just \"the beginning of a new country\", and asked the public to \"try to keep your country unique, do not change it into something else\".\n\nIn September 1992, the concerts went ahead as scheduled but Zappa could only appear at two in Frankfurt due to illness. At the first concert, he conducted the opening \"Overture\", and the final \"G-Spot Tornado\" as well as the theatrical \"Food Gathering in Post-Industrial America, 1992\" and \"Welcome to the United States\" (the remainder of the program was conducted by the ensemble's regular conductor Peter Rundel). Zappa received a 20-minute ovation. G-Spot Tornado was performed with Canadian dancer Louise Lecavalier. It was his last professional public appearance as the cancer was spreading to such an extent that he was in too much pain to enjoy an event that he otherwise found \"exhilarating\". Recordings from the concerts appeared on \"The Yellow Shark\" (1993), Zappa's last release during his lifetime, and some material from studio rehearsals appeared on the posthumous \"Everything Is Healing Nicely\" (1999).\n\nZappa died, after his long battle with prostate cancer, on December 4, 1993, 17 days before his 53rd birthday at his home with his wife and children by his side. At a private ceremony the following day, his body was buried in a grave at the Westwood Village Memorial Park Cemetery, in Los Angeles. The grave is unmarked. On December 6, his family publicly announced that \"Composer Frank Zappa left for his final tour just before 6:00 pm on Saturday\".\n\nThe general phases of Zappa's music have been variously categorized under experimental rock, jazz, classical, avant-pop, experimental pop, comedy rock, doo-wop, jazz fusion, progressive rock, proto-prog, avant-jazz, and psychedelic rock. He generally did not have discrete periods where he performed one style or another but blended them together and reverted as it interested him but his last studio album—1986's \"Jazz from Hell\"—marked a shift toward live orchestral performance for the last several years of his life.\n\nZappa grew up influenced by avant-garde composers such as Edgard Varèse, Igor Stravinsky, and Anton Webern; 1950s blues artists Clarence \"Gatemouth\" Brown, Guitar Slim, Johnny Guitar Watson, and B.B. King; R&B and doo-wop groups (particularly local pachuco groups); and modern jazz. His own heterogeneous ethnic background, and the diverse social and cultural mix in and around greater Los Angeles, were crucial in the formation of Zappa as a practitioner of underground music and of his later distrustful and openly critical attitude towards \"mainstream\" social, political and musical movements. He frequently lampooned musical fads like psychedelia, rock opera and disco. Television also exerted a strong influence, as demonstrated by quotations from show themes and advertising jingles found in his later works.\n\nZappa's albums make extensive use of segued tracks, breaklessly joining the elements of his albums. His total output is unified by a conceptual continuity he termed \"Project/Object\", with numerous musical phrases, ideas, and characters reappearing across his albums. He also called it a \"conceptual continuity\", meaning that any project or album was part of a larger project. Everything was connected, and musical themes and lyrics reappeared in different form on later albums. Conceptual continuity clues are found throughout Zappa's entire œuvre.\n\nZappa is widely recognized as one of the most significant electric guitar soloists. In a 1983 issue of \"Guitar World\", Jon Swenson declared: \"the fact of the matter is that [Zappa] is one of the greatest guitarists we have and is sorely unappreciated as such.\" His idiosyncratic style developed gradually and was mature by the early 1980s, by which time his live performances featured lengthy improvised solos during many songs. A November 2016 feature by the editors of \"Guitar Player\" magazine wrote: \"Brimming with sophisticated motifs and convoluted rhythms, Zappa's extended excursions are more akin to symphonies than they are to guitar solos.\" The symphonic comparison stems from his habit of introducing melodic themes that, like a symphony's main melodies, were repeated with variations throughout his solos. He was further described as using a wide variety of scales and modes, enlivened by \"unusual rhythmic combinations\". His left hand was capable of smooth legato technique, while Zappa's right was \"one of the fastest pick hands in the business.\"\n\nHis song \"Outside Now\" from \"Joe's Garage\" poked fun at the negative reception of Zappa's guitar technique by those more commercially minded, as the song's narrator lives in a world where music is outlawed and he imagines \"imaginary guitar notes that would irritate/An executive kind of guy\", lyrics that are followed by one of Zappa's characteristically quirky solos in 11/8 time. Zappa transcriptionist Kasper Sloots wrote, \"Zappa's guitar solos aren't meant to show off technically (Zappa hasn't claimed to be a big virtuoso on the instrument), but for the pleasure it gives trying to build a composition right in front of an audience without knowing what the outcome will be.\" English guitarist and bandleader John McLaughlin opined that Zappa was \"very interesting as a human being and a very interesting composer\" and that he \"was a very good musician but he was a dictator in his band,\" and that he \"was taking very long guitar solos -- 10-15 minute guitar solos and really he should have taken two or three minute guitar solos, because they were a little bit boring.\"\n\nIn New York, Zappa increasingly used tape editing as a compositional tool. A prime example is found on the double album \"Uncle Meat\" (1969), where the track \"King Kong\" is edited from various studio and live performances. Zappa had begun regularly recording concerts, and because of his insistence on precise tuning and timing, he was able to augment his studio productions with excerpts from live shows, and vice versa. Later, he combined recordings of different compositions into new pieces, irrespective of the tempo or meter of the sources. He dubbed this process \"xenochrony\" (strange synchronizations)—reflecting the Greek \"xeno\" (alien or strange) and \"chronos\" (time).\n\nZappa was married to Kathryn J. \"Kay\" Sherman from 1960 to 1963. In 1967, he married Adelaide Gail Sloatman. He and his second wife had four children: Moon, Dweezil, Ahmet and Diva.\n\nFollowing Zappa's death, his widow Gail created the Zappa Family Trust, which owns the rights to Zappa's music and other creative output: more than 60 albums were released during Zappa's lifetime and 40 posthumously. Upon Gail's death in October 2015, Zappa's youngest children, Ahmet and Diva, were given control of the trust with shares of 30% each, while his older children, Moon and Dweezil, were given smaller shares of 20% each.\n\nZappa stated that he tried smoking cannabis approximately ten times, but without any pleasure or result beyond sleepiness and sore throat, and \"never used LSD, never used cocaine, never used heroin or any of that other stuff\". Zappa stated, \"Drugs do not become a problem until the person who uses the drugs does something to you, or does something that would affect your life that you don't want to have happen to you, like an airline pilot who crashes because he was full of drugs.\" He was a heavy tobacco smoker for most of his life, and strongly critical of anti-tobacco campaigns.\n\nWhile he disapproved of drug use, he criticized the War on Drugs, comparing it to alcohol prohibition, and stated that the United States Treasury would benefit from the decriminalization and regulation of drugs. Describing his philosophical views, Zappa stated, \"I believe that people have a right to decide their own destinies; people own themselves. I also believe that, in a democracy, government exists because (and only so long as) individual citizens give it a 'temporary license to exist'—in exchange for a promise that it will behave itself. In a democracy, you own the government—it doesn't own you.\"\n\nIn a 1991 interview, Zappa reported that he was a registered Democrat but added \"that might not last long—I'm going to shred that\". Describing his political views, Zappa categorized himself as a \"practical conservative\". He favored limited government and low taxes; he also stated that he approved of national defense, social security, and other federal programs, but only if recipients of such programs are willing and able to pay for them. He favored capitalism, entrepreneurship, and independent business, stating that musicians could make more from owning their own businesses than from collecting royalties. He opposed communism, stating, \"A system that doesn't allow ownership ... has—to put it mildly—a fatal design flaw.\" He had always encouraged his fans to register to vote on album covers, and throughout 1988 he had registration booths at his concerts. He even considered running for president of the United States as an independent.\n\nZappa was an atheist. He recalled his parents being \"pretty religious\" and trying to make him go to Catholic school despite his resentment. He felt disgust towards organized religion (Christianity in particular) because he believed that it promoted ignorance and anti-intellectualism. Some of his songs, concert performances, interviews and public debates in the 1980s criticized and derided Republicans and their policies, President Ronald Reagan, the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI), televangelism, and the Christian Right, and warned that the United States government was in danger of becoming a \"fascist theocracy\".\n\nIn early 1990, Zappa visited Czechoslovakia at the request of President Václav Havel. Havel designated him as Czechoslovakia's \"Special Ambassador to the West on Trade, Culture and Tourism\". Havel was a lifelong fan of Zappa, who had great influence in the avant-garde and underground scene in Central Europe in the 1970s and 1980s (a Czech rock group that was imprisoned in 1976 took its name from Zappa's 1968 song \"Plastic People\"). Under pressure from Secretary of State James Baker, Zappa's posting was withdrawn. Havel made Zappa an unofficial cultural attaché instead. Zappa planned to develop an international consulting enterprise to facilitate trade between the former Eastern Bloc and Western businesses.\n\nZappa expressed opinions on censorship when he appeared on CNN's \"Crossfire\" TV series and debated issues with \"Washington Times\" commentator John Lofton in 1986. On September 19, 1985, Zappa testified before the United States Senate Commerce, Technology, and Transportation committee, attacking the Parents Music Resource Center or PMRC, a music organization co-founded by Tipper Gore, wife of then-senator Al Gore. The PMRC consisted of many wives of politicians, including the wives of five members of the committee, and was founded to address the issue of song lyrics with sexual or satanic content. During Zappa's testimony, he stated that there was a clear conflict of interest between the PMRC due to the relations of its founders to the politicians who were then trying to pass what he referred to as the \"Blank Tape Tax.\" Kandy Stroud, a spokeswoman for the PMRC, announced that Senator Gore (who co-founded the committee) was a co-sponsor of that legislation. Zappa suggested that record labels were trying to get the bill passed quickly through committees, one of which was chaired by Senator Strom Thurmond, who was also affiliated with the PMRC. Zappa further pointed out that this committee was being used as a distraction from that bill being passed, which would lead only to the benefit of a select few in the music industry.\n\nZappa saw their activities as on a path towards censorship, and called their proposal for voluntary labelling of records with explicit content \"extortion\" of the music industry.\n\nIn his prepared statement, he said:\n\nThe PMRC proposal is an ill-conceived piece of nonsense which fails to deliver any real benefits to children, infringes the civil liberties of people who are not children, and promises to keep the courts busy for years dealing with the interpretational and enforcemental problems inherent in the proposal's design. It is my understanding that, in law, First Amendment issues are decided with a preference for the least restrictive alternative. In this context, the PMRC's demands are the equivalent of treating dandruff by decapitation. ... The establishment of a rating system, voluntary or otherwise, opens the door to an endless parade of moral quality control programs based on things certain Christians do not like. What if the next bunch of Washington wives demands a large yellow \"J\" on all material written or performed by Jews, in order to save helpless children from exposure to concealed Zionist doctrine?\n\nZappa set excerpts from the PMRC hearings to Synclavier music in his composition \"Porn Wars\" on the 1985 album \"Frank Zappa Meets the Mothers of Prevention\", and the full recording was released in 2010 as \"Congress Shall Make No Law...\" Zappa is heard interacting with Senators Fritz Hollings, Slade Gorton and Al Gore.\n\nZappa had a controversial critical standing during his lifetime. As Geoffrey Himes noted in 1993 after the artist's death, Zappa was hailed as a genius by conductor Kent Nagano and nominated by Czechoslovakian President Vaclav Havel to the country's cultural ambassadorship, but he was in his lifetime rejected twice for admission into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and been found by critics to lack emotional depth. In \"Rock Albums of the Seventies\" (1981), Robert Christgau dismissed Zappa's music as \"sexist adolescent drivel ... with meters and voicings and key changes that are as hard to play as they are easy to forget.\" According to Himes:\n\n\"The Rolling Stone Album Guide\" (2004) writes: \"Frank Zappa dabbled in virtually all kinds of music—and, whether guised as a satirical rocker, jazz-rock fusionist, guitar virtuoso, electronics wizard, or orchestral innovator, his eccentric genius was undeniable.\" Even though his work drew inspiration from many different genres, Zappa was seen as establishing a coherent and personal expression.\n\nIn 1971, biographer David Walley noted that \"The whole structure of his music is unified, not neatly divided by dates or time sequences and it is all building into a composite\". On commenting on Zappa's music, politics and philosophy, Barry Miles noted in 2004 that they cannot be separated: \"It was all one; all part of his 'conceptual continuity'.\"\n\n\"Guitar Player\" devoted a special issue to Zappa in 1992, and asked on the cover \"Is FZ America's Best Kept Musical Secret?\" Editor Don Menn remarked that the issue was about \"The most important composer to come out of modern popular music\".\n\nAmong those contributing to the issue was composer and musicologist Nicolas Slonimsky, who conducted premiere performances of works of Ives and Varèse in the 1930s. He became friends with Zappa in the 1980s, and said, \"I admire everything Frank does, because he practically created the new musical millennium. He does beautiful, beautiful work ... It has been my luck to have lived to see the emergence of this totally new type of music.\"\n\nConductor Kent Nagano remarked in the same issue that \"Frank is a genius. That's a word I don't use often ... In Frank's case it is not too strong ... He is extremely literate musically. I'm not sure if the general public knows that.\" Pierre Boulez told \"Musician\" magazine's posthumous Zappa tribute article that Zappa \"was an exceptional figure because he was part of the worlds of rock and classical music and that both types of his work would survive.\"\n\nIn 1994, jazz magazine \"DownBeat\"s critics poll placed Zappa in its Hall of Fame. Zappa was posthumously inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1995. There, it was written that \"Frank Zappa was rock and roll's sharpest musical mind and most astute social critic. He was the most prolific composer of his age, and he bridged genres—rock, jazz, classical, avant-garde and even novelty music—with masterful ease\". He received the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award in 1997. He was ranked number 36 on VH1's \"100 Greatest Artists of Hard Rock\" in 2000.\n\nIn 2005, the U.S. National Recording Preservation Board included \"We're Only in It for the Money\" in the National Recording Registry as \"Frank Zappa's inventive and iconoclastic album presents a unique political stance, both anti-conservative and anti-counterculture, and features a scathing satire on hippiedom and America's reactions to it\". The same year, \"Rolling Stone\" magazine ranked him at No. 71 on its list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time.\n\nIn 2011, he was ranked at No. 22 on the list of the 100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time by the same magazine.\n\nThe street of Partinico where his father lived at number 13, Via Zammatà, has been renamed to Via Frank Zappa.\n\nMany musicians, bands and orchestras from diverse genres have been influenced by Zappa's music. Rock artists such as Alice Cooper, Larry LaLonde of Primus, Fee Waybill of the Tubes all cite Zappa's influence, as do progressive, alternative, electronic and avant-garde/experimental rock artists like Can, Pere Ubu, Soft Machine, Henry Cow, Faust, Devo, Kraftwerk, Trey Anastasio of Phish, Jeff Buckley, John Frusciante, Steven Wilson, and The Aristocrats. Paul McCartney regarded \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" as the Beatles' \"Freak Out!\", Jimi Hendrix, and heavy rock and metal acts like Black Sabbath, Simon Phillips, Mike Portnoy, Warren DeMartini, Steve Vai, Strapping Young Lad, System of a Down, and Clawfinger acknowledge Zappa's inspiration. On the classical music scene, Tomas Ulrich, Meridian Arts Ensemble, Ensemble Ambrosius and the Fireworks Ensemble regularly perform Zappa's compositions and quote his influence. Contemporary jazz musicians and composers Bill Frisell and John Zorn are inspired by Zappa, as is funk legend George Clinton.\n\nOther artists affected by Zappa include ambient composer Brian Eno, new age pianist George Winston, electronic composer Bob Gluck, parodist artist and disk jockey Dr. Demento, parodist and novelty composer \"Weird Al\" Yankovic, industrial music pioneer Genesis P-Orridge, singer Cree Summer, and noise music artist Masami Akita of Merzbow.\n\nScientists from various fields have honored Zappa by naming new discoveries after him. In 1967, paleontologist Leo P. Plas, Jr. identified an extinct mollusc in Nevada and named it \"Amaurotoma zappa\" with the motivation that, \"The specific name, \"zappa\", honors Frank Zappa\".\n\nIn the 1980s, biologist Ed Murdy named a genus of gobiid fishes of New Guinea \"Zappa\", with a species named \"Zappa confluentus\". Biologist Ferdinando Boero named a Californian jellyfish \"Phialella zappai\" (1987), noting that he had \"pleasure in naming this species after the modern music composer\".\n\nBelgian biologists Bosmans and Bosselaers discovered in the early 1980s a Cameroonese spider, which they in 1994 named \"Pachygnatha zappa\" because \"the ventral side of the abdomen of the female of this species strikingly resembles the artist's legendary moustache\".\n\nA gene of the bacterium \"Proteus mirabilis\" that causes urinary tract infections was in 1995 named \"zapA\" by three biologists from Maryland. In their scientific article, they \"especially thank the late Frank Zappa for inspiration and assistance with genetic nomenclature\". Repeating regions of the genome of the human tumor virus KSHV were named \"frnk\", \"vnct\" and \"zppa\" in 1996 by the Moore and Chang who discovered the virus. Also, a 143 base pair repeat sequence occurring at two positions was named \"waka/jwka\".\n\nIn the late 1990s, American paleontologists Marc Salak and Halard L. Lescinsky discovered a metazoan fossil, and named it \"Spygori zappania\" to honor \"the late Frank Zappa ... whose mission paralleled that of the earliest paleontologists: to challenge conventional and traditional beliefs when such beliefs lacked roots in logic and reason\".\n\nIn 1994, lobbying efforts initiated by psychiatrist John Scialli led the International Astronomical Union's Minor Planet Center to name an asteroid in Zappa's honor: 3834 Zappafrank. The asteroid was discovered in 1980 by Czechoslovakian astronomer Ladislav Brožek, and the citation for its naming says that \"Zappa was an eclectic, self-trained artist and composer ... Before 1989 he was regarded as a symbol of democracy and freedom by many people in Czechoslovakia\".\nIn 1995, a bust of Zappa by sculptor Konstantinas Bogdanas was installed in Vilnius, the Lithuanian capital (54.683, 25.2759). The choice of Zappa was explained as \"a symbol that would mark the end of communism, but at the same time express that it wasn't always doom and gloom.\" A replica was offered to the city of Baltimore in 2008, and on September 19, 2010 — the twenty-fifth anniversary of Zappa's testimony to the U.S. Senate — a ceremony dedicating the replica was held, and the bust was unveiled at a library in the city.\nIn 2002, a bronze bust was installed in German city Bad Doberan, location of the \"Zappanale\" since 1990, an annual music festival celebrating Zappa. At the initiative of musicians community ORWOhaus, the city of Berlin named a street in the Marzahn district \"Frank-Zappa-Straße\" in 2007. The same year, Baltimore mayor Sheila Dixon proclaimed August 9 as the city's official \"Frank Zappa Day\" citing Zappa's musical accomplishments as well as his defense of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nDuring his lifetime, Zappa released 62 albums. Since 1994, the Zappa Family Trust has released 49 posthumous albums, making a total of 111 albums. The current distributor of Zappa's recorded output is Universal Music Enterprises.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5215779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5215779", "title": "Froissage", "text": "Froissage\n\nFroissage is a method of collage developed by Czech artist Ladislav Novák in which the lines made by crumpling up a piece of paper are used to create a drawing. One major exponent of the art of froissage is Jiří Kolář.\n\nIn his lifetime, Kolář acquired a reputation as one of the most inventive 20th-century Czech artists. A member of Group 42 and the first Czech Group of Experimental Poetry, he assisted in the development of the collage techniques of froissage and confrontage. During that time, writing poems and crumpling up pieces of paper were considered subversive activities and were discouraged by the then-powerful Communist regime. Kolář endured harassment and imprisonment, and eventually emigrated to France, where he was finally able to attain international renown for his work. \n\nFroissage is a unique art in which the contours of a crumpled piece of paper are used to create a drawing. Currently on display in a small gallery at the French Institute, Kolář’s froissages incorporate previously existing 17th-century French drawings to form more modern, abstract pictures. The results occasionally can be likened to early Cubist efforts to capture multiple motions and images within a single frame.\n\n"}
{"id": "1558634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1558634", "title": "GPS drawing", "text": "GPS drawing\n\nGPS Drawing, also known as GPS Art and Strava Art, is a method of drawing where an uses a Global Positioning System (GPS) device and follows a pre planned route to create a large-scale picture or text on a map. Artists usually run or cycle the route though cars, vans, and aeroplanes are used to create larger pieces. \n\nGPS artists can spend many hours finding a certain image or text hidden in a map or can sometimes simply see an existing image in a map due to Pareidolia. In many cities and towns the road layout and landscape restricts the routes available so artisst have to find creative ways to show their pictures or characters. In cities where there is a strong grid pattern an 8-bit style or pixelated images can be created of almost any object or shape. Many artists will create paper or digital maps of their route to follow on their journey.\n\nThere are many approaches to GPS Drawing which an artist can choose depending or their means of travel and the landscape around them.\n\nThis style uses only pre existing roads, paths, trails, etc. which can make it more challenging to find a route and plan the artwork. On the other hand following these paths makes navigation during the journey much easier and the artwork is more likely to reflect the original plan. This is how the majority of GPS artworks are made.\n\nFreehand GPS drawing is where artist creates a shape on open ground without following existing paths which means the artist has to watch their progress in real time on their GPS device. Artists can run or cycle over open ground such as parks, fields, and car parks. Artists in cars and other motor vehicles can draw shapes on large open areas such as deserts, airfields, and beaches. Almost all artworks created by aircraft and watercraft use this technique as they are not restricted by human and physical geography. Freehand GPS drawing opens unlimited possibilities but without waypoints and existing routes it is very easy to loose track of your progress and make mistakes.\n\nBy pausing the GPS device and restarting it at different locations an artist is able to draw straight lines across the map though the built environment and over physical barriers. Though this can create very striking images and open up new possibilities in a city most artists do not use technique.\n\nSome artists add extra images or lines to the map after they have created the route. They can do this to simply add googly eyes to an animal or face or go further add lines and other features which help viewers see what they have drawn. Other times an artist will show a photo or other image alongside their drawing if it is not clear at first glance what has been drawn.\n\nMost people use a route mapping app or other service to display their drawing online and to share on social media. Popular apps include Strava, Map My Run, and Garmin. Many artists also import their route into Google Maps, Open Streetmap, Viweranger, and other map services before capturing the image to display and share. This gives the artist the option of expanding and cropping the image, orienting it another way, or tilting the map to add perspective. Some artists use false color maps then choose contrasting colors for their route to create vivid images.\n\nThe idea was first implemented by artists Hugh Pryor and Jeremy Wood, whose work includes a 13-mile wide fish in Oxfordshire, spiders with legs 21 miles long in Port Meadow, Oxford, and \"the world's biggest 'IF'\": a pair of letters, \"I\", which goes from Iffley in Oxford to Southampton and back, and \"F\" which traverses through the Ifield Road in London down to Iford, East Sussex, through Iford and back up through Ifold in West Sussex. The total length is 537 km, and the height of the drawing in typographic units is 319,334,400 points. Typical computer fonts at standard resolutions are between 8 and 12 points.\n\nIn early 2014 programmer Joe Rosen released a GPS-A-Sketch GPS sketching app for iOS, through the iTunes App Store.\n\nIn 2016, musicians Shaun Buswell & Erik Nyberg travelled around the United Kingdom drawing a 400+ mile penis across England and Scotland.\n\nIn 2018 artist Nathan Rae created a #WeLoveManchester piece as part of the cememorations of the Manchester Arena Bombing. \n\nOne of the most prolific GPS artists is the artist known as WalleyGPX who, as of October 2018, has created over 500 pieces of GPS art. He uses pencil and paper to plan the routes around his home city of Baltimore which he then creates by bicycle.\n\n"}
{"id": "49346356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49346356", "title": "Gaur (artistic group)", "text": "Gaur (artistic group)\n\nGaur ('today' in Basque) was a Basque artistic group founded in 1966 by Amable Arias, Rafael Ruiz Balerdi, Nestor Basterretxea, Eduardo Chillida, Remigio Mendiburu, Jorge Oteiza, José Antonio Sistiaga, and José Luis Zumeta. The avant-guard group, based in Gipuzkoa, Spain, provided the springboard for a wide Basque artistic movement with close links to influential social, cultural and political agents in the Basque Country opposed to Franco's dictatorship during the 70s and early 80s. \n\nThe group launched with an exhibition on 28 April 1966 at the Barandiarán Gallery in San Sebastián. It challenged the aesthetic moulds and artistic conventions prevailing during that period in Gipuzkoa, and the Basque Country altogether. The artists founding the movement stirred at the rapid economic and social changes taking place at the moment, the virtually non-existent cultural scene, and the crisis of the Basque collective identity.\n\nIt stood out as the most prolific artistic group in a constellation of groups founded across all the Basque Country during the same period that made up the Basque Art School.\n"}
{"id": "34658815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34658815", "title": "Gradation (art)", "text": "Gradation (art)\n\nGradation in art is a visual technique of gradually transitioning from one colour hue to another, or from one shade to another, or one texture to another. Space, distance, atmosphere, volume, and curved or rounded forms are some of the visual effects created with gradation.\n\nArtists use a variety of methods to create gradation, depending upon the art medium, and the precise desired effect. Blending, shading, hatching and crosshatching are common methods. A fading effect can be created with pastels by using a torchon.\n\nGradation can also be useful in composing photographs. The early decades of the development of photography involved much effort and experimentation aimed at improving gradation detail in photographs. Different materials were tested in producing lithographs and early photographs, with steady improvement in producing detailed gradation. In 1878, one photographer wrote: \n\nA major innovation was the development of halftone photography in the late 19th century. Halftone photography involves creating a reproduction of an original photograph by taking an image of it using a Photomechnical transfer camera (PMT), with a halftone screen as an intermediary tool to create gradation in the final reproduction. Halftone screens are a plate or film, made up of a continuous pattern of small dots, and when used in a photomechanical transfer camera, the halftone screen serves as an image filter. The invention of halftone photography was an important milestone, allowing photographs to be reproduced for mass publication in newspapers and magazines.\n\nAnalog photography is limited by the materials and equipment used by the photographer to capture gradation. These constraints are eliminated in digital photography, where software can be used to manipulate photograph images to create gradation.\n"}
{"id": "1396834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1396834", "title": "High culture", "text": "High culture\n\nHigh culture encompasses the cultural products of aesthetic value, which a society collectively esteem as exemplary art. It may also include intellectual works considered to be of supreme philosophical, historical, or literary value, as well as the education which cultivates such aesthetic and intellectual pursuits. In popular usage, the term \"high culture\" identifies the culture of an upper class (an aristocracy) or of a status class (the intelligentsia); and also identifies a society’s common repository of broad-range knowledge and tradition (e.g. folk culture) that transcends the social-class system of the society. Sociologically, the term \"high culture\" is contrasted with the term \"low culture\", the forms of popular culture characteristic of the less-educated social classes, such as the barbarians, the Philistines, and \"hoi polloi\" (the masses).\n\nIn European history, high culture was understood as a cultural concept common to the humanities, until the mid-19th century, when Matthew Arnold introduced the term \"high culture\" in the book \"Culture and Anarchy\" (1869). The Preface defines culture as \"the disinterested endeavour after man’s perfection\" pursued, obtained, and achieved by effort to \"know the best that has been said and thought in the world.\" Such a literary definition of high culture also comprehends philosophy. Moreover, the philosophy of aesthetics proposed in high culture is a force for moral and political good. Critically, the term \"high culture\" is contrasted with the terms \"popular culture\" and \"mass culture\".\n\nIn \"Notes Towards the Definition of Culture\" (1948), T. S. Eliot said that high culture and popular culture are necessary and complementary parts of the culture of a society. In \"The Uses of Literacy\" (1957), Richard Hoggart presents the sociologic experience of the working-class man and woman in acquiring the cultural literacy, at university, which facilitates social upward mobility. In the U.S., Harold Bloom and F. R. Leavis pursued the definition of high culture, by way of the Western canon of literature.\nMedia theorist Steven Johnson writes that, unlike popular culture, \"the classics—and soon to be classics—are\" in their own right descriptions and explanations of the cultural systems that produced them.\" He says that \"a crucial way in which mass culture differs from high art\" is that individual works of mass culture are less interesting than the broader cultural trends which produced them.\n\nHistory of high culture in the West\n\nThe high culture of the West originated in the classical-world traditions of intellectual and aesthetic life in Ancient Greece (from c. 8th century BC – AD 147) and Ancient Rome (753 BC – AD 476). In the classical Greco-Roman tradition, the ideal mode of language was published and preserved in works of elevated style (correct grammar, syntax, and diction). Certain forms of language used by authors in valorized epochs were held up in antiquity and the Renaissance as eternal valid models and normative standards of excellence; e.g. the Attic dialect of ancient Greek spoken and written by the playwrights and philosophers of Periclean Athens (fifth century BC); and the form of classical Latin used in the \"Golden Age\" of Roman culture (c. 70 B.C. - AD 18) represented by such figures as Cicero and Virgil.This form of education was known to the Greeks as παιδεία, which was translated by the Romans into Latin as \"humanitas\" 'since it reflected a form of education aiming at the refinement of human nature, rather than the acquisition of technical or vocational skills. Indeed, the Greco-Roman world tended to see such manual, commercial, and technical labor as subordinate to purely intellectual activities. From the idea of the \"free\" man with sufficient leisure to pursue such intellectual and aesthetic refinement, arose the classical distinction between the \"liberal\" arts which are intellectual and done for their own sake, as against the \"servile\"or \"mechanical\" arts which were associated with manual labor and done to earn a living.\nThis implied an association between high culture and the upper classes whose inherited wealth provided such time for intellectual cultivation. The leisured gentleman not weighed down by the necessity of earning a living, was free to devote himself to activities proper to such a \"free man\" – those deemed to involve true excellence and nobility as opposed to mere utility.\nDuring the Renaissance, the classical intellectual values of the fully rediscovered Græco–Roman culture were the cultural capital of the upper classes(and the aspiring), and aimed at the complete development of human intellectual, aesthetic, and moral faculties. This ideal associated with humanism (a later term derived from the humanities or \"studia humanitatis\"), was communicated in Renaissance Italy through institutions such as the Renaissance court schools. Renaissance humanism soon spread through Europe becoming much of the basis of upper class education for centuries. For the socially ambitious man and woman who means to rise in society, \"The Book of the Courtier\" (1528), by Baldasare Castiglione, instructs the reader to acquire and possess knowledge of the Græco–Roman Classics, being education integral to the social-persona of the aristocrat. A key contribution of the Renaissance was the elevation of painting and sculpture to a status equal to the liberal arts (hence the visual arts lost for elites any lingering negative association with manual artisanship.) The early Renaissance treatises of Leon Battista Alberti were instrumental in this regard.\n\nThe evolution of the concept of high culture initially was defined in educational terms largely as critical study and knowledge of the Græco–Roman arts and humanities which furnished much of the foundation for European cultures and societies. However, aristocratic patronage through most of the modern era was also pivotal to the support and creation of new works of high culture across the range of arts, music, and literature. The subsequent prodigious development of the modern European languages and cultures meant that the modern definition of the term \"high culture\" embraces not only Greek and Latin texts, but a much broader canon of select literary, philosophical, historical, and scientific books in both ancient and modern languages. Of comparable importance are those works of art and music considered to be of the highest excellence and broadest influence (e.g. the Parthenon, the painting and sculpture of Michelangelo, the music of Mozart, etc). Together these texts and art works constitute the exemplary artifacts representing the high culture of the Western world. \nIn the Western and some East Asian traditions, art that demonstrates the imagination of the artist is accorded the status of high art. In the West this tradition began in Ancient Greece, was reinforced in the Renaissance, and by Romanticism, which eliminated the hierarchy of genres within the fine arts, which was established in the Renaissance. In China there was a distinction between the literati painting by the scholar-officials and the work produced by common artists, working in largely different styles, or the decorative arts such as Chinese porcelain which were produced by unknown craftsmen working in large factories. In both China and the West the distinction was especially clear in landscape painting, where for centuries imaginary views, produced from the imagination of the artist, were considered superior works.\n\nIn socially-stratified Europe and the Americas, a first-hand immersion to the high culture of the West, the Grand Tour of Europe, was a rite of passage that complemented and completed the book education of a gentleman, from the nobility, the aristocracy, and the bourgeoisie, with a worldly perspective of society and civilisation. The post-university tour of the cultural centres of Europe was a social-class benefit of the cultural capital transmitted through the high-status institutions (schools, academies, universities) meant to produce the ideal gentleman of that society. \n\nThe European concept of high culture included cultivation of refined etiquette and manners; the education of taste in the fine arts such as sculpture and painting; an appreciation of classical music and opera in its diverse history and myriad forms; knowledge of the humane letters (\"literae humaniores\") represented by the best Greek and Latin authors, and more broadly of the liberal arts traditions (e.g. philosophy, history, drama, rhetoric, and poetry) of Western civilisation, as well as a general acquaintance with important concepts in theology, science, and political thought.\n\nMuch of high culture consists of the appreciation of what is sometimes called \"high art\". This term is rather broader than Arnold's definition and besides literature includes music, visual arts (especially painting), and traditional forms of the performing arts (including some cinema). The decorative arts would not generally be considered high art.\n\nThe cultural products most often regarded as forming part of high culture are most likely to have been produced during periods of high civilization, for which a large, sophisticated, and wealthy urban-based society provides a coherent and conscious aesthetic framework, and a large-scale milieu of training, and, for the visual arts, sourcing materials and financing work. Such an environment enables artists, as near as possible, to realize their creative potential with as few as possible practical and technical constraints. Although the Western concept of high culture naturally concentrates on the Greco-Roman tradition, and its resumption from the Renaissance onwards, such conditions existed in other places at other times.\n\nArt music (or serious music or erudite music) is an umbrella term used to refer to musical traditions implying advanced structural and theoretical considerations and a written musical tradition. The notion of art music is a frequent and well-defined musicological distinction – musicologist Philip Tagg, for example, refers to art music as one of an \"axiomatic triangle consisting of 'folk', 'art' and 'popular' musics\". He explains that each of these three is distinguishable from the others according to certain criteria, with high cultural music often performed to an audience whilst folk music would traditionally be more participatory. In this regard, \"art music\" frequently occurs as a contrasting term to \"popular music\" and to \"traditional\" or \"folk music\".\n\nArt film is the result of filmmaking which is typically a serious, independent film aimed at a niche market rather than a mass market audience. Film critics and film studies scholars typically define an \"art film\" using a \"...canon of films and those formal qualities that mark them as different from mainstream Hollywood films\", which includes, among other elements: a social realism style; an emphasis on the authorial expressivity of the director or writer; and a focus on the thoughts and dreams of characters, rather than presenting a clear, goal-driven story. According to the film scholar David Bordwell, \"art cinema itself is a film genre, with its own distinct conventions.\"\n\nThe term has always been susceptible to attack for elitism, and, in response, many proponents of the concept devoted great efforts to promoting high culture among a wider public than the highly educated bourgeoisie whose natural territory it was supposed to be. There was a drive, beginning in the 19th century, to open museums and concert halls to give the general public access to high culture. Figures such as John Ruskin and Lord Reith of the BBC in Britain, Leon Trotsky and others in Communist Russia, and many others in America and throughout the western world have worked to widen the appeal of elements of high culture such as classical music, art by old masters and the literary classics.\n\nWith the widening of access to university education, the effort spread there, and all aspects of high culture became the objects of academic study, which with the exception of the classics had not often been the case until the late 19th century. University liberal arts courses still play an important role in the promotion of the concept of high culture, though often now avoiding the term itself.\n\nEspecially in Europe, governments have been prepared to subsidize high culture through the funding of museums, opera and ballet companies, orchestras, cinema, public broadcasting stations such as BBC Radio 3, ARTE, and in other ways. Organizations such as the Arts Council of Great Britain, and in most European countries, whole ministries administer these programs. This includes the subsidy of new works by composers, writers and artists. There are also many private philanthropic sources of funding, which are especially important in the US, where the federally funded Corporation for Public Broadcasting also funds broadcasting. These may be seen as part of the broader concept of official culture, although often a mass audience is not the intended market.\n\nThe relations between high culture and mass culture are concerns of cultural studies, media studies, and critical theory, sociology, Postmodernism and Marxist philosophy. In the essay \"The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction\" (1936), Walter Benjamin explored the relations of value of the arts (high and mass) when subjected to industrial reproduction. The critical theoreticians Theodor W. Adorno and Antonio Gramsci interpreted the high-art and mass-art cultural relations as an instrument of social control, with which the ruling class maintain their cultural hegemony upon society.\n\nFor the Orientalist Ernest Renan and for the rationalist philosopher Ernest Gellner, high culture was conceptually integral to the politics and ideology of nationalism, as a requisite part of a healthy national identity. Gellner expanded the conceptual scope of the phrase in \"Nations and Nationalism\" (1983) stating that high art is \"a literate, codified culture, which permits context-free communication\" among cultures.\n\nIn \"Distinction: A Social Critique of the Judgement of Taste\" (1979), the sociologist Pierre Bourdieu proposed that æsthetic taste (cultural judgement), derived from social class, in establishing definitions of high art by the practice of human activities such as social etiquette, gastronomy, oenology, military service. That in such activities of aesthetic judgement, the ruling-class person uses social codes unknown to middle- and the lower-class persons in the pursuit and practice activities of taste.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33897930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33897930", "title": "Ibsen Studies", "text": "Ibsen Studies\n\nIbsen Studies is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering research on the playwright Henrik Ibsen. It is published biannually by Routledge in cooperation with the Centre for Ibsen Studies (University of Oslo). It was originally published under the title \"Ibsenårbok\" (Ibsen's Annual) by Universitetsforlaget from 1952 to 1988. From 1988 to 2000, it was published by Universitetsforlaget as \"Contemporary approaches to Ibsen\".\n\nThe journal is classified as a level 2 journal, meaning the journal is considered leading in the field of literature studies, in the Norwegian Scientific Index, published by the Ministry of Education and Research.\n\n"}
{"id": "4029769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4029769", "title": "Incoherents", "text": "Incoherents\n\nThe Incoherents (\"Les Arts incohérents\") was a short-lived French art movement founded by Parisian writer and publisher (1857-1935) in 1882, which in its satirical irreverence anticipated many of the art techniques and attitudes later associated with avant-garde and anti-art. \n\nLévy coined the phrase \"les arts incohérents\" as a play on the common expression \"les arts décoratifs\" (i.e. arts & crafts, but above all, a famous art school in Paris, the National School of Decorative Arts). The Incoherents presented work which was deliberately irrational and iconoclastic, contained found objects, was nonsensical, included humoristic sketchs, drawings of children, and drawings \"made by people who don't know how to draw.\" Lévy exhibited an all-black painting by poet Paul Bilhaud called \"Combat de Nègres dans un Tunnel\" (Negroes Fight in a Tunnel). The early film animator Émile Cohl contributed photographs which would later be called surreal. \n\nAlthough small and short-lived, the Incoherents were certainly well-known. The movement sprang from the same Montmartre cabaret culture that spawned the Hydropathes of Émile Goudeau and Alfred Jarry's \"Ubu Roi\". The October 1882 show was attended by two thousand people, including Manet, Renoir, Camille Pissarro, and Richard Wagner. Beginning in 1883 there were annual shows, or masked balls, or both. In an 1883 show, the artist contributed \"Le rire,\" an \"augmented\" \"Mona Lisa\" smoking a pipe, that directly prefigures the famous Marcel Duchamp 1919 \"appropriation\" of the \"Mona Lisa\", \"L.H.O.O.Q.\". \n\nThe movement wound down in the mid-1890s.\n\nThe Incoherent arts were born in the late nineteenth century, a period that was rich in scientific discoveries and social innovations. Cheeky and inventive, this time also marks a turning point in the field of art. The official art traditions were even being questioned in the newspapers through satirical images which implied it was a dying craft. It was in this creative lull that Jules Levy - former member of the literary club Hydropathes - decided to organize \"an exhibition of drawings made by people who can not draw.\" This charitable carnival helped victims of a recent gas explosion to have an opportunity to present their works. The first \"Incoherent arts\" get-together, which took place on July 13, 1882 on the Champs Elysées hosts many curiosities. Taking advantage of a power outage, and lit only by candlelight, they created a jumble of rebellious works, using all types of materials and any inspiration with the ultimate goal of making people laugh. \n\nOn October 2, 1882, Jules Lévy decided to repeat the experience at home. He gathered his friends under the pretense of having an \"unusual evening\". In his tiny apartment they worked under the phrase \"Death to clichés, to us young people!\" They received unexpected success and lots of newspaper coverage. As a result, the Incohérents arts movement became engrained into the Parisian cultural landscape. In October 1883 the Paris had its first official exhibition of Incoherent art, ran by local Galerie Vivienne. The purpose was charitable as with all Incoherent exhibits thereafter. A regulation 13-point proclamation was that \"All the works are allowed, the serious works and obscene excepted\". The exhibition adopts a true catalog, including a piece by Levy Orville in which he reverses an inkwell for the sake of aesthetics. The tone of the exhibition was set by an abundance of parodies and pictorial puns. More than 20,000 visitors took part over a month. \n\nA year later, the Incoherents returned to haunt the Galerie Vivienne with their cheeky pranks. They hoped this occasion would see the image of the \"Chief pipes Poyle sand without number, on a silver field,\" an ancient statue carving chisel of an academician who does not lead wide. A catalog accompanied the exhibition with luxury engraved reproductions of most of the significant works. On its cover, a dancer brandishes a broom and scares away the gloom of black birds. The journalists accompanied the event with enthusiasm. The artists were increasingly familiarizing themselves with the pictorial map and the pun, both of which helped to establish this kind of \"Incoherent\" art. In 1886 the Incoherents at the Eden Theatre unveiled their new exhibit. Jules Chéret's poster included Levy going through the moon like a paper hoop. At the entrance, the rules regarding the event were framed prominently: \"One goal you propose, laugh and cheer you frankly.\" The room was also full of visitors that worked in high, medium or low relief. Everything was recorded in catalog records which are decorated with \"striking\" portraits of exhibitors and zany references. \n\nIn 1886 Jules Levy began to be the target of criticism. He was accused of using the Incoherent Arts for its own interests. He had in fact opened a publishing house in 1886 and published the works of his friends (Goudeau, Leroy, Monselet, etc..), illustrated by artists such as Boutet, Somm or Gray. He gradually lost the support of the French Courrier who had declared him as \"the official unofficial Incoherent\" in 1884. Meanwhile, some seeking to take advantage of the Incoherent movement by opening Incoherent cafes or established magazine operations, that the founders of the movement had nothing to do with. In 1887 Jules Levy promised the end of Inconsistency would be on April 16 of that year. A costume party was organized for the occasion with a Folies Bergère funeral procession. However, Incoherence has a brief renaissance on March 27, 1889 at a new dance held at the Eden Theatre. Levy wanted this event to remind the good memories of the Incoherent arts and to announce the return of his exhibitions. But in the spring of the 1889 exhibition he organized, while the Expo was in full swing in Paris, it was a fiasco. The press hardly covered the event, and even the French Courier remained silent. The Incoherent arts was no longer a novelty interest. Jules Levy, refusing to give up, created the magazine \"Folies Bergère\" in January 1891. Poorly organized, not repeated, the show is considered too long and the ball too short.\nThe last gasp of the inconsistency, his exhibition of 1893 had a brand new premise at Olympia, and passed almost unnoticed. Jules Blois of the French Mail wrote: \"All that is outdated, outmoded. Inconsistency joined decadence, decay and other jokes with or without handles in the bag of old fashioned chiffes\" Despite that, Levy still pulled on the Incoherent string until 1896 when it was met with massive indifference from the press.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34707843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34707843", "title": "Kitsch movement", "text": "Kitsch movement\n\nKitsch painting is an international movement of classical painters founded upon a 24 September 1998 speech and philosophy by the Norwegian artist, Odd Nerdrum, later clarified in his book \"On Kitsch\" with Jan-Ove Tuv and others. The movement incorporates the techniques of the Old Masters with narrative, romanticism, and emotionally charged imagery. The movement defines Kitsch as synonymous with the arts of ancient Rome or the techne of ancient Greece. Kitsch painters embrace kitsch as a positive term not in opposition to \"art\", but as its own independent superstructure. Kitsch painters assert that Kitsch is not an art movement, but a philosophical movement separate from art. The Kitsch movement has been considered an indirect criticism of the contemporary art world, but according to Nerdrum and many Kitsch painters, this is not their expressed intention.\n\nThe philosophy originated by Nerdrum first manifested into a group among Nerdrum's circle of students Jan-Ove Tuv, Helene Knoop, Hege Elizabeth Haugen, Monika Helgesen, Jeremy Caniglia, Kjetil Jul, Brad Silverstein, Carlos Madrid, Stefan Boulter, Brandon Kralik, Nanne Nyander, and soon expanded. Many kitsch painters were featured in and contributed essays to Nerdrum's book \"Kitsch: More than Art\"\n\nThe Kitsch Movement has collaborated with The Florence Academy in a 2009 biennale exhibition titled \"Immortal Works\". a traveling exhibition which includes painters from around the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5933707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5933707", "title": "Limner", "text": "Limner\n\nA limner is an illuminator of manuscripts, or more generally, a painter of ornamental decoration. One of the earliest mentions of a limner's work is found in the book \"Methods and Materials of Painting\" by Charles Lock Eastlake (1793–1865).\n\nIn London in the mid-19th century the limner David Laurent de Lara established himself as a modern illuminator of manuscripts and documents. His work broke new ground and helped establish the idea of illumination as a contemporary artform in its own right, rather than as a historical artform.\n\nThe office of Her Majesty's Painter and Limner is a position within the Royal Household unique to Scotland. It is currently held by Dame Elizabeth Blackadder. The position of portrait painter to the royal household is honorary and for life.\n\nIn early 19th-century America, a limner artist was one who had little if any formal training and would travel from place to place to solicit commissions.\n\nAmong colonial America's rising mercantile class, a limner was an unattributed portrait commissioned as a status symbol. The local landowners and merchants who commissioned these portraits posed in their finest clothes, in well-appointed interiors, or in landscapes that identified their position, property, good taste, and sophistication.\n\nA late named artist who began in this genre is the Maine landscape artist Charles Codman, who in Eastern Argus (April 1, 1831) is described as an \"ornamental and sign painter\" or \"limner\" who practiced \"Military, Standard, Fancy, Ornamental, Masonic and Sign Painting\".\n\nThe Victoria Limners Society was a group of artists working in Victoria, British Columbia from 1971 through 2008. They worked within a variety of artistic styles and mediums, such as painting, sculpting, pottery, and other forms of visual art. The artists include Maxwell Bates, Pat Martin Bates, Richard Ciccimarra, Robert De Castro, Colin Graham, Helga Grove, Jan Grove, Elza Mayhew, Myfanwy Pavelic, Carole Sabiston, Herbert Siebner, Robin Skelton, and Karl Spreitz.\n\n"}
{"id": "2658756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2658756", "title": "List of blackface minstrel troupes", "text": "List of blackface minstrel troupes\n\nThis is a list of blackface minstrel troupes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "877389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=877389", "title": "List of world folk-epics", "text": "List of world folk-epics\n\nWorld folk-epics are those epics which are not just literary masterpieces but also an integral part of the weltanschauung of a people. They were originally oral literatures, which were later written down by either single author or several writers.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23407994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23407994", "title": "Minced oaths in media", "text": "Minced oaths in media\n\nIt is common to find minced oaths in literature and media. Writers often include minced oaths instead of profanity in their writing so that they do not offend audiences or incur censorship.\n\nW. Somerset Maugham referred to this problem in his 1919 novel \"The Moon and Sixpence\", where he admitted:\n\nStrickland, according to Captain Nichols, did not use exactly the words I have given, but since this book is meant for family reading, I thought it better—at the expense of truth—to put into his mouth language familiar to the domestic circle.\n\nIn particular, authors of children's fiction sometimes put minced oaths into the mouths of characters who swear a lot, as a way of depicting a part of their behaviour that would be unconvincing not to represent, but also avoiding the use of swear words which would be considered unsuitable for children to read.\n\nIn 1851, Charles Dickens wrote:\nBark's parts of speech are of an awful sort—principally adjectives. I won't, says Bark, have no adjective police and adjective strangers in my adjective premises! I won't, by adjective and substantive! ... Give me, says Bark, my adjective trousers!\n\nThe term \"dickens\" itself, probably from the surname, became a minced oath when referring to the devil.\n\nNorman Mailer's novel \"The Naked and the Dead\" uses \"fug\" in place of \"fuck\" throughout.\n\nMystery writer Fran Rizer deploys \"kindergarten cussin'\" in her Callie Parrish series, where the main character can be heard muttering, \"Dalmatian!\" and \"Shih Tzu!\"\n\nIn Robert Jordan's \"The Wheel of Time\" series, characters use oaths such as \"flaming\" or \"blood and ashes\" or the interjection \"light\" in the same strength as a curse word, without having to print swear words.\n\nScience Fiction writer John Brunner, in novels such as \"The Shockwave Rider\" and \"Stand on Zanzibar\", uses 'Shiv' and 'slit' to refer to male and female body parts (and sometimes males and females) respectively.\n\nThe lead characters of Anthony Crowley (a demon) and Aziraphale (an angel) from \"Good Omens\", by Terry Pratchett and Neil Gaiman, both use minced oaths on a number of occasions, though for different reasons (Aziraphale genuinely means to avoid offense, while Crowley, being a demon, simply finds it more acceptable to his post to say 'gosh' instead of 'God').\n\nIn Stephen King's 2006 novel \"Lisey's Story\", the main characters, Lisey and Scott Landon, use the word \"smuck\" instead of \"fuck\", replacing it wherever \"fuck\" would be conceivably used: \"smucking, mothersmucker, smucked up\", etc.\n\nIn the \"Gaunt's Ghosts\" series by Dan Abnett, the Imperial Guardsmen use the word \"feth\" as a general all-purpose swear word, primarily to replace the word \"fuck\".\n\nIn the series \"TZA\", John Spencer uses \"spash\" in place of most curses from the second book forth.\n\nThroughout his comic novel \"Myron\", Gore Vidal replaces various obscenities with the names of judges who were involved in an obscenity trial.\n\nIn the \"Codex Alera\" series, by Jim Butcher, most obscenities are replaced with a variation of the word crow, e.g. crows or crowbegotten.\n\nTerry Pratchett uses minced oaths for comic effect, for example in Mort: \"\"A wizard. I hate ----ing wizards.\" \"Well, you shouldn't ---- them then,\" replied the second, effortlessly pronouncing a row of dashes.\" In a later book, The Truth, the character Mr Tulip habitually and persistently uses a similarly diagetic form of pseudo-profane interjection throughout his dialogue.\n\nIn Stephen King's 2009 novel \"Under the Dome\", the character 'Big Jim' Rennie avoids swearing by replacing words such as \"fucking and clusterfuck\" with \"cottonpicking and clustermug\".\n\nErnest Hemingway substituted muck for that with which it rhymes in 'Across the River and into the Trees ' and fornicate for that with which it doesn't rhyme in 'For Whom the Bell Tolls.' It makes for some awkward constructions in the latter.\n\nSpider Robinson, in his science fiction novels, consistently uses \"kark\" in place of \"fuck\", and \"taken slot\" in place of \"fucking slut\" -- \"slot\" perhaps being also a reference to the female anatomy as receptacle.\n\nWarriors features the minced oaths of \"mouse-dung\" and rarely \"fox-dung,\" and others relevant to the forest are used in place of curses.\n\nIn the Judge Dredd comic strip featured in \"2000 AD\", the futuristic justice department approved the terms \"Stomm\", \"Drokk\", and \"Grud\". This last is a clear reference to the Christian God as it is accompanied by the apparatus of an organized religion, including \"Church of Grud\" and similar. Use of the terms includes the colorful \"Grud on a Greenie!\". From 1977 to 1979, \"2000 AD\" also featured a \"Dan Dare\" comic strip, loosely set in the same continuity as \"Judge Dredd\", and these strips too used such parlance as \"Stomm\" and \"Drokk\".\n\nIn comic series \"Johnny the Homicidal Maniac\", the characters sometimes use the word \"fook\" in place of \"fuck\".\n\nThe DC Comics character Lobo, an invulnerable, intergalactic bounty hunter uses the term \"bastich\" or \"bastiches\" as a combination of bastard and bitch. i.e. \"Take that you lousy bastiches!\"\n\nCaptain Haddock, from \"The Adventures of Tintin\", swears unlike a real sailor with sesquipedalian ejaculations like \"billions of blistering blue barnacles\" and \"thundering typhoons\".\n\nIn the Al Pacino epic \"Scarface\", the title character Tony Montana, played by Pacino, is warned by his Colombian accomplice in the censored version of the film, \"Don't fool with me, Tony\", and \"I warned you not to fool with me, you foolish little monkey\". Otherwise, the film, especially in its uncensored version, is filled with use of the word 'fuck', and the censored TV version replaces these in their dozens with 'fool'.\n\n\"Napoleon Dynamite\", in the film of the same name, which is rated PG, uses minced oaths to a particularly comical effect.\n\nIn the 1945 war film \"A Walk in the Sun\", the screenplay substitutes \"loving\" for \"fucking\" (the universal American soldier's descriptor).\n\nIn \"A Christmas Story\", the character Ralphie is punished by his parents for saying \"Oh, fuck,\" although the offensive word is replaced with \"fudge\" in the film. The narrator, an adult version of Ralphie (voiced by Jean Shepherd), explains that \"I didn't say fudge. I said THE word...the queen mother of dirty words: the F-dash-dash-dash word.\"\n\nIn the 1984 film \"Johnny Dangerously\", the character Roman Maronie is known for butchering the English language, especially English vulgarities:\n\nOne of the more infamous TV edits is that of John McClane's iconic line from \"Die Hard\", \"Yippee-ki-yay, motherfucker\" is changed to \"Yippee-ki-yay, Mr. Falcon\".\n\nThe TV edit of the film \"The Usual Suspects\", instead of having the police lineup say, \"Give me the keys, you fucking cocksucker\", they say \"Give me the keys, you fairy godmother\".\n\nIn the 1998 film \"The Big Lebowski\", a well-known television edit exists of one profane-heavy scene altered. \"See what happens when you fuck a stranger in the ass\" is changed to \"See what happens when you find a stranger in the alps\" and \"this is what happens when you feed a stoner scrambled eggs\".\n\nA television edit of the film \"Repo Man\" contains the injunction \"Flip you, melon farmer!\" (Fuck you, motherfucker!)\n\nA censored version of the 2004 film Shaun of the Dead contains a scene where \"fuck\" and \"prick\" are changed to \"funk\" and \"prink\", respectively. This leads to an exchange of minced oaths beginning, \"it's four in the funking morning!\" and ending with \"it's not hip-hop, it's electro. Prink\".\n\nIn Disney's 2016 animated film \"Zootopia\", Officer Judy Hopps uses the minced oath \"Oh sweet cheese and crackers\".\nThe televised version of the 2006 film \"Snakes on a Plane\" received the following edits to two of Samuel L. Jackson's lines: The line \"I've had with these motherfucking snakes on this motherfucking plane\" was changed to \"I've had it with these monkey-fighting snakes on this Monday-to-Friday plane\", and a later use of \"fucking\" is replaced with \"freaking\".\n\nLate Elizabethan drama contains a profusion of minced oaths, probably due to Puritan opposition to swearing. Seven new minced oaths are first recorded between 1598 and 1602, including \"<nowiki>'sblood</nowiki>\" for \"By God's blood\" from Shakespeare, \"<nowiki>'slight</nowiki>\" for \"God's light\" from Ben Jonson, and \"<nowiki>'snails</nowiki>\" for \"By God's nails\" from the historian John Hayward. Swearing on stage was officially banned by the Act to Restraine Abuses of Players in 1606, and a general ban on swearing followed in 1623.\n\nIn some cases the original meanings of these minced oaths were forgotten; \"<nowiki>'struth</nowiki>\" (\"By God's truth\") came to be spelled \"<nowiki>'strewth</nowiki>\" and \"zounds\" changed pronunciation so that it no longer sounded like \"By God's wounds\". Other examples from this period include \"<nowiki>'slid</nowiki>\" for \"By God's eyelid\" (1598) and \"sfoot\" for \"By God's foot\" (1602). \"Gadzooks\" for \"by God's hooks\" (the nails on Christ's cross) followed in the 1650s, \"egad\" for \"oh God\" in the late 17th century, and \"ods bodikins\" for \"by God's little body\" in 1709. This is similar to the use popularized in the 1950s of \"gee whiz\" as an oath for \"Jesus' wisdom\".\n\nIn modern times, the gang members in the musical \"West Side Story\" talk in an invented 1950s-style slang that includes several minced oaths. At the end of the \"Jet Song,\" they sing \"We're gonna beat / Every last buggin' gang / On the whole buggin' street / On the whole ever-mother-lovin' street!\" where \"buggin\" and \"mother-lovin\" are obvious minced oaths.\n\n\"Freaking\" (or sometimes \"fricking\") is often employed on U.S. over-the-air television entertainment programming as an alternative to the adjective \"fucking\", as in \"where's my freaking food?\" It is rarely used to replace \"fucking\" as a term for sexual intercourse.\n\nIn the \"Father Ted\" episode \"The Old Grey Whistle Theft\", Ted's picnic at the local picnic area is disturbed by people claiming that he is in their \"fupping spot\". The man yells out \"Fup off, ya grasshole\" and when Ted asks them why they are talking like that, the man points to a list of picnic area rules, one of which is \"No Swearing\". The man finishes by yelling out \"Fup off, ya pedrophile.\" In every single episode of \"Father Ted\" no Irish character utters the word \"fuck\", apart from one scene in \"Chirpy Burpy Cheap Sheep\" where the phrase \"fucking hell\" is shouted twice; although its attenuated alternative \"feck\" is heard repeatedly throughout.\n\nIn both incarnations of the television series \"Battlestar Galactica\", characters use the word \"frack\" (original) or \"frak\" (re-imagined) in place of \"fuck\" in every sense of the word, as an interjection, as an alternative to the adjective \"fucking\", as in \"where's my fracking food?\" as well as \"fuck\" or \"fucking\" as a term for sexual intercourse. Characters in the original series also use \"felgercarb\" in place of \"shit\". Characters on \"Veronica Mars\" then adopted \"frak\" from \"Battlestar Galactica\".\n\nIn the TV series \"Farscape\" the characters use the word \"frell\" as a combination of \"frig\", \"fuck\", and \"hell\" (as in \"What the frell is going on?\"), and the word \"dren\" instead of \"shit\". \"Hezmana\" and \"yotz\" are also used as rough replacements for \"hell\" and \"crap\" respectively.\n\nIn the TV series \"Firefly\", characters often use the word \"gorram\" in place of \"goddam\" or \"god damned.\" Further, the word \"fuck\" and its variants is replaced variously by \"hump\", \"humped\" or \"rutting\". For example, \"I would appreciate it if one person on this boat would not assume I'm an evil, lecherous hump,\" \"If they find us at all, we're humped.\" and \"It's the chain I go get and beat you with 'til you understand who's in ruttin' command here.\" Additionally, the characters do much of their cursing in Mandarin Chinese. This keeps the show unobjectionable enough to air on network television, yet at the same time maintain a realistic level of profanity for a show about outlaws, inspired by the wild west.\n\nLikewise, in \"Red Dwarf\", characters use a series of minced oaths regularly. Two such are used moderately, \"Gimboid\" and \"goit\" are derivations of \"gimp\" and \"git\" respectively (although \"git\" is frequently used also), but the final is a series trademark, \"smeg\". Although it is said to have derived from \"smegma\", the show's writers have said it is just a coincidence, as its similarity to the label of an Italian white-goods manufacturer. In any case, it has evolved into a word almost entirely specific to the Red Dwarf universe and numerous alterations were used in the show, such as: \"smeg-head\", \"smeg-for-brains\", \"smegging\", etc.\n\nIn \"South Park\" the word \"fudge\" (instead of \"fuck\") is frequently used, especially in the episode \"Chef's Chocolate Salty Balls\", where Chef sells chocolate fudge delicacies called \"Fudge 'Ems\", \"Fudge This\", \"Go Fudge Yourself\", \"I Don't Give a Flying Fudge\" and \"I Just Went and Fudged Your Momma\". \"Lover\" and \"loving\" are used in place of \"fuck\" through the \"South Park\" episode \"Chickenlover\". This is explained in the episode to be for the purpose of protecting young news viewers.\n\nThe television series \"A Bit of Fry and Laurie\" contains a sketch in which Fry and Laurie employ minced oaths; it is situated in a courthouse, and Laurie plays a policeman reciting the words of an offender. Examples include, \"I apprehended the accused and advised him of his rights. He replied \"Why don't you ram it up your pim-hole, you fusking cloff prunker.\"\" and \"Skank off, you cloffing cuck, you're all a load of shote-bag fuskers, so prunk that up your prime-ministering pim-hole.\" The sketch ends with Fry asking of Laurie's response to this language, and Laurie proclaiming, \"I told him to mind his fucking language, m'lud.\"\n\nIn the Nickelodeon children's show \"iCarly\", characters often use the term \"chizz\" as a general purpose expletive, most often used in place of 'shit'.  \"iCarly\" is notorious for its thinly veiled adult humor.  Likewise, in the spinoff \"Sam & Cat\", the term \"wazz\" is used in place of 'piss'.\n\nCharacters in the series \"The Good Place\" find themselves in an afterlife where they are incapable of using profanity. When they intend to curse, the word instead comes out as a benign minced oath such as \"fork\" for \"fuck\", \"shirt\" for \"shit\", or \"bench\" for \"bitch\".\n\nDubbing of movies for television often replaces \"Fuck you!\" with \"Forget you!\", \"bastard\" with \"buzzard\", \"fucking\" with \"stinking\", and \"prick\" with \"pig\".\n\nThe Fugs, a mid-1960s band named by Tuli Kupferberg, used a euphemism for \"fuck\" found in Norman Mailer's novel (above), \"The Naked and the Dead\".\n\nIn a discussion of profanity, writer Leigh Lundin uses the glyph ƒ. He further discusses being \"nannied\" by Internet software, noting that words like cockatoo, pussycat, and even Hummer may be flagged, which has become known as the Scunthorpe problem.\n\nIn that vein, ProBoards forums replace the word \"cock\" with \"thingy\", thereby transforming the statement \"cock his shotgun\" into \"thingy his shotgun\". Similarly, the Something Awful forums, filters replace \"fuck\" with the phrase \"gently caress\" and \"shit\" with \"poo-poo\" for unregistered users, and the Fark website replaces words such as \"fuck\" with \"fark\".\n\nOnline, alternative typographical glyphs are sometimes used to evade profanity filters (such as $hit or $#!+ instead of shit, @$$ or @rse instead of ass or arse).\n\n\"fsck\", from \"filesystem check\", is commonly used on Usenet and in other technology-related circles to replace \"fuck\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7008015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7008015", "title": "Modern expressionism", "text": "Modern expressionism\n\nModern expressionism is an alternative term for Symbolism. Visual artists described as modern expressionist include the American painter Marcus Jansen South African Gerard Sekoto, whose work in the 1940s drew on Fauvism and Post-Impressionism.\n"}
{"id": "24698694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24698694", "title": "Myth", "text": "Myth\n\nMyth is a folklore genre consisting of narratives that play a fundamental role in society, such as foundational tales. The main characters in myths are usually gods, demigods or supernatural humans. Myths are often endorsed by rulers and priests and are closely linked to religion or spirituality. In fact, many societies group their myths, legends and history together, considering myths to be true accounts of their remote past. Creation myths particularly, take place in a primordial age when the world had not achieved its later form. Other myths explain how a society's customs, institutions and taboos were established and sanctified. There is a complex relationship between recital of myths and enactment of rituals.\n\nThe study of myth began in ancient history. Rival classes of the Greek myths by Euhemerus, Plato and Sallustius were developed by the Neoplatonists and later revived by Renaissance mythographers. Today, the study of myth continues in a wide variety of academic fields, including folklore studies, philology, and psychology. The term mythology may either refer to the study of myths in general, or a body of myths regarding a particular subject. The academic comparisons of bodies of myth is known as comparative mythology.\n\nDefinitions of \"myth\" to some extent vary by scholar. Finnish folklorist Lauri Honko offers a widely cited definition:\nScholars in other fields use the term \"myth\" in varied ways. In a broad sense, the word can refer to any traditional story, popular misconception or imaginary entity.\n\nHowever, while myth and other folklore genres may overlap, myth is often thought to differ from genres such as legend and folktale in that neither are considered to be sacred narratives. Some kinds of folktales, such as fairy stories, are not considered true by anyone, and may be seen as distinct from myths for this reason. Main characters in myths are usually gods, demigods or supernatural humans, while legends generally feature humans as their main characters. However, many exceptions or combinations exist, as in the \"Iliad\", \"Odyssey\" and \"Aeneid\". Moreover, as stories spread between cultures or as faiths change, myths can come to be considered folktales, their divine characters recast as either as humans or demihumans such as giants, elves and faeries. Conversely, historical and literary material may acquire mythological qualities over time. For example, the Matter of Britain (the legendary history of Great Britain, especially those focused on King Arthur and the knights of the Round Table) and the Matter of France, seem distantly to originate in historical events of the fifth and eighth-centuries respectively, and became mythologised over the following centuries.\n\nIn colloquial use, the word \"myth\" can also be used of a collectively held belief that has no basis in fact, or any false story. This usage, which is often pejorative, arose from labeling the religious myths and beliefs of other cultures as incorrect, but it has spread to cover non-religious beliefs as well. However, as commonly used by folklorists and academics in other relevant fields, such as anthropology, the term \"myth\" has no implication whether the narrative may be understood as true or otherwise.\n\nSince the term \"myth\" is widely used to imply that a story is not objectively true, the identification of a narrative as a myth can be highly political: many adherents of religions view their religion's stories as true and therefore object to the stories being characterised as myths. Nevertheless, scholars now routinely speak of Christian mythology, Jewish mythology, Islamic mythology, Hindu mythology, and so forth. Traditionally, Western scholarship, with its Judaeo-Christian heritage, has viewed narratives in the Abrahamic religions as being the province of theology rather than mythology; meanwhile, identifying religious stories of colonised cultures, such as stories in Hinduism, as myths enabled Western scholars to imply that they were of lower truth-value than the stories of Christianity. Labelling all religious narratives as \"myths\" can be thought of as treating different traditions with parity.\n\nIn present use, \"mythology\" usually refers to the collected myths of a group of people, but may also mean the study of such myths. For example, Greek mythology, Roman mythology and Hittite mythology all describe the body of myths retold among those cultures. Folklorist Alan Dundes defines myth as a sacred narrative that explains how the world and humanity evolved into their present form. Dundes classified a sacred narrative as \"a story that serves to define the fundamental worldview of a culture by explaining aspects of the natural world and delineating the psychological and social practices and ideals of a society\". Anthropologist Bruce Lincoln defines \"myth\" as \"ideology in narrative form.\"\n\nThe compilation or description of myths is sometimes known as \"mythography\", a term which can also be used of a scholarly anthology of myths (or, confusingly, of the study of myths generally). Key mythographers in the Classical tradition include Ovid (43 BCE–17/18 CE), whose tellings of myths have been profoundingly influential; Fabius Planciades Fulgentius, a Latin writer of the late fifth to early sixth centuries, whose \"Mythologies\" (Latin: \"Mitologiarum libri III\") gathered and gave moralistic interpretations of a wide range of myths; the anonymous medieval Vatican Mythographers, who developed anthologies of Classical myths that remained influential to the end of the Middle Ages; and the Renaissance scholar Natalis Comes, whose ten-book \"Mythologiae\" became a standard source for classical mythology in later Renaissance Europe. Other prominent mythographies include the thirteenth-century \"Prose Edda\" attributed to the Icelander Snorri Sturluson, which is the main surviving survey of Norse Mythology from the Middle Ages.\n\nBecause \"myth\" is sometimes used in a pejorative sense, some scholars have opted to use the term \"mythos\" instead. However, \"mythos\" now more commonly refers to its Aristotelian sense as a \"plot point\" or to 'a body of interconnected myths or stories, esp[ecially] those belonging to a particular religious or cultural tradition'. It is sometimes used specifically for modern, fictional mythologies, such as the world building of H.P. Lovecraft.\n\n\"Conscious generation\" of mythology was termed \"mythopoeia\" by, amongst others, J.R.R. Tolkien. It was notoriously also suggested, separately, by Nazi ideologist Alfred Rosenberg.\n\nThe word \"myth\" comes from Ancient Greek \"μῦθος\" [\"mȳthos\"], meaning 'speech, narrative, fiction, myth, plot'. In Anglicised form, this Greek word began to be used in English (and was likewise adapted into other European languages) in the early nineteenth century, in a much narrower sense, as a scholarly term for 'a traditional story, typically involving supernatural beings or forces, which embodies and provides an explanation, aetiology, or justification for something such as the early history of a society, a religious belief or ritual, or a natural phenomenon'.\n\nIn turn, Ancient Greek [\"mythología\"] (\"story,\" \"lore,\" \"legends,\" \"the telling of stories\") combines the word \"mȳthos\" with the suffix -\"λογία\" [\"-logia\"] (\"study\"), and meant 'romance, fiction, story-telling'. Accordingly, Plato used \"mythología\" as a general term for \"fiction\" or \"story-telling\" of any kind.\n\nThe Greek term \"mythología\" was then borrowed into Latin. Late Latin \"mythologia\", which occurs in the title of Latin author Fulgentius' fifth-century \"Mythologiæ\", denoted the explication of Greek and Roman stories about their gods, which we now call classical mythology. Fulgentius's \"Mythologiæ\" explicitly treated its subject matter as allegories requiring interpretation and not as true events.\n\nThe Latin term was then adopted in Middle French as \"mythologie\". Whether from French or Latin usage, English adopted the word \"mythology\" in the fifteenth century, at first in the sense 'the exposition of a myth or myths; the interpretation of fables; a book of such expositions'. The word is first attested in John Lydgate's \"Troy Book\" of c. 1425.\n\nFrom Lydgate until the seventeenth or eighteenth-century, \"mythology\" was used to mean a moral, fable, allegory or a parable, or collection of traditional stories, understood to be false. It came eventually to be applied to similar bodies of traditional stories among other polytheistic cultures around the world.\n\nThus the word \"mythology\" entered the English language before the word \"myth\"; Johnson's \"Dictionary\", for example, has an entry for \"mythology\", but not for \"myth\". Indeed, the Greek loanword \"mythos\" (pl. \"mythoi\") and Latinate \"mythus\" (pl. \"mythi\") both appeared in English before the first example of \"myth\" in 1830.\n\nThe term μῦθος (\"mythos\") appears in the works of Homer and other poets of Homer's era. In these works, the term had several meanings: conversation, narrative, speech, story, tale, and word.\n\nLike the related term λόγος (\"logos\"), \"mythos\" expresses whatever can be delivered in the form of words; these can be contrasted with ἔργον (\"ergon\"), a Greek term for action, deed, and work. The term \"mythos\" lacks an explicit distinction between true or false narratives.\n\nIn the context of the theatre of ancient Greece, the term \"mythos\" referred to the myth, the narrative, the plot, and the story of a play. According to David Wiles, the Greek term \"mythos\" in this era covered an entire spectrum of different meanings, from undeniable falsehoods to stories with religious and symbolic significance.\n\nAccording to philosopher Aristotle (384–322 BCE), the spirit of a theatrical play was its \"mythos\". The term \"mythos\" was also used for the source material of Greek tragedy. The tragedians of the era could draw inspiration from Greek mythology, a body of \"traditional storylines\" which concerned gods and heroes. David Wiles observes that modern conceptions about Greek tragedy can be misleading. It is commonly thought that the ancient audience members were already familiar with the \"mythos\" behind a play, and could predict the outcome of the play. However, the Greek dramatists were not expected to faithfully reproduce traditional myths when adapting them for the stage. They were instead recreating the myths and producing new versions. Storytellers like Euripides (c. 480–406 BCE) relied on suspense to excite their audiences. In one of his works, Merope attempts to kill her son's murderer with an axe, unaware that the man in question is actually her son. According to an ancient description of audience reactions to this work, the audience members were genuinely unsure of whether she would commit filicide or she will be stopped in time. They rose to their feet in terror and caused an uproar.\n\nDavid Wiles points that the traditional \"mythos\" of Ancient Greece, was primarily a part of its oral tradition. The Greeks of this era were a literate culture, but produced no sacred texts. There were no definitive or authoritative versions of myths recorded in texts and preserved forever in an unchanging form. Instead multiple variants of myths were in circulation. These variants were adapted into songs, dances, poetry, and visual art. Performers of myths could freely reshape their source material for a new work, adapting it to the needs of a new audience or in response to a new situation.\n\nChildren in Ancient Greece were familiar with traditional myths from an early age. According to the philosopher Plato (c. 428–347 BCE), mothers and nursemaids narrated myths and stories to the children in their charge: David Wiles describes them as a repository of mythological lore.\n\nBruce Lincoln has called attention to the apparent meaning of the terms \"mythos\" and \"logos\" in the works of Hesiod. In \"Theogony\", Hesiod attributes to the Muses the ability to both proclaim truths and narrate plausible falsehoods (falsehoods which seem like real things). The verb used for narrating the falsehoods in the text is \"legein\", which is etymologically associated with \"logos\". There are two variants in the manuscript tradition for the verb used to proclaim truths. One variant uses \"gerusasthai\", the other \"mythesasthai\". The latter is a form of the verb \"mytheomai\" (to speak, to tell), which is etymologically associated with \"mythos\". In the \"Works and Days\", Hesiod describes his dispute with his brother Perses. He also announces to his readers his intention to tell true things to his brother. The verb he uses for telling the truth is \"mythesaimen\", another form of \"mytheomai\".\n\nLincoln draws the conclusion that Hesiod associated the \"speech of \"mythos\"\" (as Lincoln calls it) with telling the truth. While he associated the \"speech of \"logos\"\" with telling lies, and hiding one's true thoughts (dissimulation). This conclusion is strengthened by the use of the plural term \"logoi\" (the plural form of \"logos\") elsewhere in Hesiod's works. Three times the term is associated with the term \"seductive\" and three times with the term \"falsehoods\". In his genealogy of the gods, Hesiod lists \"logoi\" among the children of Eris, the goddess personifying strife. Eris' children are ominous figures, which personify various physical and verbal forms of conflict.\n\nComparative mythology is the systematic comparison of myths from different cultures. It seeks to discover underlying themes that are common to the myths of multiple cultures. In some cases, comparative mythologists use the similarities between separate mythologies to argue that those mythologies have a common source. This source may inspire myths or provide a common \"protomythology\" that diverged into the mythologies of each culture.\n\nA number of commentators have argued that myths function to form and shape society and social behaviour. Eliade argued that one of the foremost functions of myth is to establish models for behavior and that myths may provide a religious experience. By telling or reenacting myths, members of traditional societies detach themselves from the present, returning to the mythical age, thereby coming closer to the divine.\n\nHonko asserted that, in some cases, a society reenacts a myth in an attempt to reproduce the conditions of the mythical age. For example, it might reenact the healing performed by a god at the beginning of time in order to heal someone in the present. Similarly, Barthes argued that modern culture explores religious experience. Since it is not the job of science to define human morality, a religious experience is an attempt to connect with a perceived moral past, which is in contrast with the technological present.\n\nPattanaik defines mythology as \"a subjective truth of people that is communicated through stories, symbols and rituals\". He adds, \"unlike fantasy that is nobody’s truth, and history that seeks to be everybody’s truth, mythology is somebody’s truth.\"\n\nOne theory claims that myths are distorted accounts of historical events. According to this theory, storytellers repeatedly elaborate upon historical accounts until the figures in those accounts gain the status of gods. For example, the myth of the wind-god Aeolus may have evolved from a historical account of a king who taught his people to use sails and interpret the winds. Herodotus (fifth-century BCE) and Prodicus made claims of this kind. This theory is named \"euhemerism\" after mythologist Euhemerus (c. 320 BCE), who suggested that Greek gods developed from legends about human beings.\n\nSome theories propose that myths began as allegories for natural phenomena: Apollo represents the sun, Poseidon represents water, and so on. According to another theory, myths began as allegories for philosophical or spiritual concepts: Athena represents wise judgment, Aphrodite desire, and so on. Müller supported an allegorical theory of myth. He believed myths began as allegorical descriptions of nature and gradually came to be interpreted literally. For example, a poetic description of the sea as \"raging\" was eventually taken literally and the sea was then thought of as a raging god.\n\nSome thinkers claimed that myths result from the personification of objects and forces. According to these thinkers, the ancients worshiped natural phenomena, such as fire and air, gradually deifying them. For example, according to this theory, ancients tended to view things as gods, not as mere objects. Thus, they described natural events as acts of personal gods, giving rise to myths.\n\nAccording to the myth-ritual theory, myth is tied to ritual. In its most extreme form, this theory claims myths arose to explain rituals. This claim was first put forward by Smith, who argued that people begin performing rituals for reasons not related to myth. Forgetting the original reason for a ritual, they account for it by inventing a myth and claiming the ritual commemorates the events described in that myth. Frazer claimed that humans started out with a belief in magical rituals; later, they began to lose faith in magic and invented myths about gods, reinterpreting their rituals as religious rituals intended to appease the gods.\n\nHistorically, important approaches to the study of mythology have included those of Vico, Schelling, Schiller, Jung, Freud, Lévy-Bruhl, Lévi-Strauss, Frye, the Soviet school, and the Myth and Ritual School.\n\nThe critical interpretation of myth began with the Presocratics. Euhemerus was one of the most important pre-modern mythologists. He interpreted myths as accounts of actual historical events – distorted over many retellings. Sallustius divided myths into five categories – theological, physical (or concerning natural laws), animistic (or concerning soul), material, and mixed. Mixed concerns myths that show the interaction between two or more of the previous categories and are particularly used in initiations.\n\nPlato famously condemned poetic myth when discussing education in the \"Republic.\" His critique was primarily on the grounds that the uneducated might take the stories of gods and heroes literally. Nevertheless, he constantly referred to myths throughout his writings. As Platonism developed in the phases commonly called Middle Platonism and neoplatonism, writers such as Plutarch, Porphyry, Proclus, Olympiodorus, and Damascius wrote explicitly about the symbolic interpretation of traditional and Orphic myths.\n\nMythological themes were consciously employed in literature, beginning with Homer. The resulting work may expressly refer to a mythological background without itself becoming part of a body of myths (Cupid and Psyche). Medieval romance in particular plays with this process of turning myth into literature. \"Euhemerism\", as stated earlier, refers to the rationalization of myths, putting themes formerly imbued with mythological qualities into pragmatic contexts. An example of this would be following a cultural or religious paradigm shift (notably the re-interpretation of pagan mythology following Christianization).\n\nInterest in polytheistic mythology revived during the Renaissance, with early works of mythography appearing in the sixteenth century, among them the \"Theologia Mythologica\" (1532).\n\nThe first modern, Western scholarly theories of myth appeared during the second half of the nineteenth century — at the same time as the word \"myth\" was adopted as a scholarly term in European languages. They were driven partly by a new interest in Europe's ancient past and vernacular culture, associated with Romantic Nationalism and epitomised by the research of Jacob Grimm (1785–1863). This movement drew European scholars' attention not only to Classical myths, but also material now associated with Norse mythology, Finnish mythology, and so forth. Western theories were also partly driven by Europeans' efforts to comprehend and control the cultures, stories and religions they were encountering through colonialism. These encounters included both extremely old texts such as the Sanskrit \"Rigveda\" and the Sumerian \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", and current oral narratives such as mythologies of the indigenous peoples of the Americas or stories told in traditional African religions.\n\nThe intellectual context for nineteenth-century scholars was profoundly shaped by emerging ideas about evolution. These ideas included the recognition that many Eurasian languages—and therefore, conceivably, stories—were all descended from a lost common ancestor (the Indo-European language) which could rationally be reconstructed through the comparison of its descendant languages. They also included the idea that cultures might evolve in ways comparable to species. In general, nineteenth-century theories framed myth as a failed or obsolete mode of thought, often by interpreting myth as the primitive counterpart of modern science within a unilineal framework that imagined that human cultures are travelling, at different speeds, along a linear path of cultural development.\n\nOne of the dominant mythological theories of the later nineteenth century was \"nature mythology\", whose foremost exponents included Max Müller and Edward Burnett Tylor. This theory posited that \"primitive man\" was primarily concerned with the natural world. It tended to interpret myths that seemed distasteful European Victorians—for example tales about sex, incest, or cannibalism—as being metaphors for natural phenomena like agricultural fertility. Unable to conceive impersonal natural laws, early humans tried to explain natural phenomena by attributing souls to inanimate objects, giving rise to animism. According to Tylor, human thought evolved through stages, starting with mythological ideas and gradually progressing to scientific ideas. Müller also saw myth arising from language, even calling myth a \"disease of language\". He speculated that myths arose due to the lack of abstract nouns and neuter gender in ancient languages. Anthropomorphic figures of speech, necessary in such languages, were eventually taken literally, leading to the idea that natural phenomena were in actuality conscious beings or gods. Not all scholars, not even all nineteenth-century scholars, accepted this view. Lucien Lévy-Bruhl claimed \"the primitive mentality is a condition of the human mind, and not a stage in its historical development.\" Recent scholarship, noting the fundamental lack of evidence for \"nature mythology\" interpretations among people who actually circulated myths, has likewise abandoned the key ideas of \"nature mythology\".\n\nJames George Frazer saw myths as a misinterpretation of magical rituals, which were themselves based on a mistaken idea of natural law: this idea was central to the \"myth and ritual\" school of thought. According to Frazer, humans begin with an unfounded belief in impersonal magical laws. When they realize applications of these laws do not work, they give up their belief in natural law in favor of a belief in personal gods controlling nature, thus giving rise to religious myths. Meanwhile, humans continue practicing formerly magical rituals through force of habit, reinterpreting them as reenactments of mythical events. Finally humans come to realize nature follows natural laws, and they discover their true nature through science. Here again, science makes myth obsolete as humans progress \"from magic through religion to science.\"\n\nSegal asserted that by pitting mythical thought against modern scientific thought, such theories imply modern humans must abandon myth.\n\nThe earlier twentieth century saw major work developing psychoanalytical approaches to interpreting myth, led by Sigmund Freud, who, drawing inspiration from Classical myth, began developing the concept of the Oedipus complex in his 1899 \"The Interpretation of Dreams\". Jung likwise tried to understand the psychology behind world myths. Jung asserted that all humans share certain innate unconscious psychological forces, which he called \"archetypes\". He believed similarities between the myths of different cultures reveals the existence of these universal archetypes.\n\nThe mid-twentieth century saw the influential development of a structuralist theory of mythology, led by Lévi-Strauss. Strauss argued that myths reflect patterns in the mind and interpreted those patterns more as fixed mental structures, specifically pairs of opposites (good/evil, compassionate/callous), rather than unconscious feelings or urges. Meanwhile, Bronislaw Malinowski developed analyses of myths focusing on their social functions in the real world. He is associated with the idea that myths such as origin stories might provide a \"mythic charter\"—a legitimisation—for cultural norms and social institutions. Thus, following the Structuralist Era (roughly the 1960s to 1980s), the predominant anthropological and sociological approaches to myth increasingly treated myth as a form of narrative that can be studied, interpreted and analyzed like ideology, history and culture. In other words, myth is a form of understanding and telling stories that is connected to power, political structures, and political and economic interests. These approaches contrast with approaches such as those of Campbell and Eliade that hold that myth has some type of essential connection to ultimate sacred meanings that transcend cultural specifics. In particular, myth was studied in relation to history from diverse social sciences. Most of these studies share the assumption that history and myth are not distinct in the sense that history is factual, real, accurate, and truth, while myth is the opposite.\n\nIn the 1950s, Barthes published a series of essays examining modern myths and the process of their creation in his book \"Mythologies\", which stood as an early work in the emerging post-structuralist approach to mythology, which recognised myths' existence in the modern world and in popular culture.\n\nThe twentieth century saw rapid secularisation in Western culture. This made Western scholars more willing to analyse narratives in the Abrahamic religions as myths; theologians such as Rudolf Bultmann argued that a modern Christianity needed to demythologize; and other religious scholars embraced the idea that the mythical status of Abrahamic narratives was a legitimate feature of their importance. This, in his appendix to \"Myths, Dreams and Mysteries\", and in \"The Myth of the Eternal Return\", Eliade attributed modern humans’ anxieties to their rejection of myths and the sense of the sacred. The Christian theologian Conrad Hyers wrote that\nBoth in nineteenth-century research that tended to see existing records of stories and folklore as imperfect fragments of partially lost myths, and in twentieth-century structuralist work that sought to identify underlying patterns and structures in often diverse versions of a given myth, there had been a tendency to synthesise sources to attempt to reconstruct what scholars supposed to be more perfect or underlying forms of myths. From the late twentieth century, however, researchers influenced by postmodernism tended instead to argue that each account of a given myth has its own cultural significance and meaning, and argued that rather than representing degradation from a once more perfect form, myths are inherently plastic and variable. There is, consequently, no such thing as the 'original version' or 'original form' of a myth. One prominent example of this movement was A.K. Ramanujan's essay \"Three Hundred Ramayanas\".\n\nCorrespondingly, scholars challenged the precedence that had once been given to texts as a medium for mythology, arguing that other media, such as the visual arts or even landscape and place-naming, could be as or more important.\n\nIn modern society, myth is often regarded as a collection of stories. Scholars in the field of cultural studies research how myth has worked itself into modern discourses. Mythological discourse can reach greater audiences than ever before via digital media. Various mythic elements appear in television, cinema and video games.\n\nAlthough myth was traditionally transmitted through the oral tradition on a small scale, the film industry has enabled filmmakers to transmit myths to large audiences via film. In Jungian psychology myths are the expression of a culture or society’s goals, fears, ambitions and dreams.\n\nThe basis of modern visual storytelling is rooted in the mythological tradition. Many contemporary films rely on ancient myths to construct narratives. The Walt Disney Company is well-known among cultural study scholars for \"reinventing\" traditional childhood myths. While many films are not as obvious as Disney fairy tales, the plots of many films are based on the rough structure of myths. Mythological archetypes, such as the cautionary tale regarding the abuse of technology, battles between gods and creation stories, are often the subject of major film productions. These films are often created under the guise of cyberpunk action films, fantasy, dramas and apocalyptic tales.\n\n21st-century films such as \"Clash of the Titans\", \"Immortals\" and \"Thor\" continue the trend of mining traditional mythology to frame modern plots. Authors use mythology as a basis for their books, such as Rick Riordan, whose Percy Jackson and the Olympians series is situated in a modern-day world where the Greek deities are manifest.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23129465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23129465", "title": "Nuagisme", "text": "Nuagisme\n\nNuagisme (literally \"cloudism\") is a French art-critical term that was advanced in the 1950s by art critic Julien Alvard (1916-1974). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "174653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174653", "title": "Parallel universes in fiction", "text": "Parallel universes in fiction\n\nA parallel universe is a hypothetical self-contained reality co-existing with one's own. A specific group of parallel universes are called a \"multiverse\", although this term can also be used to describe the possible parallel universes that constitute reality. While the terms \"parallel universe\" and \"alternative reality\" are generally synonymous and can be used interchangeably in most cases, there is sometimes an additional connotation implied with the term \"alternative reality\" that implies that the reality is a variant of our own. The term \"parallel universe\" is more general, without implying a relationship, or lack of relationship, with our own universe. A universe where the very laws of nature are different – for example, one in which there are no Laws of Motion – would in general count as a parallel universe but not an alternative reality and a concept between both fantasy world and earth.\n\nThe actual quantum-mechanical hypothesis of parallel universes is \"universes that are separated from each other by a single quantum event.\"\n\nFantasy has long borrowed an idea of \"another world\" from myth, legend and religion. Heaven, Hell, Olympus, and Valhalla are all \"alternative universes\" different from the familiar material realm. Plato reflected deeply on the parallel realities, resulting in Platonism, in which the upper reality is perfect while the lower earthly reality is an imperfect shadow of the heavenly. The lower reality is similar but with flaws.\n\nModern fantasy often presents the concept as a series of planes of existence where the laws of nature differ, allowing magical phenomena of some sort on some planes. This concept was also found in ancient Hindu mythology, in texts such as the Puranas, which expressed an infinite number of universes, each with its own gods. Similarly in Persian literature, \"The Adventures of Bulukiya\", a tale in the \"One Thousand and One Nights\", describes the protagonist Bulukiya learning of alternative worlds/universes that are similar to but still distinct from his own. In other cases, in both fantasy and science fiction, a parallel universe is a single other material reality, and its co-existence with ours is a rationale to bring a protagonist from the author's reality into the fantasy's reality, such as in \"The Chronicles of Narnia\" by C. S. Lewis or even the beyond-the-reflection travel in the two main works of Lewis Carroll. Or this single other reality can invade our own, as when Margaret Cavendish's English heroine sends submarines and \"birdmen\" armed with \"fire stones\" back through the portal from \"The Blazing World\" to Earth and wreaks havoc on England's enemies. In dark fantasy or horror the parallel world is often a hiding place for unpleasant things, and often the protagonist is forced to confront effects of this other world leaking into his own, as in most of the work of H. P. Lovecraft and the \"Doom\" computer game series, or \"Warhammer 40K\" miniature and computer games. In such stories, the nature of this other reality is often left mysterious, known only by its effect on our own world.\n\nThe concept also arises outside the framework of quantum mechanics, as is found in Jorge Luis Borges short story \"El jardín de senderos que se bifurcan\" (\"The Garden of Forking Paths\"), published in 1941 before the many-worlds interpretation had been invented. In the story, a Sinologist discovers a manuscript by a Chinese writer where the same tale is recounted in several ways, often contradictory, and then explains to his visitor (the writer's grandson) that his relative conceived time as a \"garden of forking paths\", where things happen in parallel in infinitely branching ways. One of the first Science fiction examples is Murray Leinster's \"Sidewise in Time\", in which portions of alternative universes replace corresponding geographical regions in this universe. \"Sidewise in Time\" describes it in the manner that similar to requiring both longitude and latitude coordinates in order to mark your location on Earth, so too does time: travelling along latitude is akin to time travel moving through past, present and future, while travelling along latitude is to travel perpendicular to time and to other realities, hence the name of the short story. Thus, another common term for a parallel universe is \"another dimension\", stemming from the idea that if the 4th dimension is time, the 5th dimension - a direction at a right angle to the fourth - are alternate realities.\n\nWhile this is a common treatment in Science fiction, it is by no means the only presentation of the idea, even in hard science fiction. Sometimes the parallel universe bears no historical relationship to any other world; instead, the laws of nature are simply different from those in our own, as in the novel \"Raft\" by Stephen Baxter, which posits a reality where the gravitational constant is much larger than in our universe. (Note, however, that Baxter explains later in \"Vacuum Diagrams\" that the protagonists in \"Raft\" are descended from people who came from the Xeelee Sequence universe.)\n\nOne motif is that the way time flows in a parallel universe may be very different, so that a character returning to one might find the time passed very differently for those he left behind. This is found in folklore: King Herla visited Fairy and returned three centuries later; although only some of his men crumbled to dust on dismounting, Herla and his men who did not dismount were trapped on horseback, this being one folkloric account of the origin of the Wild Hunt. C. S. Lewis made use of this in \"The Chronicles of Narnia\"; indeed, a character points out to two skeptics that there is no need for the time between the worlds to match up, but it would be very odd for the girl who claims to have visited a parallel universe to have dreamed up such a different time flow - from their perspective, the girl had only been gone for a few minutes though she was in Narnia for hours, and if she was making it up surely she would have spent a while longer hiding than a few minutes.\n\nThe division between science fiction and fantasy becomes fuzzier than usual when dealing with stories that explicitly leave the universe we are familiar with, especially when our familiar universe is portrayed as a subset of a multiverse. Picking a genre becomes less a matter of setting, and more a matter of theme and emphasis; the parts of the story the author wishes to explain and how they are explained. \"Narnia\" is clearly a fantasy, and the TV series \"Sliders\" is clearly science fiction, but works like the \"World of Tiers\" series or \"Glory Road\" tend to occupy a much broader middle ground.\n\nWhile technically incorrect, and looked down upon by hard science-fiction fans and authors, the idea of another \"dimension\" has become synonymous with the term \"parallel universe\". The usage is particularly common in movies, television and comic books and much less so in modern prose science fiction. The idea of a parallel world was first introduced in comic books with the publication of \"The Flash\" #123, \"Flash of Two Worlds\".\n\nIn written science fiction, \"new dimension\" more commonly – and more accurately – refer to additional coordinate axes, beyond the three spatial axes with which we are familiar. By proposing travel along these extra axes, which are not normally perceptible, the traveler can reach worlds that are otherwise unreachable and invisible.\nIn 1884, Edwin A. Abbott wrote the seminal novel exploring this concept called \"Flatland: A Romance of Many Dimensions\". It describes a world of two dimensions inhabited by living squares, triangles, and circles, called Flatland, as well as Pointland (0 dimensions), Lineland (1 dimension), and Spaceland (three dimensions) and finally posits the possibilities of even greater dimensions. Isaac Asimov, in his foreword to the Signet Classics 1984 edition, described \"Flatland\" as \"The best introduction one can find into the manner of perceiving dimensions.\"\n\nIn 1895, \"The Time Machine\" by H. G. Wells used time as an additional \"dimension\" in this sense, taking the four-dimensional model of classical physics and interpreting time as a space-like dimension in which humans could travel with the right equipment. Wells also used the concept of parallel universes as a consequence of time as the fourth dimension in stories like \"The Wonderful Visit\" and \"Men Like Gods\", an idea proposed by the astronomer Simon Newcomb, who talked about both time and parallel universes; \"Add a fourth dimension to space, and there is room for an indefinite number of universes, all alongside of each other, as there is for an indefinite number of sheets of paper when we pile them upon each other\".\n\nThere are many examples where authors have explicitly created additional spatial dimensions for their characters to travel in, to reach parallel universes. In \"Doctor Who\", the Doctor accidentally enters a parallel universe while attempting to repair the TARDIS console in \"Inferno\". The parallel universe was similar to the real universe but with some different aspects, Britain has a fascist government and the royal family has been executed. Douglas Adams, in the last book of the \"Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\" series, \"Mostly Harmless\", uses the idea of probability as an extra axis in addition to the classical four dimensions of space and time similar to the many-worlds interpretation of quantum physics. Though, according to the novel, they're not really parallel universes at all but only a model to capture the continuity of space, time and probability. Robert A. Heinlein, in \"The Number of the Beast\", postulated a six-dimensional universe. In addition to the three spatial dimensions, he invoked symmetry to add two new temporal dimensions, so there would be two sets of three. Like the fourth dimension of H. G. Wells' \"Time Traveller\", these extra dimensions can be traveled by persons using the right equipment.\n\nPerhaps the most common use of the concept of a parallel universe in science fiction is the concept of hyperspace. Used in science fiction, the concept of \"hyperspace\" often refers to a parallel universe that can be used as a faster-than-light shortcut for interstellar travel. Rationales for this form of hyperspace vary from work to work, but the two common elements are:\n\nSometimes \"hyperspace\" is used to refer to the concept of additional coordinate axes. In this model, the universe is thought to be \"crumpled\" in some higher spatial dimension and that traveling in this higher spatial dimension, a ship can move vast distances in the common spatial dimensions. An analogy is to crumple a newspaper into a ball and stick a needle straight through, the needle will make widely spaced holes in the two-dimensional surface of the paper. While this idea invokes a \"new dimension\", it is not an example of a parallel universe. It \"is\" a more scientifically plausible use of hyperspace. (See wormhole.)\n\nWhile use of hyperspace is common, it is mostly used as a plot device and thus of secondary importance. While a parallel universe may be invoked by the concept, the nature of the universe is not often explored. So, while stories involving hyperspace might be the most common use of the parallel universe concept in fiction, it is not the most common source of fiction \"about\" parallel universes.\n\nParallel universes may be the backdrop to or the consequence of time travel, their most common use in fiction if the concept is central to the story. A seminal example of both is in Fritz Leiber's novel \"The Big Time\" where there's a war across time between two alternative futures manipulating history to create a timeline that results in or realizes their own world.\n\nTime travelers in fiction often accidentally or deliberately create alternative histories, such as in \"The Guns of the South\" by Harry Turtledove where the Confederate Army is given thousands of AK-47 rifles and ends up winning the American Civil War. (However, Ward Moore reversed this staple of alternative history fiction in his \"Bring the Jubilee\" (1953), where an alternative world where the Confederate States of America won the Battle of Gettysburg and the American Civil War is destroyed after a historian and time traveler from the defeated United States of that world travels back to the scene of the battle and, by inadvertently causing the death of the Confederate officer whose troops occupied Little Round Top, changes the result so that the Union forces are victorious.) The alternative history novel \"1632\" by Eric Flint explicitly states, albeit briefly in a prologue, that the time travelers in the novel (an entire town from West Virginia) have created a new and separate universe when they're transported into the midst of the Thirty Years' War in 17th century Germany. (This sort of thing is known as an ISOT among alternative history fans, after S. M. Stirling's \"Island in the Sea of Time\": an ISOT is when territory or a large group of people is transported back in time to another historical period or place.)\n\nOrdinarily, alternative histories are not technically parallel universes. The concepts are similar but there are significant differences. Where characters travel to the past, they may cause changes in the timeline (creating a point of divergence) that result in changes to the present. The alternative present will be similar in different degrees to the original present as would be the case with a parallel universe. The main difference is that parallel universes co-exist whereas only one history or alternative history can exist at any one moment. Another difference is that moving to a parallel universe involves some inter-dimensional travel whereas alternative histories involve some type of time travel. (However, since the future is only potential and not actual, it is often conceived that more than one future may exist simultaneously.)\n\nThe concept of \"sidewise\" time travel, a term taken from Murray Leinster's \"Sidewise in Time\", is often used to allow characters to pass through many different alternative histories, all descendant from some common branch point. Often worlds that are similar to each other are considered closer to each other in terms of this sidewise travel. For example, a universe where World War II ended differently would be \"closer\" to us than one where Imperial China colonized the New World in the 15th century. H. Beam Piper used this concept, naming it \"paratime\" and writing a series of stories involving the Paratime Police who regulated travel between these alternative realities as well as the technology to do so. Keith Laumer used the same concept of \"sideways\" time travel in his 1962 novel \"Worlds of the Imperium\". More recently, novels such as Frederik Pohl's \"The Coming of the Quantum Cats\" and Neal Stephenson's \"Anathem\" explore human-scale readings of the \"many worlds\" interpretation of quantum mechanics, postulating that historical events or human consciousness spawns or allows \"travel\" among alternative universes.\n\nUniverse 'types' frequently explored in sidewise and alternative history works include worlds whose Nazis won the Second World War, as in \"The Man in the High Castle\" by Philip K. Dick, \"SS-GB\" by Len Deighton, and \"Fatherland\" by Robert Harris, and worlds whose Roman Empire never fell, as in \"Roma Eterna\" by Robert Silverberg and \"Romanitas\" by Sophia McDougall. The novel \"Warlords of Utopia\" by Lance Parkin explored a multiverse in which the universes whose Rome never fell go to war with all those whose Nazis won World War II. It fits loosely in the Faction Paradox series initiated by Lawrence Miles, several of whose novels featured an artificially created universe existing within another; specifically, within a bottle. \"Dead Romance\" explored the consequences of inhabitants of the 'real' universe entering the Universe-in-a-Bottle.\n\nIn Philip Pullman's trilogy \"His Dark Materials\", the protagonist begins in a world that is a Victorian counterpart to ours, although it takes place at the same time. It also appears that the Protestant Reformation happened differently with John Calvin becoming the last Pope.\n\nThe concept of Counter-Earth is typically similar to that of parallel universes but is actually a distinct idea. A counter-earth is a planet that shares Earth's orbit but is on the opposite side of the Sun and, therefore, cannot be seen from Earth. There would be no necessity that such a planet would be like Earth in any way though typically in fiction; it is usually nearly identical to Earth. Since Counter-Earth is always within the universe (and the Solar System), travel to it can be accomplished with ordinary space travel.\n\nGerry and Sylvia Anderson used this concept in their 1969 movie \"Doppelgänger\" (released outside Europe as \"Journey to the Far Side of the Sun\"), in which a Counter-Earth is detected by astronomers and a manned mission launched by a US-European space consortium to explore it.\n\nConvergent evolution is a biological concept whereby unrelated species acquire similar traits because they adapted to a similar environment and/or played similar roles in their ecosystems. In fiction, the concept is extended whereby similar planets will result in races with similar cultures and/or histories.\n\nTechnically this is not a type of parallel universe since such planets can be reached via ordinary space travel, but the stories are similar in some respects. \"\" frequently explored such worlds:\n\n\nA similar concept in biology is gene flow. In this case, a planet may start as different from Earth, but due to the influence of Earth culture, the planet comes to resemble Earth in some way; technically this is not a type of parallel universe since such planets can be reached via ordinary space travel, but the stories are similar in some respects. \"Star Trek\" used this theory as well: in \"\", a planet is discovered that has become very similar to Nazi Germany due to the influence of a historian that came to reside there (believing that the Nazi fascism itself was not evil and under benevolent leadership could be \"good government\"), while in \"\", the \"Enterprise\" crew visits a planet that, 100 years after a book \"Chicago Mobs of the Twenties\" that had been left behind by previous Earth craft, their society resembles mob ruled cities of the Prohibition era United States.\n\nSimulated realities are digital constructs featured in science fiction such as \"The Matrix\".\n\nFantasy authors often want to bring characters from the author's (and the reader's) reality into their created world. Before the mid-20th century, this was most often done by hiding fantastic worlds within hidden parts of the author's own universe. Peasants who seldom if ever traveled far from their villages could not conclusively say that it was impossible that an ogre or other fantastical beings could live an hour away, but increasing geographical knowledge meant that such locations had to be farther and farther off. Characters in the author's world could board a ship and find themselves on a fantastic island, as Jonathan Swift does in \"Gulliver's Travels\" or in the 1949 novel \"Silverlock\" by John Myers Myers, or be sucked up into a tornado and land in Oz. These \"lost world\" stories can be seen as geographic equivalents of a \"parallel universe\", as the worlds portrayed are separate from our own, and hidden to everyone except those who take the difficult journey there. The geographic \"lost world\" can blur into a more explicit \"parallel universe\" when the fantasy realm overlaps a section of the \"real\" world, but is much larger inside than out, as in Robert Holdstock's novel \"Mythago Wood\". Madeleine L'engle, \"Wrinkle in Time\" series: characters go from the present time to places in the universe.\n\nAfter the mid-20th century, perhaps influenced by ideas from science fiction, perhaps because exploration had made many places on the map too clear to write \"Here there be dragons\", many fantasy worlds became completely separate from the author's world. A common trope is a portal or artifact that connects worlds together, prototypical examples being the wardrobe in C. S. Lewis' \"The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe\", or the sigil in James Branch Cabell's \"The Cream of the Jest\". In Hayao Miyazaki's \"Spirited Away\", Chihiro Ogino and her parents climb over a small stream into the spirit world. The main difference between this type of story and the \"lost world\" above, is that the fantasy realm can only be reached by certain people, or at certain times, or after following certain rituals, or with the proper artifact.\n\nIn some cases, physical travel is not even possible, and the character in our reality travels in a dream or some other altered state of consciousness. Examples include the \"Dream Cycle\" stories by H. P. Lovecraft or the \"Thomas Covenant\" stories of Stephen R. Donaldson. Often, stories of this type have as a major theme the nature of reality itself, questioning if the dream-world can have the same \"reality\" as the waking world. Science fiction often employs this theme (usually without the dream-world being \"another\" universe) in the ideas of cyberspace and virtual reality.\n\nMost stories in this mold simply transport a character from the real world into the fantasy world where the bulk of the action takes place. Whatever gate is used – such as the tollbooth in \"The Phantom Tollbooth\" by Norton Juster, or the mirror in Lewis Carroll's \"Through the Looking-Glass\" – is left behind for the duration of the story, until the end, and then only if the protagonists will return.\n\nHowever, in a few cases the interaction between the worlds is an important element, so that the focus is not on one world or the other, but on both, and their interaction. After Rick Cook introduced a computer programmer into a high fantasy world, his \"Wizardry\" series steadily acquired more interactions between this world and ours. In Aaron Allston's \"Doc Sidhe\" our \"grim world\" is paralleled by a \"fair world\" where the elves live and history echoes ours. A major portion of the plot deals with preventing a change in interactions between the worlds. Margaret Ball, in \"No Earthly Sunne\", depicts the interaction of our world with Faerie, and the efforts of the Queen of Faerie to deal with the slow drifting apart of Earth and Faerie. Poul Anderson depicts Hell as a parallel universe in \"Operation Chaos\", and the need to transfer equivalent amounts of mass between the worlds explains why a changeling is left for a kidnapped child. Interactions between magical and scientific universes, and the protagonists' attempts to restore and maintain the balance between them, are major plot points in Piers Anthony's \"Apprentice Adept\" series; he depicts two worlds, the \"SF\" planet Proton and the fantasy-based Phaze, such that every person born in either world has a physical duplicate on the other world. Only when one duplicate has died can the other cross between the worlds. Several of his \"Xanth\" novels also revolve around interactions between the magical realm of Xanth and \"Mundania\".\n\nMultiple worlds, rather than a pair, increase the importance of the relationships. In \"The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe\", there are only our world and Narnia, but in other of C. S. Lewis's works, there are hints of other worlds, and in \"The Magician's Nephew\", the Wood between the Worlds shows many possibilities, and the plot is governed by transportation between worlds, and the effort to right problems stemming from them. In His Dark Materials by Philip Pullman, the two protagonist Lyra and Will find themselves lost amongst many worlds, and travel them looking for the other. In Andre Norton's Witch World, begun with a man from Earth being transported to this world, gates frequently lead to other worlds – or come from them. While an abundance of illusions, disguises, and magic that repels attention make certain parts of Witch World look like parallel worlds, some are clearly parallel in that time runs differently in them, and such gates pose a repeated problem in Witch World. In the radio sitcom \"Undone\", the main character, Edna Turner, prevents people from a parallel version of London called \"Undone\" from moving to London and making the city too weird. There are other parallel versions of London, and one of the main plots in the series is the attempt by The Prince to unite all versions of London together. Travel between the manyworlds is the central conceit of Ian McDonald's \"Everness\", where the protagonist travels to a parallel London in a world without fossil fuels.\n\nLinking rooms of various types (not all actual rooms) can hook together any number of worlds. The characters may chose only one, but the choice is all important in determining the worlds.\n\nThe idea of a multiverse is as fertile a subject for fantasy as it is for science fiction, allowing for epic settings and godlike protagonists. Among the most epic and far-ranging fantasy \"multiverses\" is that of Michael Moorcock. Like many authors after him, Moorcock was inspired by the many worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics, saying: \nUnlike many science-fiction interpretations, Moorcock's \"Eternal Champion\" stories go far beyond alternative history to include mythic and sword and sorcery settings as well as some worlds more similar to our own. However, the Eternal Champion himself is incarnate in all of them.\n\nRoger Zelazny used a mythic cosmology in his \"Chronicles of Amber\" series. His protagonist is a member of the royal family of Amber, whose members represent a godlike pantheon ruling over a prototypical universe that represents Order. All other universes are increasingly distorted \"shadows\" of it, ending finally at the other extreme, Chaos, which is the complete negation of the prototype. Travel between these \"shadow\" universes is only possible by beings descended from the blood of this pantheon. Those \"of the blood\" can walk through Shadow, imagining any possible reality and then walk to it, making their environment more similar to their desire as they go. It is argued between the characters whether these \"shadows\" even exist before they're imagined by a member of the royal family of Amber, or if the \"shadows'\" existence can be seen as an act of godlike creation.\n\nIn the \"World of Tiers\" novels by Philip José Farmer, the idea of godlike protagonists is even more explicit. The background of the stories is a multiverse where godlike beings have created a number of pocket universes that represent their own desires. Our own world is part of this series, but our own universe is revealed to be much smaller than it appears, ending at the edge of the Solar System.\n\nThe term 'polycosmos' was coined as an alternative to 'multiverse' by the author and editor Paul le Page Barnett, best known by the pseudonym John Grant, and is built from Greek rather than Latin morphemes. It is used by Barnett to describe a concept binding together a number of his works, its nature meaning that \"all characters, real or fictional [...] have to co-exist in all possible real, created or dreamt worlds; [...] they're playing hugely different roles in their various manifestations, and the relationships between them can vary quite dramatically, but the essence of them remains the same.\"\n\nThere also are multiverses in the Warcraft universe, \"The Chronicles of Narnia\", Terry Pratchett's \"Discworld\" series, and Diana Wynne Jones's \"Chrestomanci\", \"Howl's Moving Castle\" and \"Deep Secret\" books and standalone book \"A Sudden Wild Magic\".\n\nThere are many examples of the meta-fictional idea of having the author's created universe (or any author's universe) rise to the same level of \"reality\" as the universe we're familiar with. The theme is present in works as diverse as H.G. Wells' \"Men Like Gods\", Myers' \"Silverlock\", and Heinlein's \"Number of the Beast\". Fletcher Pratt and L. Sprague de Camp took the protagonist of the Harold Shea series through the worlds of Norse myth, Edmund Spenser's \"The Faerie Queene\", Ludovico Ariosto's \"Orlando Furioso\", and the \"Kalevala\" – without ever quite settling whether writers created these parallel worlds by writing these works, or received impressions from the worlds and wrote them down. In an interlude set in \"Xanadu\", a character claims that the universe is dangerous because the poem went unfinished, but whether this was his misapprehension or not is not established.\n\nSome fictional approaches definitively establish the independence of the parallel world, sometimes by having the world differ from the book's account; other approaches have works of fiction create and affect the parallel world: L. Sprague de Camp's \"Solomon's Stone\", taking place on an astral plane, is populated by the daydreams of mundane people, and in Rebecca Lickiss's \"Eccentric Circles\", an elf is grateful to Tolkien for transforming elves from dainty little creatures. These stories often place the author, or authors in general, in the same position as Zelazny's characters in Amber. Questioning, in a literal fashion, if writing is an act of creating a new world, or an act of discovery of a pre-existing world.\n\nOccasionally, this approach becomes self-referential, treating the literary universe of the work itself as explicitly parallel to the universe where the work was created. Stephen King's seven-volume \"Dark Tower\" series hinges upon the existence of multiple parallel worlds, many of which are King's own literary creations. Ultimately the characters become aware that they are only \"real\" in King's literary universe (this can be debated as an example of breaking the fourth wall), and even travel to a world – twice – in which (again, within the novel) they meet Stephen King and alter events in the real Stephen King's world outside of the books. An early instance of this was in works by Gardner Fox for DC Comics in the 1960s, in which characters from the Golden Age (which was supposed to be a series of comic books within the DC Comics universe) would cross over into the main DC Comics universe. One comic book did provide an explanation for a fictional universe existing as a parallel universe. The parallel world does \"exist\" and it resonates into the \"real world.\" Some people in the \"real world\" pick up on this resonance, gaining information about the parallel world which they then use to write stories.\n\nRobert Heinlein, in \"The Number of the Beast\", quantizes the many parallel fictional universes - in terms of \"fictons\". A number of fictional universes are accessible along one of the three axes of time which Dr. Jacob Burroughs' \"time twister\" can access. Each quantum level change - a \"ficton\" - along this time axis corresponds to a different universe from one of several bodies of fiction known to all four travellers in the inter-universal, time travelling vehicle \"Gay Deceiver\". Heinlein also \"breaks the fourth wall\" by having \"both Heinleins\" (Robert and his wife Virginia) visit an inter-universal science-fiction and fantasy convention in the book's last chapter. The convention was convened on Heinlein character Lazarus Long's estate on the planet \"Tertius\" to attract the evil \"Black Hats\" who pursued the main characters of \"The Number of the Beast\" through space and time in order to destroy Dr. Burroughs and his invention. Heinlein continues this literary conceit in \"The Cat Who Walks Through Walls\" and \"To Sail Beyond the Sunset\", using characters from throughout his science-fictional career, hauled forth from their own \"fictons\" to unite in the war against the \"Black Hats.\"\n\nHeinlein also wrote a stand-alone novel, \"\", whose two protagonists fall from alternative universe into alternative universe (often naked), and after a number of such adventures die and enter a stereotypically Fundamentalist Christian Heaven (with many of its internal contradictions explored in the novel). Their harrowing adventures through the universes are then revealed to have been \"destruction testing\" of their souls by Loki, sanctioned by the Creator person of the Christian God (Yahweh). The Devil appears as the most sympathetic of the gods in the story, who expresses contempt for the other gods' cavalier treatment of the story's main characters.\nThus, \"\" rings in the theological dimension (if only for the purpose of satirizing evangelical Christianity) of parallel universes, that their existence can be used by God (or a number of gods, Loki seems to have made himself available to do Yahweh's dirty work in this novel). It manages also to have a fictional multiverse angle in that references are made to Heinlein's early SF/fantasy short story \"They,\" a solipistic tale in which reality is constantly being transmogrified behind the scenes to throw the central character off his guard and keep him from seeing reality as it is, which was set in the same Heinlein fictional universe as \"The Moon is a Harsh Mistress\".\n\nElfland, or Faerie, the otherworldly home not only of elves and fairies but goblins, trolls, and other folkloric creatures, has an ambiguous appearance in folklore.\n\nOn one hand, the land often appears to be contiguous with 'ordinary' land. Thomas the Rhymer might, on being taken by the Queen of Faerie, be taken on a road like one leading to Heaven or Hell.\n\nThis is not exclusive to English or French folklore. In Norse mythology, Elfland (Alfheim) was also the name of what today is the Swedish province of Bohuslän. In the sagas, it said that the people of this petty kingdom were more beautiful than other people, as they were related to the elves, showing that not only the territory was associated with elves, but also the race of its people.\n\nWhile sometimes folklore seems to show fairy intrusion into human lands – \"Tam Lin\" does not show any otherworldly aspects about the land in which the confrontation takes place – at other times the otherworldly aspects are clear. Most frequently, time can flow differently for those trapped by the fairy dance than in the lands they come from; although, in an additional complication, it may only be an appearance, as many returning from Faerie, such as Oisín, have found that time \"catches up\" with them as soon as they have contact with ordinary lands.\n\nFantasy writers have taken up the ambiguity. Some writers depict the land of the elves as a full-blown parallel universe, with portals the only entry – as in Josepha Sherman's Prince of the Sidhe series or Esther Friesner's \"Elf Defense\" – and others have depicted it as the next land over, possibly difficult to reach for magical reasons – Hope Mirrlees's \"Lud-in-the-Mist\", or Lord Dunsany's \"The King of Elfland's Daughter\". In some cases, the boundary between Elfland and more ordinary lands is not fixed. Not only the inhabitants but Faerie itself can pour into more mundane regions. Terry Pratchett's \"Discworld\" series proposes that the world of the Elves is a \"parasite\" universe, that drifts between and latches onto others such as Discworld and our own world (referred to as \"Roundworld\" in the novels). In the young teenage book \"Mist\" by Kathryn James, the Elven world lies through a patch of mist in the woods. It was constructed when the Elven were thrown out of our world. Travel to and fro is possible by those in the know, but can have lethal consequences.\n\nIsekai, is a subgenre of Japanese fantasy light novels, manga, anime, and video games revolving around a normal person being transported to or trapped in a parallel universe. Often, this universe already exists in the protagonist's world as a fictional universe, but it may also be unbeknownst to them.\n\nThe most famous treatment of the alternative universe concept in film could be considered \"The Wizard of Oz\", which portrays a parallel world, famously separating the magical realm of the Land of Oz from the mundane world by filming it in Technicolor while filming the scenes set in Kansas in sepia. At times, alternative universes have been featured in small scale independent productions such as Kevin Brownlow and Andrew Mollo's \"It Happened Here\" (1964), featuring an alternative United Kingdom which had undergone Operation Sea Lion in 1940 and had been defeated and occupied by Nazi Germany. It focused on moral questions related to the professional ethics of Pauline, a nurse forced into Nazi collaboration.\n\nAnother common use of the theme is as a prison for villains or demons. The idea is used in the first two \"Superman\" movies starring Christopher Reeve where Kryptonian villains were sentenced to the Phantom Zone from where they eventually escaped. An almost exactly parallel use of the idea is presented in the campy cult film \"The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai Across the 8th Dimension\", where the \"8th dimension\" is essentially a \"phantom zone\" used to imprison the villainous Red Lectroids. Uses in horror films include the 1986 film \"From Beyond\" (based on the H. P. Lovecraft story of the same name) where a scientific experiment induces the experimenters to perceive aliens from a parallel universe, with bad results. The 1987 John Carpenter film \"Prince of Darkness\" is based on the premise that the essence of a being described as Satan, trapped in a glass canister and found in an abandoned church in Los Angeles, is actually an alien being that is the 'son' of something even more evil and powerful, trapped in another universe. The protagonists accidentally free the creature, who then attempts to release his \"father\" by reaching in through a mirror.\n\nSome films present parallel realities that are actually different contrasting versions of the narrative itself. Commonly this motif is presented as different points of view revolving around a central (but sometimes unknowable) \"truth\", the seminal example being Akira Kurosawa's \"Rashomon\". Conversely, often in film noir and crime dramas, the alternative narrative is a fiction created by a central character, intentionally – as in \"The Usual Suspects\" – or unintentionally – as in \"Angel Heart\". Less often, the alternative narratives are given equal weight in the story, making them truly alternative universes, such as in the German film \"Run Lola Run\", the short-lived British West End musical \"Our House\" and the British film \"Sliding Doors\".\n\nMore recent films that have explicitly explored parallel universes are: the 2000 film \"The Family Man\", the 2001 cult movie \"Donnie Darko\", which deals with what it terms a \"tangent universe\" that erupts from our own universe; \"Super Mario Bros.\" (1993) has the eponymous heroes cross over into a parallel universe ruled by humanoids who evolved from dinosaurs; \"The One\" (2001) starring Jet Li, in which there is a complex system of realities in which Jet Li's character is a police officer in one universe and a serial killer in another, who travels to other universes to destroy versions of himself, so that he can take their energy; and \"\" (2004), the main character runs away from a totalitarian nightmare, and he enters into a cyber-afterlife alternative reality. The current \"Star Trek\" films are set in an alternative universe created by the first film's villain traveling back in time, thus allowing the franchise to be rebooted without affecting the continuity of any other \"Star Trek\" film or show. The 2011 science-fiction thriller \"Source Code\" employs the concepts of quantum reality and parallel universes. The characters in \"The Cloverfield Paradox\", the third installment of the franchise, accidentally create a ripple in the time-space continuum and travel into an alternate universe, where the monster and the events in the first film transpired. Disney has also experimented with this through some of their animated films such as \"Robin Hood\", \"A Goofy Movie\", \"Chicken Little\" and \"Zootopia\", where anthropomorphic animals take on the role of (in this case, nonexistent) humans and emulating the latter's characteristics, without abandoning their hereditary own.\n\nThe idea of parallel universes have received treatment in a number of television series, usually as a single story or episode in a more general science fiction or fantasy storyline.\n\nThe 1990s TV series \"Sliders\" depicts a group of adventurers visiting assorted parallel universes, as they attempt to find their \"home\" universe. Included in the 1st season is a universe where the world is stuck in the ice age, with no life anywhere. Another episode includes 'Honest Abe' never to be president, in which the United States loses World War I and World War II, and they are controlled by a senator, and technology is at an all-time low.\n\nOne of the earliest television plots to feature parallel time was a 1970 storyline on soap opera \"Dark Shadows\". Vampire Barnabas Collins found a room in Collinwood which served as a portal to parallel time, and he entered the room in order to escape from his current problems. A year later, the show again traveled to parallel time, the setting this time being 1841.\n\nA well known and often imitated example is the original \"\" episode entitled \"\". The episode introduced an alternative version of the \"Star Trek\" universe where the main characters were barbaric and cruel to the point of being evil. When the parallel universe concept is parodied, the allusion is often to this \"Star Trek\" episode. A previous episode for the \"Trek\" series first hinted at the potential of differing reality planes (and their occupants), titled \"The Alternative Factor\". A mad scientist from \"our\" universe, named Lazarus B., hunts down the sane Lazarus A.; resident of an antimatter-comprised continuum. His counterpart, in a state of paranoia, claims the double threatens his and the very cosmos' existence. With help from Captain Kirk, A traps B along with him in a \"anti\"-universe, for eternity, thus bringing balance to both matter oriented realms. A similar plot was used in the \"Codename: Kids Next Door\" episode Operation: P.O.O.L..\n\nThe mirror universe of \"Star Trek\" was further developed by later series in the franchise. In several episodes of \"\", the later evolution of the mirror universe is explored. A two-part episode of \"\", entitled \"In a Mirror, Darkly\", serves as a prequel, introducing the early developments of the Mirror Universe.\n\nIn the 1970s young adult British SF series The Tomorrow People, its second-season episode, \"A Rift in Time\" (March–April 1974) pitted the three telepath core characters and allies against time travelling interlopers from an alternative history where the Roman Empire developed the steam engine in the first century CE, had a technological headstart, did not fragment during the fifth century and underwent accelerated technological development. The Roman eagle standard was planted on the Moon in the fifth century and by its alternative twentieth century, it had mastered interstellar travel, had a galactic empire and time travel. Consequently, the Tomorrow People had to rectify this aberrant timeline by dismantling and disabling the anomalous steam engine.\n\nMultiple episodes of \"Red Dwarf\" use the concept. In \"Parallel Universe\" the crew meet alternative versions of themselves: the analogues of Lister, Rimmer and Holly are female, while the Cat's alternative is a dog. \"Dimension Jump\" introduces a heroic alternative Rimmer, a version of whom reappears in \"Stoke Me a Clipper\". The next episode, \"Ouroboros\", makes contact with a timeline in which Kochanski, rather than Lister, was the sole survivor of the original disaster; this alternative Kochanski then joins the crew for the remaining episodes.\n\n\"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" experienced a Parallel universe where she was a mental patient in \"Normal Again\" and not really \"The Slayer\" at all. In the end, she has to choose between a universe where her mother and father are together and alive (mother) or one with her friends and sister in it where she has to fight for her life daily. In The Wish (Buffy the Vampire Slayer), Cordelia Chase inadvertently created a dystopian alternative reality in which Buffy had never moved from LA to Sunnydale. Her core-universe allies Xander Harris and Willow Rosenberg had become vampires in that timeline.\n\nThe plot of the season four episode of \"Charmed\", entitled \"Brain Drain\", features The Source of All Evil kidnapping Piper Halliwell and forcing her into a deep coma, where she experiences an alternative reality in which the Halliwell manor is actually a mental institution. She and her sisters serve as patients in this universe, their powers only a manifestation of their minds, a ruse put up to trick Piper into willingly relinquishing the sisters' magic.\n\nThe animated series, \"Futurama\", had an episode where the characters travel between \"Universe 1\" and \"Universe A\" via boxes containing each universe; and one of the major jokes is an extended argument between the two sets of characters over which set were the \"evil\" ones.\n\nThe idea of a parallel universe and the concept of déjà vu was a major plot line of the first-season finale of \"Fringe\", guest-starring Leonard Nimoy of \"\". The show has gone on to feature the parallel universe prominently.\n\nIn the 2010 season of \"Lost\", the result of characters traveling back in time to prevent the crash of Oceanic Flight 815 apparently creates a parallel reality in which the Flight never crashed, rather than resetting time itself in the characters' original timeline. The show continued to show two \"sets\" of the characters following different destinies, until it was revealed in the series finale that there was really only one reality created by the characters themselves to assist themselves in leaving behind the physical world and passing on to an afterlife after their respective deaths.\n\nIn the anime and manga series of \"Dragon Ball Z\", in the Androids Saga, Future Trunks returns to the past to give Goku medicine to prevent him from dying of a heart disease and warns him of the Androids, in the process creating parallel realities, leading to the appearance of Cell, who killed the same Future Trunks from a different splitting timeline to come back to the main timeline when the Androids are still alive for him to absorb. The Majin Buu Saga later depicts Kaio-Shin Realms and the Afterlife. Its sequel, \"Dragon Ball Super\", later features separate universes that are in pairs whose numbers add up to the total number of the universe: 13 in this case. Previously there were 18 universes, but Zen'o (the supreme ruler of the Dragon Ball Multiverse) destroyed 6 of them in a rage. Previously, Daizenshuu 7 stated that the typical Dragon Ball Universe had only 4 galaxies, but \"Dragon Ball Super\" effectively retcons this, where Whis says that the universe contains endless galaxies.\n\nThe anime \"Turn A Gundam\" attempted to combine all the parallel Gundam universes (other incarnations of the series, with similar themes but differing stories and characters, that had played out at different times since the debut of the concept in the 1970s) of the metaseries into one single reality.\n\nThe anime and manga series \"\" takes place in a parallel universe that is different from the one in the series' predecessor \"Eureka Seven\". The \"E7\" series started off in the year 12005, and the \"AO\" world, which takes place in the year 2025, would be the home of the two main characters' son.\n\nThe anime and manga series \"Katekyo Hitman Reborn!\" by Akira Amano features this idea in its third main arc, known as Future arc.\n\nThe anime \"Neon Genesis Evangelion\" features a parallel world in one of the final episodes. This parallel world is a sharp contrast to the harsh, dark \"reality\" of the show and presents a world where all the characters enjoy a much happier life. This parallel world would become the basis for the new Evangelion manga series \"\".\n\nThe anime series \"Bakugan\" features a parallel universe called Vestroia and is the homeworld of fantastic creatures called Bakugan. The series' hero Dan Kuso alongside his friends and teammates must save Earth and Vestroia from total destruction. Season 2 & 3 feature another universe where Dan and his team save the day. They go to another dimension or universe through a pathway. The other universe has also other life forms and other types of technology.\n\nIn another anime series, \"Digimon\", there is parallel universe called \"digital world\". The show's child protagonists meet digital monsters, or digimon, from this world and becomes partners and friends. In the third story arc of \"Digimon Fusion\", the Clockmaker (who is later revealed to be Bagramon) and his partner Clockmon travel through space-time to recruit heroes from previous series so they can help the Fusion Fighters to defeat Quartzmon before DigiQuartz can absorb each human and digital world in the multiverse.\n\nIn the anime series \"Umineko no Naku Koro ni\" the rounds of the battle between Battler and Beatrice take place in different dimensions, in order to show all kinds of possibilities (much to Battler's dismay) also the character Bernkastel is known for her ability to travel into different worlds by the usage of \"fragments\".\n\nIn the \"\" episode \"\", Lt. Worf traveled to several parallel universes when his shuttlecraft went through a time space fissure.\n\nThe \"Community\" episode Remedial Chaos Theory, six different timelines and one \"prime\" timeline are explored, each having a different outcome based on which member of the study group goes to get the pizza. One timeline, dubbed the \"Darkest Timeline\", results in the greatest amount of terrible incidents and ends with Abed donning a felt goatee bearing resemblance to Spock's in \"Mirror, Mirror\".\n\nIn the 2003 anime series of \"Fullmetal Alchemist\", there exists a gateway that can be conjured by alchemists that acts as a source of all knowledge and energy; towards the end of the series, it is revealed that this gateway connects the world of the anime with the real world, set during the first decades of the 20th century. It is revealed that the two worlds shared a common history until their histories diverged, apparently due to the success of alchemy in one world and that of modern physics in the other.\n\nSometimes a television series will use parallel universes as an ongoing subplot. \"\", \"\" and \"\" elaborated on the premise of the original series' \"Mirror\" universe and developed multi-episode story arcs based on the premise. Other examples are the science fiction series \"Stargate SG-1\", the fantasy/horror series \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\", \"Supernatural\" and the romance/fantasy \"\".\n\nFollowing the precedent set by \"Star Trek\", these story arcs show alternative universes that have turned out \"worse\" than the \"original\" universe: in \"Stargate SG-1\" the first two encountered parallel realities featured Earth being overwhelmed by an unstoppable Goa'uld onslaught; in \"Buffy\", two episodes concern a timeline in which Buffy came to Sunnydale too late to stop the vampires from taking control; \"Lois & Clark\" repeatedly visits an alternative universe where Clark Kent's adoptive parents, Jonathan and Martha Kent, died when he was ten years of age, and Lois Lane is also apparently dead. Clark eventually becomes Superman, with help from the \"original\" Lois Lane, but he is immediately revealed as Clark Kent and so has no life of his own.\n\nIn addition to following \"Star Trek's\" lead, showing the \"evil\" variants of the main storyline gives the writers an opportunity to show what is at stake by portraying the worst that could happen and the consequences if the protagonists fail or the importance of a character's presence.\n\n\"Once Upon a Time\" often talks about alternative realms or universes in which all different forms of magic, and non-magic may occur, depending on the realm. According to the Mad Hatter (Sebastian Stan), they \"touch each other in a long line of lands, each just as real as the last.\" He referred to our world's tendency to deny such things as arrogant.\n\nIn the season 1 finale of \"The Flash\", the Reverse-Flash opens a singularity that connects his world to a parallel universe called Earth-2. In the second season, The Flash starts facing villains from that earth who also have doppelgangers on Prime Earth sent by Zoom. The array of Earth-2 villains consists of Atom Smasher, Sand Demon, King Shark, and Dr. Light; all are sent by Zoom to kill The Flash with the assurance of being taken back home. However, they are not the only ones who arrive from the singularity; this also includes the Earth-2 Flash after a close death and loss of speed from a confrontation with Zoom. When the Earth-2 Flash (called Jay Garrick) introduces himself to Team Flash, Barry (The Flash) distrusts him at first and places him in the metahuman pipeline at S.T.A.R. Labs. When The Flash starts having a hard time facing off against Sand Demon, he frees Jay so that he could help him as well as train him in his speed. With a new trick taught by Jay, Barry defeats Sand Demon. Later on, the Earth-2 counterpart of the Reverse-Flash, Harrison Wells, arrives in Prime Earth as well. He steals a weapon from Mercury Labs and saves Barry from the Earth-2 King Shark. When Jay confronts and sees Wells again, the argument gets heated between them before Barry intercedes.\n\nThe \"Alf Stewart Rape Dungeon\" series, created by artist Mr Doodleburger, uses footage from the Australian TV drama show Home and Away, but through the use of clever overlaid audio tracks, casts one of the main characters of the show, long running character Alf Stewart as a vicious violent character in a parallel version of Home and Away. \"see main article\" Alf Stewart Rape Dungeon Series\n\nThere have been a few series where parallel universes were central to the series itself.\n\nParallel universes in modern comics have become particularly rich and complex, in large part due to the continual problem of continuity faced by the major two publishers, Marvel Comics and DC Comics. The two publishers have used the multiverse concept to fix problems arising from integrating characters from other publishers into their own canon, and from having major serial protagonists having continuous histories lasting, as in the case of Superman, over 70 years. Additionally, both publishers have used new alternative universes to re-imagine their own characters. (See \"Multiverse (DC Comics)\" and \"Multiverse (Marvel Comics)\")\n\nDC Comics inaugurated its multiverse in the early 1960s, with the reintroduction of Golden Age superheroes the Justice Society of America now located on Earth-Two, and devised a \"mirror universe\" scenario of inverted morality and supervillain domination of Earth-Three shortly afterward, several years before \"\" devised its own darker alternative universe. There was a lull before DC inaugurated additional alternative universes in the seventies, such as Earth-X, where there was an Axis victory in World War II, Earth-S, home to the Fawcett Comics superheroes of the forties and fifties, such as Captain Marvel, and Earth-Prime, where superheroes only existed in fictional forms.\n\nTherefore, comic books in general are one of the few entertainment mediums where the concept of parallel universes are a major and ongoing theme. DC in particular periodically revisits the idea in major crossover storylines, such as \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" and \"Infinite Crisis\", where Marvel has a series called \"What If...\" that's devoted to exploring alternative realities, which sometimes impact the \"main\" universe's continuity. DC's version of \"What If...\" is the Elseworlds imprint.\n\nDC Comics series \"52\" heralded the return of the Multiverse. \"52\" was a mega-crossover event tied to \"Infinite Crisis\" which was the sequel to the 1980s \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\". The aim was to yet again address many of the problems and confusions brought on by the Multiverse in the DCU. Now 52 Earths exist and including some Elseworld tales such as \"Kingdom Come\", DC's imprint WildStorm and an Earth devoted to the Charlton Comics heroes of DC. \"Countdown\" and \"Countdown Presents: The Search for Ray Palmer\" and the \"Tales of the Multiverse\" stories expand upon this new Multiverse.\n\nMarvel has also had many large crossover events which depicted an alternative universe, many springing from events in the X-Men books, such as 1981's \"Days of Future Past\", 1995's \"Age of Apocalypse\", and 2006's \"House Of M\". In addition the Squadron Supreme is a DC inspired Marvel Universe that has been used several times, often crossing over into the mainstream Universe in the Avengers comic. Exiles is an offshoot of the \"X-Men\" franchise that allows characters to hop from one alternative reality to another, leaving the original, main Marvel Universe intact. The Marvel UK line has long had multiverse stories including the Jaspers' Warp storyline of Captain Britain's first series (it was here that the designation Earth-616 was first applied to the mainstream Marvel Universe).\n\nMarvel Comics, as of 2000, launched their most popular parallel universe, the Ultimate Universe. It is a smaller subline to the mainstream titles and features Ultimate Spider-Man, Ultimate X-Men, Ultimate Fantastic Four and the Ultimates (their \"Avengers\").\n\nThe graphic novel Watchmen is set in an alternative history, in a 1985 where superheroes exist, the Vietnam War was won by the United States, and Richard Nixon is in his fifth term as President of the United States. The Soviet Union and the United States are still locked in an escalating \"Cold War\" as in our own world, but as the Soviet Union invades Afghanistan in this world and threatens Pakistan, nuclear war may be imminent.\n\nIn 1973, Tammy published \"The Clock and Cluny Jones\", where a mysterious grandfather clock hurls bully Cluny Jones into a harsh alternative reality where she becomes the bullied. This story was reprinted in Misty annual 1985 as \"Grandfather's Clock.\"\n\nIn 1978, Misty published \"The Sentinels\". The Sentinels were two crumbling apartment blocks that connected the mainstream world with an alternative reality where Hitler conquered Britain in 1940.\n\nIn 1981, Jinty published \"Worlds Apart.\" Six girls experience alternative worlds ruled by greed, sports-mania, vanity, crime, intellectualism, and fear. These are in fact their dream worlds becoming real after they are knocked out by a mysterious gas from a chemical tanker that crashed into their school. In 1977 Jinty also published \"Land of No Tears\" where a lame girl travels to a future world where people with things wrong with them are cruelly treated, and emotions are banned.\n\nThe parallel universe concept has also appeared prominently in the \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" comic series from Archie Comics. The first and most oft-recurring case of this is another \"mirror universe\" where Sonic and his various allies are evil or anti-heroic while the counterpart of the evil Dr. Robotnik is good. Another recurring universe featured in the series is a perpendicular dimension that runs through all others, known as the No Zone. The inhabitants of this universe monitor travel between the others, often stepping in with their Zone Cop police force to punish those who travel without authorization between worlds.\n\nIn more recent years, the comic has adapted the alternative dimension from the video games Sonic Rush and Sonic Rush Adventure, home to Sonic's ally Blaze the Cat. The continuities seen in various other Sonic franchises also exist in the comic, most notably those based on the cartoon series Sonic Underground and Sonic X. For some years, a number of other universes were also featured that parodied various popular franchises, such as Sailor Moon, Godzilla, and various titles from Marvel Comics. Archie has also used this concept as the basis for crossovers between Sonic and other titles that they publish, including Sabrina the Teenage Witch and Mega Man.\n\nThe various Transformers comics also feature the parallel universe concept, and feature the various continuities from different branches of the franchise as parallel worlds that occasionally make contact with each other. Quite notably, the annual Botcon fan convention introduced a comic storyline that featured Cliffjumper, an Autobot from the original Transformers series, entering an alternative universe where his fellow Autobots are evil and the Decepticons are good. This universe is known as the \"Shattered Glass\" universe, and continued on in comics and text based stories after its initial release.\n\nIn \"\" after the main protagonist, Link, defeats the dark lord, Ganon, he travels back in time to his childhood. This results in two alternative histories for Hyrule. In one a younger version Link travels to the land of Termina in \"\". In the other Link is no longer present allowing Ganon to return to go on a rampage that forced the gods of Hyrule to flood the world in \"\". There is also a scenario in which Link is killed by Ganon in the final battle, resulting in an alternative history in which Hyrule is put in an era of decline, leading to the events of \"\".\n\nIn the 1992 psychological horror point-and-click adventure game \"Dark Seed\", the main character Mike Dawson discovers a parallel universe by going through his living room mirror.\n\nThe Kingdom Hearts series features a Disney/Square Enix's Final Fantasy multiverse, in which various worlds are based on Disney films or concepts from the Final Fantasy line. The series also introduces the concepts of different \"Realms\" corresponding to Light, Darkness, Twilight, and Nothingness.\n\nIn the 1999 role-playing game \"Outcast\", a probe is sent to a parallel universe and is attacked by an \"entity\". Cutter Slade must escort a team of scientists across to the other world in order to retrieve and repair the damaged probe before the earth is consumed by a black hole.\n\nThe \"Half-Life\" series revolves heavily around alternate universes. Xen is a location in the first Half-Life game, accidentally discovered by scientists and described as a border world between dimensions, where the player must travel to stop an alien invasion. Half-Life 2 features a multidimensional empire called The Combine which has successfully conquered Earth and subdued humanity, among countless other universes and species.\n\nIn the survival horror video game series \"Silent Hill\", the town of Silent Hill fluctuates between the real world, where Silent Hill is seemingly just an ordinary tourist town, the Fog World, which is like the real world, except the town is shrouded in thick fog and is nearly uninhabited except for monsters and a few people, and a dark and dilapidated version of the town called the \"Other World\".\n\nIn the 1993 adventure PC game \"Myst\", the unnamed protagonist travels to multiple alternative worlds through the use of special books, which describe a world within and transport the user to that world when a window on the front page is touched.\n\nIn the 1996 adventure PC game \"\", after resolving several mind-blowing and unique puzzles, the player gets past \"The Tiki Guards\"; and a door opens up to \"The Void\" - actually a room to another universe, which houses the entirety of space.\n\nBoth titles of the \"When They Cry\" visual novel series (\"Higurashi\" and \"Umineko\" for short) contain the concept of parallel worlds. These series both involve some kind of murder mystery. As soon as the main character has 'lost', another parallel world, called a Fragment, is chosen to be observed. This continues until the entire mystery is solved.\n\n\"EarthBound\" features many areas of the game that can be considered alternative dimensions. The first is an illusion created by the Mani Mani Statue that transforms the metropolis of Fourside into a bizarre neon metropolis called Moonside, filled with unusual characters and enemies. The second is Magicant, the world of Ness's subconscious that is accessed after obtaining the Eight Melodies. Finally, toward the end of the game, the protagonists arrive at the Cave to the Past, where they travel back in time to the haunting past dimension of the cave to face Giygas.\n\n\"Super Mario Bros. 2\" features a \"Magic Potion\" item that when used, creates a doorway allowing the player to temporarily access \"Subspace\"; a mirrored silhouette version of the world where items can be found.\n\nAfter the completion of the Special World in \"Super Mario World\", the overworld transforms from a green-colored springtime to an orange-colored autumnal setting. Many enemies encountered in the game are transformed into bizarre counterparts.\n\n\"Super Mario 64\" features a world called \"Tiny Huge Island\" which has two variants: one scaled up, the other scaled down. The player can only access certain parts of the level to obtain certain stars depending on which variant they are into. The two variants can be switched between via portals in the world.\n\n\"Banjo-Kazooie\" features a world called \"Click Clock Wood\", which has spring, summer, autumn and winter variants. The environment develops between the seasons making some areas accessible or inaccessible, and actions taken in one season affect the outcome in others.\n\n\"\" features a dark and twisted parallel version of Hyrule called the \"Dark World\".\n\n\"\" use a similar concept to that which is used in \"\". In those games, the player must switch between the parallel past and present worlds (Ages) and between spring, summer, autumn and winter (Seasons) to progress through the game.\n\nIn the first half of \"\", areas of Hyrule are veiled by the Twilight Realm. These areas are dusky and brooding in appearance, Link cannot transform out of wolf form, characters only appear as spirits that cannot be communicated with, and enemies are twilight variations of their regular forms. Otherwise, the Twilight Realm is identical to regular Hyrule.\n\nEach Zone in \"Sonic CD\" has four variations: Past, Present, Bad Future and Good Future, each displaying some subtle and not-so subtle alterations. The series has also seen alternative dimensions in the case of the \"Sonic Rush\" series, in which Sonic encounters a hero from another world named Blaze the Cat whose nemesis is an alternative counterpart of his own foe, Dr. Eggman. The \"Sonic\" series also makes use of the concept of alternative timelines.\n\nThe story of \"Chrono Cross\" centers around travel between two alternative timelines, the original or \"Another World\" and \"Home World\" which is a branch created by the actions of the heroes of the game's predecessor, \"Chrono Trigger\".\n\nIn \"Super Paper Mario\", the town \"Flipside\" (which acts as the game's central hub) has an alternative mirrored version called \"Flopside\". While Flipside appears pristine and the residents there are typically cheerful, Flopside appears somewhat dilapidated and is populated by surly characters.\n\nThe series \"Legacy of Kain\" is played through several realms and timelines.\n\n\"Sudeki\" is set in a realm of light and a parallel realm of darkness.\n\n\"\" features an alternative hellish world called \"Oblivion\", as well as a painting you can climb into and a quest where you enter a dream world.\n\n\"\" takes place in Termina, a parallel world to Hyrule. Almost all of the characters from The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time reappear in the game.\n\n\"The Darkness\" pivots around a world of darkness you travel to when you die, which is occupied by World War 1 soldiers.\n\n\"\" involves a world, \"Aether\", having an alternative self in the, \"Dark\" realm, universe, or dimension. The protagonist, Samus, finds out that she just dropped into a hopeless war for the Luminoth, the dominant species of Light Aether against the Ing, the dominant species of Dark Aether. She also finds her counterpart, Dark Samus or Metroid Prime's essence inside Samus's Phazon Suit.\n\n\"Crash Twinsanity\" features Crash, Cortex, and Nina traveling to the \"10th dimension,\" which could also be a parallel universe (suggested by the theme and how everything seems to be opposite).\n\n\"Minecraft\" features an alternative dimension called \"The Nether\", that includes a 'hell' like theme. It also contains a second alternative dimension called \"The End\", home world of the Endermen, a type of monster that spawns rarely in the main world.\n\n\"\" takes place in an alternative universe called \"This Side\" where in the events of Innocent Sin did not take place and the characters have never met in the past.\n\nThe \"Fallout\" series takes place in a subtly different universe. For example, the ship that landed the first men on the moon in 1969 is called \"Valiant 11\", rather than Apollo 11. This universe diverged from ours after World War II, which resulted in a lack of advanced computers, the Cold War, VHS, etc.\n\nThe MMORPG \"City of Heroes\" features a Player vs Player (PvP) zone called Recluse's Victory. It is an alternative future in a constant state of flux, as heroes and villains battle for the future of Earth.\n\nIn the text-based science fiction MMORPG \"OtherSpace\", refugees from Earth's universe were forced to migrate to a parallel universe called \"Hiverspace\", whose quantum divergence occurred billions of years in the past, after damage to the time/space continuum began to tear their own universe apart. Eventually, they were able to find a means back to a past universe whose quantum divergence from their original ones was relatively minor.\n\n2011 action-adventure video game \"Portal 2\" features a game-mode entitled \"Perpetual Testing Initiative\" (PeTI), where a plot item features protagonist \"Bendy\" through thousands of different worlds of which character Cave Johnson exist in different roles entitled \"The Multiverse\", and the PeTI's parallel universes are different from the main Half-Life/Portal timeline.\n\nThe 2012 visual novel/puzzle video game \"\" heavily uses the concept of multiple realities as the basis for its plot as well as its central gameplay mechanic of traversing through realities and altering history.\n\nThe 2013 first person shooter \"BioShock Infinite\" features the many worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics. The main character is named Booker Dewitt, an homage to physicist \"Bryce DeWitt\".\n\nThe world of the classic cult adventure games of \"The Longest Journey\" created by Ragnar Thornqast, along with its sequels, deals with the existence of two parallel universes – technological (Stark) and magical (Arcadia).\n\nThe 2014 crossover video game \"Heroes of the Storm\" features the iconic characters of Blizzard Entertainment. In the game, heroes and villains from \"Warcraft\", \"Diablo\", and \"StarCraft\" have been sucked into a trans-dimensional storm called \"Nexus\". Stranded in a strange limbo of clashing universes, these combatants are joined by the same fate to battle for dominance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15484687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15484687", "title": "Participatory art", "text": "Participatory art\n\nParticipatory art is an approach to making art which engages public participation in the creative process, letting them become co-authors, editors, and observers of the work. This type of art is incomplete without viewers' physical interaction. It intends to challenge the dominant form of making art in the West, in which a small class of professional artists make the art while the public takes on the role of passive observer or consumer, i.e., buying the work of the professionals in the marketplace. Commended works by advocates who popularized participatory art include Augusto Boal in his Theater of the oppressed, as well as Allan Kaprow in happenings.\n\nOne of the earliest usages of the term appears in photographer Richard Ross (photographer)'s review for the Los Angeles Institute of Contemporary Art journal of the exhibition \"Downtown Los Angeles Artists,\" organized by the Santa Barbara Contemporary Arts Forum in 1980. Describing \"in situ\" works by Jon Peterson (artist), Maura Sheehan and Judy Simonian anonymously placed around Santa Barbara, Ross wrote, \"These artists bear the responsibility to the community. Their art is participatory.\"\n\nParticipatory art requires of the artist that they either not be present, or that they somehow are able to recede far enough to become equal with the participants. This is the only way that participants might be offered the agency of creation; without this detail, participants will always respond within the domain of authority of the artist; they will be subjugated in this way, and the work will fail to be participatory. This detail is centrally important in asserting Participation as a form in itself, and effectively differentiates Participation from interactive, community based art and socially engaged art. Any of these techniques can include the presence of the artist, as it will not impinge upon the outcome of the work in the same way.\n\nThere are various degrees of participation from nominal manipulation of an object like the wearable sculptures of Lygia Clark to the relinquishing of the artist's body to the whims of the audience in the 1974 performance \"Rhythm 0\" by Marina Abramović. New media theorist Beryl Graham has compared the varying degrees of participation in the arts to the eight rungs of power described in Sherry Arnstein's \"Ladder of Citizen Participation\"—ranging from manipulation to token consulting, to complete citizen control. \n\nIn the Fall/Winter issue of Oregon Humanities magazine, writer Eric Gold describes \"an artistic tradition called 'social practice,' which refers to works of art in which the artist, audience, and their interactions with one another are the medium. While a painter uses pigment and canvas, and a sculptor wood or metal, the social practice artist often creates a scenario in which the audience is invited to participate. Although the results may be documented with photography, video, or otherwise, the artwork is really the interactions that emerge from the audience's engagement with the artist and the situation.\"\n\nParticipatory or interactive art creates a dynamic collaboration between the artist, the audience and their environment. Participatory art is not just something that you stand still and quietly look at–it is something you participate in. You touch it, smell it, write on it, talk to it, dance with it, play with it, learn from it. You co-create it. \n\nIt is important to point out that there has been some nominal obfuscation of Participatory Art, causing its appreciation as a distinct form to be stymied. It is most likely that this occurred simultaneously with the development of the term Relational Aesthetics by in the late 1990s. Some other art making techniques, such as 'community-based art', 'interactive art', or 'socially-engaged art' have been (mis)labelled as Participatory art, simply because the subtleties of distinction are not always clearly understood or cared about. Many forms of popular culture and media beyond visual art have grown increasingly participatory with the rise of the Internet and social media, which allow users to participate at a distance.\n\nJanet Cardiff has created various audio tours that users experience by walking site-specific routes and listening to soundscapes composed by the artist. \n\nFigment (arts event) is an annual showcase of participatory art in New York City.\n\nAntony Gormley has involved the public in the creation of several works, most notably One & Other which invited hundreds of participants to occupy the vacant plinth in Trafalgar Square and perform or otherwise contribute to the work. \n\nCarsten Höller has created interactive installations like Test Site (2006), which invites participants to play on giant slides installed in the Tate Modern. \n\nAllan Kaprow pioneered the field of participatory art with his Happening events staged in 1960's New York City, which used physical installations and prompts to facilitate aesthetic experiences for participants. \n\nLearning to Love you More (2002–2009) was a work of Internet art by Miranda July and Harrell Fletcher that invited participants to submit responses to written prompts, and displayed an archive of the resulting works of conceptual art.\n\nAdrian Piper led a series of events titled Funk Lessons (1982 –1984) that combined participatory dance-parties with conversations and lectures about African-American culture.\n\nPublic Art Stations (2013 - present) allow the public freedom in the creation of works, usually in watercolor.\n\nFolk and tribal art can be considered to be a predecessor or model for contemporary \"participatory art\" in that many or all of the members of the society participate in the making of \"art\". However, the ideological issue of \"use\" arises at this point because art made in the institutions of art is by default, already part of the art world, and therefore it's perceived \"use\" is entirely different to any ritualistic or traditional practices expressed by folk or tribal groups. As the ethnomusicologist Bruno Nettl wrote, the tribal group \"has no specialization or professionalization; its division of labor depends almost exclusively on sex and occasionally on age, and only rarely are certain individuals proficient in any technique to a distinctive degree ... the same songs are known by all the members of the group, and there is little specialization in composition, performance or instrument making.” \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1172710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1172710", "title": "Psychedelic art", "text": "Psychedelic art\n\nPsychedelic art is any art or visual displays inspired by psychedelic experiences and hallucinations known to follow the ingestion of psychoactive drugs such as LSD and psilocybin. The word \"psychedelic\" (coined by British psychologist Humphry Osmond) means \"mind manifesting\". By that definition, all artistic efforts to depict the inner world of the psyche may be considered \"psychedelic\". In common parlance \"psychedelic art\" refers above all to the art movement of the late 1960s counterculture. Psychedelic visual arts were a counterpart to psychedelic rock music. Concert posters, album covers, liquid light shows, liquid light art, murals, comic books, underground newspapers and more reflected not only the kaleidoscopically swirling colour patterns of LSD hallucinations, but also revolutionary political, social and spiritual sentiments inspired by insights derived from these psychedelic states of consciousness.\n\n\nPsychedelic art is informed by the notion that altered states of consciousness produced by psychedelic drugs are a source of artistic inspiration. The psychedelic art movement is similar to the surrealist movement in that it prescribes a mechanism for obtaining inspiration. Whereas the mechanism for surrealism is the observance of dreams, a psychedelic artist turns to drug induced hallucinations. Both movements have strong ties to important developments in science. Whereas the surrealist was fascinated by Freud's theory of the unconscious, the psychedelic artist has been literally \"turned on\" by Albert Hofmann's discovery of LSD.\n\nThe early examples of \"psychedelic art\" are literary rather than visual, although there are some examples in the Surrealist art movement, such as Remedios Varo and André Masson. It should also be noted that these came from writers involved in the Surrealist movement. Antonin Artaud writes of his peyote experience in \"Voyage to the Land of the Tarahumara\" (1937). Henri Michaux wrote \"Misérable Miracle\" (1956), to describe his experiments with mescaline and also hashish.\n\nAldous Huxley's \"The Doors of Perception\" (1954) and \"Heaven and Hell\" (1956) remain definitive statements on the psychedelic experience.\n\nAlbert Hofmann and his colleagues at Sandoz Laboratories were convinced immediately after its discovery in 1943 of the power and promise of LSD. For two decades following its discovery LSD was marketed by Sandoz as an important drug for psychological and neurological research. Hofmann saw the drug's potential for poets and artists as well, and took great interest in the German writer Ernst Jünger's psychedelic experiments.\n\nEarly artistic experimentation with LSD was conducted in a clinical context by Los Angeles–based psychiatrist Oscar Janiger. Janiger asked a group of 50 different artists to each do a painting from life of a subject of the artist's choosing. They were subsequently asked to do the same painting while under the influence of LSD. The two paintings were compared by Janiger and also the artist. The artists almost unanimously reported LSD to be an enhancement to their creativity.\n\nUltimately it seems that psychedelics would be most warmly embraced by the American counterculture. Beatnik poets Allen Ginsberg and William S. Burroughs became fascinated by psychedelic drugs as early as the 1950s as evidenced by \"The Yage Letters\" (1963). The Beatniks recognized the role of psychedelics as sacred inebriants in Native American religious ritual, and also had an understanding of the philosophy of the surrealist and symbolist poets who called for a \"complete disorientation of the senses\" (to paraphrase Arthur Rimbaud). They knew that altered states of consciousness played a role in Eastern Mysticism. They were hip to psychedelics as psychiatric medicine. LSD was the perfect catalyst to electrify the eclectic mix of ideas assembled by the Beats into a cathartic, mass-distributed panacea for the soul of the succeeding generation.\n\nLeading proponents of the 1960s psychedelic art movement were San Francisco poster artists such as: Rick Griffin, Victor Moscoso, Bonnie MacLean, Stanley Mouse & Alton Kelley, and Wes Wilson. Their psychedelic rock concert posters were inspired by Art Nouveau, Victoriana, Dada, and Pop Art. The \"Fillmore Posters\" were among the most notable of the time. Richly saturated colors in glaring contrast, elaborately ornate lettering, strongly symmetrical composition, collage elements, rubber-like distortions, and bizarre iconography are all hallmarks of the San Francisco psychedelic poster art style. The style flourished from about 1966 to 1972. Their work was immediately influential to vinyl record album cover art, and indeed all of the aforementioned artists also created album covers.\n\nAlthough San Francisco remained the hub of psychedelic art into the early 1970s, the style also developed internationally: British artist Bridget Riley became famous for her op-art paintings of psychedelic patterns creating optical illusions. Mati Klarwein created psychedelic masterpieces for Miles Davis' Jazz-Rock fusion albums, and also for Carlos Santana Latin Rock. Pink Floyd worked extensively with London-based designers, Hipgnosis to create graphics to support the concepts in their albums. Willem de Ridder created cover art for Van Morrison. Los Angeles area artists such as John Van Hamersveld, Warren Dayton and Art Bevacqua and New York artists Peter Max and Milton Glaser all produced posters for concerts or social commentary (such as the anti-war movement) that were highly collected during this time. Life Magazine's cover and lead article for the September 1, 1967 issue at the height of the Summer of Love focused on the explosion of psychedelic art on posters and the artists as leaders in the hippie counterculture community.\n\nPsychedelic light-shows were a new art-form developed for rock concerts. Using oil and dye in an emulsion that was set between large convex lenses upon overhead projectors the lightshow artists created bubbling liquid visuals that pulsed in rhythm to the music. This was mixed with slideshows and film loops to create an improvisational motion picture art form to give visual representation to the improvisational jams of the rock bands and create a completely \"trippy\" atmosphere for the audience. The Brotherhood of Light were responsible for many of the light-shows in San Francisco psychedelic rock concerts.\n\nOut of the psychedelic counterculture also arose a new genre of comic books: underground comix. \"Zap Comix\" was among the original underground comics, and featured the work of Robert Crumb, S. Clay Wilson, Victor Moscoso, Rick Griffin, and Robert Williams among others. Underground Comix were ribald, intensely satirical, and seemed to pursue weirdness for the sake of weirdness. Gilbert Shelton created perhaps the most enduring of underground cartoon characters, \"The Fabulous Furry Freak Brothers\", whose drugged out exploits held a hilarious mirror up to the hippy lifestyle of the 1960s.\n\nPsychedelic art was also applied to the LSD itself. LSD began to be put on blotter paper in the early 1970s and this gave rise to a specialized art form of decorating the blotter paper. Often the blotter paper was decorated with tiny insignia on each perforated square tab, but by the 1990s this had progressed to complete four color designs often involving an entire page of 900 or more tabs. Mark McCloud is a recognized authority on the history of LSD blotter art.\n\nBy the late 1960s, the commercial potential of psychedelic art had become hard to ignore. General Electric, for instance, promoted clocks with designs by New York artist Peter Max. A caption explains that each of Max's clocks \"transposes time into multi-fantasy colors.\" In this and many other corporate advertisements of the late 1960s featuring psychedelic themes, the psychedelic product was often kept at arm's length from the corporate image: while advertisements may have reflected the swirls and colors of an LSD trip, the black-and-white company logo maintained a healthy visual distance. Several companies, however, more explicitly associated themselves with psychedelica: CBS, Neiman Marcus, and NBC all featured thoroughly psychedelic advertisements between 1968 and 1969. In 1968, Campbell's soup ran a poster promotion that promised to \"Turn your wall souper-delic!\"\nThe early years of the 1970s saw advertisers using psychedelic art to sell a limitless array of consumer goods. Hair products, cars, cigarettes, and even pantyhose became colorful acts of pseudo-rebellion. The Chelsea National Bank commissioned a psychedelic landscape by Peter Max, and neon green, pink, and blue monkeys inhabited advertisements for a zoo. A fantasy land of colorful, swirling, psychedelic bubbles provided the perfect backdrop for a Clearasil ad. As Brian Wells explains, \"The psychedelic movement has, through the work of artists, designers, and writers, achieved an astonishing degree of cultural diffusion… but, though a great deal of diffusion has taken place, so, too, has a great deal of dilution and distortion.\" Even the term \"psychedelic\" itself underwent a semantic shift, and soon came to mean \"anything in youth culture which is colorful, or unusual, or fashionable.\" Puns using the concept of \"tripping\" abounded: as an advertisement for London Britches declared, their product was \"great on trips!\" By the mid-1970s, the psychedelic art movement had been largely co-opted by mainstream commercial forces, incorporated into the very system of capitalism that the hippies had struggled so hard to change.\n\nExamples of other psychedelic art material are tapestry, curtains and stickers, clothing, canvas and other printed artefacts and furniture.\n\nComputer art has allowed for an even greater and more profuse expression of psychedelic vision. Fractal generating software gives an accurate depiction of psychedelic hallucinatory patterns, but even more importantly 2D and 3D graphics software allow for unparalleled freedom of image manipulation. Much of the graphics software seems to permit a direct translation of the psychedelic vision. The \"digital revolution\" was indeed heralded early on as the \"New LSD\" by none other than Timothy Leary. \nThe rave movement of the 1990s was a psychedelic renaissance fueled by the advent of newly available digital technologies. The rave movement developed a new graphic art style partially influenced by 1960s psychedelic poster art, but also strongly influenced by graffiti art, and by 1970s advertising art, yet clearly defined by what digital art and computer graphics software and home computers had to offer at the time of creation. Conversely, the convolutional neural network DeepDream finds and enhance patterns in images purely via algorithmic pareidolia.\n\nConcurrent to the rave movement, and in key respects integral to it, are the development of new mind-altering drugs, most notably, MDMA (Ecstasy). Ecstasy, like LSD, has had a tangible influence on culture and aesthetics, particularly the aesthetics of rave culture. But MDMA is (arguably) not a real psychedelic, but is described by psychologists as an entactogen. Development of new psychedelics such as 2C-B and related compounds (developed primarily by chemist Alexander Shulgin) are truly psychedelic, and these novel psychedelics are fertile ground for artistic exploration since many of the new psychedelics possess their own unique properties that will affect the artist's vision accordingly.\n\nEven as fashions have changed, and art and culture movements have come and gone, certain artists have steadfastly devoted themselves to psychedelia. Well-known examples are Amanda Sage, Alex Grey, and Robert Venosa. These artists have developed unique and distinct styles that while containing elements that are \"psychedelic\", are clearly artistic expressions that transcend simple categorization. While it is not necessary to use psychedelics to arrive at such a stage of artistic development, serious psychedelic artists are demonstrating that there is tangible technique to obtaining visions, and that technique is the creative use of psychedelic drugs.\n\n\nBohemian wall hangings and Hippie Tapestries\n\n\n\nPsychedelic and Trippy wallpapers collection\n"}
{"id": "10034332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10034332", "title": "Relational art", "text": "Relational art\n\nRelational art or relational aesthetics is a mode or tendency in fine art practice originally observed and highlighted by French art critic Nicolas Bourriaud. Bourriaud defined the approach as \"a set of artistic practices which take as their theoretical and practical point of departure the whole of human relations and their social context, rather than an independent and private space.\" The artist can be more accurately viewed as the \"catalyst\" in relational art, rather than being at the centre.\n\nOne of the first attempts to analyze and categorize art from the 1990s, the idea of relational art was developed by Nicolas Bourriaud in 1998 in his book \"Esthétique relationnelle\" (\"Relational Aesthetics\"). The term was first used in 1996, in the catalogue for the exhibition \"Traffic\" curated by Bourriaud at CAPC musée d'art contemporain de Bordeaux. \"Traffic\" included the artists that Bourriaud would continue to refer to throughout the 1990s, such as Henry Bond, Vanessa Beecroft, Maurizio Cattelan, Dominique Gonzalez-Foerster, Liam Gillick, Christine Hill, Carsten Höller, Pierre Huyghe, Miltos Manetas, Jorge Pardo, Philippe Parreno, and Rirkrit Tiravanija. The exhibition took its title and inspiration from Jacques Tati's film \"Trafic\"(1971), in which Tati's protagonist is a Parisian automobile designer preparing a new model for an international auto show. In a \"denoument\" that became a fundamental relational aesthetics strategy, particularly for Tiravanija, Tati's entire film is about the designer's journey to the auto show at which he arrives just in time for the show to close.\n\nBourriaud wishes to approach art in a way that ceases \"to take shelter behind Sixties art history\", and instead seeks to offer different criteria by which to analyse the often opaque and open-ended works of art of the 1990s. To achieve this, Bourriaud imports the language of the 1990s internet boom, using terminology such as user-friendliness, interactivity and DIY (do-it-yourself). In his 2002 book \"Postproduction: Culture as Screenplay: How Art Reprograms the World\", Bourriaud describes \"Relational Aesthetics\" as works that take as their point of departure the changing mental space opened by the internet.\n\nBourriaud explores the notion of relational aesthetics through examples of what he calls relational art. According to Bourriaud, relational art encompasses \"a set of artistic practices which take as their theoretical and practical point of departure the whole of human relations and their social context, rather than an independent and private space.\" The artwork creates a social environment in which people come together to participate in a shared activity. Bourriaud claims \"the role of artworks is no longer to form imaginary and utopian realities, but to actually be ways of living and models of action within the existing real, whatever scale chosen by the artist.\"\n\nRobert Stam, the head of new media and film studies at New York University, coined a term for the shared activity group: witnessing publics. Witnessing publics are \"that loose collection of individuals, constituted by and through the media, acting as observers of injustices that might otherwise go unreported or unanswered.\" The meaning of relational art is created when arts perception is altered while leaving the original artifact intact. \n\nIn relational art, the audience is envisaged as a community. Rather than the artwork being an encounter between a viewer and an object, relational art produces encounters between people. Through these encounters, meaning is elaborated \"collectively\", rather than in the space of individual consumption.\n\nWriter and director Ben Lewis has suggested that relational art is the new \"ism\", in analogue with \"ism\"s of earlier periods such as impressionism, expressionism and cubism.\n\nIn \"Antagonism and Relational Aesthetics\", published in 2004 in \"October\", Claire Bishop describes the aesthetic of Palais de Tokyo as a \"laboratory\", the \"curatorial modus operandi\" of art produced in the 1990s. Bishop writes, \"An effect of this insistent promotion of these ideas as artists-as-designer, function over contemplation, and open-endedness over aesthetic resolution is often ultimately to enhance the status of the curator, who gains credit for stage-managing the overall laboratory experience. As Hal Foster warned in the mid-1990s, 'the institution may overshadow the work that it otherwise highlights: it becomes the spectacle, it collects the cultural capital, and the director-curator becomes the star.'\" Bishop identifies Bourriaud's book as an important first step in identifying tendencies in the art of the 1990s but also writes in the same essay that such work “seems to derive from a creative misreading of poststructuralist theory: rather than the interpretations of a work of art being open to continual reassessment, the work of art itself is argued to be in perpetual flux.” Bishop also asks, \"if relational art produces human relations, then the next logical question to ask is what \"types\" of relations are being produced, for whom, and why?\" She continues that \"the relations set up by relational aesthetics are not intrinsically democratic, as Bourriaud suggests, since they rest too comfortably within an ideal of subjectivity as whole and of community as immanent togetherness.\"\n\nIn \"Traffic Control\", published one year later in \"Artforum\", artist and critic Joe Scanlan goes one step further in ascribing to relational aesthetics a palpable peer pressure. Scanlan writes, \"Firsthand experience has convinced me that relational aesthetics has more to do with peer pressure than collective action or egalitarianism, which would suggest that one of the best ways to control human behavior is to practice relational aesthetics.\"\n\nIn 2002, Bourriaud curated an exhibition at the San Francisco Art Institute, \"Touch: Relational Art from the 1990s to Now\", \"an exploration of the interactive works of a new generation of artists.\" Exhibited artists included Angela Bulloch, Liam Gillick, Felix Gonzalez-Torres, Jens Haaning, Philippe Parreno, Gillian Wearing and Andrea Zittel. Critic Chris Cobb suggests that Bourriaud's \"snapshot\" of 1990s art is a confirmation of the term (and idea) of relational art, while illustrating \"different forms of social interaction as art that deal fundamentally with issues regarding public and private space.\"\n\nIn 2008, Guggenheim Museum curator Nancy Spector organized an exhibition with most of the artists associated with Relational Aesthetics, but the term itself was shelved in favor of calling the show \"Theanyspacewhatever\". The exhibition included stalwarts Bulloch, Gillick, Gonzalez-Foerster, Höller, Huyghe, and Tiravanija, along with loosely affiliated artists Maurizio Cattelan, Douglas Gordon, Jorge Pardo, and Andrea Zittel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "149840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149840", "title": "Religious music", "text": "Religious music\n\nReligious music (also sacred music) is music performed or composed for religious use or through religious influence. Ritual music is music, sacred or not, performed or composed for or as ritual.\n\nAccording to some scholars, the earliest music in the Christian Church came from Jewish worship music, with some additional Syriac influence. It is believed that this music lay somewhere between singing and speaking, or speaking with an understood ritual cadence. However, there is another opinion that the roots of early Christian music come from the early ascetic monastic orders.\n\nIslamic \"songs\" come in the form of prayers (In Arabic, prayer is \"Salah)\" that occur 5 times a day. These prayers are conducted by facing Mecca and having both knees to the ground bowing and reciting these prayers and usually are recitations of the Islamic Holy word the Quran. These prayers occur of the day and connect the Muslim people through a series of melodic prayers that often become amplified through the city. In Islam the implication of prayer and in this case the \"Salah\" is for ritual since it is believed to be the direct word of God that shall be performed as a collective, as well as individually.\n\n\"What shall I say of their prayer? For they pray with such concentration and devotion that I was astonished when I was able to see it personally and observe it with my own eyes.” (Riccold De Monte in the year 1228). The origin of the art of prayer in all Abrahamic religions is to glorify God and the same goes for Islam. The \"Al Salat\" is the most widely used word to mean institutionalized prayer and is one of the oldest forms of prayer in Islam. Islamic prayer, traditions, and ideals had influence from these Abrahamic religions. The time of origination of Salah came from the Muslim prophet Muhammad (the Messenger of God) in a cave as he began to worship Allah (God). It is believed that through this act of worship Mohammad interacted with the Abrahamic prophet Moses. Now these \"prayers\" come in the form of recitations of the Quran and poems written by prophets of the faith.\n\nBesides the spread of Islam through Arabia by prophets it spread through trade routes like the Silk Road and through conflict of war. Through the Silk road traders and members of the early Muslim faith were able to go to countries such as China and create mosques around 627 C. E. As men from the Middle East came to China they would get married to these Asian women, which led to a spreading of the faith and traditions of Islam in multiplicities. The Crusades in the 9th and 10th century encouraged the spread of Islam through the invasions of Latin Christian soldiers and Muslim soldiers into each other's land. The whole conflict began on the premises of a Holy Land and which group of people owned these lands that led to these foes invading their respective lands. As the religion itself spread so did its implications of ritual, such as prayer.\n\nThe earliest synagogal music was based on the same system as that in the Temple in Jerusalem. According to the Talmud, Joshua ben Hananiah, who had served in the sanctuary Levitical choir, told how the choristers went to the synagogue from the orchestra by the altar (Talmud, Suk. 53a), and so participated in both services.\n\nShintō music (神楽) is ceremonial music for Shinto (神道) which is the native religion of Japan.\n\nBuddhist music is music for Buddhist ceremony or meditation.\n\nZoroastrian music is a genre of music that accompanies Zoroastrian traditions and rites.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26298756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26298756", "title": "Rice paddy art", "text": "Rice paddy art\n\nIn 1993, the people of Inakadate, in Aomori Prefecture, were looking for a way to revitalize their village. Archaeological exploration led to a realization that rice had been grown in the area for more than 2000 years. To honor this history, the villagers started a rice field behind the town hall. With the paddy as a canvas, the villagers cultivated and used four different types of heirloom and modern strains of rice to create a giant picture in the field. To allow viewing of the whole picture, a mock castle tower 22 meters high was erected at the village office. In 2006, more than 200,000 people visited the village to see the art.\n\nAnother observation tower was built looking down the Tambo art location 2 at Michi no eki Inakadate nicknamed “Yayoi no sato” or a village of prehistoric Yayoi period. Both places charge admission fees, while visitors are encouraged to take bus serving both location 1 and 2 to avoid traffic jam. In August 2015, a video camera was installed for both locations and started live stream the art, and they were registered on Google Street View the same year. A winter campaign since 2016 has been held on location 2 with instruction initially by snow artist Simon Beck.\n\nFor the first nine years, the farmers created a simple picture of Mount Iwaki before going to more complex designs.\n\nFollowing Inakadate's example, other villages such as Yonezawa in Yamagata prefecture have started to create their own tambo art.\n\nThe following is a list of the designs that have been used in the Inakadate pictures.\n\nEvery April, the villagers meet and decide what to plant for the year. Prior to planting, farmers sketch out the designs on computers to figure out where and how to plant the rice. In 2007, 700 people helped plant rice. In Inakadate, the fields used are approximately 15,000 square meters in area. Agreements between landowners have allowed for larger pictures to be created.\n\nIn 2008, it was planned to change the lower part of the field to include the logos of Japan Airlines and To-o Nippo, a local newspaper, for a reported 2 million yen to offset increased costs. The members of the local landowners' organization, along with the former mayor, protested, saying that the land would not be leased from the following year if the plan to display advertising logos was not abandoned. The village revitalization group voted by a narrow margin not to include the advertisements, and the seedlings that were planted were removed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3516959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3516959", "title": "Scottish folklore", "text": "Scottish folklore\n\nScottish folklore encompasses the folklore of the Scottish people from their earliest records until today. Folklorists, both academic and amateur, have published a variety of works focused specifically on the area over the years.\n\n"}
{"id": "146141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146141", "title": "Tooth fairy", "text": "Tooth fairy\n\nThe Tooth Fairy is a fantasy figure of early childhood in Western and Western-influenced cultures. The folklore states that when children lose one of their baby teeth, they should place it underneath their pillow and the Tooth Fairy will visit while they sleep, replacing the lost tooth with a small payment.\n\nThe tradition of leaving a tooth under a pillow for the Tooth Fairy to collect is practiced in various countries.\n\nIn Northern Europe, there was a tradition of \"tand-fé\" or tooth fee, which was paid when a child lost their first tooth. This tradition is recorded in writings as early as the Eddas, which are the earliest written record of Norse and Northern European traditions.\n\nThe reward left varies by country, the family's economic status, amounts the child's peers report receiving and other factors. A 2013 survey by Visa Inc. found that American children receive $3.70 per tooth on average.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, other superstitions arose surrounding children's teeth. In England, for example, children were instructed to burn their baby teeth in order to save the child from hardship in the afterlife. Children who didn't consign their baby teeth to the fire would spend eternity searching for them in the afterlife. The Vikings, it is said, paid children for their teeth. In the Norse culture, children's teeth and other articles belonging to children were said to bring good luck in battle, and Scandinavian warriors hung children's teeth on a string around their necks. Fear of witches was another reason to bury or burn teeth. In medieval Europe, it was thought that if a witch were to get hold of one's teeth, it could lead to them having total power over him or her.\n\nThe modern incarnation of these traditions into an actual Tooth Fairy has been dated to 1977, 1962, or 1927. However, there is an earlier reference to the tooth fairy in a 1908 \"Household Hints\" item in the \"Chicago Daily Tribune\":\nUnlike Santa Claus and, to a lesser extent, the Easter Bunny, there are few details of the Tooth Fairy's appearance that are consistent in various versions of the myth. A 1984 study conducted by Rosemary Wells revealed that most, 74 percent of those surveyed, believed the Tooth Fairy to be female, while 12 percent believed the Tooth Fairy to be neither male nor female and 8 percent believed the Tooth Fairy could be either male or female. When asked about her findings regarding the Tooth Fairy's appearance, Wells explained - \"You've got your basic Tinkerbell-type Tooth Fairy with the wings, wand, a little older and whatnot. Then you have some people who think of the tooth fairy as a man, or a bunny rabbit or a mouse.\" One review of published children's books and popular artwork found the Tooth Fairy to also be depicted as a child with wings, a pixie, a dragon, a blue mother-figure, a flying ballerina, two little old men, a dental hygienist, a potbellied flying man smoking a cigar, a bat, a bear and others. Unlike the well-established imagining of Santa Claus, differences in renderings of the Tooth Fairy are not as upsetting to children.\nStarting in 2011, the Royal Canadian Mint began selling special sets for newborn babies, birthdays, wedding anniversaries, \"Oh Canada\" and the Tooth Fairy. The Tooth Fairy quarters, which were issued only in 2011 and 2012, were packaged separately.\n\nBelief in the Tooth Fairy is viewed in two very different ways. On the one hand, children believing is seen as part of the trusting nature of childhood. Conversely, belief in the Tooth Fairy is frequently used to label adults as being too trusting and ready to believe anything.\n\nWhile parents are often unsure of themselves when promoting the fiction of the Tooth Fairy, the majority of children report positive outcomes. Upon learning the Tooth Fairy is not real, 75% of children reported liking the custom; 20% were neutral and 3% were not in favor and said they did not intend to continue the practice.\n\nParents tend to view the myth as providing comfort for children in the loss of their tooth. Research finds that belief in the Tooth Fairy may provide such comfort to a child experiencing fear or pain resulting from the loss of a tooth. Mothers especially seem to value a child's belief as a sign that their \"baby\" is still a child and is not \"growing up too soon\". By encouraging belief in a fictional character, parents allow themselves to be comforted that their child still believes in fantasy and is not yet \"grown up\".\n\nChildren often discover the Tooth Fairy is imaginary as part of the 5- to 7-year shift, often connecting this to other gift-bearing imaginary figures (such as Santa Claus and the Easter Bunny).\n\nAuthor Vicki Lansky advises parents to tell their children early that the tooth fairy pays a whole lot more for a perfect tooth than for a decayed one. According to Lansky, some families leave a note with the payment, praising the child for good dental habits.\n\nResearch findings suggest a possible relationship between a child's continued belief in the Tooth Fairy (and other fictional characters) and false memory syndrome.\n\nThe Ratoncito Pérez (or Ratón Pérez, \"Pérez Mouse\" in English) is a figure popular in Spanish and Hispanic American cultures, similar to the Tooth Fairy, originating in Madrid in 1894. As is traditional in some English-speaking countries, when a child loses a tooth it is customary for him or her to place it under the pillow, so that Ratoncito Pérez will exchange it for a gift. The tradition is almost universal in Spanish cultures, but takes different forms in different areas. He is known as \"Ratoncito Pérez\" in Spanish speaking countries, with the exception of some regions of Mexico, Peru and Chile, where he is called \"el Ratón de los Dientes\" (The Tooth Mouse), and in Argentina, Venezuela, Uruguay and Colombia, he is known simply as \"El Ratón Pérez\". The Ratoncito Pérez was used by Colgate marketing in Venezuela and Spain. \n\nIn Italy, the Tooth Fairy is also often replaced by a small mouse, named \"Topolino\".\n\nIn France and French-speaking Belgium, this character is called \"la petite souris\" (\"the little mouse\"). From parts of Lowland Scotland comes a tradition similar to the fairy mouse: a white fairy rat who purchases children's teeth with coins.\n\nIn the Basque Country, and specially in Biscay, there is \"Mari Teilatukoa\" (Mary from the roof), who lives in the roof of the baserri and catches the teeth thrown by the children.\n\nIn some Asian countries, such as India, China, Japan, Korea and Vietnam, when a child loses a tooth, it is customary for him or her to throw it onto the roof if it came from the lower jaw, or into the space beneath the floor if it came from the upper jaw. While doing this, the child shouts a request for the tooth to be replaced with the tooth of a mouse. This tradition is based on the fact that the teeth of mice grow for their entire lives, a characteristic of all rodents. In some cultures in India, children bury their teeth in the soil near big trees.\n\nIn Japan, a different variation calls for lost upper teeth to be thrown straight down to the ground and lower teeth straight up into the air; the idea is that incoming teeth will grow in straight.\n\nIn Middle Eastern countries (including Iraq, Jordan, Egypt and Sudan), there is a tradition of throwing a baby tooth up into the sky to the sun or to Allah. This tradition may originate in a pre-Islamic offering, and dates back to at least the 13th century. It is also mentioned by Izz bin Hibat Allah Al Hadid in the 13th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "310802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=310802", "title": "Trompe-l'œil", "text": "Trompe-l'œil\n\nTrompe-l'œil (French for \"deceive the eye\", pronounced ) is an art technique that uses realistic imagery to create the optical illusion that the depicted objects exist in three dimensions. Forced perspective is a comparable illusion in architecture.\n\nThough the phrase, which can also be spelled without the hyphen and ligature in English as trompe l'oeil, originates in the Baroque period, when it refers to perspectival illusionism, trompe-l'œil dates much further back. It was (and is) often employed in murals. Instances from Greek and Roman times are known, for instance in Pompeii. A typical trompe-l'œil mural might depict a window, door, or hallway, intended to suggest a larger room.\n\nA version of an oft-told ancient Greek story concerns a contest between two renowned painters. Zeuxis (born around 464 BC) produced a still life painting so convincing that birds flew down to peck at the painted grapes. A rival, Parrhasius, asked Zeuxis to judge one of his paintings that was behind a pair of tattered curtains in his study. Parrhasius asked Zeuxis to pull back the curtains, but when Zeuxis tried, he could not, as the curtains were included in Parrhasius's painting—making Parrhasius the winner.\n\nWith widespread fascination with perspective drawing in the Renaissance, Italian painters of the late Quattrocento such as Andrea Mantegna (1431–1506) and Melozzo da Forlì (1438–1494), began painting illusionistic ceiling paintings, generally in fresco, that employed perspective and techniques such as foreshortening to create the impression of greater space for the viewer below. This type of trompe l'œil illusionism as specifically applied to ceiling paintings is known as \"di sotto in sù\", meaning \"from below, upward\" in Italian. The elements above the viewer are rendered as if viewed from true vanishing point perspective. Well-known examples are the Camera degli Sposi in Mantua and Antonio da Correggio's (1489–1534) \"Assumption of the Virgin\" in the Duomo of Parma. Similarly, Vittorio Carpaccio (1460–1525) and Jacopo de' Barbari (c. 1440 – before 1516) added small trompe-l'œil features to their paintings, playfully exploring the boundary between image and reality. For example, a fly might appear to be sitting on the painting's frame, or a curtain might appear to partly conceal the painting, a piece of paper might appear to be attached to a board, or a person might appear to be climbing out of the painting altogether—all in reference to the contest of Zeuxis and Parrhasius. In a 1964 seminar, the psychoanalyst and theorist Jacques Lacan (1901–1981) observed that the myth of the two painters reveals an interesting aspect of human cognition. While animals are attracted to superficial appearances, humans are enticed by the idea of things that are hidden.\n\nPerspective theories in the 17th century allowed a more fully integrated approach to architectural illusion, which when used by painters to \"open up\" the space of a wall or ceiling is known as \"quadratura\". Examples include Pietro da Cortona's \"Allegory of Divine Providence\" in the Palazzo Barberini and Andrea Pozzo's \"Apotheosis of St Ignatius\" [4] on the ceiling of the Roman church of Sant'Ignazio.\nThe Mannerist and Baroque style interiors of Jesuit churches in the 16th and 17th century often included such trompe-l'œil ceiling paintings, which optically \"open\" the ceiling or dome to the heavens with a depiction of Jesus', Mary's, or a saint's ascension or assumption. An example of a perfect architectural trompe-l'œil is the illusionistic dome in the Jesuit church, Vienna, by Andrea Pozzo, which is only slightly curved but gives the impression of true architecture.\n\nTrompe-l'œil paintings became very popular in Flemish and later in Dutch painting in the 17th century arising from the development of still life painting. The Flemish painter Cornelis Norbertus Gysbrechts created a chantourné painting showing an easel holding a painting. Chantourné literally means 'cutout' and refers to a trompe l'œil representation designed to stand away from a wall. The Dutch painter Samuel Dirksz van Hoogstraten was a master of the trompe-l'œil and theorized on the role of art as the lifelike imitation of nature in his 1678 book, the \"Introduction to the Academy of Painting, or the Visible World\" (\"Inleyding tot de hooge schoole der schilderkonst: anders de zichtbaere werelt\", Rotterdam, 1678).\n\nA fanciful form of architectural trompe-l'œil, quodlibet, features realistically rendered paintings of such items as paper knives, playing cards, ribbons, and scissors, apparently accidentally left lying around.\n\nTrompe-l'œil can also be found painted on tables and other items of furniture, on which, for example, a deck of playing cards might appear to be sitting on the table. A particularly impressive example can be seen at Chatsworth House in Derbyshire, where one of the internal doors appears to have a violin and bow suspended from it, in a trompe l'œil painted around 1723 by Jan van der Vaardt. Another example can be found in the Painted Hall at the Old Royal Naval College, Greenwich, London. This Wren building was painted by Sir James Thornhill, the first British born painter to be knighted and is a classic example of the baroque style popular in the early 18th century. The American 19th-century still-life painter William Harnett specialized in trompe-l'œil. In the 20th century, from the 1960s on, the American Richard Haas and many others painted large trompe-l'œil murals on the sides of city buildings, and from beginning of the 1980s when German Artist Rainer Maria Latzke began to combine classical fresco art with contemporary content trompe-l'œil became increasingly popular for interior murals. The Spanish painter Salvador Dalí utilized the technique for a number of his paintings.\n\nTrompe-l'œil, in the form of \"forced perspective\", has long been used in stage-theater set design, so as to create the illusion of a much deeper space than the actual stage. A famous early example is the Teatro Olimpico in Vicenza, with Vincenzo Scamozzi's seven forced-perspective \"streets\" (1585), which appear to recede into the distance.\n\nTrompe-l'œil is employed in Donald O'Connor's famous \"Running up the wall\" scene in the film \"Singin' in the Rain\" (1954). During the finale of his \"Make 'em Laugh\" number he first runs up a real wall. Then he runs towards what appears to be a hallway, but when he runs up this as well we realize that it is a large trompe-l'œil mural. More recently, Roy Andersson has made use of similar techniques in his feature films.\n\nMatte painting is a variant of trompe-l'œil, and is used in film production with elements of a scene are painted on glass panels mounted in front of the camera. \n\nFictional trompe-l'œil appears in many Looney Tunes, such as the Road Runner cartoons, where, for example, Wile E. Coyote paints a tunnel on a rock wall, and the Road Runner then races through the fake tunnel. This is usually followed by the coyote's foolishly trying to run through the tunnel after the road runner, only to smash into the hard rock-face. This sight gag was employed in \"Who Framed Roger Rabbit\".\n\nIn Chicago's Near North Side, Richard Haas used a 16-story 1929 apartment hotel converted into a 1981 apartment building for trompe-l'œil murals in homage to Chicago school architecture. One of the building's sides features the Chicago Board of Trade Building, intended as a reflection of the actual building two miles south. One of France's most illusive trompe-l'œil artists is Jean Claude Adenin, who has created installations for various wealthy clients.\n\nSeveral contemporary artists use chalk on pavement or sidewalk to create trompe-l'œil works, a technique called street painting or \"pavement art.\" These creations last only until washed away, and therefore must be photographed to be preserved. Practitioners of this form include Julian Beever, Edgar Mueller, Leon Keer and Kurt Wenner.\n\nThe Palazzo Salis of Tirano, Italy has over centuries and throughout the palace used trompe l'œil in place of more expensive real masonry, doors, staircases, balconies and draperies to create an illusion of sumptuousness and opulence.\n\nTrompe l'œil, in the form of \"illusion painting\", is also used in contemporary interior design, where illusionary wall paintings experienced a Renaissance since around 1980. Significant artists in this field are the German muralist Rainer Maria Latzke, who invented, in the 1990s, a new method of producing illusion paintings, frescography, and the English artist Graham Rust.\n\nOld Masters\n\n19th century and modern masters\n\nContemporary\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44719885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44719885", "title": "Winter landscapes in Western art", "text": "Winter landscapes in Western art\n\nThe depiction of winter landscapes in Western art begins in the 15th century. Wintry and snowy landscapes are not seen in early European painting since most of the subjects were religious. Painters avoided landscapes in general for the same reason. The first depictions of snow began to occur in the 15th and 16th centuries. Paintings that feature snow as a theme are mostly landscapes, even if some of these works involve religious or even fantasy landscapes. Most of these winter landscapes in art history are plein-air depictions of winter scenes, using the quality of gray winter light to create the special winter atmosphere.\nDepiction of snow in Europe is essentially a northern European theme..\n\nEarly European painters generally did not depict snow since most of their paintings were of religious subjects. The first artistic representations of snow came in the 15th and 16th centuries. Because frequent snowfall is a part of winter in northern European countries, depiction of snow in Europe began first in the northern European countries.\n\nSince the early 15th century, wintry scenes had been represented by artists in parts of large sculptural works on churches and even on a smaller scale in private devotional scripts such as the book of hours, a devotional collection of texts, prayers and psalms. These were often illuminated manuscripts such as \"Labours of the Months,\" a cycle of twelve paintings that illustrated the social life, the agricultural tasks, the weather, and the landscape for each month of the year. January and February were typically shown as snowy, as is \"February\" in the famous cycle of the \"Les Très Riches Heures du duc de Berry\", illustrated 1412–1416. Some snowy scenes also appear in a set of early 14th-century frescoes created by Master Wenceslas for the Bishop's Palace at Trento, showing people throwing snowballs at each other, and in a detail of Ambrogio Lorenzetti's \"Effects of Good Government in the City and Countryside\" (1337–39).\nAt that time, landscapes had not yet developed as a genre in art, which explains the scarcity of winter scenes in medieval painting. Snow was not depicted in art except where it had a context, such as in the winter months of calendars.\n\nDuring the Early Northern Renaissance and even more during the Dutch Golden Age in the 17th century, interest in landscape painting was increasing. The winter of 1564–1565 was said to be the longest and most severe for more than a hundred years – the beginning of a cold period in northern Europe now called the Little Ice Age. For the next 150 years, northern European winters were comparatively snowy and harsh. Crop failures, heavy snowfalls and advancing glaciers that consumed Alpine pastures and villages made the era a grim one for European peasants.\nIt was early in the frigid winter of 1565 that Bruegel created \"The Hunters in the Snow\", regarded as the first true winter landscape painting. It was part of a series that illustrated the months, something thematically similar to the traditional Flemish books of hours (e.g. the Très Riches Heures du Duc de Berry). In addition to the snowy \"Hunters\" (December–January), it included \"The Harvesters\" (August). \"The Hunters\" depicts village life in a snowbound Flemish setting, showing not only hunters with pikes trudging off with their dogs to seek game, but also villagers gathered around a fire, frozen ponds with skaters, and houses and churches in the distance – all against a fanciful backdrop of snow-covered mountains. The series was commissioned in 1565 by a wealthy patron in Antwerp, Niclaes Jonghelinck. The paintings by Flemish artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder were on a larger scale than calendar paintings; they measured approximately three feet by five feet (0.9 by 1.5 meters).\n\nBruegel continued to depict snow in his paintings. He created the first nativity scene to include snow, \"Adoration of the Magi in a Winter Landscape\", which is also the earliest known painting to actually depict falling snow. He also started a vogue for Netherlandish winter painting. The popularity of landscapes in the Netherlands was in part a reflection of the virtual disappearance of religious painting in a now Protestant (Calvinist) society, which preferred non-religious themes such as still life, genre painting, and landscape painting. The tradition of painting landscapes continued well into the 19th century and developed into the Romantic landscape. Between 1780 and 1820, following the initial vogue in the 16th century for Netherlandish winter landscapes, winter subjects again become popular. However, this time winter landscapes became popular in their own right, as the beginning of the Romantic movement created a new interest in the landscape. This new interest, combined with the decline of religious painting in the 18th and 19th centuries all over Europe, gave landscape painting for its own sake, not simply as a backdrop to a scene or a setting, a much greater and more prestigious place in 19th-century art than it had held earlier.\n\nLater, after a relatively warm period that coincided with the end of the 17th century Dutch Golden Age, the European climate turned cool again, heading for a trough whose lowest point was in the second decade of the 19th century. In 1809, a series of major volcanic eruptions heralded the arrival of a particularly cold period as the clouds of ash partially blocked out the sun. The decade from 1810 to 1819 was the coldest in England since the 17th century. In 1812, the French Grande Armée was forced to retreat from Moscow by the advancing winter – known to the Russians as General Snow. These climactic events played a great part in the development of a new art genre, the winter landscape.\n\nIn the late 18th century, the growing Romantic movement intensified interest in landscape painting, including winter landscapes. Practitioners included the German artist Caspar David Friedrich, who depicted remote and wild landscapes. Caspar David Friedrich was a romantic landscape painter, and was one of the first artists to portray winter landscapes as austere, forbidding and desolate. His winter scenes are solemn and still. They are often painted plein-air, with the artist using the thin, gray light of winter to create an appropriate atmosphere and illustrate the effect of light reflected off snow. According to the art historian Hermann Beenken, Friedrich painted winter scenes in which \"no man has yet set his foot\". Although based on direct observation, his landscapes did not reproduce nature but were painted to create a dramatic effect, using nature as a mirror of human emotions. His aim was a reunion with the spiritual self through the contemplation of nature, paralleling Romanticism's validation of intense emotions such as apprehension, fear, horror, terror and awe. Awe in particular – experienced when confronting the sublimity of untamed nature and its picturesque qualities – drew Friedrich's interest, as seen in his idealized portrayals of coasts, forests and craggy mountains. Friedrich created the notion of a landscape full of romantic feeling – \"die romantische Stimmungslandschaft\". His works detail a wide range of geographical features, and he used the landscape as an expression of religious mysticism.\n\nAlong with other Romantic painters, Friedrich helped position landscape painting as a major genre within Western art. His style influenced his contemporary, the Norwegian Johan Christian Dahl (1788–1857), and, later, Arnold Böcklin (1827–1901) and many Russian painters, in particular Arkhip Kuindzhi (c. 1842–1910) and Ivan Shishkin (1832–98).\n\nThe work of the 18th-century Düsseldorf School is characterized by finely detailed but still fanciful landscapes, often portraying religious or allegorical stories. Leading members of the Düsseldorf School advocated plein-air painting and tended to use a palette of relatively subdued and muted colors. The Düsseldorf School grew out of, and was a part of, the German Romantic movement. Prominent members of the Düsselorf School included Friedrich Wilhelm Schadow, Rudolf Koller, Karl Friedrich Lessing, Johann Wilhelm Schirmer, Andreas Achenbach, Hans Fredrik Gude, Oswald Achenbach and Adolf Schrödter.\nFrench painters were slower to develop landscape painting, but from about the 1830s Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot and other artists of the Barbizon School established a French landscape tradition that in the 19th century would become the most influential in Europe.\n\nIt is often assumed that plein-air painting started with the 19th-century Impressionists, but in fact it was already common in the late 18th century when the members of the Hudson River School of American landscape painters were already painting in plein-air.\nFrederic Edwin Church, a central figure in the Hudson River School, was known for painting large landscapes that he saw during his travels to the Arctic and Central and South America.\n\"Plein-air painting, in its strictest sense, is the practice of painting landscape pictures out-of-doors; more loosely, the achievement of an intense impression of the open air (French: plein air) in a landscape painting. Until the time of the painters of the Barbizon school in mid-19th-century France, it was normal practice to execute rough sketches of landscape subjects in the open air and produce finished paintings in the studio. Part of this was a matter of convenience.\"\n\nThe Impressionists were the first artists who made plein-air painting a major genre. They painted outdoors and were interested in real-life subject matter. Their most evident preoccupation and interest was capturing the effect of light and weather at a particular moment – they often painted the same theme all over again in different light and different weather. The Impressionists were influenced in many of their subjects by Japanese woodblock prints. The themes of falling snow and figures with umbrellas in snow are frequent subjects in the ukiyo-e Japanese woodblock prints.\n\nIt is possible that a series of severe winters in France also contributed to an increase in the number of winter landscapes produced by Impressionists. Impressionist painters like Claude Monet, Alfred Sisley and Camille Pissarro started painting large numbers of winter landscapes in which they experimented with the use of light and color to paint what they called the \"effets de neige\" (the effects of snow). Other painters who painted winter landscapes but less frequently were Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Gustave Caillebotte and Paul Gauguin. The French master Claude Monet's first painting in his winter series of 140 paintings was \"A Cart on the Snowy Road at Honfleur\", which was followed by many other winter landscapes, including a long series with haystacks. In the painting \"Boulevard Saint Denis\", Monet sought to catch the moment when the sun was hidden behind the clouds during a light snowfall. In \"The Magpie\", Monet's largest and probably most widely known winter painting, he used blue-gray colors to depict shadows in the snow.\n\nThe \"Impressionists in Winter\" was an exhibition organized around the theme \"Effets de Neige\".\n\nIt was the natural outdoor light that made the Impressionist's treatment of subjects different. They closely observed the various colors of light that were reflected from objects and captured those colors in their paintings. Since Impressionists painted in \"plein air\", the shadows reflected the light of the sky as it was reflected onto surfaces.\n\nImpressionists generally used vivid colors, with often thick application of paint, and real-life subject matter. The new technology of premixed paints in tin tubes aided the development of this style. Previously, painters had made their own paints by grinding and mixing dry pigment powders with linseed oil. \nIn the 1860s, many vivid synthetic pigments became commercially available such as cobalt blue, viridian, cadmium yellow and synthetic ultramarine blue, as well as even newer colors such as cerulean blue.\nAs a result, the Impressionists soon moved toward a brighter style of painting. By the 1870s, Monet, Renoir, and Pissarro usually chose to paint on grounds of a light grey or beige colour, but some of the Impressionists had come to prefer white grounds.\n\n\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "3257715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3257715", "title": "Women artists", "text": "Women artists\n\nThough women artists have been involved in the making of art throughout history, their work, when compared to that of their male counterparts, is often both overlooked and undervalued. Prevailing stereotypes about the sexes have caused certain media, such as textile or fiber arts, to be primarily associated with women, despite having once been categories both men and women participated in. Additionally, art forms that have gained this distinction are, as in the case of both textile and fabric arts, demoted to categories like \"arts and crafts\", rather than fine art.\n\nWomen in art have been faced with challenges due to gender biases in the mainstream fine art world. They have often encountered difficulties in training, travelling and trading their work, as well as gaining recognition. Beginning in the late 1960s and 1970s, feminist artists and art historians created a Feminist art movement that overtly addresses the role of women in the art world and explores the role of women in art history and in society.\n\nThere are no records of who the artists of the prehistoric eras were, but studies of many early ethnographers and cultural anthropologists indicate that women often were the principal artisans in Neolithic cultures, in which they created pottery, textiles, baskets, painted surfaces and jewelry. Collaboration on large projects was typical. Extrapolation to the artwork and skills of the Paleolithic era suggests that these cultures followed similar patterns. Cave paintings of this era often have human hand prints, 75% of which are identifiable as women's.\n\n\"For about three thousand years, the women – and only the women – of Mithila have been making devotional paintings of the gods and goddesses of the Hindu pantheon. It is no exaggeration, then, to say that this art is the expression of the most genuine aspect of Indian civilization.\"\n\nThe earliest records of western cultures rarely mention specific individuals, although women are depicted in all of the art and some are shown laboring as artists. Ancient references by Homer, Cicero, and Virgil mention the prominent roles of women in textiles, poetry, music, and other cultural activities, without discussion of individual artists. Among the earliest European historical records concerning individual artists is that of Pliny the Elder, who wrote about a number of Greek women who were painters, including Helena of Egypt, daughter of Timon of Egypt, Some modern critics posit that \"Alexander Mosaic\" might not have been the work of Philoxenus, but of Helena of Egypt. One of the few named women painters who might have worked in Ancient Greece, she was reputed to have produced a painting of the battle of Issus which hung in the Temple of Peace during the time of Vespasian. Other women include Timarete, Eirene, Kalypso, Aristarete, Iaia, and Olympias. While only some of their work survives, in Ancient Greek pottery there is a \"caputi hydria\" in the Torno Collection in Milan. It is attribute to the Leningrad painter from BCE and shows women working alongside men in a workshop where both painted vases.\n\nArtists from the Medieval period include Claricia, Diemudus, Ende, Guda, Herrade of Landsberg and Hildegard of Bingen. In the early Medieval period, women often worked alongside men. Manuscript illuminations, embroideries, and carved capitals from the period clearly demonstrate examples of women at work in these arts. Documents show that they also were brewers, butchers, wool merchants, and iron mongers. Artists of the time period, including women, were from a small subset of society whose status allowed them freedom from these more strenuous types of work. Women artists often were of two literate classes, either wealthy aristocratic women or nuns. Women in the former category often created embroideries and textiles; those in the later category often produced illuminations.\n\nThere were a number of embroidery workshops in England at the time, particularly at Canterbury and Winchester; \"Opus Anglicanum\" or English embroidery was already famous across Europe – a 13th-century papal inventory counted over two hundred pieces. It is presumed that women were almost entirely responsible for this production. One of the most famous embroideries of the Medieval period is the Bayeux Tapestry, which was embroidered with wool and is 230 feet long. Its images narrate the Battle of Hastings and the Norman Conquest of England. The Bayeux Tapestry may have been created in either a commercial workshop by a royal or an aristocratic lady and her retinue, or in a workshop in a nunnery. In the 14th century, a royal workshop is documented, based at the Tower of London, and there may have been other earlier arrangements. Manuscript illumination affords us many of the named artists of the Medieval Period including Ende, a 10th-century Spanish nun; Guda, a 12th-century German nun; and Claricia, a 12th-century laywoman in a Bavarian scriptorium. These women, and many more unnamed illuminators, benefited from the nature of convents as the major loci of learning for women in the period and the most tenable option for intellectuals among them.\n\nIn many parts of Europe, with the Gregorian Reforms of the 11th century and the rise in feudalism, women faced many strictures that they did not face in the Early Medieval period. With these societal changes, the status of the convent changed. In the British Isles, the Norman Conquest marked the beginning of the gradual decline of the convent as a seat of learning and a place where women could gain power. Convents were made subsidiary to male abbots, rather than being headed by an abbess, as they had been previously. In Pagan Scandinavia (in Sweden) the only historically confirmed female runemaster, Gunnborga, worked in the 11th century.\n\nIn Germany, however, under the Ottonian Dynasty, convents retained their position as institutions of learning. This might be partially because convents were often headed and populated by unmarried women from royal and aristocratic families. Therefore, the greatest late Medieval period work by women originates in Germany, as exemplified by that of Herrade of Landsberg and Hildegard of Bingen. Hildegard of Bingen (1098–1179) is a particularly fine example of a German Medieval intellectual and artist. She wrote \"The Divine Works of a Simple Man\", \"The Meritorious Life\", sixty-five hymns, a miracle play, and a long treatise of nine books on the different natures of trees, plants, animals, birds, fish, minerals, and metals. From an early age, she claimed to have visions. When the Papacy supported these claims by the headmistress, her position as an important intellectual was galvanized. The visions became part of one of her seminal works in 1142, \"Scivias\" \"(Know the Ways of the Lord)\", which consists of thirty-five visions relating and illustrating the history of salvation. The illustrations in the \"Scivias\", as exemplified in the first illustration, depict Hildegarde experiencing visions while seated in the monastery at Bingen. They differ greatly from others created in Germany during the same period, as they are characterized by bright colors, emphasis on line, and simplified forms. While Hildegard likely did not pen the images, their idiosyncratic nature leads one to believe they were created under her close supervision.\n\nThe 12th century saw the rise of the city in Europe, along with the rise in trade, travel, and universities. These changes in society also engendered changes in the lives of women. Women were allowed to head their husbands' businesses if they were widowed. The Wife of Bath in Chaucer's \"The Canterbury Tales\" is one such case. During this time, women also were allowed to be part of some artisan guilds. Guild records show that women were particularly active in the textile industries in Flanders and Northern France. Medieval manuscripts have many marginalia depicting women with spindles. In England, women were responsible for creating \"Opus Anglicanum\", or rich embroideries for ecclesiastical or secular use on clothes and various types of hangings. Women also became more active in illumination. A number of women likely worked alongside their husbands or fathers, including the daughter of Maître Honoré and the daughter of Jean le Noir. By the 13th century most illuminated manuscripts were being produced by commercial workshops, and by the end of the Middle Ages, when production of manuscripts had become an important industry in certain centres, women seem to have represented a majority of the artists and scribes employed, especially in Paris. The movement to printing, and of book illustration to the printmaking techniques of woodcut and engraving, where women seem to have been little involved, represented a setback to the progress of women artists.\n\nArtists from the Renaissance era include Sofonisba Anguissola, Lucia Anguissola, Lavinia Fontana, Fede Galizia, Diana Scultori Ghisi, Caterina van Hemessen, Esther Inglis, Barbara Longhi, Maria Ormani, Marietta Robusti (daughter of Tintoretto), Properzia de' Rossi, Plautilla Nelli, Levina Teerlinc, Mayken Verhulst, and St. Catherine of Bologna (Caterina dei Vigri).\n\nThis is the first period in Western history in which a number of secular female artists gained international reputations. The rise in women artists during this period may be attributed to major cultural shifts. One such shift was a move toward humanism, a philosophy affirming the dignity of all people, that became central to Renaissance thinking and helped raise the status of women. In addition, the identity of the individual artist in general was regarded as more important; significant artists from this period whose identities are unknown virtually cease to exist. Two important texts, \"On Famous Women\" and \"The City of Women\", illustrate this cultural change. Boccaccio, a 14th-century humanist, wrote \"De mulieribus claris\" (Latin for \"On Famous Women\") (1335–59), a collection of biographies of women. Among the 104 biographies he included was that of Thamar (or Thmyris), an ancient Greek vase painter. Curiously, among the 15th-century manuscript illuminations of \"On Famous Women\", Thamar was depicted painting a self-portrait or perhaps painting a small image of the Virgin and Child. Christine de Pizan, a remarkable late medieval French writer, rhetorician, and critic, wrote \"Book of the City of Ladies\" in 1405, a text about an allegorical city in which independent women lived free from the slander of men. In her work she included real women artists, such as Anastasia, who was considered one of the best Parisian illuminators, although none of her work has survived. Other humanist texts led to increased education for Italian women.\n\nThe most notable of these was \"Il Cortegiano\" or \"The Courtier\" by 16th-century Italian humanist Baldassare Castiglione. This enormously popular work stated that men and women should be educated in the social arts. His influence made it acceptable for women to engage in the visual, musical, and literary arts. Thanks to Castiglione, this was the first period of renaissance history in which noblewomen were able to study painting. Sofonisba Anguissola was the most successful of these minor aristocrats who first benefited from humanist education and then went on to recognition as painters. Artists who were not noblewomen were affected by the rise in humanism as well. In addition to conventional subject matter, artists such as Lavinia Fontana and Caterina van Hemessen began to depict themselves in self-portraits, not just as painters but also as musicians and scholars, thereby highlighting their well-rounded education. Along with the rise in humanism, there was a shift from craftsmen to artists. Artists, unlike earlier craftsmen, were now expected to have knowledge of perspective, mathematics, ancient art, and study of the human body. In the late Renaissance the training of artists began to move from the master's workshop to the Academy, and women began a long struggle, not resolved until the late 19th century, to gain full access to this training. Study of the human body required working from male nudes and corpses. This was considered essential background for creating realistic group scenes. Women were generally barred from training from male nudes, and therefore they were precluded from creating such scenes. Such depictions of nudes were required for the large-scale religious compositions, which received the most prestigious commissions.\n\nAlthough many aristocratic women had access to some training in art, though without the benefit of figure drawing from nude male models, most of those women chose marriage over a career in art. This was true, for example, of two of Sofonisba Anguissola's sisters. The women recognized as artists in this period were either nuns or children of painters. Of the few who emerged as Italian artists in the 15th century, those known today are associated with convents. These artists who were nuns include Caterina dei Virgi, Antonia Uccello, and Suor Barbara Ragnoni. During the 15th and 16th centuries, the vast majority of women who gained any modicum of success as artists were the children of painters. This is likely because they were able to gain training in their fathers' workshops. Examples of women artists who were trained by their fathers include the painter Lavinia Fontana, the miniature portraitist Levina Teerlinc, and the portrait painter Caterina van Hemessen. Italian women artists during this period, even those trained by their family, seem somewhat unusual. However, in certain parts of Europe, particularly northern France and Flanders, it was more common for children of both genders to enter into their father's profession. In fact, in the Low Countries where women had more freedom, there were a number of artists in the Renaissance who were women. For example, the records of the Guild of Saint Luke in Bruges show not only that they admit women as practicing members, but also that by the 1480s twenty-five percent of its members were women (many probably working as manuscript illuminators).\n\nArtists from the Baroque era include: Mary Beale, Élisabeth Sophie Chéron, Maria Theresa van Thielen, Katharina Pepijn, Catharina Peeters, Johanna Vergouwen, Isabel de Cisneros, Giovanna Garzoni Artemisia Gentileschi, Judith Leyster, Maria Sibylla Merian, Louise Moillon, Josefa de Ayala better known as Josefa de Óbidos, Maria van Oosterwijk, Magdalena de Passe, Clara Peeters, Maria Virginia Borghese (daughter of art collector Olimpia Aldobrandini), Luisa Roldán known as La Roldana, Rachel Ruysch, Maria Theresa van Thielen, Anna Maria van Thielen, Francisca-Catherina van Thielen and Elisabetta Sirani. As in the Renaissance Period, many women among the Baroque artists came from artist families. Artemisia Gentileschi is an excellent example of this. She was trained by her father, Orazio Gentileschi, and she worked alongside him on many of his commissions. Luisa Roldán was trained in her father's (Pedro Roldán) sculpture workshop.\n\nWomen artists in this period began to change the way women were depicted in art. Many of the women working as artists in the Baroque era were not able to train from nude models, who were always male, but they were very familiar with the female body. Women such as Elisabetta Sirani created images of women as conscious beings rather than detached muses. One of the best examples of this novel expression is in Artemesia Gentileschi's \"Judith beheading Holofernes\", in which Judith is depicted as a strong woman determining her own destiny. While other artists, including Botticelli and the more traditional woman, Fede Galizia, depicted the same scene with a passive Judith, in her novel treatment, Gentileschi's Judith appears to be an able actor in the task at hand. Action is the essence of it and another painting by her of Judith leaving the scene. Still life emerged as an important genre around 1600, particularly in the Netherlands. Women were at the forefront of this painting trend. This genre was particularly suited to women, as they could access the materials for still life readily. In the North, these practitioners included Clara Peeters, a painter of \"banketje\" or breakfast pieces, and scenes of arranged luxury goods; Maria van Oosterwijk, the internationally renowned flower painter; and Rachel Ruysch, a painter of visually charged flower arrangements. In other regions, still life was less common, but there were important women artists in the genre including Giovanna Garzoni, who created realistic vegetable arrangements on parchment, and Louise Moillon, whose fruit still life paintings were noted for their brilliant colors.\n\nArtists from this period include, Rosalba Carriera, Maria Cosway, Marguerite Gérard, Angelica Kauffman, Adélaïde Labille-Guiard, Giulia Lama, Mary Moser, Ulrika Pasch, Adèle Romany, Anna Dorothea Therbusch, Anne Vallayer-Coster, and Elisabeth Vigée-Le Brun.\n\nIn many countries of Europe, the Academies were the arbiters of style. The Academies also were responsible for training artists, exhibiting artwork, and, inadvertently or not, promoting the sale of art. Most Academies were not open to women. In France, for example, the powerful Academy in Paris had 450 members between the 17th century and the French Revolution, and only fifteen were women. Of those, most were daughters or wives of members. In the late 18th century, the French Academy resolved not to admit any women at all. The pinnacle of painting during the period was history painting, especially large scale compositions with groups of figures depicting historical or mythical situations. In preparation to create such paintings, artists studied casts of antique sculptures and drew from male nudes. Women had limited, or no access to this Academic learning, and as such there are no extant large-scale history paintings by women from this period. Some women made their name in other genres such as portraiture. Elisabeth Vigee-Lebrun used her experience in portraiture to create an allegorical scene, \"Peace Bringing Back Plenty\", which she classified as a history painting and used as her grounds for admittance into the Academy. After the display of her work, it was demanded that she attend formal classes, or lose her license to paint. She became a court favourite, and a celebrity, who painted over forty self-portraits, which she was able to sell.\n\nIn England, two women, Angelica Kauffman and Mary Moser, were founding members of the Royal Academy of Arts in London in 1768. Kauffmann helped Maria Cosway enter the Academy. Although Cosway went on to gain success as a painter of mythological scenes, both women remained in a somewhat ambivalent position at the Royal Academy, as evidenced by the group portrait of \"The Academicians of the Royal Academy\" by Johan Zoffany now in The Royal Collection. In it, only the men of the Academy are assembled in a large artist studio, together with nude male models. For reasons of decorum given the nude models, the two women are not shown as present, but as portraits on the wall instead. The emphasis in Academic art on studies of the nude during training remained a considerable barrier for women studying art until the 20th century, both in terms of actual access to the classes and in terms of family and social attitudes to middle-class women becoming artists. After these three, no woman became a full member of the Academy until Laura Knight in 1936, and women were not admitted to the Academy's schools until 1861. By the late 18th century, there were important steps forward for artists who were women. In Paris, the Salon, the exhibition of work founded by the Academy, became open to non-Academic painters in 1791, allowing women to showcase their work in the prestigious annual exhibition. Additionally, women were more frequently being accepted as students by famous artists such as Jacques-Louis David and Jean-Baptiste Greuze.\n\nWomen artists of the early part of the 19th century include Marie-Denise Villers, who specialized in portraiture; Constance Mayer, who painted portraits and allegories; Marie Ellenrieder, who was noted mainly for her religious paintings in the Nazarene style.\n\nIn the second half of the century, Emma Sandys, Marie Spartali Stillman, Eleanor Fortescue-Brickdale, and Maria Zambaco were women artists of the Pre-Raphaelite movement. Also influenced by the Pre-Raphaelites were Evelyn De Morgan and the activist and painter Barbara Bodichon.\n\nImpressionist painters Berthe Morisot, Marie Bracquemond, and the Americans, Mary Cassatt and Lucy Bacon, became involved in the French Impressionist movement of the 1860s and 1870s. American Impressionist Lilla Cabot Perry was influenced by her studies with Monet and by Japanese art in the late 19th century. Cecilia Beaux was an American portrait painter who also studied in France. Olga Boznańska is considered the best-known of all Polish women artists, and was stylistically associated with Impressionism. \n\nRosa Bonheur was the best-known female artist of her time, internationally renowned for her paintings of animals. Elizabeth Thompson (Lady Butler), perhaps inspired by her life-classes of armoured figures at the Government School, was one of the first women to become famous for large history paintings, specializing in scenes of military action, usually with many horses, most famously \"Scotland Forever!\", showing a cavalry charge at Waterloo.\n\nKitty Lange Kielland was a Norwegian landscape painter.\n\nElizabeth Jane Gardner was an American academic painter who was the first American woman to exhibit at the Paris Salon. In 1872 she became the first woman to ever win a gold medal at the Salon. \n\nIn 1894, Suzanne Valadon was the first woman admitted to the Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts in France. Anna Boch was a post-impressionist painter, as was Laura Muntz Lyall, who exhibited at the 1893 World Columbian Exposition in Chicago, Illinois, and then in 1894 as part of the Société des artistes français in Paris. \n\nJulia Margaret Cameron and Gertrude Kasebier became well known in the new medium of photography, where there were no traditional restrictions, and no established training, to hold them back. \n\nCamille Claudel, Edmonia Lewis and Enid Yandell.\n\nIn the late 19th century, Edmonia Lewis, an African-Ojibwe-Haitian American artist from New York began her art studies at Oberlin College. Her sculpting career began in 1863. She established a studio in Rome, Italy and exhibited her marble sculptures through Europe and the United States.\n\nDuring the century, access to academies and formal art training expanded more for women in Europe and North America. The British Government School of Design, which later became the Royal College of Art, admitted women from its founding in 1837, but only into a \"Female School\" which was treated somewhat differently, with \"life\"- classes consisting for several years of drawing a man wearing a suit of armour. \n\nThe Royal Academy Schools finally admitted women beginning in 1861, but students drew initially only draped models. However, other schools in London, including the Slade School of Art from the 1870s, were more liberal. By the end of the century women were able to study the naked, or very nearly naked, figure in many Western European and North American cities. The Society of Female Artists (now called \"The Society of Women Artists\") was established in 1855 in London and has staged annual exhibitions since 1857, when 358 works were shown by 149 women, some using a pseudonym.\n\nNotable women artists from this period include:\n\nHannelore Baron, Lee Bontecou, Louise Bourgeois, Romaine Brooks, Emily Carr, Leonora Carrington, Mary Cassatt, Elizabeth Catlett, Camille Claudel, Sonia Delaunay, Marthe Donas, Joan Eardley, Marisol Escobar, Dulah Marie Evans, Audrey Flack, Mary Frank, Helen Frankenthaler, Elisabeth Frink, Wilhelmina Weber Furlong, Françoise Gilot, Natalia Goncharova, Nancy Graves, Grace Hartigan, Barbara Hepworth, Eva Hesse, Sigrid Hjertén, Hannah Höch, Frances Hodgkins, Malvina Hoffman, Margaret Ponce Israel, Gwen John, Käthe Kollwitz, Lee Krasner, Frida Kahlo, Hilma af Klint, Laura Knight, Barbara Kruger, Marie Laurencin, Tamara de Lempicka, Séraphine Louis, Dora Maar, Margaret Macdonald Mackintosh, Maruja Mallo, Agnes Martin, Ana Mendieta, Joan Mitchell, Paula Modersohn-Becker, Gabriele Münter, Alice Neel, Louise Nevelson, Georgia O'Keeffe, Orovida Camille Pissarro, Irene Rice Pereira, Bridget Riley, Verónica Ruiz de Velasco, Anne Ryan, Charlotte Salomon, Augusta Savage, Zofia Stryjeńska, Zinaida Serebriakova, Sarai Sherman, Henrietta Shore, Sr. Maria Stanisia, Marjorie Strider, Carrie Sweetser, Suzanne Valadon, Remedios Varo, Maria Helena Vieira da Silva, Nellie Walker, Marianne von Werefkin and Ogura Yuki.\n\nHilma af Klint (1862–1944) was a pioneer abstract painter, working long before her abstract expressionist male counterparts. She was Swedish and regularly exhibited her paintings dealing with realism, but the abstract works were not shown until 20 years after her death, at her request. She considered herself to be a spiritualist and mystic.\n\nMargaret Macdonald Mackintosh (1865–1933) was a Scottish artist whose works helped define the \"Glasgow Style\" of the 1890s and early 20th century. She often collaborated with her husband, the architect and designer Charles Rennie Mackintosh, in works that had influence in Europe. She exhibited with Mackintosh at the 1900 Vienna Secession, where her work is thought to have had an influence on the Secessionists such as Gustav Klimt.\n\nWilhelmina Weber Furlong (1878–1962) was an early American modernist in New York City. She made significant contributions to modern American art through her work at the Art Students League and the Whitney Studio Club. Aleksandra Ekster and Lyubov Popova were Constructivist, Cubo-Futurist, and Suprematist artists well known and respected in Kiev, Moscow and Paris in the early 20th century. Among the other women artists prominent in the Russian avant-garde were Natalia Goncharova, Varvara Stepanova and Nadezhda Udaltsova. Sonia Delaunay and her husband were the founders of Orphism.\n\nIn the Art Deco era, Hildreth Meiere made large-scale mosaics and was the first woman honored with the Fine Arts Medal of the American Institute of Architects. Tamara de Lempicka, also of this era, was an Art Deco painter from Poland. Sr. Maria Stanisia became a notable portraitist, mainly of clergy. Georgia O'Keeffe was born in the late 19th century. She became known for her paintings, featuring flowers, bones, and landscapes of New Mexico. In 1927, Dod Procter's painting \"Morning\" was voted Picture of the Year in the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition, and bought by the \"Daily Mail\" for the Tate gallery. Its popularity resulted in its showing in New York and a two-year tour of Britain. Surrealism, an important artistic style in the 1920s and 1930s, had a number of prominent women artists, including Leonora Carrington, Kay Sage, Dorothea Tanning, and Remedios Varo.\nLee Miller rediscovered solarization and became a high fashion photographer. Dorothea Lange documented the Depression. Margaret Bourke-White created the industrial photographs that were featured on the cover and in the lead article of the first \"Life Magazine\". Diane Arbus based her photography on outsiders to mainstream society. Graciela Iturbide's works dealt with Mexican life and feminism, while Tina Modotti produced \"revolutionary icons\" from Mexico in the 1920s. Annie Leibovitz's photographic work was of rock and roll and other celebrity figures. \n\nMary Carroll Nelson founded the Society of Layerists in Multi-Media (SLMM), whose artist members follow in the tradition of Emil Bisttram and the Transcendental Painting Group, as well as Morris Graves of the Pacific Northwest Visionary Art School. In the 1970s, Judy Chicago created \"The Dinner Party\", a very important work of feminist art. Helen Frankenthaler was an Abstract Expressionist painter and she was influenced by Jackson Pollock. Lee Krasner was also an Abstract Expressionist artist and married to Pollock and a student of Hans Hofmann. Elaine de Kooning was a student and later the wife of Willem de Kooning, she was an abstract figurative painter. Anne Ryan was a collagist. Jane Frank, also a student of Hans Hofmann, worked with mixed media on canvas. In Canada, Marcelle Ferron was an exponent of automatism.\n\nFrom the 1960s on, feminism led to a great increase in interest in women artists and their academic study. Notable contributions have been made by the art historians Germaine Greer, Linda Nochlin, Griselda Pollock and others. Some art historians such as Daphne Haldin have attempted to redress the balance of male-focused histories by compiling lists of women artists, though many of these efforts remain unpublished. Figures like Artemesia Gentileschi and Frida Kahlo emerged from relative obscurity to become feminist icons. The Guerilla Girls, an anonymous group of females formed in 1985, were \"the conscience of the art world.\" They spoke out about indifference and inequalities for gender and race, particularly in the art world. The Guerilla Girls have made many posters as a way of bringing attention, typically in a humorous way, to the community to raise awareness and create change. In 1996, Catherine de Zegher curated an exhibition of 37 great women artists from the twentieth century. The exhibition, \"Inside the Visible\", that travelled from the ICA in Boston to the National Museum for Women in the Arts in Washington, the Whitechapel in London and the Art Gallery of Western Australia in Perth, included artists' works from the 1930s through the 1990s featuring Claude Cahun, Louise Bourgeois, Bracha Ettinger, Agnes Martin, Carrie Mae Weems, Charlotte Salomon, Eva Hesse, Nancy Spero, Francesca Woodman, Lygia Clark and Mona Hatoum among others.\n\nIn 1993, Rachel Whiteread was the first woman to win the Tate Gallery's Turner Prize. Gillian Wearing won the prize in 1997, when there was an all-woman shortlist, the other nominees being Christine Borland, Angela Bulloch and Cornelia Parker. In 1999, Tracey Emin gained considerable media coverage for her entry \"My Bed\", but did not win. In 2006 the prize was awarded to abstract painter, Tomma Abts. In 2001, a conference called \"Women Artists at the Millennium\" was organized at Princeton University. A book by that name was published in 2006, featuring major art historians such as Linda Nochlin analysing prominent women artists such as Louise Bourgeois, Yvonne Rainer, Bracha Ettinger, Sally Mann, Eva Hesse, Rachel Whiteread and Rosemarie Trockel. Internationally prominent contemporary artists who are women also include Magdalena Abakanowicz, Marina Abramović, Jaroslava Brychtova, Lynda Benglis, Lee Bul, Sophie Calle, Janet Cardiff, Li Chevalier, Marlene Dumas, Marisol Escobar, Jenny Holzer, Runa Islam, Chantal Joffe, Yayoi Kusama, Karen Kilimnik, Sarah Lucas, Yoko Ono, Jenny Saville, Carolee Schneeman, Cindy Sherman, Shazia Sikander, Lorna Simpson, Lisa Steele, Stella Vine, Kara Walker, Rebecca Warren, Bettina Werner and Susan Dorothea White. \n\nJapanese artist Yayoi Kusama's paintings, collages, soft sculptures, performance art and environmental installations all share an obsession with repetition, pattern, and accumulation. Her work shows some attributes of feminism, minimalism, surrealism, Art Brut, pop art, and abstract expressionism, and is infused with autobiographical, psychological, and sexual content. She describes herself as an \"obsessive artist\". In November 2008, Christie's auction house New York sold her 1959 painting \"No. 2\" for $5,100,000, the record price in 2008 for a work by a living female artist. During 2010–2011, Pompidou Centre in Paris presented its curators' choice of contemporary women artists in a three-volume's exhibition named \"elles@Centrepompidou\". The museum showed works of major women artists from its own collection. 2010 saw Eileen Cooper elected as the first ever woman 'Keeper of the Royal Academy'. 1995 saw Dame Elizabeth Blackadder in the 300-year history made 'Her Majesty's painter and limber in Scotland, she was awarded the OBE in 1982.\n\nAn interesting genre of women's art is women's environmental art. As of December 2013, the Women Environmental Artists Directory listed 307 women environmental artists, such as Marina DeBris, Vernita Nemec and Betty Beaumont. DeBris uses beach trash to raise awareness of beach and ocean pollution. and to educate children about beach trash. Nemec recently used junk mail to demonstrate the complexity of modern life. Beaumont has been described as a pioneer of environmental art and uses art to challenge our beliefs and actions.\n\nWomen artists have often been mis-characterized in historical accounts, both intentionally and unintentionally; such misrepresentations have often been dictated by the socio-political mores of the given era. There are a number of issues that lie behind this, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10327607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10327607", "title": "Écorché", "text": "Écorché\n\nAn écorché () is a figure drawn, painted, or sculpted showing the muscles of the body without skin, normally as a figure study for another work or as an exercise for a student artist. The Renaissance-era architect, theorist and all-around Renaissance man, Leon Battista Alberti, recommended that when painters intend to depict a nude, they should first arrange the muscles and bones, then depict the overlying skin.\n\nSome of the first well known studies of this kind were performed by Leonardo da Vinci, who dissected cadavers and created detailed drawings of them. However, there are some accounts of this same practice taking place as far back as ancient Greece, though the specifics are not known.\n\nThe term \"écorché\", meaning literally \"flayed\", came into usage via the French Academies (such as the École des Beaux Arts) in the 19th century.\n\nAlthough there are some accounts of practices similar to \"écorché\" as far back as ancient Greece, the degree of similarity is unclear. The term as used today can be applied with the greatest confidence to the Renaissance period onwards.\n\nDuring the Renaissance in Italy, around the 1450 to 1600, the rebirth of classical Greek and Roman characteristics in art led to the studies of the human anatomy. The practice of dissecting the human body was banned for many centuries due to the belief that body and soul were inseparable. It wasn’t until the election of Pope Boniface VIII that the practice of dissection was once again allowed for observation. Many painters and artists documented and even performed the dissections themselves by taking careful observations of the human body. Among them were Leonardo da Vinci and Andreas Vesalius, two of the most influential artists in anatomical illustrations. Leonardo da Vinci, in particular, was very detailed in his studies that he was known as the “artist-anatomist” for the creation of a new science and the creative depiction to anatomy. Leonardo’s anatomical studies contributed to artistic exploration of the movement of the muscles, joints and bones. His goal was to analyze and understand the instruments behind the postures and gestures in the human body.\n\nThe study of anatomical figures became popular among the medical academies across Europe around the 17th and 18th century, especially when there was a lack of bodies available for dissections. Medical students relied on these figures because they provided a good representation of what the anatomical model looks like. The \"écorché\" (flayed) figures were made to look like the skin was removed from the body, exposing the muscles and vessels of the model. Some figures were created to strip away the layers of muscles and reveal the skeleton of the model. Many of the life-size scale écorché figures were reproduced in a smaller scale out of bronze that could be easily distributed.\n\n\"Écorché\" figures were commonly made out of many different materials: bronze, ivory, plaster, wax, or wood. By the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, wax was the most popular use of material in creating écorché statues. The production of colored wax anatomies allowed for a variety of hues and tone that makes the models appear realistic.\n\nThe \"écorché\" form of study still continues at traditional schools throughout the world including the New York Academy of Art, the Art Students League of New York, the Grand Central Academy of Art in New York City, the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts in Philadelphia, and the Academy of Art University in San Francisco.\n\n"}
