{"id": "2660572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2660572", "title": "Aniconism", "text": "Aniconism\n\nAniconism is the absence of material representations of the natural and supernatural world in various cultures, particularly in the monotheistic Abrahamic religions. This ban may extend from only God and deities to saint characters, all living beings, and everything that exists. The phenomenon is generally codified by the religious traditions and as such becomes a taboo. When enforced by the physical destruction of images, aniconism becomes iconoclasm. The word itself derives from Greek εικων 'image' with the negative prefix \"an-\" (Greek privative alpha) and the suffix \"-ism\" (Greek -ισμος).\n\nMonotheist religions – Aniconism was shaped in monotheist religions by theological considerations and historical contexts. It emerged as a corollary of seeing God's position as the ultimate power holder, and the need to defend this unique status against competing external and internal forces, such as pagan idols and critical humans. Idolatry was seen as a threat to uniqueness, and one way that prophets and missionaries chose to fight it was through the prohibition of physical representations. The same solution worked against the pretension of humans to have the same power of creation as God (hence their banishment from the Heavens, the destruction of Babel, and the Second Commandment in the biblical texts).\n\nAniconism as a construction – Some modern scholars, working on various cultures, have gathered material showing that the idea of aniconism is in many cases an intellectual construction, suiting specific intents and historical contexts, rather than a fact of the tangible reality (Huntington for Buddhism, Clément for Islam and Bland for Judaism – see below in notes and references).\n\nBuddhist art used to be aniconic: the Buddha was represented only through his symbols (an empty throne, the Bodhi tree, the Buddha's footprints, the prayer wheel). This reluctance toward anthropomorphic representations of the Buddha, and the sophisticated development of aniconic symbols to avoid it (even in narrative scenes where other human figures would appear), seem to be connected to one of the Buddha's sayings, reported in the Digha Nikaya, that discouraged representations of himself after the extinction of his body. Although there is still some debate, the first anthropomorphic representations of the Buddha himself are often considered a result of the Greco-Buddhist interaction. \n\nIn the late 20th century, the well-established theory of aniconism in Buddhist art had been criticized by one art historian, and the question has been the subject of continuing debate.\n\nAlthough aniconism is better known in connection to Abrahamic religions, basic patterns are shared between various religious beliefs including Hinduism, which also has aniconistic beliefs. For example, although Hinduism is commonly represented by such anthropomorphic religious murtis, aniconism is equally represented with such abstract symbols of God such as the Shiva linga and the saligrama. Moreover, Hindus have found it easier to focus on anthropomorphic icons, because god Krishna said in the Bhagavad Gita, chapter 12, verse 5, that it is much more difficult to focus on God as the unmanifested than God with form, because human beings have a need to perceive via the senses.\n\nThere were two periods of iconoclasm, or icon-destruction, in the Byzantine Empire, in the mid eighth and early ninth centuries. The political aspects of the conflicts are complex, dealing with the relationship between the Byzantine Emperors, the Catholic Church and Orthodox Church councils, and the Pope. Theologically, the debate, as with most in Orthodox theology at the time, revolved around the two natures of Jesus. Iconoclasts believed that icons could not represent both the divine and the human natures of the Messiah at the same time, but separately. Because an icon which depicted Jesus as purely physical would be Nestorianism, and one which showed Him as both human and divine would not be able to do so without confusing the two natures into one mixed nature, which was Monophysitism, all icons were thus heretical. Reference was also made to the prohibitions on the worship of graven images in the Mosaic Law.\n\nAniconism was also prevalent during the Protestant Reformation, when some Protestants began to preach rejection of what they perceived as idolatrous Catholic practices which filled its churches with pictures, statues, or relics of saints. The Reformed (Calvinist) churches and certain sects (most notably the Puritans and some of the Baptist churches) began to prohibit the display of religious images. A famous example of this comes from Oliver Cromwell, who expelled King Charles I, and who once destroyed a golden relic placed in his church.\n\nIn the Church of the East, also known as the Nestorian church, opposition to religious images eventually became the norm due to the rise of Islam in the region, where it forbade any type of depictions of Saints and biblical prophets. As such, the Church was forced to get rid of their icons. This tradition is still in practice today, with many Assyrian churches lacking artistic depictions of biblical figures, including those of Jesus and Mary.\n\nThe Amish continue to avoid photographs or any depictions of people; their children's dolls usually have blank faces.\n\nAmong Jehovah's Witnesses, followers are prohibited from wearing religious themed jewelry displaying icons such as the cross, as idol worship is prohibited. Having images or sculptures of Jesus, Jehovah (God), and angels are also considered a taboo according to their interpretation of Exodus 20:4,5 and 1 Corinthians 10:14. Followers are also admonished to avoid any objects portraying depictions of the supernatural. \n\nThe Qur'an, the Islamic holy book, does not explicitly prohibit the depiction of human figures; it merely condemns idolatry (ex.: , ). Interdictions of figurative representation are present in the Hadith, among a dozen of the hadith recorded during the latter part of the period when they were being written down. Because these hadith are tied to particular events in the life of the Prophet Muhammad, they need to be interpreted in order to be applied in any general manner. Sunni exegetes, from the 9th century onward, increasingly saw in them categorical prohibitions against producing and using any representation of living beings. There are variations between religious schools and marked differences between different branches of Islam. Aniconism is common among fundamentalist Sunni sects such as Salafis and Wahhabis (which are also often iconoclastic), and less prevalent among liberal movements in Islam. Shi'a and mystical orders also have less stringent views on aniconism. On the individual level, whether or not specific Muslims believe in aniconism may depend on how much credence is given to hadith (e.g. Submitters do not believe in any hadith), and how liberal or strict they are in personal practice.\n\nAniconism in Islam not only deals with the material image, but touches upon mental representations as well. It is a thorny question, discussed by early theologians, as to how to describe God, Muhammad and other prophets, and, indeed, if it is permissible at all to do so. God is usually represented by immaterial attributes, such as \"holy\" or \"merciful\", commonly known from His \"Ninety-nine beautiful names\". Muhammad's physical appearance, however, is amply described, particularly in the traditions on his life and deeds \"Sira al-Nabi\". Of no less interest is the validity of sightings of holy personages made during dreams.\n\nReligious core – In practice, the core of normative religion in Islam is consistently aniconic. Its embodiment are spaces such as the mosque and objects like the Qur'an or the white dress of pilgrims entering Mecca, deprived of figurative images. Other spheres of religion – schisms, mysticism, popular piety, private level – exhibit in this regard significant variability. Profane aniconism is even more fluctuating. Generally speaking aniconsim in Islamic societies is restricted in modern times to specific religious contexts, while its prevalence in the past wasn't enforced in numerous areas and during extended periods.\n\nPresent – Depending on which segment of Islamic societies are referred to, the application of aniconism is characterized with noteworthy differences. Factors are the epoch considered, the country, the religious orientation, the political intent, the popular beliefs, the private benefit or the dichotomy between reality and discourse. Today, the concept of an aniconic Islam coexists with a daily life for Muslims awash with images. TV stations and newspapers (which do present still and moving representations of living beings) have an exceptional impact on public opinion, sometimes, as in the case of Al-Jazira, with a global reach, beyond the Arabic speaking and Muslim audience. Portraits of secular and religious leaders are omnipresent on banknotes and coins, in streets and offices (e.g.: presidents like Nasser and Mubarak, Arafat, Al-Asad or Hezbollah's Nasrallah and ayatollah Khomeini). Anthropomorphic statues in public places are to be found in most Muslim countries (Saddam Hussain's are infamous ), as well as Arts schools training sculptors and painters. In the Egyptian countryside, it is fashionable to celebrate and advertise the returning of pilgrims from Mekka on the walls of their houses. Sometimes those who profess aniconism will practice figurative representation (cf. portraits of Talibans from the Kandahar photographic studios during their imposed ban on photography). For Shi'a communities, portraits of the major figures of Shi'ite history are important elements of religious devotion. Portraits of 'Ali – with veiled and unveiled face alike – can be bought in Iran around shrines and in the streets, to be hung in homes or carried with oneself, while in Pakistan, India and Bangladesh they notoriously ornate trucks, buses and rickshas. Contrary to the Sunni tradition, a photographic picture of the deceased can be placed on the Shi'ite tombs. A curiosity in Iran is a Orientalist photography supposed to represent Prophet Muhammad as a young boy. The Grand Ayatollah Sistani of Najaf in Iraq has given a fatwa declaring the depiction of Muhammad, the Prophets and other holy characters, permissible if it is made with the utmost respect.\n\nPast – Neither is the representation of living beings in Islamic countries a modern phenomenon or due to current technology, westernization or the cult of the personality. Statues of humans and animals adorned palaces of the Ummayad era, while frescoes were common under the Ummayads, and later in many countries of Dar al-Islam, notably under the Safavids and various Central Asian dynasties. Figurative miniatures from Medieval Arabic countries, India, Persia and Turkey are one of the fleuron of Islamic Arts and a good deal of its attraction power for non-Muslim societies. Potent rulers like Shah Tahmasp in Persia and Akbar in India, patrons of some of the most beautiful figurative miniatures in arts from Islamic countries, migrated during their life between an extravagant 'figurative' and an extremist 'aniconic' period. During the 15th and 17th century representations of Muhammad (veiled, unveiled) and other prophets or Biblical characters, like Adam, Abraham or Jesus; and Solomon and Alexander the Great, became common in painted manuscripts from Persia, India and Turkey. Extreme rarities are an illustrated Qur'an depicting Muhammad and, in a Spanish-Muslim manuscript datable from the 16th century, five Ummayad and Abbasid caliphs. Iblis too is present in various illustrated manuscripts. There aren't, however, known figurative depictions of God.\n\nCircumvention methods – Medieval Muslim artists found various ways not to infringe any prohibition of the image, while still representing living beings. It can be argued that since God is absolute, the act of depiction is his own and not that of a human; and miniatures are obviously very crude representations of the reality, so the two can't be mistaken. At the material level, prophets in manuscripts can have their face covered by a veil or all humans have a stroke drawn over their neck, a symbolical cut defending them to be alive. Calligraphy, the most Islamic of arts in the Muslim world, has also its figurative side due to anthropo- and zoomorphic calligrams.\n\nA number of verses in the Hebrew Bible (Tanakh) refer to prohibitions against the creation of various forms of images, invariably linked directly with idolatry. The strongest over-all source is based on what Judaism counts as the second of the Ten Commandments:\n\nThis prohibition is widespread. For instance, Leviticus 26:1 reads:\n\nSimilar injunctions appear in Numbers 33:52, Deuteronomy 4:16, and 27:15; in all cases, the creation of the image is associated with idolatry, and indeed, the words commonly translated as \"image\" or some variant thereof (פסל \"pesel\", שקוץ \"shikuts\") are generally used interchangeably with words typically translated as \"idol\" (e.g., אליל \"elil\"). (An important exception is צלם \"tselem\", used in such verses as Genesis 1:26: \"let us make man in our image\". This word was not associated with idols.)\n\nBased on these prohibitions, the Hebrew prophets, such as Isaiah, Jeremiah, Amos and others, preached very strongly against idolatry. In many of their sermons, as recorded in the biblical books bearing their names, the prophets regarded the use of religious images as a negative sign of assimilation into the surrounding pagan cultures of the time.\n\nDespite the semantic association with idols, Halakha (\"Jewish law\") as taught by the Shulkhan Arukh (\"Code of Jewish Law\") and still practiced and applied by Orthodox Judaism today, interprets the verses as prohibiting the creation of certain types of graven images of people, angels, or astronomical bodies, whether or not they are actually used as idols. The Shulkhan Arukh states: \"It is forbidden to make complete solid or raised images of people or angels, or any images of heavenly bodies except for purposes of study\". (\"Heavenly bodies\" are included here because the stars and planets were worshipped by some religions in human forms. Astronomical models for scientific purposes are permitted under the category of \"study.\") \nAlthough the prohibition applies mainly to sculpture, there are some authorities who prohibit two-dimensional full-face depictions. Some base this upon their understanding of the Talmud, and others based it upon Kabbalah. Of note is the portrait of Rabbi Tzvi Ashkenazi (known as \"the Hakham Tzvi\"), which is housed in the Jewish Museum in London. Based on his interpretation of this prohibition, the Hakham Tzvi refused to sit for his portrait. However, the London Jewish Community wanted a portrait, so they commissioned the portrait to be done without the Hakham Tzvi's knowledge. The Hakham Tzvi's son, Rabbi Jacob Emden, says it was a perfect likeness.\n\nAdditionally, there is one type of representation, namely, bas-relief or raised representation on a flat surface, that is particularly problematic. Rabbi Jacob Emden discusses a medal struck in honor of Rabbi Eliezer Horowitz that features Horowitz's portrait. Emden ruled this violated the injunction against depictions. Furthermore, many hold that such representations in the synagogue either violate this injunction or are not permitted, as they give the appearance of violating this injunction. Most notably, Rabbi David ibn Zimra and Rabbi Joseph Karo hold that carvings of lions (e.g., representing the Lion of Judah) are inappropriate in synagogues.\nOn the other hand, some authorities hold that Judaism has no objection to photography or other forms of two-dimensional art, and depictions of humans can be seen in religious books such as the Passover Haggadah, as well as children's books about biblical and historical personages. Although most Hasidic Jews object to having televisions in their homes, this is not related to prohibitions against idolatry, but, rather, to the content of network and cable programming. Hasidim of all groups regularly display portraits of their Rebbes, and, in some communities, the children trade \"rabbi cards\" that are similar to baseball cards. In both Hasidic and Orthodox Judaism, taking photographs or filming are forbidden on the Sabbath and Jewish holy days, but this prohibition has nothing to do with idolatry. Rather, it is related to the prohibition against working or creating on these days.\n\nAlthough, in biblical times, Jews were actively iconoclasts, physically tearing down and destroying idols of other religions located within their political jurisdiction, today there is more tolerance for other cultures. In the state of Israel, all religious sites, Jewish and non-Jewish alike, are protected by law. Even though Jewish Law teaches that idolatry is forbidden to all of humanity as one of the seven Noahide Laws, Jews today combat it through discussion, debate, and education, rather than the physical destruction of statues and shrines. However, many traditional Jews still follow the prohibitions against entering places of idolatry, and will not attend functions held in buildings where there are religious statues.\n\nIn a refutation of the belief in an aniconic Judaism, and more generally in an underestimation of Jewish visual arts, the historian of ideas Kalman Bland recently proposed that the phenomenon is a modern construction, and that \"Jewish aniconism crystallized simultaneously with the construction of modern Jewish identities\".\n\nFor the followers of the Bahá'í Faith, the photographs and depictions of the Báb and Bahá'u'lláh, who are considered Manifestations of God, are considered very precious. They are viewed and handled with reverence and respect, and their existence itself is not considered offensive. However, Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Bahá'í Faith, stated that believers should only view the images when they can be treated with the utmost respect, and not let them be exposed to the public or displayed in their private homes:\n\nShoghi Effendi has also written in the \"Directives from the Guardian\" regarding the portrait of the Báb:\n\nTwo pictures of Bahá'u'lláh and a portrait of the Báb are on display at the Bahá'í World Centre in the International Archives building, where the Bahá'ís view it as part of an organized pilgrimage.\n\nIn Africa aniconism varies from culture to culture from elaborate masks and statues of humans and animals to their total absence. A common feature, however, across the continent is that the \"High God\" is not given material shape. On the Germanic tribes, the Roman historian Tacitus writes the following: \"They don't consider it mighty enough for the Heavens to depict Gods on walls or to display them in some human shape.\" His observation is not general to all German people as documentary evidence suggests (see Ardre image stones).\n\nIn Australian Aboriginal culture there is a prohibition and tribal lore and custom contravening the depiction of the newly or recently dead, including photographs, because it is believed that depicting them will inhibit their passage to the Great Dreaming of the Ancestors. This has led some Australian newspapers to publish apologies alongside obituaries.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25011238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25011238", "title": "Astrolatry", "text": "Astrolatry\n\nAstrolatry is the worship of stars and other heavenly bodies as deities, or the association of deities with heavenly bodies.\nThe most common instances of this are sun gods and moon gods in polytheistic systems worldwide. Also notable is the association of the planets with deities in Babylonian, and hence in Greco-Roman religion, viz. Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn.\n\nThe term astro-theology is used in the context of 18th- to 19th-century scholarship aiming at the discovery of the original religion, particularly primitive monotheism. Unlike \"astrolatry\", which usually implies polytheism, frowned upon as idolatrous by Christian authors since Eusebius, astrotheology is any \"religious system founded upon the observation of the heavens\", and in particular, may be monotheistic. Gods, goddesses, and demons may also be considered personifications of astronomical phenomena such as lunar eclipses, planetary alignments, and apparent interactions of planetary bodies with stars. Astro-theology is used by Jan Irvin, Jordan Maxwell and Andrew Rutajit (2006) in reference to \"the earliest known forms of religion and nature worship\", advocating the entheogen theory of the origin of religion.\n\n\"Astrolatry\" comes from Greek ἄστρον \"astron\", \"star\" and the suffix -λάτρης, itself related to λάτρις \"latris\", \"worshipper\" or λατρεύειν \"latreuein\", \"to worship\" from λάτρον \"latron\", \"payment\".\n\nBabylonian astronomy from early times associates stars with deities, but the heavens as the residence of an anthropomorphic pantheon, and later of monotheistic God and his retinue of angels, is a later development, gradually replacing the notion of the pantheon residing or convening on the summit of high mountains. Sayce (1913) argues a parallelism of the \"stellar theology\" of Babylon and Egypt, both countries absorbing popular star-worship into the official pantheon of their respective state religions by identification of gods with stars or planets.\n\nAstrolatry does not appear to have been common in the Levant prior to the Iron Age, and becomes popular under Assyrian influence.\nThe Sabaeans were notorious for their astrolatry, for which reason the practice is also known as \"Sabaism\" or \"Sabaeanism\".\nSimilarly, the Chaldeans came to be seen as the prototypical astrologers and star-worshippers by the Greeks.\n\nThe term \"astro-theology\" appears in the title of a 1714 work by William Derham, \"Astro-theology: or, A demonstration of the being and attributes of God, from a survey of the heavens\" based on the author's observations by means of \"Mr. Huygens' Glass\". Derham thought that the stars were openings in the firmament through which he thought he saw the Empyrean beyond. The 1783 issue of \"The New Christian's magazine\" had an essay entitled \"Astro-theology\" which argued the \"demonstration of sacred truths\" from \"a survey of heavenly bodies\" in the sense of the watchmaker analogy. Edward Higginson (1855) argues a compatibility of \"Jewish Astro-theology\" of the Hebrew Bible, which places God and his angelic hosts in the heavens, with a \"Scientific Astro-theology\" based on observation of the cosmos.\n\nManly P Hall (1901–1990), mystic and a 33rd degree mason, taught that each of the three Abrahamic faiths has a planet that governs that religion. Judaism is Saturn: the symbol of Judaism is a hexagram symbol of Saturn, and the day of worship is on Saturday, day of Saturn. Christianity is the Sun: the symbol of Christianity is the cross symbol of the Sun, and the day of worship is Sunday, day of the Sun. Islam is Venus: the symbol of Islam is the star and crescent (the star commonly thought to represent Venus), and the day of worship is on Friday.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible contains repeated reference to astrolatry. Thus, Deuteronomy 4:19, 17:3 contains a stern warning against worshipping the sun, moon, stars or any of the heavenly host. Relapse into worshipping the host of heaven, i.e. the stars, is said to have been the cause of the fall of the kingdom of Judah in II Kings 17:16. King Josiah in 621 BC is recorded as having abolished all kinds of idolatry in Judah, but astrolatry was continued in private (Zeph. 1:5; Jer. 8:2, 19:13). Ezekiel (8:16) describes sun-worship practiced in the court of the temple of Jerusalem, and Jeremiah (44:17) claims that even after the destruction of the temple, women in particular insisted on continuing their worship of the \"queen of heaven\".\n\nAugustine of Hippo criticized sun- and star-worship in \"De Vera Religione\" (37.68) and \"De civitate Dei\" (5.1–8). Pope Leo the Great also denounced astrolatry, and the cult of \"Sol Invictus\", which he contrasted with the Christian nativity.\n\nDespite such prohibitions, Dorothy M. Murdock, a proponent of the study, has released books on the subject and teaches the connections between the solar allegory and the life of Christ. She also goes beyond the astronomical comparisons and postulates ties between the origins of many of the early Abrahamic religions to ancient mythologies of that in Egypt, Rome, and Greece.\n\nThe Qur'an contains strong prohibitions against astrolatry.\n\nStrong prohibition of Astrolatry is mentioned in the Quran through Prophet Abrahim observation of celestial bodies whose worship was common in Babylonian religion of that time.\n\nBelow is the reference from Al-Quran, Surah Anaam, chapter 6, verses 75–80\n75. Thus did we show Ibrahim (Abraham) the kingdom of the heavens and the earth that he be one of those who have Faith with certainty.\n\n76. When the night covered him over with darkness he saw a star. He said: \"This is my lord.\" But when it set, he said: \"I like not those that set.\"\n\n77. When he saw the moon rising up, he said: \"This is my lord.\" But when it set, he said: \"Unless my Lord guides me, I shall surely be among the erring people.\"\n\n78. When he saw the sun rising up, he said: \"This is my lord. This is greater.\" But when it set, he said: \"O my people! I am indeed free from all that you join as partners in worship with Allah.\n\n79. Verily, I have turned my face towards Him Who has created the heavens and the earth Hanifa (Islamic Monotheism, i.e. worshipping none but Allah Alone) and I am not of Al-Mushrikun (see V.2:105)\".\n\n80. His people disputed with him. He said: \"Do you dispute with me concerning Allah while He has guided me, and I fear not those whom you associate with Allah in worship. (Nothing can happen to me) except when my Lord (Allah) wills something. My Lord comprehends in His Knowledge all things. Will you not then remember?\n\nAl-Quran, Surah Anaam (chapter 6, verse 75–80)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6207142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6207142", "title": "Atheism and religion", "text": "Atheism and religion\n\nSome movements or sects within traditionally monotheistic or polytheistic religions recognize that it is possible to practice religious faith, spirituality and adherence to tenets without a belief in deities. People with what would be considered religious or spiritual belief in a supernatural controlling power are defined by some as adherents to a religion; the argument that atheism is a religion has been described as a contradiction in terms.\n\nIn general, formulations of Jewish principles of faith require a belief in God (represented by Judaism's paramount prayer, the Shema). In many modern Jewish religious movements, rabbis have generally considered the behavior of a Jew to be the determining factor in whether or not one is considered an adherent of Judaism. Within these movements it is often recognized that it is possible for a Jew to strictly practice Judaism as a faith, while at the same time being an agnostic or atheist. Reconstructionist Judaism does not require any belief in a deity, and certain popular Reform prayer books, such as \"Gates of Prayer\", offer some services without mention of God. Jewish atheists who practice Humanistic Judaism embrace Jewish culture and history, rather than belief in a supernatural god, as the sources of their Jewish identity. One study found that only 48% of self-identified Jews believe in God.\n\nRabbi Abraham Isaac Kook, first Chief Rabbi of the Jewish community in Palestine, held that atheists were not actually denying God: rather, they were denying one of man's many images of God. Since any man-made image of God can be considered an idol, Kook held that, in practice, one could consider atheists as helping true religion burn away false images of God, thus in the end serving the purpose of true monotheism.\n\nHigh rates of atheism have been found among self-identified Christians in the United States. For example, 10% of self-identified Protestants and 21% of self-identified Roman Catholics were found to be atheists in a Harris Interactive survey from 2003.\n\nThere is no single Christian approach toward atheism. The approach taken varies between Christian denominations, and Christian ministers may intelligently distinguish an individual's claims of atheism from other nominal states of personal perspective, such as plain disbelief, an adherence to science, a misunderstanding of the nature of religious belief, or a disdain for organized religion in general.\n\nThe Catechism of the Catholic Church makes this explicit. While it identifies atheism as a violation of the First Commandment, calling it \"a sin against the virtue of religion\", it is careful to acknowledge that atheism may be motivated by virtuous or moral considerations, and admonishes the followers of Roman Catholicism to focus on their own role in encouraging atheism by their religious or moral shortcomings:\n\nA famous idiosyncratic atheist belief is that of Thomas J. J. Altizer. His book \"The Gospel of Christian Atheism\" (1967) proclaims the highly unusual view that God has literally died, or self-annihilated. According to Altizer, this is nevertheless \"a Christian confession of faith\". Making clear the difference between his position and that of both Nietzsche's notion of the death of God and the stance of theological non-realists, Altizer says, \"To confess the death of God is to speak of an actual and real event, not perhaps an event occurring in a single moment of time or history, but notwithstanding this reservation an event that has actually happened both in a cosmic and in a historical sense.\"\n\nA 2001 survey by \"Faith Communities Today\" found that 18% of Unitarian Universalists (UU) consider themselves to be atheists, with 54% considering themselves humanist. According to this study 16% of UUs consider themselves Buddhist, 13% Christian, and 13% Pagan.\n\nIn Islam, atheists are categorized as \"kafir\" (), a term that is also used to describe polytheists (\"shirk\"), and that translates roughly as \"denier\" or \"concealer\". \"Kafir\" carries connotations of blasphemy and disconnection from the Islamic community. In Arabic, \"atheism\" is generally translated \"ilhad\" (), although this also means \"heresy\".\n\nThe Quran is silent on the punishment for apostasy, though not the subject itself. The Quran speaks repeatedly of people going back to unbelief after believing, and gives advice on dealing with \"hypocrites\":\nSura 9:73,74 \n\nThe Hadith expound upon dealing with apostates:\n\nThe Qur'an refers to atheism in this verse:\nThe term commonly used for atheists is \"Dahriyyah\" from the Arabic word for \"time\" in a verse which speaks of people \"who says that our death and Decimation are caused only by the passing of time\". (in aljathiah,) 24)\n\n[045:024] And they say: \"There is nothing but our life of this world, we die and we live and nothing destroys us except Ad-Dahr (time).\" And they have no knowledge of it, they only conjecture.\n\nOther relevant Hadithic verses include Bukhari, volume 9, #58, 64, 271.\n\nMuslims are not at liberty to change their religion or become atheists. Atheists in Islamic countries and communities frequently conceal their non-belief (as do people with other condemned qualities, such as homosexuality).\n\nIn recent times, capital punishment for atheism is almost never applied, and convicted atheists may be jailed with an opportunity to recant or be stripped of certain civil rights. Religiosity in the Arab world is seen to be essential for morality and atheism is widely associated with immorality. Religious attitudes grew more conservative since the 1980s, compared to the preceding decades when secular socialism was politically dominant. Nonetheless, atheism is tolerated if it is not conspicuous and a worldwide support network for ex-Muslims has existed since 2007. Some commentators believe that the number of undeclared atheists in the Arab world is substantial. According to 2012 WIN/Gallup poll of Saudi citizens, 5 percent of Saudis identify as \"convinced atheists\", the same percentage as in the U.S.\n\nThe increasingly large ex-Muslim communities in the Western world that adhere to no religion have been well documented. A 2007 Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) report argued that some Muslim population projections are overestimated, as they assume that all descendants of Muslims will become Muslims even in cases of mixed parenthood. Equally, Darren E. Sherkat questioned in \"Foreign Affairs\" whether some of the Muslim growth projections are accurate as they do not take into account the increasing number of non-religious Muslims. Quantitative research is lacking, but he believes the European trend mirrors the American: data from the General Social Survey in the United States show that 32 percent of those raised Muslim no longer embrace Islam in adulthood, and 18 percent hold no religious identification. Studies show that about half of the 4.2 million persons from Muslim background in Germany no longer embrace Islam in adulthood.\n\nAtheism is often considered acceptable within Hinduism, Jainism and Buddhism.\n\nAtheism is a valid form of belief in Hinduism. Certain Hindu schools however view the path of the atheist as a very difficult to follow in matters of spirituality.\n\nAmong the six fundamental \"Astika\" schools of Hindu philosophy, the Samkhya do not accept God and the early Mimamsa also rejected the notion of God. Samkhya lacks the notion of a 'higher being' that is the ground of all existence. It proposes a thoroughly dualistic understanding of the cosmos, in which two parallel realities (Purusha, the spiritual, and Prakriti, the physical) coexist and the aim of life is the gaining of liberating self-knowledge of the Purusha. Here, no God (better stated \"theos\") is present, yet Ultimate Reality in the form of the Purusha exists.\n\nCārvāka (also \"Charvaka\") was a materialist and atheist school of thought in India, which is now known principally from fragments cited by its Astika and Buddhist opponents. The proper aim of a Cārvākan, according to these sources, was to live a prosperous, happy, productive life in this world (cf Epicureanism). There is some evidence that the school persisted until at least 1578.\n\nJainism believes that the emancipated soul is itself God. Jains do not believe in a creator God, but there is belief in numerous gods within the cosmos.\n\nBuddhism is often described as non-theistic, since Buddhist authorities and canonical texts do not affirm, and sometimes deny, the following:\n\n\nAll canonical Buddhist texts that mention the subject accept the \"existence\" (as distinct from the \"authority\") of a great number of spiritual beings, including the Vedic deities. From the point of view of Western theism, certain concepts of the Buddha found in the Mahayana school of Buddhism, e.g. of Amitabha or the Adibuddha may seem to share characteristics with Western concepts of God, but Gautama Buddha himself denied that he was a god or divine.\n\nSome forms of Confucianism and Taoism do not explicitly affirm, nor are they founded upon a faith in, a higher being or beings. However, Confucian writings do have numerous references to \"Tian\" (Heaven), which denotes a transcendent power, with a personal connotation. Neo-Confucian writings, such as that of Chu Hsi, are vague on whether their conception of the Great Ultimate is like a personal deity or not. Although the Western translation of the Tao as \"god\" in some editions of the Tao te Ching is highly misleading, it is still a matter of debate whether the actual descriptions of the Tao by Laozi has theistic or nontheistic undertones. Religious forms of Taoism do believe in a variety of cosmological beings, which are analogies to the cosmic forces within the universe.\n\nReligions that can be described as grey areas, and do not belong in the aforementioned categories, such as Unitarian Universalism.\n\nUnitarian Universalism (UU) is a liberal religion, first founded when Unitarians and Universalists came together in 1961. According to the Unitarian Universalist Association, atheists and agnostics are accepted and welcomed into the UU religion. 'People with atheist and agnostic beliefs find a supportive community in our congregations. We are pro-science, pro-reason, and pro-Evolution...Unitarian Universalism honors the differing paths we each travel. Our congregations are places where we celebrate, support, and challenge one another as we continue on these journeys.' The UU also accepts Christians, and many other religions who believe in a higher being, but it is not restricted - the UUA says that 'Unitarian Universalists are agnostic, theist, atheist, and everything in between.'\n\nLaVeyan Satanism is atheistic, rejecting belief in God and all other deities, including, to the surprise of many, Satan. \"Satanism begins with atheism,\" said Church of Satan High Priest Peter H. Gilmore in an interview. \"We begin with the universe and say, 'It’s indifferent. There’s no God, there’s no Devil. No one cares!'\" The function of God is performed and satisfied by the satanist him/herself. The needs of worship, ritual, and religious/spiritual focus are directed inwards towards the satanist, as opposed to outwards, towards a deity. It rejects concepts such as prayer, the afterlife, and divine forces.\n\nLegal treatment of atheism has in the past and continues to vary tremendously across different jurisdictions. Three major types of national regime exist: state atheism, where atheism is supported by the government; state religion, where a specific religion or sect is supported by the state, and a secular state which supports neither. Most ancient civilizations (from city-states to empires) had state religions; most modern countries are secular. State atheism is currently practiced in China and Vietnam, but unlike the strongly enforced bans on religious worship in the early Soviet Union and after the Communist Revolution in China, freedom of religion is currently established by law in both China and Vietnam, and respected in practice to some degree (see Freedom of religion in China and Freedom of religion in Vietnam). The minority of modern countries with state religions have established interpretations of either Christianity, Islam, or Buddhism.\n\nCountries with state religions range from those with extremely tolerant laws, like the United Kingdom, to those where the police enforce daily prayer, like Saudi Arabia. Under the millet system of the Ottoman Empire, separate systems of family law are enforced by religious authorities for their separate communities. This system was inherited by and is still in use to various degrees in various Middle Eastern countries, including Iraq, Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, Israel, the Palestinian Authority, Egypt, and Greece (for religious minorities). Similar separate systems are used in India, Iran, Pakistan and Bangladesh. These systems sometimes create legal problems for atheists and couples of different religions. Atheists may be forced to declare an approved religion, or may be assigned one based on their ethnicity.\n\nEven in counties where freedom of religion is guaranteed by the constitution or other fundamental law, practices or beliefs of a specific religion might be reflected in ostensibly secular codes. For example, blue laws in some Christian countries have enforced certain observances of the Sabbath on Sunday, for example by banning alcohol sales or forcing businesses to close. Laws surrounding nudity, pornography, abortion, contraception, homosexuality, gambling, alcohol, tobacco often track religious sensibilities, though some argue that these are cultural rather than religious prohibitions, though there may be an influence of religious thinking on culture. Major early transitions from state religions to secular states in Western Christiandom were noted in Colonial North America, the American Revolution, and the French Revolution. Prohibitions against state support for any particular religion or against required participation are not always enforced, particularly early in this transition process, and local laws in strongly religious communities may conflict with higher-level law. For example, official school prayer was allowed in the United States until 1962. Freedom of religion was affirmed in nearly all countries in 1966 by the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Despite having no state religion, the German government collects religious taxes for the constituents of several religions; the fee for leaving a religious body has been challenged by atheists.\n\nSome states, regardless of state endorsement of a religion, protect major religions against insult (which may include profession of atheism or criticism of religion by atheists), including Indonesia. Other religious crimes which may cause legal problems for atheists include \nheresy, blasphemy, apostasy.\n\nThe chief law officer is called Lord Chancellor and holds the title of 'the conscience of the monarch. British subjects have a long history of religious upheaval from the time when Henry VIII of England ordered the English Reformation. There followed a long period of alternate suppressions and liberalizations until, following the Restoration when common law became progressively more descriptive than prescriptive, judges were allowed some latitude in determining guilt (which is why English law is so ambiguous). British \"religious atheists\" are numerous and might include George Fox, John Wesley and, notably Jeremy Bentham, whose body is displayed in the South Cloister of University College London.\n\nAtheism in the United States is protected under the First Amendment's Free Exercise Clause. There are also online churches that have been created by atheists to secure legal rights, to ordain atheist clergy to hold ceremonies, as well as for parody, education, and advocacy.\n\nIn 1797, the United States Senate ratified a treaty with Tripoli that stated in Article 11: \n\n"}
{"id": "57821740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57821740", "title": "Bhandara (community kitchen)", "text": "Bhandara (community kitchen)\n\nBhandara is the term used mostly in Hindu caste and some other communities to describe the free meal served to the people invited to the temple. Food is cooked and served to the people sitting right outside the temple. Usually this is done on festival occasions as a part of worshipping the lord.\n\nIt is a marathi word in origin but is being used in other languages also.\n\nBhandara is actually a district in Maharashtra which is known as the “Rice bowl of the country”. Practice of bhandara is mostly done by rich people as an offering to the god they worship. It can also be organized by any individual (referred to as the yajamana) who wishes to worship the lord. This practice was first started by the founder of the sikh religion. After performing the rituals and worshipping the almighty, the yajamana serves food to the poor and the needy. Bhog usually called khichdi-a dish made up of rice and moong daal are served to the people. Bhandara is also organized to celebrate a birthdays, anniversaries or weddings and to commemorate the death of the departed.\n\nThe indian government has introduced a scheme known as ‘'Seva Bhoj Yojna’' to reimburse the government share of the Central Goods and Services Tax and the Integrated Goods and Service Tax for purchases by religious institutions of certain products for providing free meals. It will cover the raw ingredients of meals and is expected to cost a total of Rs. 325.00 Crores in the 2018/2019 fiscal year. To qualify, an institution will need to serve food free of charge to over 5000 people in the year.\n\nA number of ashrams across India, specially in Haridwar and Rishikesh , bhandaras are offered on a daily basis to the devotees and other poor people.\n\n"}
{"id": "37620888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37620888", "title": "Bibliography of encyclopedias: religion", "text": "Bibliography of encyclopedias: religion\n\nThis is a list of encyclopedias as well as encyclopedic and biographical dictionaries published on the subjects of religion and mythology in any language.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23712707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23712707", "title": "Buddhism and euthanasia", "text": "Buddhism and euthanasia\n\nBuddhist views, although varying on a series of canons within the three branches of Buddhism (Theravada, Mahayana, and Vajrayana), observe the concept of euthanasia, or \"mercy killing\", in a denunciatory manner. Such methods of euthanasia include voluntary, involuntary, and non-voluntary. In the past, as one school of Buddhism evolved into the next, their scriptures recorded through the oral messages of Buddha himself on Buddhist principles and values followed, guiding approximately 500 million Buddhists spanning the globe on their path to nirvana. In the Monastic Rule, or Vinaya, a consensus is reached by the Buddha on euthanasia and assisted suicide that expresses a lack of fondness of its practice.\nBuddhism does not confirm that life should be conserved by implementing whatever is necessary to prolong death, but instead expresses that the intentional precipitation of death is ethically inadmissible in every condition one is presented in.\n\nThe Vinaya Tripitaka is one of three Buddhist canonical sources that makes up the Tripitaka that most relates to euthanasia. It was created to encompass a series of case laws in which Buddha provided judgement on various matters, even though the term \"euthanasia\" is not specifically mentioned. Monks and nuns are meant to follow the decorum that is relayed, which expresses what is considered to be wrongfully killing someone (prohibited by Buddhist precepts) by the actions of another who is conferred to follow holy orders and those who are not. Outside of Vinaya, there is no specific mention in early Buddhist texts on euthanasia. During the life of Buddha, instances occurred when monks who practiced medicine were put in situations where they had to make a decision to assist in another's suicide by physically taking their life, providing the instrument used to take their life, or allowing the person to suffer, as observed in cases written in Vinaya. The Buddha, therefore, included a precept in Vinaya against the termination of another human life following the discovery that monks either took their own life or requested that others kill them because they were unhappy with their body. Buddha stated that:\n\nWith this, Buddha later expanded the precept in the third parajika, adding the punishment of excommunication for life from the Sangha after recognizing a number of monks provoking a patient to believe that he should choose death over life. In this instance, the monks praised the idea that death was beautiful to a sick monk, persuading him to take an unrevealed measure to end his life. Because of the monk's expression of virtue, as he was informed by other monks, he would receive a good rebirth. As a result of these provocations, the monk stopped eating and later died.\n\nBuddhists believe that life begins at the point of birth and ends when the individual dies. Throughout the course of the individual's life, between life and death, they are to be respected with dignity, regardless of their state of mental capacity or psychometric functions. What constitutes life in a body is usma (heat), ayu (vitality), and vinanna (sentiency). Among Buddhists, there is much confusion as to when one is truly dead. Some consider death to be when the brain loses its functionality. And there are those who disagree with this idea. When Buddha passed away, according to ancient texts, his 25-year personal attendant Ananda declared him as dead. However, Ananda was later corrected by a monk senior to him, claiming that Buddha was only in a severe state of yogistic stupor. During this yogic trance, Buddha lacked any vital signs of life, making it unclear for future Buddhists to determine the point of death when such physiological states exist and are relayed in Buddhist literary texts. Although at death one loses all physical possessions, leaving their family, loved ones, and achievements all behind, death does not destroy all that belongs to a person. The purification of their character through virtuous and meditative practices carries over into their next life and into their mental sequence of continuation.Buddhists hold the belief that upon death, they are reborn and will experience life through a series of lifetimes called samsara until they can cease to desire and nirvana is obtained. In conjunction with a person's previously attained karma, their state of mind at the point of death holds great importance when the determining of what kind of rebirth is to take place. There are six realms of life in Buddhist cosmology: Hell realm (Naraka), hungry ghost (Preta) realm, animal realm (Tiracchānayoni), human realm (Manussa), demi-god realm (Asura), and god realm (Deva). Of all the realms that exist, the human realm is the most anticipated, yet the most difficult to obtain. Based on the level of karma one garners in their current lifetime, it is determined at which realm one diverges to next upon death. The first three realms (Hell realm, hungry ghost realm, and animal realm) are the most detested of the six and are meant to cause suffering, disallowing proper mental capabilities as a result of negative karma from negative acts performed during the previous life. And although more acceptable than the former, the asura and god realm remain unfavorable as they permit one ultimate happiness but prevents the opportunity for the spirit to progress. Only through good karma can one's spirit reach the human realm. Euthanasia, although it can be considered a compassionate act, is not seen in Buddhism as an act of selflessness and benevolence, but rather an act of damage masked as help, which in turn can result in negative karma. If someone is suffering as a result of sickness, it could be a result of karma, and ending their life is not likely to end their adversity, as the suffering caused by karma will only follow them after death until its energy concludes.\n\nCompassion (karuṇā) is a Buddhist value that reinforces how Buddhism views standards in medicine, which is observed in all three schools of Buddhism. Although it can be seen as morally good, committing an act through compassion is not always justified. Taking a life out of compassion to mitigate the affliction one experiences through illness or injury is an instance in which a person may feel he or she is vindicated to exploit euthanasia. However, in Buddhism and the Bodhisattva, it can create incongruities through the infringement of life. An example of an unjustified act of compassion is a case written in the Vinaya, where a convicted man is hastily executed after a monk requests the executioner to do so, as to not prolong his suffering and the sorrowful period he has to wait. A morally good scenario of compassion would be if a patient in a hospital in his or her right mind feels that their ailment is using too much of a valuable resource in limited quantities, or causing their family to spend large sums of money that is not readily available on medical bills to keep them alive. Out of morally good compassion, he or she might decide to cease the sources of life preservation without pressure from others. Had those associations been pressuring the patient to forgo further life saving treatment, this could be observed as murderous. If the patient were terminally ill and unable to eat on their own accord, it would be a requirement of his or her associations to assist them, even if intravenous feeding was necessary. Buddhism paints life in a way that is fundamentally valuable, and it should never be surrendered for any reason, whether compassion, amity, or anything of value. It would be an ill-advised way to show compassion rooted in misconception to endorse death using compassion as the reasoning.\n\nAccording to Buddhist precepts, someone who is in a vegetative state is neither dead nor alive, but instead is said to be in some form of obscure state of mind and still a living individual. They lack the necessity to rely on outside assistance to support their ability to stay alive other than being supplemented with nutrients to keep them functioning for a significant number of years. With this, Buddhism sees someone in a vegetative state as a living, breathing life form, because the value in which one's life holds is not observed through individualism. Although Buddhism views this state of being as damaged, the individual should be treated no different than before. Both animals and humans, prior to their birth as they await in the mother's womb, have value and therefore should not have their life taken from them. However, some Buddhists are under the impression that an unconscious life, or one that lacks awareness, does not have value, which is highly debatable. Buddhism shows that even with a damaged physical organ, such as the brain, someone is still deserving of compassion because they are still capable of causing varying emotions in someone who cares for them. To end a life because of a patient's state of mind and to deny them treatment would be an act of abandonment, which would be considered irrational and unfair because Buddhists have a strong belief in compassion for all living things.\n\nA vegetative state can be considered a varied form of meditation where the sentience of someone acts in a way not ordinary to what is regularly observed. Another form of consciousness where the body does not react is that of \"formless\" rebirths. Due to these meditative states, it is often difficult to determine in a physical manner a state of consciousness. The state of consciousness, at the time, may be experiencing a demonstration of going through the processes of death in ultimate preparation so that once death does come, it can receive the best form of rebirth. During this process of preparation, the eyes and other sense-organs will cease to function, but the person's sense of touch, brain function, and life force lie in the heart. In Buddhism, considering the conception of meditative states, some in a vegetative state are therefore still sentient. Being in a continuous state of vegetation is not the same as the process by which one prepares for death, even though it does resemble it. The possibility exists for one to lack the function to breathe and think, but still be alive.\n\nMoving someone who is terminally ill into hospice care to help mitigate physical pain with pain relievers that is not intended to end their life, allowing them to pass away painless and comfortable, is a highly considerable alternative to euthanasia. Hospice care is meant to assist a person to have, what is called a \"good death.\" When one nears death, they should be able to reflect on their life peacefully. Since 1971, the San Francisco Zen Center has offered assistance to terminally ill patients, with trained hospice employees since the inception of a hospice training program in 1987. The Buddhist Hospice Trust in the United Kingdom has been an alternative to this center since its founding in 1987. Not only does it provide volunteers to visit those nearing death, but it provides an avenue for those who lost someone they cared about to receive counsel and sympathy and is also used as a center into researching death and mourning. The purpose of such a center is to truly alleviate any amount of anxiety one could experience when approaching death, leaving known loved ones behind, and to ensure a clear and calm state of mind. Hospice care employees therefore prefer not to allow a person to die in an anesthetized, unconscious state of mind. A positive transition to a future life is best obtained when one dies with a clear conscience, free of anger, dissent, and anxiety, and in a relaxed state of being. In Buddhism, a \"good death\" is facilitated by family and friends, who do their best to ensure the dying person is untroubled and uplifted.\n\n"}
{"id": "57075136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57075136", "title": "Chandabhoy Galla Case", "text": "Chandabhoy Galla Case\n\nThe Chandabhoy Galla Case is a celebrated case in the history of religion where a human being is challenged for representing God on earth being infallible and immaculate. The case was filed during British rule in India by Sir Thomas Strangman, the Advocate General of Mumbai at the behest of Adamjee Pirbhai family members against Dawoodi Bohra 51st Dai Syedna Taher Saifuddin. The case was filed in 1917AD and decided in 1921AD. The claim was based on the belief of Imam as representative of the Prophet, and through him the representative of God, having withdrawn from the world, someone must represent him, and so ultimately the Deity on earth. The Dai, according to community religious belief, is that representative. The ownership of the Chandabhoy ‘Galla’( box kept for religious offerings) was challenged on the plea of improper succession. Issues raised, however, were of far greater significance than the properties included in the case. The ownership was decided in favor of Syedna, arguing succession proper.\n\nThe case was also historic in the sense that similar case was put up in the court of Mughal emperor Akbar, in year 1591AD, where representation was challenged on the legal point of proper accountability and proper succession resulting in royal farman(order) issued in favor of 27th Dai Dawood Bin Qutubshah. In 2014, similar case moved to the high court in Mumbai to decide, valid succession of 53rd Syedna (Dai) of the Dawoodi Bohra community. Sir Thomas Strangman observes in his book \"Indian Courts and Characters\", the case is remarkable not only for its length, but for the amazing claims put forward on behalf of the 'Mullaji'(Syedna Taher), the like of which have never been put forward in any Court of Law.\nIn the Chandabhoy Galla Case, It was contended that 47th Dai Syedna Abdul Qadir Najmuddin was not validly appointed as Dai al Mutlaq. If this contention was upheld by the court, then the position of all subsequent Dai al Mutlaqs would be put into question. Syedna Taher Saifuddin's claim to be the Dai al Mutlaq was dependent upon the court deciding that Syedna Najmuddin was validly appointed. The court upheld the succession of Taher Saifuddin proper. Considering all the circumstances, the judge held that all the properties in respect of which the declaration was sought were devoted to charitable purposes and that the Mullaji(Syedna Taher) was a trustee thereof.\n\nDuring the proceeding of the case, the remark of British judge Mr. Justice Marten is important on clarifying religious trust. The judge observed that \"high-ranking people could be trusted not to commit criminal breach of trust; but that did not mean that they were beyond the pale of the law. For example, His Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury, could not conceivably commit a criminal offence; but he was nevertheless subject to the criminal law, and this fact involved no slur. So, too, in theory the Mullaji Saheb was amenable to the criminal and civil law of this country, though it was unthinkable that he would commit any offence. But the existence of this civil restraint is no more a slur upon an honest trustee, than the existence of criminal restraint is upon an honest citizen. The test of a trust is not whether the alleged trustee can ever commit a breach of trust, which is what the defendants' contention in effect amounts to.\"\n\nDuring testimony of Syedna Taher, he clarified about knowledge classes of 'Zahir', 'Tavil' and, 'Hakikat' present in community. First two are known to many but third one namely 'Hakikat' content some religious truths known to very few. Some of which are known to only 2 or 3 persons in community, and there is also knowledge which is available with Dai only, and he gets it from his predecessor Dai. \n"}
{"id": "48269758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48269758", "title": "Coexist (image)", "text": "Coexist (image)\n\nThe Coexist image (often styled as \"CoeXisT\" or \"COEXIST\") is an image created by Polish, Warsaw-based graphic designer in 2000 as an entry in an international art competition sponsored by the Museum on the Seam for Dialogue, Understanding and Coexistence. The original version was one of dozens of works displayed as large outdoor posters in Jerusalem in 2001.\n\nVariations of this artwork have been used as bumper stickers and elements in rock concerts.\n\n, a Polish graphic designer based in Warsaw, had his original work chosen by a jury to be one of several dozen images to be displayed as x outdoor posters as part of a touring exhibit sponsored by the Museum on the Seam in Jerusalem. The exhibit opened to the public in Jerusalem in 2001.\n\nHis original image consisted of the word COEXIST in all capital letters, with the C replaced by an oversized Muslim Crescent, the X replaced by an oversized Star of David, and the T replaced by an oversized Latin Cross.\n\nDuring the international 2005–2006 Vertigo Tour of the Irish rock band U2, the original version of the image played a key role. Shortly after playing \"Sometimes You Can't Make It on Your Own\", the group would play politically-themed songs. During the opening portion of \"Love and Peace or Else\", Bono wore a white headband bearing a handwritten version of the word. In some venues, including Mexico City, the word was displayed on large electronic signs.\n\nThe image and variations of it are used as automobile bumper stickers.\n\nThe bumper stickers first began to emerge in the United States in the early 2000s in partial response to the military involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan which began after the events of September 11, 2001. The stickers signify the capability or desire of humans to live together in peace.\n\nOne common version of the bumper sticker spells \"COEXIST\" using an Islamic crescent moon for the \"C\", a peace sign for the \"O\", a combination of the male symbol and female symbol for the \"E\", a Star of David for the \"X\", a pentagram for the dot of the \"I\", a yin-yang symbol for the \"S\", and a Christian cross for the \"T\". This version, designed by Jerry Jaspar, is perhaps the most common version of the bumper sticker.\n\nThe prevalence of the COEXIST bumper stickers has been noted in the Bay Area region centered on San Francisco. Users of the bumper stickers are often not practicing adherents of religion. This prevalence among politically liberal secularists has led to some ridicule about the inability of the bumper sticker to affect its target audience, or those who could benefit from the message.\n\nIn 2005, Młodożeniec and U2 were unaware of each other. They were also unaware that a company in Indiana already filed for a trademark in the United States in 2003. At the time, as there was no official U2 merchandise carrying this image, U2 fans created their own. The Indiana company filed suit against companies like Cafepress in May 2005 in an effort to stop unauthorized merchandise sales. Młodożeniec's attorneys maintained that he owned the copyright to the image. Separately, The Museum on the Seam, which sponsored the competition in which the original image first appeared in public, claimed legal rights to the image.\n\nThe following table shows the individual characters of the more well-known versions, either as Unicode characters, icons, or descriptions.\n\n\nThe popularity of the bumper stickers has spawned several anti-Muslim responses, including one with the image of the crescent altered with the addition of explosives.\n\nThere are several anti-religious parodies, spelling out words such as 'Toxic', 'Fiction' and 'Contradict'.\n\nOther parodies include a Communist hammer and sickle for the \"E\" and a swastika for the \"X\", indicating the dangers inherent in all ideologies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47014722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47014722", "title": "Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions", "text": "Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions\n\nCongress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions is an annual congress held in Astana, Kazakhstan.\n\nOn Sept. 23 and 24, 2003, Astana hosted the first Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions. The congress was attended by 17 delegations from 23 countries. The forum focused mainly on countering terrorism and extremism issues.\n\nAccording to Nursultan Nazarbayev, in order to overcome current challenges and threats like violence, religious extremism and terrorism, it is necessary to establish and promote a dialogue between leaders of world and traditional religions, based on trust and mutual understanding.\n\nInternational politicians, such as Kofi Annan, George W. Bush, Margaret Thatcher, Jiang Zemin, Nelson Mandela, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, Mikhail Gorbachev and others supported the initiative to create and hold the Congress.\n\nOn Sept. 12 and 13, 2006, Astana hosted the second Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, which was attended by delegations from 29 countries. The congress was held in a new building designed for the event, the Palace of Peace and Accord. The central topic of discussion was “Religion, Society and International Security.” \n\nThe congress was recognized in the Congressional Record by Congressman Ben Chandler of Kentucky who called Kazakhstan \"a model of religious diversity.\"\n\nAs a result of the forum, a joint Declaration was adopted calling on representatives of all religions to resolve conflict situations through peaceful dialogue.\n\nOn July 1–2, 2009, Astana hosted the third Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions. About 400 delegates representing 77 delegations from 35 countries attended the event. A central theme of the congress was “The role of religious leaders in building a world based on tolerance, mutual respect and cooperation.”\n\nThe 4th Congress took place in Astana on May 30–31, 2012. 85 delegations from 40 countries attended the congress with the central theme being “Peace and Harmony as the Choice of Mankind.”\n\nWithin the framework of this forum, the first meeting of the Council of Religious Leaders was held, whose activities are aimed at determining the mechanisms of interaction with other foreign organizations in the cultural and economic spheres.\n\nAstana hosted the 5th Congress on June 10–11, 2015. The theme of the event was \"Dialogue of Religious Leaders and Politicians in the Name of Peace and Development\". During the Congress, Kazakhstan President Nursultan Nazarbayev met with UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and Jordan's King Abdullah II. 80 delegations from 42 countries attended the event.\n\nThe theme of the 6th Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions held in Astana on October 10-11, 2018 was “Religious Leaders for a Safe World.\" 82 delegations from 46 countries participated in the sixth congress. Two plenary sessions and four breakout sessions were held at the forum. The themes of the sessions included: “Manifesto. The world in the 21st century” as a Concept of Global Security”, “Religions in the Changing Geopolitics: New Opportunities for Mankind's Consolidation”, “Religion and Globalization: Challenges and Responses”, “Religious Leaders and Political Figures in Overcoming Extremism and Terrorism.”\n"}
{"id": "29456257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29456257", "title": "Debaptism", "text": "Debaptism\n\nMost Christian churches see baptism as a once-in-a-lifetime event that can be neither repeated nor undone. They hold that those who have been baptized remain baptized, even if they renounce the Christian faith by adopting a non-Christian religion or by rejecting religion entirely. But some other organizations and individuals are practicing debaptism.\n\nIn addition to \"de facto\" renunciation through apostasy, or heresy, the Roman Catholic Church envisaged from 1983 to 2009 the possibility of formal defection from the Church through a decision manifested personally, consciously and freely, and in writing, to the competent church authority, who was then to judge whether it was genuinely a case of \"true separation from the constitutive elements of the life of the Church ... (by) an act of apostasy, heresy or schism.\" A formal defection of this kind was then noted in the register of the person's baptism, an annotation that, like those of marriage or ordination, was independent of the fact of the baptism and was not an actual \"debaptism\", even if the person who formally defected from the Catholic Church had also defected from the Christian religion. The fact of having been baptized remains a fact and the Catholic Church holds that baptism marks a person with a lasting seal or character that \"is an ontological and permanent bond which is not lost by reason of any act or fact of defection.\" Nonetheless, formal requests for debaptisms are made; in France, a man sued the French Catholic church for \"its refusal to let him nullify his baptism.\" He had been \"un-baptized\" in 2000, and ten years later he demanded to have his name stricken from the baptismal records, a request granted by a judge in Normandy, a decision appealed by the church.\n\nSome atheist organizations, such as the Italian Union of Rationalist Atheists and Agnostics and the British National Secular Society, offer certificates of \"debaptism\". Not even those who provide the certificates consider them as having legal or canonical effect. The Church of England refuses to take any action on presentation of the certificate. The Roman Catholic Church likewise treats it as any other act of renunciation of the Catholic faith, although for a few years, from 2006 to 2009, it did note in the baptismal register any formal act of defection from the Catholic Church, a concept quite distinct from that of presentation of such a certificate.\n\nIn the years 2010 to 2016, 12,442 people \"debaptised\" in the Dutch-speaking Flemish region of Belgium by formally leaving the Catholic Church.\n\nUsing a hair dryer, some atheist groups have conducted tongue-in-cheek \"debaptism\" ceremonies, not intended to be taken seriously.\n"}
{"id": "39090706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39090706", "title": "Dehellenization", "text": "Dehellenization\n\nDehellenization refers to a disillusionment with forms of Greek philosophy that emerged in the Hellenistic Period, and in particular to a rejection of the use of reason. The term was first used in 2006 by Pope Benedict XVI in a speech \"Faith, Reason, and the University: Memories and Reflections,\" to refer to attempts to separate Christianity from Greek philosophical thought. Subsequently, the term figured prominently in Robert R. Reilly's book \"The Closing of the Muslim Mind: How Intellectual Suicide Created the Modern Islamist Crisis\", to refer to what Reilly characterized as \"the religion of Islam's divorce from reason and rationality.\" The extent and significance of dehellenization in both the Christian and Islamic religious traditions continues to be widely disputed.\n\nThe Hellenistic Period begins with the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC and ends with the emergence of the Roman Empire. For the purpose of defining dehellenization, the Hellenistic Period is known for the emergence of a number of philosophical theories, including Neoplatonism, Epicureanism, Skepticism, Cynicism, Stoicism, among others. An underlying element common to all of these schools of thought is an emphasis on human rationality and the ability to reason.\n\nPope Benedict XVI argues that several keys ideas in Christian thought reveal the hellenization of Christianity:\n\nAlthough Jesus's followers were reluctant to succumb to the Hellenistic rulers' attempts to force them into Greek \"idolatry\" and customs, the Pope argues that they were nevertheless able to extract the most enriching element of Hellenistic thought, namely that man has not only the ability but also the obligation to think rationally.\n\nThe conquest of Persia and parts of Central Asia by Alexander the Great beginning in 330 BC was accompanied by an extensive dissemination of Greek culture and thought beyond the Mediterranean area. Although Persia was eventually reclaimed by the Persians, Hellenistic influence continued in the area.\n\nAccording to Reilly, most of the fusion of Islamic and Greek philosophy occurred between 660 and 750 AD when the Umayyad dynasty came to possess Sassanid (Persian) and Byzantine territories that were heavily populated by Greco-Christians and contained many Hellenistic centers of learning. Initially attracted to Greek thought for medicinal and mathematic purposes, many Muslims began to explore other aspects of Hellenism, in particular philosophy.\n\nAccording to Reilly, the primary cause of the dehellenization of Islam was the rise of the Ash'arite sect and decline of the Mu'tazila sect in the ninth and tenth centuries. The Mu’tazalites adopted the belief that man must be free, because without freedom, he would be unable to know God’s justice. Consequently, man was free and obligated to interpret sacred texts in the context of his time. The Mu’tazalite premise that the Qur'an was \"created\" implies that it is subject to reason, in contradiction to the orthodox belief that the Qur'an is eternal.\n\nThe Mu’tazalites produced the first Greek-inspired Islamic school of thought, championing the idea of reason and rational morality. The Ash'arites evolved as a group in direct opposition to the Mu’tazalites. The Ash'arites opposed the Mu'tazalites on several levels. They argued that the Qur'an was coeternal with Allah, rendering it inalterable and uninterpretable by man. Whereas the Mu’tazalites held that God was reasonably required to reward and punish as he had promised, the Ash'arites argued that God is not required to do anything, since such requirements must necessarily limit him. Ash'arites insisted that any apparent inconsistencies in the Qur'an must not be questioned. In contrast, the Mu'tazalites believed that analyzing these inconsistencies is in accordance with man's necessity to reason: since God is not intuitive or physical, we must reason to his existence.\n\nUnder the reign of Caliph Ja'afar al-Mutawakkil (847–861), adopting the doctrine of the Mu'tazalites became a crime punishable by death. Most of Mu’tazalite works were destroyed and bookstores were told not to sell any of their works. By the 12th century, Mu'tazalite influence had been almost entirely eradicated from Islamic society. This suppression of rationalist thought and elevation of orthodoxy signaled the general dehellenization of Islamic society.\n\nPope Benedict XVI proposes that a dehellenization of Christianity has stemmed from three different sources. The first stage of Christian dehellenization can be attributed to the Reformation in the sixteenth century. Reformers believed that faith had turned into a mere element in abstract philosophy, and that the religion needed to return to the idea of \"sola scriptura\" (scripture only).\n\nThe second stage occurred in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries due to the theology of Adolf von Harnack. Harnack advocated focusing on the simple life of Jesus Christ, and his humanitarian message in particular. Theology and belief in a divine being, according to Harnack, was a scientific history completely separate from the modern reason of humanitarian aid.\n\nThe last stage, occurring currently in the twenty-first century, is a product of modern cultural pluralism. Cultural pluralism encourages other cultures to simply return to the simplicity of the New Testament, and refuse it with their own culture. The Pope affirms that such a method cannot work because the New Testament \"was written in Greek and bears the imprint of the Greek spirit.\"\n\nReilly asserts that at least 80% of Sunni Muslims have adopted the Ash'arite school of thought. The current prominence of this school throughout the Umma (global Muslim community), according to Reilly, is manifested in the writings of the key Islamist leaders of the past century. Sayyid Qutb's \"Milestones\", for instance, has been such an imperative document that its authority approaches that of a hadith. A divorce from reason or the ability to rationalize can be made apparent via the following excerpts:\n\n\"But if we are to walk in the footsteps of the first generation of Muslims, through whom God established His system and gave it victory over Jahiliyyah, then we will not be masters of our own wills.\"\n\n\"The basis of the message is that one should accept the Shari’ah without any question and reject all other laws in any shape or form. This is Islam. There is no other meaning of Islam.\"\n\n\"The question may be asked, \"Is not the good of mankind the criterion for solving actual problems?\" But again we will raise the question which Islam raises itself, and which it answers; that is, \"Do you know better, or God?\" and, \"God knows, and you do not know.\"\n\nReilly accepts that any Muslims who align themselves with the Mu'tazalite school have not been dehellenized, and may value and employ human reason the same as any other individual.\n\nWithin the Muslim community, this presents the difficulty of hindering innovation. Because every occurrence in life is an intentional act of the will of Allah, general scientific or mathematic principles are slow to be accepted—if accepted at all—by many.\n\nFor instance, when a ball is dropped and it falls to the ground X amount of times in a row, Western society accepts a principle of gravity. Muslim society rejects this principle because they believe that each time the ball dropped (no matter how many times) it was a product of the direct will of Allah. If Allah wishes, on drop X+1, the ball will go sideways or turn into a foreign object. Reilly suspects that the Middle East's lack of scientific and technologic innovation stems directly from this prospect.\n\nAt a policy level, Reilly proposes that the U.S. cannot fix the problems in the Arab world via politic or economic means because they are not politic and economic issues; they are theologic at heart. Until the religion of Islam re-adopts reason, Reilly accepts that they will be impossible to deal with on a diplomatic level.\n\nGriffel (2011) in his review describes the book as \"war literature\", and \"a Catholic refutation of Ash'arite Muslim theology\", complaining that Reilly constructs an undue equation between Ash'arism and contemporary Jihadism, while most Jihadists in fact follow Salafism and are hostile towards Ash'arism.\n\n"}
{"id": "3079141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3079141", "title": "Deistic evolution", "text": "Deistic evolution\n\nDeistic evolution is a position in the origins debate which involves accepting the scientific evidence for evolution and age of the universe whilst advocating the view that a deistic God created the universe but has not interfered since. The position is a counterpoint to theistic evolution and is endorsed by those who believe in both deism and the veracity of science.\n\nIn \"Christian Theology\", by Millard J. Erickson, 2013, is written:\n\nThe psychologist Steve Stewart-Williams in his book \"Darwin, God and the Meaning of Life\" (2010) states:\n\nStewart-Williams further writes that deistic evolution strips God of what most religious believers consider central. Any deistic God is not around for prayers, miracles or to intervene in people's lives and that because of this it is unpopular with monotheistic religions.\n\nDeistic Evolution adheres to the concept of some form of God, but denies any personal God. A recent defender of deistic evolution was Michael Anthony Corey, author of the book \"Back to Darwin: The Scientific Case for Deistic Evolution\" (1994).\n\nSome scholars have written that Charles Darwin was an advocate of deistic evolution.\n\nDeistic evolution is similarly the operative idea in Pandeism, which has been counted amongst the handful of spiritual beliefs which \"are compatible with modern science.\" and specifically wherein it is noted that \"\"pandeistic\" belief systems ... [present] the inclusion of God as the ever unfolding expression of a complex universe with an identifiable beginning but no teleological direction necessarily present.\"\n\nDeistic evolution is not the same as theistic evolution, yet they are sometimes confused. The difference rests on the difference between a theistic god that is interested in, if not actively involved in, the outcome of his creation and humanity specifically and a deistic god that is either disinterested in the outcome, and holds no special place for humanity, or will not intervene. Often, there is no discernible difference between the two positions—the choice of terminology has more to do with the believer and her or his need for a god, than fitting into a mostly arbitrary dictionary or academic definition.\n\nDeistic evolution has been criticised by Christian creationists as being incompatible with Christianity since it contradicts a literal reading of the Bible and more importantly, leaves no role for the \"Christian personal God\".\n\nM. J. Erickson wrote that deistic evolution is in conflict with the scriptural doctrine of providence according to which \"God is personally and intimately concerned with and involved in what is going on in the specific events within his entire creation.\"\n\nCharles P. Grannan wrote in 1894, \"Another baseless assumption of negative critics is that the general principles of Atheistic and Deistic evolution, admitted by many scientists to account for the origin of the various species of plants and animals, should also be applied to explain the origin of the Christian religion.\"\n\nCharles Wesley Rishell criticized the concept in 1899, comparing it to the notion (false, in his view), that gravity was a property of matter instead of a continued action of God:\n\nDeistic evolution does not oppose or contradict evolution or come into conflict with science as it says that a God started the process and then left it to natural processes. However deism is still a religious philosophy.\n\nStewart-Williams wrote regarding deistic evolution and science:\n\nThere is considerable room for this \"god of the gaps\" view, since scientific observation is entirely unable to shed any light on what happened during the Planck epoch, the earliest 10 seconds in the history of the universe. All development since this initial creative act merely follows laws and principles which He created:\n\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church disagrees with the doctrine of deistic evolution. In November 2005, Pope Benedict addressed a general audience of 25,000 in St. Peter's Square:\n\n"}
{"id": "52577251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52577251", "title": "Disability and religion", "text": "Disability and religion\n\nTopics on disability and religion may concentrate on the manner in which disabled people are treated within religious communities, the religious texts of those religions, or the general input from religious discourse on matters relating to the disabled. Studies on the relationship between religion and the disabled vary widely, with some postulating the existence of ableism and others viewing religion as a primary medium through which to assist the disabled. Religious exhortation often prompts adherents to treat the disabled with deference, however when the disability constitutes a mental illness such an approach may be slanted with an acknowledgement of the latter's naivete. In religions with an eschatological belief in divine judgment, there are often traditions promulgating an exemption from judgement in the afterlife for the mentally disabled, as well as for children who die before reaching maturity due to both lacking an understanding of their actions in a manner analogous to the mental disorder defense. Regarding the rationale behind God's creation of disabled people, some religions maintain that their contrast with the able-bodied permits the able-bodied to reflect and God to subsequently assess the level of gratitude shown by each individual for their health.\n\n"}
{"id": "8582057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8582057", "title": "Divine inspiration", "text": "Divine inspiration\n\nDivine inspiration is the concept of a supernatural force, typically a deity, causing a person or people to experience a creative desire. It has been a commonly reported aspect of many religions, for thousands of years. Divine inspiration is often closely tied to the concept of revelation, the belief in information being revealed or disclosed through communication with a deity or other supernatural entity or entities.\n\nBesides ancient mythology, the religious texts of traditions including Hinduism, Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Mormonism, and the Bahá'í Faith are all claimed to be divinely inspired to some degree.\n\nThe Jehovah's Witnesses have at times disclaimed divine inspiration with respect to their doctrine. although at other times they propose that \"divine guidance\" is provided to individuals.\n\nPlato distinguishes four kinds of inspiration or \"mania\" in the dialogue Phaedrus. The word \"mania\" signifying that a person is caught up in a state transcending the individual consciousness. In other dialogues, Plato identifies other manias besides the four given in Phaedrus. Anger, for example, is a mania because a man may become inspired by Mars in battle and perform deeds of superhuman strength. The four given in Phaedrus, however, are called Divine as they are the inspirations which perfect the soul.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13568947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13568947", "title": "Dualistic cosmology", "text": "Dualistic cosmology\n\nDualism in cosmology is the moral or spiritual belief that two fundamental concepts exist, which often oppose each other. It is an umbrella term that covers a diversity of views from various religions, including both traditional religions and scriptural religions.\n\nMoral dualism is the belief of the great complement of, or conflict between, the benevolent and the malevolent. It simply implies that there are two moral opposites at work, independent of any interpretation of what might be \"moral\" and independent of how these may be represented. Moral opposites might, for example, exist in a worldview which has one god, more than one god, or none. By contrast, duotheism, bitheism or ditheism implies (at least) two gods. While bitheism implies harmony, ditheism implies rivalry and opposition, such as between good and evil, or light and dark, or summer and winter. For example, a ditheistic system could be one in which one god is a creator, and the other a destroyer. In theology, dualism can also refer to the relationship between God and creation or God and the universe (see theistic dualism). This form of dualism is a belief shared in certain traditions of Christianity and Hinduism. Alternatively, in ontological dualism, the world is divided into two overarching categories. The opposition and combination of the universe's two basic principles of yin and yang is a large part of Chinese philosophy, and is an important feature of Taoism. It is also discussed in Confucianism.\n\nMany myths and creation motifs with dualistic cosmologies have been described in ethnographic and anthropological literature. These motifs conceive the world as being created, organized, or influenced by two demiurges, culture heroes, or other mythological beings, who either compete with each other or have a complementary function in creating, arranging or influencing the world. There is a huge diversity of such cosmologies. In some cases, such as among the Chukchi, the beings collaborate rather than competing, and contribute to the creation in a coequal way. In many other instances the two beings are not of the same importance or power (sometimes, one of them is even characterized as gullible). Sometimes they can be contrasted as good versus evil. They may be often believed to be twins or at least brothers. Dualistic motifs in mythologies can be observed in all inhabited continents. Zolotaryov concludes that they cannot be explained by diffusion or borrowing, but are rather of convergent origin: they are related to a dualistic organization of society (moieties); in some cultures, this social organization may have ceased to exist, but mythology preserves the memory in more and more disguised ways.\n\nMoral dualism is the belief of the great complement or conflict between the benevolent and the malevolent. Like ditheism/bitheism (see below), moral dualism does not imply the absence of monist or monotheistic principles. Moral dualism simply implies that there are two moral opposites at work, independent of any interpretation of what might be \"moral\" and—unlike ditheism/bitheism—independent of how these may be represented.\n\nFor example, Mazdaism (Mazdean Zoroastrianism) is both dualistic and monotheistic (but not monist by definition) since in that philosophy God—the Creator—is purely good, and the antithesis—which is also uncreated–is an absolute one. Zurvanism (Zurvanite Zoroastrianism), Manichaeism, and Mandaeism are representative of dualistic \"and\" monist philosophies since each has a supreme and transcendental First Principle from which the two equal-but-opposite entities then emanate. This is also true for the lesser-known Christian gnostic religions, such as Bogomils, Catharism, and so on. More complex forms of monist dualism also exist, for instance in Hermeticism, where \"Nous\" \"thought\"—that is described to have created man—brings forth both good and evil, dependent on interpretation, whether it receives prompting from the God or from the Demon. Duality with pluralism is considered a logical fallacy.\n\nMoral dualism began as a theological belief. Dualism was first seen implicitly in Egyptian religious beliefs by the contrast of the gods Set (disorder, death) and Osiris (order, life). The first explicit conception of dualism came from the Ancient Persian religion of Zoroastrianism around the mid-fifth century BC. Zoroastrianism is a monotheistic religion that believes that Ahura Mazda is the eternal creator of all good things. Any violations of Ahura Mazda's order arise from \"druj\", which is everything uncreated. From this comes a significant choice for humans to make. Either they fully participate in human life for Ahura Mazda or they do not and give \"druj\" power. Personal dualism is even more distinct in the beliefs of later religions.\n\nThe religious dualism of Christianity between good and evil is not a perfect dualism as God (good) will inevitably destroy Satan (evil). Early Christian dualism is largely based on Platonic Dualism (See: Neoplatonism and Christianity). There is also a personal dualism in Christianity with a soul-body distinction based on the idea of an immaterial Christian soul.\n\nWhen used with regards to multiple gods, \"dualism\" may refer to duotheism, bitheism, or ditheism. Although ditheism/bitheism imply moral dualism, they are not equivalent: ditheism/bitheism implies (at least) two gods, while moral dualism does not necessarily imply \"theism\" (theos = god) at all.\n\nBoth bitheism and ditheism imply a belief in two equally powerful gods with complementary or antonymous properties; however, while bitheism implies harmony, ditheism implies rivalry and opposition, such as between good and evil, bright and dark, or summer and winter. For example, a ditheistic system would be one in which one god is creative, the other is destructive (cf. theodicy). In the original conception of Zoroastrianism, for example, Ahura Mazda was the spirit of ultimate good, while Ahriman (Angra Mainyu) was the spirit of ultimate evil.\n\nIn a bitheistic system, by contrast, where the two deities are not in conflict or opposition, one could be male and the other female (cf. duotheism). One well-known example of a bitheistic or duotheistic theology based on gender polarity is found in the neopagan religion of Wicca. In Wicca, dualism is represented in the belief of a god and a goddess as a dual partnership in ruling the universe. This is centered on the worship of a divine couple, the Moon Goddess and the Horned God, who are regarded as lovers. However, there is also a ditheistic theme within traditional Wicca, as the Horned God has dual aspects of bright and dark - relating to day/night, summer/winter - expressed as the Oak King and the Holly King, who in Wiccan myth and ritual are said to engage in battle twice a year for the hand of the Goddess, resulting in the changing seasons. (Within Wicca, bright and dark do not correspond to notions of \"good\" and \"evil\" but are aspects of the natural world, much like yin and yang in Taoism.)\n\n\nHowever, bitheistic and ditheistic principles are not always so easily contrastable, for instance in a system where one god is the representative of summer and drought and the other of winter and rain/fertility (cf. the mythology of Persephone). Marcionism, an early Christian sect, held that the Old and New Testaments were the work of two opposing gods: both were First Principles, but of different religions.\n\nIn theology, dualism can refer to the relationship between God and creation or God and the universe. This form of dualism is a belief shared in certain traditions of Christianity and Hinduism.\n\nThe dualism between God and Creation has existed as a central belief in multiple historical sects and traditions of Christianity, including Marcionism, Catharism, Paulicianism, and Gnostic Christianity. Christian dualism refers to the belief that God and creation are distinct, but interrelated through an indivisible bond. In sects like the Cathars and the Paulicians, this is a dualism between the material world, created by an evil god, and a moral god. Historians divide Christian dualism into absolute dualism, which held that the good and evil gods were equally powerful, and mitigated dualism, which held that material evil was subordinate to the spiritual good. The belief, by Christian theologians who adhere to a libertarian or compatibilist view of free will, that free will separates humankind from God has also been characterized as a form of dualism. The theologian Leroy Stephens Rouner compares the dualism of Christianity with the dualism that exists in Zoroastrianism and the Samkhya tradition of Hinduism. The theological use of the word dualism dates back to 1700, in a book that describes the dualism between good and evil.\n\nThe tolerance of dualism ranges widely among the different Christian traditions. As a monotheistic religion, the conflict between dualism and monism has existed in Christianity since its inception. The 1912 \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" describes that, in the Catholic Church, \"the dualistic hypothesis of an eternal world existing side by side with God was of course rejected\" by the thirteenth century, but mind–body dualism was not. The problem of evil is difficult to reconcile with absolute monism, and has prompted some Christian sects to veer towards dualism. Gnostic forms of Christianity were more dualistic, and some Gnostic traditions posited that the Devil was separate from God as an independent deity. The Christian dualists of the Byzantine Empire, the Paulicians, were seen as Manichean heretics by Byzantine theologians. This tradition of Christian dualism, founded by Constantine-Silvanus, argued that the universe was created through evil and separate from a moral God.\n\nThe Cathars, a Christian sect in southern France, believed that there was a dualism between two gods, one representing good and the other representing evil. The Roman Catholic Church denounced the Cathars as heretics, and sought to crush the movement in the 13th century. The Albigensian Crusade was initiated by Pope Innocent III in 1208 to remove the Cathars from Languedoc in France, where they were known as Albigesians. The Inquisition, which began in 1233 under Pope Gregory IX, also targeted the Cathars.\n\nGnosticism is a diverse, syncretistic religious movement consisting of various belief systems generally united in the teaching that humans are divine souls trapped in a material world created by an imperfect god, the demiurge, who is frequently identified with the Abrahamic God. The demiurge may be depicted as an embodiment of evil, or in other instances as merely imperfect and as benevolent as its inadequacy permits. This demiurge exists alongside another remote and unknowable supreme being that embodies good.\n\nBogomils, Paulicans and Cathars are typically seen as being imitative of Gnosticism. Whether or not the Cathari possessed direct historical influence from ancient Gnosticism is a matter of dispute. The basic conceptions of Gnostic cosmology are, however, to be found in Cathar beliefs (most distinctly in their notion of a lesser creator god). Unlike the second century Gnostics, they did not apparently place any special relevance upon knowledge (\"gnosis\") as an effective salvific force.\n\nThe Dvaita Vedanta school of Indian philosophy espouses a dualism between God and the universe by theorizing the existence of two separate realities. The first and the more important reality is that of Shiva or Shakti or Vishnu or Brahman. Shiva or Shakti or Vishnu is the supreme Self, God, the absolute truth of the universe, the independent reality. The second reality is that of dependent but equally real universe that exists with its own separate essence. Everything that is composed of the second reality, such as individual soul (Jiva), matter, etc. exist with their own separate reality. The distinguishing factor of this philosophy as opposed to Advaita Vedanta (monistic conclusion of Vedas) is that God takes on a personal role and is seen as a real eternal entity that governs and controls the universe. Because the existence of individuals is grounded in the divine, they are depicted as reflections, images or even shadows of the divine, but never in any way identical with the divine. Salvation therefore is described as the realization that all finite reality is essentially dependent on the Supreme.\n\nAlternatively, \"dualism\" can mean the tendency of humans to perceive and understand the world as being divided into two overarching categories. In this sense, it is dualistic when one perceives a tree as a thing separate from everything surrounding it. This form of ontological dualism exists in Taoism and Confucianism, beliefs that divide the universe into the complementary oppositions of yin and yang. In traditions such as classical Hinduism, Zen Buddhism or Islamic Sufism, a key to enlightenment is \"transcending\" this sort of dualistic thinking, without merely substituting dualism with monism or pluralism.\n\nThe opposition and combination of the universe's two basic principles of yin and yang is a large part of Chinese philosophy, and is an important feature of Taoism, both as a philosophy and as a religion, although the concept developed much earlier. Some argue that yin and yang were originally an earth and sky god, respectively. As one of the oldest principles in Chinese philosophy, yin and yang are also discussed in Confucianism, but to a lesser extent.\n\nSome of the common associations with yang and yin, respectively, are: male and female, light and dark, active and passive, motion and stillness. Some scholars believe that the two ideas may have originally referred to two opposite sides of a mountain, facing towards and away from the sun. The yin and yang symbol in actuality has very little to do with Western dualism; instead it represents the philosophy of balance, where two opposites co-exist in harmony and are able to transmute into each other. In the yin-yang symbol there is a dot of yin in yang and a dot of yang in yin. In Taoism, this symbolizes the inter-connectedness of the opposite forces as different aspects of Tao, the First Principle. Contrast is needed to create a distinguishable reality, without which we would experience nothingness. Therefore, the independent principles of yin and yang are actually dependent on one another for each other's distinguishable existence.\n\nThe complementary dualistic concept seen in yin and yang represent the reciprocal interaction throughout nature, related to a feedback loop, where opposing forces do not exchange in opposition but instead exchange reciprocally to promote stabilization similar to homeostasis. An underlying principle in Taoism states that within every independent entity lies a part of its opposite. Within sickness lies health and vice versa. This is because all opposites are manifestations of the single Tao, and are therefore not independent from one another, but rather a variation of the same unifying force throughout all of nature.\n\nIn a Nenets myth, Num and Nga collaborate and compete with each other, creating land, there are also other myths about competing-collaborating demiurges.\n\nAmong others, also dualistic myths were investigated in researches which tried to compare the mythologies of Siberian peoples and settle the problem of their origins. Vyacheslav Ivanov and Vladimir Toporov compared the mythology of Ket people with those of Uralic peoples, assuming in the studies, that there are modelling semiotic systems in the compared mythologies; and they have also made typological comparisons. Among others, from possibly Uralic mythological analogies, those of Ob-Ugric peoples and Samoyedic peoples are mentioned. Some other discussed analogies (similar folklore motifs, and purely typological considerations, certain binary pairs in symbolics) may be related to dualistic organization of society—some of such dualistic features can be found at these compared peoples. It must be admitted that, for Kets, neither dualistic organization of society nor cosmological dualism has been researched thoroughly: if such features existed at all, they have either weakened or remained largely undiscovered; although there are some reports on division into two exogamous patrilinear moieties, folklore on conflicts of mythological figures, and also on cooperation of two beings in creating the land: the diving of the water fowl. If we include dualistic cosmologies meant in broad sense, not restricted to certain concrete motifs, then we find that they are much more widespread, they exist not only among some Uralic peoples, but there are examples in each inhabited continent.\n\nA Chukchi myth and its variations report the creation of the world; in some variations, it is achieved by the collaboration of several beings (birds, collaborating in a coequal way; or the creator and the raven, collaborating in a coequal way; or the creator alone, using the birds only as assistants).\n\nAll three Fuegian tribes had dualistic myths about culture heros. The Yámana have dualistic myths about the two brothers. They act as culture heroes, and sometimes stand in an antagonistic relation with each other, introducing opposite laws. Their figures can be compared to the Kwanyip-brothers of the Selk'nam. In general, the presence of dualistic myths in two compared cultures does not imply relatedness or diffusion necessarily.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5194532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5194532", "title": "Earthseed", "text": "Earthseed\n\nEarthseed is a religion based on the idea that \"God is Change.\" It is the creation of Octavia E. Butler, as revealed by her character Lauren Oya Olamina in the books: \"Parable of the Sower\" and \"Parable of the Talents\". (A third book of the trilogy, \"Parable of the Trickster\", was not completed before Butler's death.)\n\n\"Parable of the Sower\" is a futuristic, dystopian, science-fiction novel. In its reality, the United States has devolved into states and/or city-states warring for the few remaining resources. Life is cheap, and the economy is becoming reborn as company towns.\n\nThe main character in \"Parable of the Sower\", Lauren Olamina, is the daughter of a Baptist minister who serves their walled-in neighborhood. Because of her mother's addiction to a prescription drug, Olamina suffers from \"hyperempathy\", which causes her to share pain or perceived pain with any living creature she sees. When her community is attacked, burned, and looted, seventeen-year-old Olamina barely escapes with her life. She travels, at great danger, into northern California in search of a haven where she and others can build the first Earthseed community.\n\nThe beliefs of Earthseed are recorded in the fictional book \"Earthseed: The Books of the Living\". Olamina \"writes\" in short, poetic passages. Portions of this text are presented at the beginning of each section, some chapters, and occasionally throughout the text. The philosophy of Earthseed also underlies the motivations of some of the characters in these novels.\n\nThe word \"Earthseed\" comes from the idea that the seeds of all life on Earth can be transplanted, and through adaptation will grow, in many different types of situations or places. \"The Books of the Living\" is chosen in direct contrast to many other religions' use of the phrase \"The Books of the Dead\". Earthseed is a religion of the present and the future, of the living, not of the dead or the past.\n\nAlthough Olamina is raised as a Baptist, she does not feel comfortable with \"her father's God.\" Instead, she develops ideas that seem to better fit the reality she knows.\n\nBecause \"God is Change\", humans are able to direct God's malleability. Believers are enjoined to \"shape God\". By shaping themselves, they can save themselves. Believers are to accept the central tenet that \"God is Change\" primarily so that they will recognize their own power to affect and direct Change/God. Only by conscious effort can they avoid being God's victims.\n\nEarthseed also promotes the belief that \"The Destiny of Earthseed / Is to take root among the stars\" (\"The Parable of the Sower\", Octavia E. Butler). The Destiny is necessary because, eventually, we will outgrow Earth (i.e., use up its natural resources).\n\nThe central verse of Earthseed is given in the following:\n\nThe central paradox of Earthseed is:\n\nWhile the religion began as fiction, it has inspired several real-world movements.\n\nThe Terasem Movement seeks the development of humanity through technology, and to bridge the gap between science and religion. \"Terasem\" comes from the Latin \"Terra\" ('earth') and \"sēmen\" ('seed'). Like the fictional Earthseed, Terasem Movement attempts to \"shape God\", but through technology.\n\nThere is also a humanistic pagan website called Earthseed, and a social movement named SolSeed.\n\n"}
{"id": "39066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39066", "title": "List of religions and spiritual traditions", "text": "List of religions and spiritual traditions\n\nWhile religion is hard to define, one standard model of religion, used in religious studies courses, was proposed by Clifford Geertz, who defined it as a\n\nThe word \"religion\" is sometimes used interchangeably with \"faith\" or \"belief system\", but religion differs from private belief in that it has a public aspect. Most religions have organized behaviours, including clerical hierarchies, a definition of what constitutes adherence or membership, congregations of laity, regular meetings or services for the purposes of veneration of a deity or for prayer, holy places (either natural or architectural) or religious texts. Certain religions also have a sacred language often used in liturgical services. The practice of a religion may also include sermons, commemoration of the activities of a god or gods, sacrifices, festivals, feasts, trance, rituals, rites, ceremonies, worship, initiations, funerals, marriages, meditation, invocation, mediumship, music, art, dance, public service or other aspects of human culture. Religious beliefs have also been used to explain parapsychological phenomena such as out-of-body experiences, near-death experiences and reincarnation, along with many other paranormal and supernatural experiences.\n\nSome academics studying the subject have divided religions into three broad categories: world religions, a term which refers to transcultural, international faiths; indigenous religions, which refers to smaller, culture-specific or nation-specific religious groups; and new religious movements, which refers to recently developed faiths. One modern academic theory of religion, social constructionism, says that religion is a modern concept that suggests all spiritual practice and worship follows a model similar to the Abrahamic religions as an orientation system that helps to interpret reality and define human beings, and thus religion, as a concept, has been applied inappropriately to non-Western cultures that are not based upon such systems, or in which these systems are a substantially simpler construct.\n\nReligions that originated in East Asia; namely Taoism, Confucianism and Shintoism, and religions and traditions related to, and descended from them.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nReligions that originated in the Indian subcontinent; namely Hinduism, Jainism, Buddhism and Sikhism, and religions and traditions related to, and descended from them.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nReligions that originated in the Middle East; namely Zoroastrianism, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, and religions and traditions related to, and descended from them.\n\n\n\n\n\nCertain Christian groups are difficult to classify as \"Eastern\" or \"Western.\" Many Gnostic groups were closely related to early Christianity, for example, Valentinism. Irenaeus wrote polemics against them from the standpoint of the then-unified Catholic Church.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nReligions that cannot be classed as either world religions nor traditional folk religions, and are usually recent in their inception.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nReligions that consist of the traditional customs and beliefs of particular ethnic groups, refined and expanded upon for thousands of years, often lacking formal doctrine. \n\nNote: Some adherents do not consider their ways to be \"religion,\" preferring other cultural terms. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40880627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40880627", "title": "Religio", "text": "Religio\n\nThe Latin term \"religiō\", origin of the modern lexeme \"religion\" (via Old French/Middle Latin) is of ultimately obscure etymology. It is recorded beginning in the 1st century BC, i.e. in Classical Latin at the beginning of the Roman Empire, notably by Cicero, in the sense of \"scrupulous or strict observance of the traditional \"cultus\"\".\n\nThe classical explanation of the word, traced to Cicero himself, derives it from \"re-\" (again) + \"lego\" in the sense of \"choose\", \"go over again\" or \"consider carefully\".\nModern scholars such as Tom Harpur and Joseph Campbell favor the derivation from ' \"bind, connect\", probably from a prefixed ', i.e. \"re-\" (again) + \"ligare\" or \"to reconnect,\" which was made prominent by St. Augustine, following the interpretation of Lactantius. \n\nThe problem with these etymologies, regardless of whether one favours \"lego\" or \"ligo\", is that the now-familiar prefix re- \"again\" is not attested prior to its occurrence in \"religio\" and is itself in need of an etymological explanation.\n\nWithin the system of what we would now call \"Roman religion (in the modern sense of the word), the term \"religio\" originally meant an obligation to the gods, something expected by them from human beings or a matter of particular care or concern as related to the gods, \n\"reverence for God or the gods, careful pondering of divine things, piety\".\n\nIn this sense, \"religio\" might be translated better as \"religious scruple\" than with the English word \"religion\". One definition of \"religio\" offered by Cicero is \"cultus deorum\", \"the proper performance of rites in veneration of the gods.\"\n\n\"Religio\" among the Romans was not based on \"faith\", but on knowledge, including and especially correct practice. \"Religio\" (plural \"religiones\") was the pious practice of Rome's traditional cults, and was a cornerstone of the \"mos maiorum\", the traditional social norms that regulated public, private, and military life. To the Romans, their success was self-evidently due to their practice of proper, respectful \"religio\", which gave the gods what was owed them and which was rewarded with social harmony, peace and prosperity.\n\nReligious law maintained the proprieties of divine honours, sacrifice, and ritual. Impure sacrifice and incorrect ritual were \"vitia\" (faults, hence \"vice,\" the English derivative); excessive devotion, fearful grovelling to deities, and the improper use or seeking of divine knowledge were \"superstitio\"; neglecting the \"religiones\" owed to the traditional gods was atheism, a charge leveled during the Empire at Jews, Christians, and Epicureans. Any of these moral deviations could cause divine anger (\"ira deorum\") and, therefore, harm the State. See Religion in ancient Rome.\n\n\"Religiosus\" was something pertaining to the gods or marked out by them as theirs, as distinct from \"sacer\", which was something or someone given to them by humans. Hence, a graveyard was not primarily defined as \"sacer\" but a \"locus religiosus\", because those who lay within its boundaries were considered belonging to the di Manes. Places struck by lightning were taboo because they had been marked as \"religiosus\" by Jupiter himself.\n"}
{"id": "25414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25414", "title": "Religion", "text": "Religion\n\nReligion may be defined as a cultural system of designated behaviors and practices, worldviews, texts, sanctified places, prophecies, ethics, or organizations, that relates humanity to supernatural, transcendental, or spiritual elements. However, there is no scholarly consensus over what precisely constitutes a religion.\n\nDifferent religions may or may not contain various elements ranging from the divine, sacred things, faith, a supernatural being or supernatural beings or \"some sort of ultimacy and transcendence that will provide norms and power for the rest of life\". Religious practices may include rituals, sermons, commemoration or veneration (of deities), sacrifices, festivals, feasts, trances, initiations, funerary services, matrimonial services, meditation, prayer, music, art, dance, public service, or other aspects of human culture. Religions have sacred histories and narratives, which may be preserved in sacred scriptures, and symbols and holy places, that aim mostly to give a meaning to life. Religions may contain symbolic stories, which are sometimes said by followers to be true, that have the side purpose of explaining the origin of life, the universe, and other things. Traditionally, faith, in addition to reason, has been considered a source of religious beliefs.\n\nThere are an estimated 10,000 distinct religions worldwide, but about 84% of the world's population is affiliated with one of the five largest religion groups, namely Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism or forms of folk religion. The religiously unaffiliated demographic includes those who do not identify with any particular religion, atheists and agnostics. While the religiously unaffiliated have grown globally, many of the religiously unaffiliated still have various religious beliefs.<ref name=\"Pew Global Unaffiliated 12/2012\"></ref>\n\nThe study of religion encompasses a wide variety of academic disciplines, including theology, comparative religion and social scientific studies. Theories of religion offer various explanations for the origins and workings of religion, including the ontological foundations of religious being and belief.\n\n\"Religion\" (from O.Fr. \"religion\" religious community, from L. \"religionem\" (nom. \"religio\") \"respect for what is sacred, reverence for the gods, sense of right, moral obligation, sanctity\", \"obligation, the bond between man and the gods\") is derived from the Latin \"religiō\", the ultimate origins of which are obscure. One possible interpretation traced to Cicero, connects ' read, i.e. \"re\" (again) with \"lego\" in the sense of choose, go over again or consider carefully. The definition of \"religio\" by Cicero is \"cultum deorum\", \"the proper performance of rites in veneration of the gods.\" Julius Caesar used \"religio\" to mean \"obligation of an oath\" when discussing captured soldiers making an oath to their captors. The Roman naturalist Pliny the Elder, used the term \"religio\" on elephants in that they venerate the sun and the moon. Modern scholars such as Tom Harpur and Joseph Campbell favor the derivation from ' bind, connect, probably from a prefixed \"\", i.e. \"re\" (again) + \"ligare\" or to reconnect, which was made prominent by St. Augustine, following the interpretation given by Lactantius in \"Divinae institutiones\", IV, 28. The medieval usage alternates with \"order\" in designating bonded communities like those of monastic orders: \"we hear of the 'religion' of the Golden Fleece, of a knight 'of the religion of Avys'\".\n\nIn the ancient and medieval world, the etymological Latin root \"religio\" was understood as an individual virtue of worship in mundane contexts; never as doctrine, practice, or actual source of knowledge. In general, \"religio\" referred to broad social obligations towards anything including family, neighbors, rulers, and even towards God. \"Religio\" was most often used by the ancient Romans not in the context of a relation towards gods, but as a range of general emotions such as hesitation, caution, anxiety, fear; feelings of being bound, restricted, inhibited; which arose from heightened attention in any mundane context. The term was also closely related to other terms like \"scrupulus\" which meant \"very precisely\" and some Roman authors related the term \"supertitio\", which meant too much fear or anxiety or shame, to \"religio\" at times. When \"religio\" came into English around the 1200s as religion, it took the meaning of \"life bound by monastic vows\" or monastic orders. The compartmentalized concept of religion, where religious things were separated from worldly things, was not used before the 1500s. The concept of religion was first used in the 1500s to distinguish the domain of the church and the domain of civil authorities.\n\nIn the ancient Greece, the Greek term \"threskeia\" was loosely translated into Latin as \"religio\" in late antiquity. The term was sparsely used in classical Greece but became more frequently used in the writings of Josephus in the first century CE. It was used in mundane contexts and could mean multiple things from respectful fear to excessive or harmfully distracting practices of others; to cultic practices. It was often contrasted with the Greek word \"deisidaimonia\" which meant too much fear.\n\nThe modern concept of religion, as an abstraction that entails distinct sets of beliefs or doctrines, is a recent invention in the English language since such usage began with texts from the 17th century due to the splitting of Christendom during the Protestant Reformation and globalization in the age of exploration which involved contact with numerous foreign cultures with non-European languages.\nSome argue that regardless of its definition, it is not appropriate to apply the term religion to non-Western cultures. Others argue that using religion on non-western cultures distorts what people do and believe.\n\nThe concept of religion was formed in the 16th and 17th centuries, despite the fact that ancient sacred texts like the Bible, the Quran, and others did not have a word or even a concept of religion in the original languages and neither did the people or the cultures in which these sacred texts were written. For example, there is no precise equivalent of religion in Hebrew, and Judaism does not distinguish clearly between religious, national, racial, or ethnic identities. One of its central concepts is \"halakha\", meaning the walk or path sometimes translated as law, which guides religious practice and belief and many aspects of daily life. Even though the beliefs and traditions of Judaism are found in the ancient world, ancient Jews saw Jewish identity as being about an ethnic or national identity and did not entail a compulsory belief system or regulated rituals. Even in the 1st century CE, Josephus had used the Greek term \"ioudaismos\", which some translate as Judaism today, even though he used it as an ethnic term, not one linked to modern abstract concepts of religion as a set of beliefs. It was in the 19th century that Jews began to see their ancestral culture as a religion analogous to Christianity. The Greek word \"threskeia\", which was used by Greek writers such as Herodotus and Josephus, is found in the New Testament. \"Threskeia\" is sometimes translated as religion in today's translations, however, the term was understood as worship well into the medieval period. In the Quran, the Arabic word \"din\" is often translated as religion in modern translations, but up to the mid-1600s translators expressed \"din\" as law. \n\nThe Sanskrit word dharma, sometimes translated as religion, also means law. Throughout classical South Asia, the study of law consisted of concepts such as penance through piety and ceremonial as well as practical traditions. Medieval Japan at first had a similar union between imperial law and universal or Buddha law, but these later became independent sources of power.\n\nThroughout the Americas, Native Americans never had a concept of \"religion\" and any suggestion otherwise is a colonial imposition by Christians.\n\nThough traditions, sacred texts, and practices have existed throughout time, most cultures did not align with western conceptions of religion since they did not separate everyday life from the sacred. In the 18th and 19th centuries, the terms Buddhism, Hinduism, Taoism, Confucianism, and world religions first entered the English language. No one self-identified as a Hindu or Buddhist or other similar terms before the 1800s. \"Hindu\" has historically been used as a geographical, cultural, and later religious identifier for people indigenous to the Indian subcontinent. Throughout its long history, Japan had no concept of religion since there was no corresponding Japanese word, nor anything close to its meaning, but when American warships appeared off the coast of Japan in 1853 and forced the Japanese government to sign treaties demanding, among other things, freedom of religion, the country had to contend with this Western idea.\n\nAccording to the philologist Max Müller in the 19th century, the root of the English word religion, the Latin \"religio\", was originally used to mean only reverence for God or the gods, careful pondering of divine things, piety (which Cicero further derived to mean diligence). Max Müller characterized many other cultures around the world, including Egypt, Persia, and India, as having a similar power structure at this point in history. What is called ancient religion today, they would have only called law.\n\nScholars have failed to agree on a definition of religion. There are however two general definition systems: the sociological/functional and the phenomenological/philosophical.\n\nReligion is a modern Western concept. Parallel concepts are not found in many current and past cultures; there is no equivalent term for religion in many languages. Scholars have found it difficult to develop a consistent definition, with some giving up on the possibility of a definition. Others argue that regardless of its definition, it is not appropriate to apply it to non-Western cultures.\n\nAn increasing number of scholars have expressed reservations about ever defining the essence of religion. They observe that the way we use the concept today is a particularly modern construct that would not have been understood through much of history and in many cultures outside the West (or even in the West until after the Peace of Westphalia). The MacMillan Encyclopedia of Religions states:\nThe anthropologist Clifford Geertz defined religion as a\nAlluding perhaps to Tylor's \"deeper motive\", Geertz remarked that\nThe theologian Antoine Vergote took the term supernatural simply to mean whatever transcends the powers of nature or human agency. He also emphasized the cultural reality of religion, which he defined as\nPeter Mandaville and Paul James intended to get away from the modernist dualisms or dichotomous understandings of immanence/transcendence, spirituality/materialism, and sacredness/secularity. They define religion as\n"}
{"id": "3862966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3862966", "title": "Religion and agriculture", "text": "Religion and agriculture\n\nReligion and agriculture have been closely associated since neolithic times and the development of early Orphic religions based upon fertility and the seasons.\n\n\n"}
