{"id": "5688684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5688684", "title": "Bride service", "text": "Bride service\n\nBride service has traditionally been portrayed in the anthropological literature as the service rendered by the bridegroom to a bride's family as a bride price or part of one (see dowry). Bride service and bride wealth models frame anthropological discussions of kinship in many regions of the world.\nPatterns of matrilocal post-marital residence, as well as the practice of temporary or prolonged bride service, have been widely reported for indigenous peoples of the Amazon basin. Among these people, bride service is frequently performed in conjunction with an interval of uxorilocal residence. The length of uxorilocal residence and the duration of bride service are contingent upon negotiations between the concerned parties, the outcome of which has been characterized as an enduring commitment or permanent debt. The power wielded by those who “give” wives over those who “take” them is also said to be a significant part of the political relationships in societies where bride service obligations are prevalent.\n\nRather than seeing affinity in terms of a \"compensation\" model whereby individuals are exchanged as objects, Dean’s (1995) research on Amazon bride service among the Urarina demonstrates how differentially situated subjects negotiate the politics of marriage.\nAn example of bride service occurs in the Hebrew Bible, , when Jacob labored for Laban for fourteen years to marry Rachel. Originally the deal was seven years, but Laban tricked Jacob by giving him Leah on their wedding day, so Jacob had to work another seven years to obtain the girl he had originally fallen in love with, Rachel.\n\n"}
{"id": "35970102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35970102", "title": "Caption contest", "text": "Caption contest\n\nA caption contest or caption competition is a competition between multiple participants, who are required to give the best description for a certain image offered by the contest organizer. Rules and information about the competition process are also given by the competition organizer.\n\nCaption contest participants have to describe a given image as accurately and originally as possible. Contests may vary by image type (photo or drawing), caption format (description of a situation or a dialogue), as well as judging criteria. The competition organizer is required to give information about caption submission rules and other information that is important for the contest.\n\nCaption contests are mainly arranged as an amusement, and they can be organized under different conditions (between separate individuals, in public events, mass media, etc.), as well as using various means (drawn pictures on paper, digital image, printed image, press publication, etc.). Traditionally, the most popular and typical format has been publication of caption contests in newspapers or magazines, but with the development of modern technologies, it is also very popular to organize caption contests on the Internet.\n\nCaption contests can be used not only as an entertainment but also for other purposes, such as newspaper promotion, bringing forward a certain problem, or product advertisement. An important aspect of caption competition is to look at an object, event or issue from unusual point of view.\n\nThe caption, unless competition rules do not restrict, can be in any form of literary expression - prose, poetry, as one word or a word play. Usually the submitted captions are judged by the originality and wit, but not always the decisive assessment is humour. It is generally assumed that the caption has to describe image as precisely as possible, so both humour and precision are equally important.\n\nAs caption writing is an art of words, it is rarely possible to evaluate the superiority of one caption over others accurately and objectively. Consequently, the judging of submitted captions is usually quite subjective. Sometimes competition rules limit caption size, but usually the caption is no longer than one sentence (10 - 20 words). As an exception, the caption can consist of several sentences. Usually it is not allowed to use profane or offensive language in submitted captions.\n\nIn several caption contests, winners are awarded with prizes.\n\nIt is considered that the origins of caption contests are related to the increase of popularity of cartoons and comics as well as widespread use of illustrations and the rise of photojournalism in printed media at the end of the 19th century. All these areas share the combination of words and images that could be multiplied and made available to a wide audience with the beginnings of mass printing and wide spread of newspapers and magazines.\n\nFrom currently available information, the first caption contests in printed media appeared in the U.S. press of the late 19th century (such as \"Life\" magazine which was published from year 1883 to 1936). At that time these competitions were called \"picture title\" or \"picture headline\" contests, but their concept and meaning was identical to current caption contests. It must be considered, that the term \"caption\" in its present sense firstly appeared in English language only in the first half of the 20th century.\n\nIn the beginning of the 20th century, at least in the U.S. press (for example, \"The San Francisco Call\", \"The Daily News\", \"The Bridgeport Telegram\") caption contests were already quite popular. In these competitions drawn pictures and cartoons were mainly used. Photo caption contests appeared little later with the improvement of printing quality (towards the second quarter of 20th century).\n\nDuring the course of the 20th century, caption contests were published in printed media in many countries of the world. For example, in Soviet Union one of the first caption contests was published in daily newspaper \"Izvestia\" Sunday supplement \"Nedelya\" (\"The Week\") at the beginning of the 1960s. Little later a newspaper \"Literaturnaya gazeta\" began to publish caption contests that became very popular and they are part of this newspaper up until now.\n\nThe spread of caption contests increased even more with the emergence of the Internet by the end of the 20th century, and at the beginning of the 21st century. Internet has made the organization of caption contests and participation in them possible for wide audiences across the world.\n\nAlthough a considerable amount of caption contests are now on Internet, caption contests in printed media still exist and are quite popular. A very popular and prominent is a weekly caption contest published in American magazine \"The New Yorker\". The contest first appeared in 1998 and has been published regularly in each issue since 2005. Each week several thousand participants take part in this competition. On the Internet, a very popular is the weekly caption competition on \"BBC\" website (\"Magazine Monitor\" section), held since 2006.\n\nAlong the traditional caption contests, there have appeared different forms of this genre such as anti-caption contests for worst submitted caption and reverse caption contests where the most suitable picture must be submitted for a given caption. There are also caption contests devoted to particular themes such as history or football.\n\nIn 2006, the website caption.me (then captioncompetition.co.uk) was founded, featuring amusing photos loaded automatically from photo-sharing site Flickr. Visitors submit captions and vote for others. Caption.Me features a real-time collaborative mind-mapping feature called Maption\n\nIn 2009, there was released an online multiplayer caption writing game called \"Caption That\" where players write captions for a given image and then vote for their favourite from the list others have written.\n\nIn 2014, the iPhone app Captionit was released on the Apple App Store. Captionit is a free mobile app that allows people to play and create caption contests on their iPhone, iPad, and iPod Touch.\n\nIn 2016, mobile phone application TinnBin was released for both iPhone and Android. TinnBin users create contests called \"Bins\" by uploading a picture from their device and selecting how long they would like the contest to run. While the bin is open, users can add and vote on comments, called \"Tinns\". Once the bin is closed, the winning tinn is appended to the image in the form of a caption. TinnBin is different from most other caption contests as the winner is chosen strictly by users of the application, and not the contest creators, and all the contests are created by users of the application.\n\n\"The New Yorker\" magazine, noting the popularity of its cartoon caption contest, has created a caption contest board game and issued a book with the most interesting cartoons and winning captions as well as comprehensive information covering this theme.\n\nAlso concerning the \"New Yorker\" caption contest, several scientific studies have been carried out: researchers from University of New Mexico, Department of Anthropology, in 2010 have compared humour ability in males and females in context of this competition; members of \"The New Yorker\" editorial board and University of Colorado Boulder Leeds School of Business in 2011 analysed several thousand entries of this contest to study the concept of humour.\n\nThe future of caption contests depends on the imagination and creativity of their organizers and participants, as well as future development of information and communication technologies.\n\nIn U.S. TV series \"The Office\", seventh-season episode \"The Search\", its character Pam starts a caption contest in the office, with her co-worker Gabe instituting rules that no one wants to follow.\n\nIn British sitcom \"Green Wing\", the second series, episode six, its character Alan Statham wins a caption competition on the \"Consultant Radiologists International\" website, an organisation of which Alan claims to be an \"Esteemed member\".\n\nIn a children's novel \"Absolute Zero\" by Helen Cresswell its character Uncle Parker has won a trip to the Caribbean in a caption contest. The rest of the family immediately enter similar competitions in an attempt to better his prize but, much of the time, beating the others to an entry form is a victory in itself.\n\nIn season two of the HBO series \"Bored to Death\", George (played by Ted Danson) struggles to caption a New Yorker cartoon, which portrays a police duck interacting with a suicidal bear.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40853646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40853646", "title": "Facilitas", "text": "Facilitas\n\nFacilitas /facilitas/ is facility in devising appropriate language to fit any speaking or writing situation.\n\nThe art of facilitas was most notably taught by Quintilian, the Roman rhetorician, in the latter part of the first century A.D. (c. 35 – c. 100). In Quintilian's Institutio Oratoria, Quintilian summarizes the Roman educational system. In this system, students, generally young boys, were trained daily from the age of six to about eighteen. There were two levels of masters who taught the children: the grammaticus, who helped children with imitations, speaking and writing exercises, and the rhetor, who prepared students for the final stage of declamation, when they gave fictitious speeches. The ultimate goal of Quintilian’s curriculum was for men to have facilitas: the ability to speak extemporaneously on any subject at any time. Quintilian taught the art of rhetoric, or effective communication, to his students in order for them to gain knowledge, as well as develop their analytical and political skills, in efforts to make them \"good citizens.\"\n"}
{"id": "29722995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29722995", "title": "Hierotopy", "text": "Hierotopy\n\nHierotopy (from , sacred + , place, space) is the creation of sacred spaces viewed as a special form of human creativity and also a related academic field where specific examples of such creativity are studied. The concept and the term were developed in 2002 by Russian art-historian and byzantinist Alexei Lidov. Hierotopy accounts for the ways in which a vast array of media (e.g. religious images, ritual, song, incense, light) are used to organize sacred spaces. As an academic field, it spans the disciplines of art history, archeology, cultural anthropology, ethnology and religious studies, but it possesses an object of study and a methodology of its own. It differs from the phenomenology of the sacred (which has been studied by Mircea Eliade, Rudolf Otto and Pavel Florensky) insofar as it focuses on historical examples of hierotopic projects, that is, projects establishing a medium of communication between the mundane and the sacred. Though related with religious mysticism, hierotopy deals first and foremost with forms of conscious, creative activity. \n\nAccording to the hierotopic approach, icons and other sacred artifacts are viewed not as isolated objects, but as components of larger hierotopic projects. Though such artifacts often play a prominent role in hierotopic studies, it is these projects themselves – including both their conceptual and artistic aspects, as well as the historical developments leading to their formation – that are the primary focus of study. The role played by the creators of sacred spaces is also of chief importance, and could be compared with that of an artist. The creative element at work here resembles the work of contemporary film directors, for both involve the coordinated effort of various artists and specialists in shaping a single, comprehensive vision. As examples of hierotopic projects, one can consider King Solomon's construction of the First Temple, the erection of Hagia Sophia by Emperor Justinian, as well as the work of Abbot Suger in the conception of first Gothic cathedrals. Hierotopic projects are not limited to churches and sanctuaries; in other cases, landscapes, architectural compounds and even cities and countries have become products of hierotopic creativity. \n\nThe topics of hierotopic study cover a broad span of interests and range, for example, from the role played by light in church architecture to the study of religious ceremonies, feasts and folk customs. The comparison of hierotopic models at work in different cultures is another focus of interest. \n\nSix international symposia (2004, 2006, 2009, 2011, 2014, 2017) have been organized on hierotopic subjects.\n\nThe concept of the \"spatial icon\" plays a central role in hierotopy and is used to describe the perception of sacred spaces. Spatial icons are understood to play a mediating role between the mundane and the sacred. They are mediatory images that are evoked, for example, in the space of a temple or sanctuary. Hierotopic creativity is a sort of art, which can be described as the creation of spatial icons. This concept applies to the way in which the perception of architecture, light, image, ritual practice, as well as various other components forming sacred spaces, is unified into a single vision. It is also used in the study both of \"sacred landscapes\", such as the New Jerusalem Monastery near Moscow, as well as of various ritual practices creating iconic medium, such as the Donkey walk in medieval Moscow. Spatial icons are essentially dynamic and performative in nature, such that the formal boundary between ‘image’ and ‘beholder’ no longer pertains. Typically, the beholders of spatial icons are actively involved in some way and become, to a certain extent, co-creators of the icons.\n\nThe transfer of sacred spaces is an important form of hierotopic creativity. While an original sacred space often appears as the result of a theophany, such as a divine visitation or omen, this primary sacred space is then consciously reproduced in sanctuaries or temples as a spatial icon. For example, the construction of the First Temple, as recounted in the Old Testament, can be viewed as the reproduction of the sacred space of the Tabernacle. Similarly, in the design and construction of many Christian churches, the First Temple itself has been taken as a hierotopic prototype. Multiple \"New Jerusalems\" (reproductions of the Holy City of Jerusalem), aimed to establish a link to the space of the Holy Land, are common both to the Eastern and Western branches of the Christian tradition.\n\nThe perception of sacred spaces has been analyzed by Lidov in terms of \"image-paradigms\". According to his conception, an image-paradigm is a guiding image-vision that is created with the help of various media and that is aimed at evoking the same image in the mind of beholders of a sacred space. An image-paradigm, which is essentially different from an illustrative picture or representation, is a means of communication between the creators of sacred spaces and their beholders. It constitutes a kernel of meaning that gives form to an entire hierotopic project. As an example, the image of the Heavenly Jerusalem, which was present in Medieval churches without being directly represented, is one of the most significant image-paradigms in the Christian tradition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "460394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=460394", "title": "Keyword (rhetoric)", "text": "Keyword (rhetoric)\n\nKeywords are the words that academics use to reveal the internal structure of an author's \nreasoning. While they are used primarily for rhetoric, they are also used in a strictly \ngrammatical sense for structural composition, reasoning, and comprehension. Indeed, they are \nan essential part of any language.\n\nThere are many different types of keyword categories including: Conclusion, Continuation, Contrast,\nEmphasis, Evidence, Illustration and Sequence. Each category serves its own function, as do the keywords\ninside of a given category.\n\nWhen someone uses a search engine, they type in one or more words describing what they are looking for:\n'Norwich florist' or 'cheap holidays Greece', for example. These words or phrases are known as keywords.\n\nIn corpus linguistics, key words are words that appear with statistically unusual frequency in a text\nor a corpus of texts. They are identified by software that compares a word-list of the text with a word-list\nbased on a larger reference corpus. A suitable term for the phenomenon is keyness. The procedure used,\nfor example by WordSmith, to list key words and phrases and plot where they appear in texts. These items\nare very often of interest—particularly those human readers would not likely notice, such as prepositions,\ntime adverbs, and pronouns.\n\nOne method used to teach keywords is called the \"keyword method.\" It involves taking complex keywords that students do not know very well, and makes them into easier words. The easier words must have something to do with the complex keywords so students can correlate between the two.\n\nAmsterdam: Benjamins.\n\n"}
{"id": "300543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=300543", "title": "Knowledge gap hypothesis", "text": "Knowledge gap hypothesis\n\nThe knowledge gap hypothesis explains that knowledge, like other forms of wealth, is often differentially distributed throughout a social system. Specifically, the hypothesis predicts that \"as the infusion of mass media information into a social system increases, segments of the population with higher socioeconomic status tend to acquire this information at a faster rate than the lower status segments, so that the gap in knowledge between these segments tends to increase rather than decrease\". Phillip J. Tichenor, then Associate Professor of Journalism and Mass Communication, George A. Donohue, Professor of Sociology, and Clarice N. Olien, Instructor in Sociology – three University of Minnesota researchers – first proposed the knowledge gap hypothesis in 1970.\n\nAlthough first formally articulated in 1970, Tichenor, Donohue, and Olien note that the knowledge gap hypothesis has been implicit throughout the mass communication literature.\n\nIndeed, research published as early as the 1920s had already begun to examine the influence of individual characteristics on people's media content preferences. For example, Gray and Munroe identified education – still used today as an operationalization of socioeconomic status in knowledge gap research (see, e.g., Hwang and Jeong, 2009) – as a significant and positive correlate of a person's tendency to prefer \"serious\" (rather than non-serious) print content.\n\nPopular belief, however, held that such differences in preferences might be diminished by the advent of radio, which required neither the special skill nor the exertion of reading (Lazarsfeld, 1940). Guglielmo Marconi, inventor of the wireless telegraph, even believed that the radio would \"make war impossible, because it will make war ridiculous\" (Narodny, 1912, p. 145). Interested in whether radio had attenuated these individual differences in content preferences, Paul Lazarsfeld, head of the Office of Radio Research at Columbia University, set out to examine whether (1) the total amount of time that people listened to the radio and (2) the type of content they listened to correlated with their socioeconomic status. Not only did Lazarsfeld's data indicate people of lower socioeconomic status tended to listen to more radio programming, but also they were simultaneously less likely to listen to \"serious\" radio content. Contrary to popular belief at the time, then, the widespread adoption of the radio seems to have had little, if any, effect on a person's tendency to prefer specific types of content.\n\nFurther evidence supporting the knowledge gap hypothesis came from Star and Hughes (1950) analysis of efforts to inform Cincinnati adults about the United Nations. Like Gray and Munroe (1929) and Lazarsfeld (1940) before them, Star and Hughes found that while the campaign was successful in reaching better-educated people, those with less education virtually ignored the campaign. Additionally, after realizing that the highly educated people reached by the campaign also tended to be more interested in the topic, Star and Hughes suggested that knowledge, education, and interest may be interdependent.\n\nBased on observations implicit in mass communication research, Tichenor, Donohue, and Olien (1970) define the knowledge gap hypothesis as follows:\n\nAdditionally, Tichenor, Donohue, and Olien suggest 5 reasons why the knowledge gap should exist: \nailor their conte\n\nGiven the preceding information, the knowledge gap hypothesis can be expressed using the following set of related propositions:\n\nThe knowledge gap hypothesis can be operationalized both for cross-sectional and time-series appropriate research. For cross-sectional research, the knowledge gap hypothesis expects that \"\"at any given time\", there should be a higher correlation between acquisition of knowledge and education for topics highly publicized in the media than for topics less highly publicized. Tichenor, Donohue, and Olien (1970) tested this hypothesis using an experiment in which participants were asked to read and discuss two news stories of varying publicity. The results of the experiment support the hypothesis because correlations between education and understanding were significant for high publicity stories but not significant for low publicity stories.\n\nFor time-series research, the knowledge gap hypothesis expects that \"\"over time\", acquisition of knowledge of a heavily publicized topic will proceed at a faster rate among better educated persons than among those with less education.\" Tichenor, Donohue, and Olien (1970) tested this hypothesis using public opinion surveys gathered between 1949 and 1965 measuring whether participants believed humans would reach the Moon in the foreseeable future. During the 15-year span, belief among grade-school educated people increased only about 25 percentage points while belief among college educated people increased more than 60 percentage points, a trend consistent with the hypothesis.\n\nAlthough by the mid-1970s extensive data supported the existence of a knowledge gap among low and high socioeconomic status individuals, Donohue, Tichenor, and Olien (1975) sought to refine the hypothesis to determine under what conditions the knowledge gap might be attenuated or even eliminated. To this end, they examined survey data on national and local issues from probability samples of 16 Minnesota communities gathered between 1969 and 1975. Donohue and colleagues identified three variables that weakened the knowledge gap:\n\nAt least two narrative reviews and one meta-analysis of knowledge gap hypothesis research exist. Gaziano conducted two narrative reviews, one of 58 articles with relevant data in 1983 and the other of 39 additional studies in 1997. Gaziano writes, \"the most consistent result is the presence of knowledge differentials, regardless of topic, methodological, or theoretical variations, study excellence, or other variables and conditions\" (1997, p. 240). Evidence from several decades, Gaziano concludes, underscores the enduring character of knowledge gaps and indicates that they transcend topics and research settings.\n\nBecause narrative reviews examine significance tests rather than effect sizes, Hwang and Jeong (2009) conducted a meta-analysis of 46 knowledge gap studies. Consistent with Gaziano's results, however, Hwang and Jeong found constant knowledge gaps across time.\n\nIn 2010 Elizabeth Corley and Dietram Scheufele conducted a study to investigate the widening knowledge gap with the example of nanotechnology. On the whole, public opinion research has shown that respondents with higher socioeconomic status (SES) acquire new information at a higher rate than low SES respondents. Their previous analyses of two large national surveys conducted in 2004 and 2007 found that respondents with at least a college degree displayed an increase in knowledge levels between 2004 and 2007 while respondents with education levels of less than a high school diploma had a significant decrease in nanotechnology knowledge levels. These results stress that the group that is most in need of help, low SES bracket, have not been helped through communication efforts and their nanotechnology knowledge levels have decreased over time.\n\nCorley and Scheufele investigated a wide range of factors that may help to close knowledge gaps, including mass media. The researchers found that the number of days a week that respondents spent online was significantly correlated to knowledge levels about nanotechnology. Therefore, internet use helped those with less formal education to catch up to their counterparts.\n\nThe emergence of the Internet, and more specifically Web 2.0, may be playing a role in closing the knowledge gap. In fact, Corley and Scheufele explain that \"the internet may finally live up to the hype … as a tool for creating a more informed citizenry by serving as a \"leveler\" of knowledge gaps.\" (2010, p. 2) This is widely due to the fact that information on Web 2.0 is written in layman's terms. The content is created by those individuals who have an understanding of the information, but who are also able to tailor the articles towards a more general audience.\n\nStill, the knowledge gap may still exist even with the emergence of Web 2.0. The disenfranchised group, in this situation, the group with lower SES, must still be motivated to get the information to close the gap. Also, information about a given subject must be given. Without the content being provided, Web 2.0 will not be much of a help. However, if the content is provided, Web 2.0 has allowed the readers to be more interactive and talk with others online, through discussion boards, forums and blogs. The results of the research conducted by Corley and Scheufele are a clear call to action for researchers to investigate non-traditional ways of connecting with lay audiences about emerging technologies.\n\nOverall, studies show the introduction of Web 2.0 may help in closing the knowledge gap because the content that traditionally those with lower SES could not reach, can now be understood because it is written in layman's terms. Web 2.0 has helped because:\n\n\nThere are now three existing competing hypotheses: 1) Media Malaise hypothesis (that predicts a general negative effect), 2) the Virtuous Circle hypothesis (that predicts a general positive effect), and 3) the Differential Effect hypothesis (that predicts a positive effect from newspapers, and a null or negative effect from television)\" (Fraile, 2011). Three types of media outlets have been used to examine the media effects on knowledge gap: 1) Television – knowledge gap between lower and higher education groups are greater among light television users compared to heavy television users (Eveland, 2000), 2) Newspaper – the exposure to newspaper can potentially reinforce the knowledge gap in politics for different SES groups since reading newspaper requires literacy ability to effectively understand the information (Jerit \"et al.\", 2006), while other studies suggest that exposure to newspaper actually slightly decreases the knowledge gap rather than increasing it (Eveland, 2000), and 3) Internet - internet exposure increases public's general knowledge in health issues (Shim, 2008).\n\n"}
{"id": "9736120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9736120", "title": "Noun particle", "text": "Noun particle\n\nA noun particle is any morpheme that denotes or marks the presence of a noun. Noun particles do not exist in English, but can be found in other languages such as Korean and Japanese. \n\nKorean particles are postpositions, which differ from English prepositions in that they come \"after\" the word they mark.\nThe particle \"\" is used to mean \"on\" or \"above.\" It follows the word \"\" (\"roof\").\nThe particle \"\" means \"next to,\" and it follows \"\" (\"market\").\n\nJust as in Korean, noun particles follow the noun being marked, and can serve any of several functions in a given sentence.\nIn this example, \"e\" is the noun particle for \"suupaa\" (\"supermarket\"). This particular noun particle denotes direction towards a place, being \"supermarket.\"\n\nThe three noun particles (\"wa,\" \"ga,\" and \"o\") all serve different functions:\n"}
{"id": "26945591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26945591", "title": "PlinkArt", "text": "PlinkArt\n\nPlinkart is a mobile phone application designed to identify works of art, created by Mark Cummins and James Philbin. Cummins and Philbin were one of three winners of the Education/Reference category of the Google ADC2 (Android Developer Challenge 2) where the pair won $100,000. PlinkArt was acquired by Google in April 2010.\n"}
{"id": "2527137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2527137", "title": "Religious education in primary and secondary education", "text": "Religious education in primary and secondary education\n\nReligious education is the term given to education concerned with religion. It may refer to education provided by a church or religious organization, for instruction in doctrine and faith, or for education in various aspects of religion, but without explicitly religious or moral aims, e.g. in a school or college. The term is often known as religious studies.\n\nReligious Education (RE) is a compulsory subject in the state education system in England. Schools are required to teach a programme of religious studies according to local and national guidelines.\n\nReligious Education in England is mandated by the Education Act 1944 as amended by the Education Reform Act 1988 and the School Standards and Framework Act 1998. The provision of Religious Education is compulsory in all state-funded schools, but it is not compulsory for any of the children to take the subject. The subject consists of the study of different religions, religious leaders, and other religious and moral themes. However, the curriculum is required to reflect the predominant place of Christianity in religious life and hence Christianity forms the majority of the content of the subject. All parents have the right to withdraw a child from religious education, which schools must approve.\n\nAdditionally, all schools are required by law to provide a daily act of collective worship, of which at least 51% must be Christian in basis over the course of the academic year. Sarah Smalley, the chair of the Association of Religious Education inspectors, advisors and consultants, stated that some \"schools did have problems fulfilling the requirement for worship\" due to what they thought was \"a lack of space to gather the entire school for worship\" although Smalley noted that \"there is actually no requirement for such a gathering, as smaller groups are allowed.\" The National Union of Teachers suggested in 2008 that parents should have a right to have specific schooling in their own faith and that imams, rabbis and priests should be invited to offer religious instruction to pupils in all state schools.\n\nEngland has a Local Agreed Syllabus which mandate subject teaching for each Key Stage and possibly for each school year. The Qualifications and Curriculum Authority has also produced the non-statutory National Framework for Religious Education, which provides guidelines for the provision of RE at all key stages, and models the eight-levels as applied in National Curriculum subjects.\n\nIn France, RE is replaced by a non-religious moral teaching (called civic, legal and social education : \"éducation civique, juridique et sociale\", ECJS). Children can additionally receive, on a voluntary basis, a religious education, either at school in private religious school, or outside of school, in their religious community, if they are in a public (State) school. Although in some rare regions, namely Alsace-Moselle, the old Concordat of 1801 being still valid because of the German occupation at the time of the separation of Church and State in France and the strong stand of population in favour of this, religious education is compulsory, and a dispense is necessary if the child refuses to be following (Catholic or Protestant) religious education.\n\nIn Ireland religion is taught in a subject called Religious Education which is compulsory in many schools for the Junior Certificate, but available as an option for the Leaving Certificate. The course educates students about communities of faith, the foundations of the major world religions, the sacred texts, religious practices and festivals for Muslims, Jews, Hindus, Buddhists and Christians. Students also learn about religious change in Ireland, meaning in life, religious and non-religious responses to the search for meaning, atheism, agnosticism and other forms of belief. Students are also educated about morality in a number of different faiths and their moral codes.\n\nIsraeli school system includes State Schools; Religious State Schools; Recognized Schools and Exempt Schools, whose students are regarded as fulfilling the obligatory education.\n\nThe prevailing view is that the religious education would contravene the constitutional separation of state and religion. In place of RE, there is a short but nonetheless compulsory subject called in primary school, where the purpose is to teach moral values rather than to teach ethics as an academic subject. However, despite the stated secular stance, references to the majority religions of Shinto and Buddhism are sometimes made in class texts.\n\nBeing a secular country, with no state religion, Lebanon is expected to have a neutral position regarding religious education in its schools, which is not the case in the country, as well as many European and American countries. Lebanon doesn't have a law concerning RE in its educational establishments. Schools have the right to either give RE classes, or do the opposite. Religious classes are not obligatory, nor banned, and they are not replaced by \"ethics\" classes.\nPrivate Schools (Christian and Muslim) give mandatory religious classes, reflecting their religious identification. Students from other religions don't take any classes during the religious ones, but they always can sign up for the RE class. Catholic schools give only Catholic classes, mandatory for Christian students, but can be signed up for by Muslim students, if not, Muslims do not take any classes in parallel to Christian ones. Public schools kind of have a more liberal religious program. A Lebanese public school may give, or not give RE classes, which regard the predominant religion of the population in the area the school is located in. Students have to take these classes, whether they are Christian or Muslim. A public school located in a mixed area would prefer not to give RE classes, unless voted oppositely by locals, RE classes may be both Christian and Muslim at the same time in this case, and students divide when this happens.\n\nThe Malaysian education system makes \"Moral Studies\" compulsory for non-Muslim students at secondary and primary schools. Muslim students instead partake in \"Islamic Studies\" lessons. Both subjects figure among the seven compulsory subjects undertaken by students for the Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia. There has been considerable debate about the usefulness of the \"Moral\" subject, primarily due to the strict exam-oriented marking-schemes.\n\n Article 2 of the Constitution of Norway mandates Evangelical-Lutheran parents to provide a religious upbringing for their children. With the revision of the Constitution in 2012, this mandate was removed. In the education system, religious education is found in a subject now labeled KRLE (Christianity, religion and ethical education). A minimum of 50% of the subject should be on Christianity, yet preaching has been disapproved since 1969. \n\nIn Scottish state schools, Religious Education is called \"Religious and Moral Education\" from ages 5 to 14, and \"Religious, Moral and Philosophical Studies\" from 14 to 18.\n\nThe majority of state schools in are non-denominational, but as a result of the Education Act 1918, separate denominational state schools were also established. The vast majority of denominational state schools are Roman Catholic but there are also a number of Scottish Episcopal schools. The school buildings are built and maintained by the Roman Catholic Church were handed over to the state under the Education Act. Since then,the Catholic schools are fully funded by the Scottish Government and administered by the Education and Lifelong Learning Directorate. As part of the deal, there are specific legal provisions to ensure the promotion of a Catholic ethos in such schools: applicants for positions in the areas of Religious Education, Guidance or Senior Management must be approved by the Roman Catholic Church in Scotland, which also appoints a chaplain to each of its schools. There is also one Jewish state primary school.\n\nThe South African National Policy on Religion and Education adopted in September 2003 provides for Religion Education, i.e. education about diverse religions, which does not promote any particular religion in the public school curriculum. The policy does not apply to private schools.\n\nThe majority of middle eastern countries provide compulsory religious studies in both private and public schools. The religious studies in private schools can be based on the religious beliefs of the student and can be complied with by the school.\n\n"}
{"id": "41396788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41396788", "title": "Vietnamese calligraphy", "text": "Vietnamese calligraphy\n\nVietnamese calligraphy (Vietnamese Quốc ngữ: thư pháp Việt Nam, Hán Nôm: 書法越南) refers to the calligraphic traditions of Vietnam. It can refer to calligraphic works using a variety of scripts, including Chinese characters, Chữ nôm, and the Latin-based Quốc ngữ. Historically, calligraphers used the former two scripts. However, due to the adoption of the Latin-based Quốc ngữ, modern Vietnamese calligraphy also uses Roman characters.\n\nTraditional Vietnamese calligraphy is strongly affected by that of China. As part of the East Asian cultural spheres, Classical Chinese was often used as the written medium of communication, and as a result, Vietnamese calligraphy thus also follows Chinese calligraphy’s standard and use Han script (Chinese language) in many of its writings. For example, during the Lý dynasty, its style was very much similar to China’s Tang dynasty (618-907), during the Trần dynasty, it was influenced strongly by China’s Song (960-1279) and Yuan (1271-1368) dynasties.\n\nNonetheless, over time, Vietnam developed its own styles of calligraphy for writing both Classical Chinese and Chữ nôm. In Later Le dynasty, Vietnam developed a unique style of calligraphy which was called Nam tự (南字）by Phạm Đình Hổ (範廷琥) in his book Vũ Trung Tùy Bút (雨中隨筆). It was first used in bureaucracy only, but later became popular in all writing purposes. It was also called Lệnh Thư (令書) in Việt Sử Toát Yếu (越史撮要) because of its bureaucratic characteristic at first. \n\nIn modern times, calligraphy has been done frequently in the Latin-based Quốc Ngữ script, as Chữ nôm and Chinese characters have largely fallen out of use. Quốc Ngữ calligraphy gained popularity during the New Poetry and Free Poetry Movements, due to the increasing popularity of using the Vietnamese vernacular, as well as influence from French literature. Modern Vietnamese calligraphy is undoubtedly influenced by modern Latin cursive, but is written using the calligraphy brush, rather than quill or reed pens as is done in Western calligraphy. Much as Chinese calligraphy is used to write poems, festive banners, signage, and so on, Vietnamese calligraphy can also serve the same purpose today.\n\n"}
