{"id": "31113163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31113163", "title": "Angry Birds", "text": "Angry Birds\n\nAngry Birds is a video game franchise created by Finnish company Rovio Entertainment. The series focuses on multi-colored birds who try to save their eggs from green-colored pigs, their enemies. Inspired by \"Crush the Castle\", the game has been praised for its successful combination of fun gameplay, comical style, and low price. Its popularity led to many spin-offs, versions of \"Angry Birds\" being created for PCs and video game consoles, a market for merchandise featuring its characters, a televised cartoon series, and a feature film. In January 2014 there had been over two billion downloads across all platforms, including both regular and special editions: as of July 2015, the series' games have been downloaded more than three billion times collectively, making it the most downloaded freemium game series of all time. The original \"Angry Birds\" has been called \"one of the most mainstream games out right now\", \"one of the great runaway hits of 2010\", and \"the largest mobile app success the world has seen so far\". An animated feature film based on the series was released by Columbia Pictures on 20 May 2016, and the first main-series sequel, \"Angry Birds 2\", was released on 30 July 2015.\n\nThe first game in the series was initially released in December 2009 for IOS. At the time, the swine flu epidemic was in the news, so the staff made the birds' enemies pigs. The company released ports of the game for other touchscreen smartphone operating systems, including Android, Symbian, and Windows Phone, and PCs.\n\nIn 2017, the company has valuated at $2.25 billion or more, the company named Zynga which is another Game developer rejected the buyout offer of $2.25 billion, which experts say the company is worth more than the offered price. \n\nThe following games were soft-launched in select countries in 2016 or 2017, but were never given a final, worldwide release.\n\nRovio is investigating ways to expand the \"Angry Birds\" brand, including merchandise, television shows and movies. Mikael Hed, CEO of Rovio Mobile, has envisioned a feature film in the stop-motion animation style of Aardman Animations. To that end, Rovio has purchased a Helsinki-based animation studio to prepare \"Angry Birds\" short cartoons on the Nicktoons station's Nickelodeon Extra, the first of which was a Christmas special named \"Wreck the Halls\" that debuted in December 2011. Hed acknowledges that such a film would be years away, and that Rovio must keep the characters relevant until then, by producing sequels or new ports of the original game.\n\n\"Angry Birds Toons\", a TV series based on the game, made its debut on March 16, 2013. \"Angry Birds Toons\" is released through third-party video distribution platforms, including Comcast's Xfinity On-Demand in the US, Samsung Smart TVs, and Roku set-top boxes. It is also available in a number of countries on traditional television broadcasts. \"Angry Birds Toons\" is available on mobile devices by an additional \"Angry Birds Toons\" channel on all of the \"Angry Birds\" apps homescreens. DVD version for the TV series was released by Sony Pictures Home Entertainment. The series has a total of 3 seasons.\n\nOn April 11, 2014, Rovio released \"\"Piggy Tales\", a stop motion animated series. It tells the stories of the Minion Pigs' life.\n\nOn November 1, 2014, Rovio released \"Angry Birds Stella\", a 2D/3D animated series, telling the stories of Stella's life and that of her friends on their own island.\n\nOn July 12, 2015, \"Real Angry Birds\", inspired by the game \"Angry Birds\", premiered on \"Nat Geo Wild\".\n\nOn March 10, 2017, Rovio released \"Angry Birds Blues\"\", a computer-animated series based on The Angry Birds Movie. It shows the lives of the Blues having fun, while the Hatchlings doing random stuff and ruining their plans.\n\nOn July 3, 2017, Netflix and KidsClick picked up every Angry Birds Toons, Angry Birds Stella, and Piggy Tales episode in form of 23 compilations.\n\nOn June 1, 2018, U.S. television production company Big Fish Entertainment announced that they would be partnering with Rovio to create a game show based on \"Angry Birds\" currently called \"Angry Birds Challenge\".\n\nOn June 9, 2018, Angry Birds BirLd Cup series were released.\n\nA 3D computer-animated film adaptation, \"The Angry Birds Movie\", was released on 20 May 2016, which fully anthropomorphizes the characters for the first time in franchise history, giving them limbs and voices. Developed, produced and financed by Rovio Entertainment, it is animated by Sony Pictures Imageworks and distributed worldwide by Sony Pictures Entertainment under their Columbia Pictures banner. It is directed by animation veterans Clay Kaytis and Fergal Reilly in their directorial debut. Jon Vitti wrote the film's screenplay, and John Cohen and Catherine Winder served as the producers. Rovio also hired David Maisel, former executive producer of Marvel Studios films such as \"Iron Man\", to be the executive producer of its feature-length films. \n\nA sequel is scheduled to be released on August 16, 2019.\n\nThere have been several toys made from \"Angry Birds\" characters. The game's official website offers plush versions of the birds and pigs for sale, along with T-shirts featuring the game's logo and characters. In May 2011, Mattel released an \"Angry Birds\" board game, titled \"Angry Birds: Knock on Wood\". Over 10 million \"Angry Birds\" toys have been sold thus far. Rovio opened the first official \"Angry Birds\" retail store in Helsinki on 11 November 2011 at 11:11 a.m. local time. It expects to open its next retail store somewhere in China, considered the game's fastest-growing market. Merchandise has been successful, with 45% of Rovio's revenues in 2012 coming from branded merchandise.\n\nThe most notable toys are the Telepods, created by Hasbro. These figures are created for \"Angry Birds Star Wars II\", \"Angry Birds Go!\", Angry Birds \"Stella\", and Angry Birds \"Transformers\". Telepods use a similar digital toy hybrid concept as Skylanders or Disney Infinity characters, but there is a different technology behind it. These are figures used to \"teleport\" a character of the corresponding figure into the game by scanning a tiny QR code via the device's camera. The Telepod platform technology was invented by ReToy, a bMuse company, in partnership with Hasbro. Telepods figures are not only for this use, but can also be used with the toy set that comes with the toy, like other Angry Birds board games.\n\nOne of the 2012 New Models for Hot Wheels cars from Mattel is based on the Red, Blue, and Yellow Birds from \"Angry Birds\". The package card bears both the Hot Wheels and Angry Birds logo.\n\nIn 2016, Lego released six sets based on \"The Angry Birds Movie\".\n\nOn 2011, Rovio published a cookbook titled \"Bad Piggies: Egg Recipes\", along with doodle books based on some characters of the game. After a few weeks of the release of Angry Birds Space, they also released Angry Birds Space books about numbers, alphabets, and stickers.\n\nOn 20 March 2012, \"National Geographic\" published a paperback book titled \"Angry Birds Space: A Furious Flight Into The Final Frontier\" shortly before the release of \"Angry Birds Space\" which became available on 22 March 2012. National Geographic also has a book titled \"Angry Birds Feathered Fun\" for learning all about birds.\n\nIn the same year, Rovio created a contest with the prize \"Angry Birds: Hatching a Universe\", a book about the franchise and all the characters.\n\nAs of 10 March 2014, IDW Publishing announced that they will be publishing Angry Birds Comics starting in June 2014, with Paul Tobin being the writer.\n\nIn early 2012, Olvi started to manufacture Angry Birds soft drinks, after licensing with Rovio with two different tastes: \"Tropic\" (tropical fruits) and \"Paradise\" (pineapple-mandarin). In September 2012 Olvi released two new tastes to the soft drink collection: \"Lagoon\" (pear-apple) and \"Space Comet\" (orange-cola).\n\nThe game's characters have been used, officially or otherwise, in amusement park attractions. In September 2011, the Window of the World theme park in Changsha, China opened an unlicensed \"Angry Birds\" attraction. Visitors to the park uses a large slingshot to launch stuffed versions of the bird characters at green balloons that represent the pigs. Upon learning of the attraction, Rovio Entertainment reported to be considering working with the theme park to officially license it. In March 2012, Rovio announced plans for an official \"Angry Birds\" Land, that opened in 28 April 2012, at the Särkänniemi adventure park in Finland. Angry Birds Land opened in May 2014 at Johor Bahru City Centre in Malaysia.\n\nThe first Angry Birds themed park in the UK, was created in Sundown Adventureland, an attraction in the Nottinghamshire countryside.\n\nMost recently it was announced that UK theme park Thorpe Park would open their own Angry Birds Land themed area within the park in May 2014. The new area consists of the reinstatement of the 4D Cinema with a 10-minute-long Angry Birds film with 4D effects, a new addition of themed Angry Birds Dodgems and a slight re-theme of existing drop tower ride Detonator.\n\nRovio also opened \"Activity Parks\" of the game. The first one was opened in Lightwater Valley that features dancefloors, and playgrounds that includes slides, and massive touchscreen devices for visitors to play Angry Birds. They also have Angry Birds Space attractions as part of the activity park, with a mini movie theater. They also include shops for Angry Birds merchandise and Birthday party rooms. The attraction also opened in Vuokatti. Vuokatti features obstacle courses and races, and a separate \"Angry Birds Town\" with cars for kids to ride.\n\nOn June 2013, Rovio and NASA opened an Angry Birds Space-themed park at the Kennedy Space Center titled \"Angry Birds Space Encounter\". It features various experiences to the Angry Birds Space video game, such as creating characters and shooting birds at pigs. The attraction was also opened in the Space Center Houston.\n\nIt was announced that the first Angry Birds World theme park will open at Doha Festival City. The first phase (which includes the indoor part) opened on June 3, 2018.\n\nThe \"Angry Birds\" characters have been referenced in television programs throughout the world. The Israeli comedy show \"Eretz Nehederet\" (in English: \"a Wonderful Country\"), one of the nation's most popular TV programs, satirized recent failed Israeli-Palestinian peace attempts by featuring the Angry Birds in peace negotiations with the pigs. Clips of the segment went viral, getting viewers from all around the world. The sketch received favorable coverage from a variety of independent blogs such as digitaltrends.com, hotair.com and intomobile.com, as well as from online news media agencies such as \"Haaretz\", \"The Christian Science Monitor\", \"The Guardian\", and MSNBC. American television hosts Conan O'Brien, Jon Stewart and Daniel Tosh have referenced the game in comedy sketches on their respective series, \"Conan\", \"The Daily Show\", and \"Tosh.0\". In the \"30 Rock\" episode \"Plan B\", guest star Aaron Sorkin laments to Liz Lemon, \"Our craft is dying while people are playing \"Angry Birds\" and poking each other on Facebook\". He then provides a tip for Liz to improve her score in the game. In February 2011, American journalist Jake Tapper mockingly introduced U.S. Senator Chris Coons as the \"Angry Birds champion of the Senate\" during the National Press Club's annual dinner. Some of the game's more notable fans include ex-Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom, who plays the iPad version of the game, and author Salman Rushdie, who claims he is \"something of a master at \"Angry Birds\"\". Basketball star Kevin Durant is an avid fan of \"Angry Birds\", and regularly plays other NBA stars in matches, although he is weary of cheating. In August 2011, the Milwaukee Brewers played the \"Angry Birds\" theme song during the pre-game introductions of the arch-rival St. Louis Cardinals players, in reference to former Cardinals' manager Tony LaRussa's propensity to bean opposing players. \"Angry Birds\" also appears briefly, for comic relief, during a scene in the 2013 film \"\", in which Zartan plays the game while waiting for the world leaders' response to his threats of annihilation. Angry Birds were featured in the 2013 Helsinki episode of Veep. Angry Birds was referenced in the film \"The Starving Games\", a parody of \"The Hunger Games\". A group in the Indian show Dance+ have done a dance based on Angry Birds.. Angry Birds was referenced in the Family Guy episode Turban Cowboy when after failed sky diving attempt by Peter results in him landing in a level.\n\n\"Angry Birds\" and its characters have been featured in advertisements for other products. In March 2011, the characters began appearing in a series of advertisements for Microsoft's Bing search engine. At the 2011 South by Southwest festival in Austin, Texas, Nokia used scrims on a downtown building to project an advertisement for its new N8 handset that included the game's characters. A June 2011 T-Mobile advertisement filmed in Barcelona, Spain included a real-life mock-up of the game in a city plaza, while Nokia used the game in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia to promote an attempt to set a world record for the largest number of people playing a single mobile game. Finnair has also used Angry Birds in their advertising, including taping an Airbus A340 airliner with the Angry Birds figures and holding an Angry Birds tournament on board a flight to Singapore. Rovio has also prepared a number of web-based promotional variants of \"Angry Birds\" themed around creations of other companies, such as Finnish snack company Fazer, Spanish pizza delivery chain Telepizza, and Japanese television network Fuji TV, as well as promotions of American brands including Cheetos, Wonderful Pistachios and Coca-Cola. On November 2013, Indian brand Parle started a marketing campaign in which a trading card is included in each packet of Parle's Wafers and it included a related contest to win Angry Birds merchandise. In February 2016, Cadbury India had Angry Birds small figurines or tattoos in Cadbury Gems packs or Surprise balls. In June 2016, Kurkure India started an offer to win daily themed prizes and a trip to Angry Birds Activity Park in Malaysia.\n\nFinnish Formula One driver Heikki Kovalainen used an Angry Birds-themed helmet in the 2012 season, following a sponsorship deal with Rovio. Angry Birds also sponsored the Lotus F1 Team that year, with its logo on the top of each Lotus Renault F1 car's nosecone. As part of the deal, fellow Finn Kimi Räikkönen ran an Angry Birds 'Space' logo on his branded caps.\n\nHockey Bird, an angry hockey playing bird, was the official mascot of the 2012 IIHF Ice Hockey World Championships. It was designed by Toni Kysenius and Rovio Entertainment.\n\nPremier League association football club Everton F.C. inked a deal with Rovio in 2017, whereby the Angry Birds logo appears on the club shirt's left sleeve beginning from the 2017–18 Premier League campaign.\n\nThe game's popularity has spawned knock-off and parody games that utilize the same basic mechanics as \"Angry Birds\". For example, \"Angry Turds\" features monkeys hurling feces and other objects at hunters who have stolen their babies. Another game, titled \"Chicks'n'Vixens\" and released in beta form on Windows Phone devices, replaces the birds and pigs with chickens and foxes, respectively. The developer of \"Chicks'n'Vixens\" intended the game as a challenge to Rovio Mobile, which stated at the time that a Windows Phone port of \"Angry Birds\" would not be ready until later in 2011. The \"Angry Birds\" theme song (\"Balkan Blast Remix\") and its characters appear in \"Just Dance 2016\".\n\n\"Angry Birds\" has inspired works of religious analogy. A five-part essay titled \"Angry Birds Yoga — How to Eliminate the Green Pigs in Your Life\" was written by Giridhari Dasa of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness of Brazil, utilizing the characters and gameplay mechanics to explain various concepts of yoga in Gaudiya Vaishnavism as understood and interpreted by the Hare Krishna. The piece attracted much media attention, in Brazil and abroad, for its unique method of philosophico-religious presentation. The piece was also recognized and appreciated by Rovio Mobile's Peter Vesterbacka, who was prompted to comment on Twitter, \"Very cool! I can see Angry Birds Yoga becoming a worldwide craze;-)\".\n\nRovio also launched the Angry Birds Playground in partnership with University of Helsinki. Based on the Finnish national curriculum the program covers maths, science, music, language, arts & crafts, physical education and social interaction. Focused on preschoolers of kindergarten age, the program introduced interactive learning material including books, posters, games and digital content. In 2015, a spin-off from the Rovio Angry Birds Playground was established as Fun Academy by co-founder and CEO Sanna Lukander, former Rovio's vice president of learning and book publishing, and co-founder , former Rovio's ‘Mighty Eagle’. Fun Academy is currently present in 9 countries across the world.\n\nIn January 2014, it was revealed that \"Angry Birds\" was considered a \"leaky app\" and was used to collect data about its users including their sexual orientation and location by the National Security Agency (NSA) and GCHQ. In retaliation, anti-NSA hackers defaced Rovio's Web site. Claims were made by Edward Snowden that the app was \"leaky\" and that they were capable of siphoning data.\n\nAccording to \"The Register\", the information was leaked through the in-game advertisement code like that embedded by Millennial Media: \"Millennial's tracking software generates a personal record for each user that can store information from their political affiliation and sexual orientation to whether their marital state was single, married, divorced, engaged or 'swinger'. This information is used to target in-app ads more effectively, and can be collected by UK and US intelligence agencies for analysis\". In a statement to the press, Rovio denied that they were providing any information to the intelligence agencies, but did not exclude the possibility that their advertisers might do so.\n\nFollowing this revelation, on 29 January, the Angry Birds site was defaced by hackers who replaced it with \"Spying Birds\" via a DNS hijacking attack. According to Rovio, \"The defacement was caught in minutes and corrected immediately\". The Syrian Electronic Army tweeted after the incident that the attack had been carried out by \"a friend\" of theirs.\n\n"}
{"id": "11185917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11185917", "title": "Atmospheric theatre", "text": "Atmospheric theatre\n\nAn atmospheric theatre is a type of movie palace design which was popular in the late 1920s. \"Rather than seating the theatre patrons in a boxlike, formal setting as passive observers of stage entertainment, the atmospheric design transported them to an exotic European courtyard or garden. A cerulean sky, often intricately dotted with accurately depicted starry skies with wispy floating clouds produced by a projector replaced the ornate domes of traditional theatre design. Rather than crystal chandeliers and gilt ornamentation there were arches, trellises, balconies and statuary to evoke a sense of the outdoors. Other ornamentation included trees, palms and vines and even taxidermy birds. As the stars twinkled above, creating in the audience a sense of infinite space, when the entertainment was about to begin the lighting effects created an illusion of the setting sun, as colors changed from yellow to red to mauve. The atmospheric theatre design made the patron an active, comfortable resident of an imaginary time and place, not a passive, aloof occupant of an oppressive formal space.\"\n\nThe extravagantly designed theaters of the early twentieth century were expensive to build. These classically designed theaters required an elaborate auditorium ceiling, usually with one or more grand chandeliers. An atmospheric theater only required a simple, smooth dome with low-wattage lights to simulate twinkling stars. This is not to say atmospheric theaters were always simple in design. The side walls of the theaters often featured very complex elements that created a fantasy outdoor setting like being in a village, garden, or on the grounds of a grand palace.\n\nThe most successful promoter of the style was John Eberson. He credited the Hoblitzelle Majestic Theatre (Houston, 1923) as the first. Before the end of the 1920s he designed around 100 atmospheric theatres in the U.S. and a few other countries, personally selecting the furnishings and art objects.\n\nJohn Eberson was the most successful promoter and designer of the atmospheric style. Sixteen of his atmospheric theatres in the United States are still in operation:\n\nMoorish Revival\n\nThe theater was built in 1929 by Marcus Loew and designed by theater architect John Eberson. It opened as Loew's (Akron) Theatre and seats 5,000 people. The auditorium is designed to resemble a night in a Moorish garden. Twinkling stars and drifting clouds travel across the domed ceiling. Located on Akron’s South Main Street, the theater’s entrance lobby extends over the Ohio and Erie Canal. The theater has a small multicolored terra cotta façade dominated by a large marquee. The interior of the entrance and lobby is designed to resemble a Moorish castle with Mediterranean decor, complete with medieval style carvings, authentic European antiques and Italian alabaster sculptures. A grand full-sized Wurlitzer organ hidden beneath the stage rises to the stage level on a special elevator. In June 2001, the Akron Civic Theatre closed its doors for the most expensive and extensive renovation in its history in order to bringing the theater up to modern performance and patron standards, and to restoring its failing 75-year-old infrastructure. The renovation cost just over $19 million, which included additional restroom facilities, new concession stands and expansion of the lobbies. The renovation allowed for the Civic to better serve customers with special needs by adding more handicapped seating and a new elevator. To bring the theatre up to new standards the dressing rooms were all redone and the stage was expanded from twenty-six feet to forty feet. Also added to the Civic was a freight elevator, a new loading dock and a cross-over space behind the stage's back wall. Other improvements included updating the sound system, HVAC, roof exterior, electrical service and modernizing the plumbing. The newly renovated Civic Theate re-opened in November 2002.\n\nThe Indiana Theatre has a Spanish courtyard design and was one of the first Eberson theatres to exhibit atmospheric elements. While not fully atmospheric, the Indiana Theatre's original lighting system gave a blue hue to the auditorium ceiling and scattered light to simulate stars. The tile and terrazzo flooring, shapes of windows, prominence of Spanish coats of arms, Churrigueresque exterior, as well as numerous plaster designs that were seen first in the Indiana Theatre became a framework for later designs. Eberson stated, \"Into this Indiana Theatre I have put my very best efforts and endeavors in the art of designing a modern theatre such as I have often pictured as what I would do were I given a free hand.\"\n\nRenaissance Revival. The Majestic Theatre, constructed in 1920, was the first Eberson theatre to use a simulated outdoor sky ceiling.\n\nSpanish courtyard\n\nMoorish Revival\n\nSpanish courtyard\n\nSpanish courtyard\n\nA John Eberson-designed theater, the Palace Theatre (Marion, Ohio) was built in 1928 and renovated in 1976. With a Spanish Revival courtyard design, the theatre features low voltage lighting in the ceiling to mimic stars and the original reconditioned cloud machine to simulate moving clouds. Alcoves in the theatre contain stuffed birds, including a macaw that Eberson sometimes included in his interior design work, and most of the original Pietro Caproni statues.\n\nSpanish Baroque\n\nSpanish-Moorish\n\nSpanish Courtyard\n\nHispano-Italian\n\nSpanish courtyard\n\nThe Tampa Theatre was built in 1926. Designed by John Eberson, the Tampa is a superior example of the atmospheric style featuring an auditorium that resembles a Mediterranean courtyard under a nighttime sky. Featured on the theater's opening night was the silent film \"The Ace of Cads\" starring Adolph Menjou.\n\nThis John Eberson-designed Italian Renaissance atmospheric theater opened in 1928 and features an outdoor Mediterranean courtyard motif. It was built to seat 2,300, but the current configuration allows for 1,700.\n\nOther architects also designed atmospheric theatres. These include the following:\n\nThe 7th Street Theatre was built in 1928, seats over 950 people, and features an outdoor Spanish garden motif.\n\nThe Coronado Theatre was built in 1927 to a design by Frederic J. Klein, at a cost of $1.5 million. The auditorium is designed as a courtyard with Spanish and Italianate facades, painted clouds, and electric 'stars', with Japanese dragons and lanterns decorating the screens of the Barton organ. It was built to present both films and live entertainment, with a fully equipped stage and orchestra pit. Donated to the City of Rockford, it was restored 1998-2001, and primarily features live stage shows and music concerts.\n\nThe Fox Theatre was built in 1929 and is the city's only surviving movie palace. The original architecture and décor can be roughly divided into two architectural styles: Islamic architecture (building exterior, auditorium, Grand Salon, mezzanine Gentlemen’s Lounge and lower Ladies Lounge) and Egyptian architecture (Egyptian Ballroom, mezzanine Ladies Lounge and lower Gentlemen’s Lounge). The 4,678-seat auditorium replicates an Arabian courtyard complete with a night sky of 96 embedded crystal \"stars\" (a third of which flicker) and a projection of clouds that slowly drift across the \"sky.\"\n\nThe Fox Theatre was built 1929-30. It was designed to evoke the garden of a South Asian temple.\n\nThe Gateway Theatre was built in Chicago's Jefferson Park neighborhood, the Gateway Theatre is an atmospheric theater designed by architect Mason Rapp of the prestigious firm of Rapp & Rapp in 1930. It was the city's first movie theater built exclusively for the talkies.\n\n(1931). John Eberson's last atmospheric design, 17 N. Harvey Ave., Oklahoma City.\n\n\nThe Paradise Center for the Arts was Built in 1929 on the site of the former Faribault Opera House, the Paradise was recently renovated. The motif is one of a Moorish courtyard with Turkish caps over the doors, turrets and 'stonework' walls. Originally built to seat 915, the Paradise has been altered to seat 300.\n\nThe Polk Theatre (Lakeland, Florida) was built in 1928 and designed by architect, James E. Casale and was built to simulate a Mediterranean village.\n\nThe Saenger Theatre (New Orleans, Louisiana) was built in 1927 for the Saenger Theatres chain by architect Emile Weil, Its interior evokes a baroque Florentine courtyard. Originally seating approximately 4,000, in 1980 its seating was reduced to approximately 2,736 and it began to function as a performing arts center with occasional film screenings.\n\nThe Keith-Albee Theatre was opened to the public in 1928 as part of the Keith-Albee-Orpheum circuit, the premier vaudeville tour on the East Coast of the United States. Later on in its life, it showed movies and is now a performing arts center with occasional film screenings.\n\nThe Orpheum opened in 1929, and was used for vaudeville, movies, and as a touring Broadway theater. After falling into disrepair for some years, the Orpheum Theatre was purchased in 1984 by the city of Phoenix, which then began a 12-year, $14 million restoration. The Conrad Schmitt Studios created the transformation and the Orpheum reopened on January 28, 1997, with a performance of \"Hello, Dolly!\" starring Carol Channing. After the performance, Ms. Channing, still in costume but out of character, thanked the audience for \"not turning this beautiful theatre into a parking lot!\"\n\nThe Arlington Theater was built in 1931 on the former site of the Arlington Hotel, which was destroyed following the 1925 earthquake. The current structure was erected in 1930 as a showcase movie house for Fox West Coast Theaters. It was restored and expanded in the mid-1970s by Metropolitan Theaters Corporation. It opened in its current incarnation in 1976.\nBuilt in 1929 by Wagner Construction; designed by the firm of Ellerbe & Company, the Paramount Theatre opened under the Publix banner on September 14, 1929 with a parade. Interior atmospheric design elements depict a quaint Spanish villa under the stars with Spanish Baroque exterior architecture. Now owned and operated by the Austin Area Commission for the Arts, an independent non profit, the theatre presents a full calendar of movies and performing arts.\n\nThe Redford Theatre was built in 1927 as a silent film theatre and showed its first film in January 1928. At present, it has 1610 seats and has a Japanese tea garden design. The stars in the sky have been upgraded to use fiber optics. The Redford theatre was purchased by the current owner, The Motor City Theatre Organ Society in the mid-1970's and now shows classic films, and hosts occasional stage events including rentals. The theatre has a fully equipped stage with dressing rooms, and when it first opened was also intended to have vaudeville performances. The theatre's mission is to preserve the history of the film arts. Silent films are still occasionally shown and when they are, they are accompanied by the theatre's 1928 Barton Theatre Organ which also has been restored and it is played prior to every film that is shown.\n\nThe following are atmospheric theatres located outside of the United States:\n\nThe Auckland Civic Theatre is the largest surviving atmospheric cinema in Australasia, built in 1929 and featuring an India-inspired motif. Seating 2,750 viewers, in 2000 it was restored to near-original condition. Peter Jackson used the Civic in his remake of the film King Kong.\n\nThe Columbia Theatre is the oldest surviving atmospheric cinema in British Columbia, built in 1927 and featuring moorish design lattice work, with Spanish garden murals and wrote irons. Originally built with over 900 seats, the theatre was divided into two levels and was most recently renovated as cabaret style theatre. Lafflines Comedy Club and Amicus Performing Arts Club operate this heritage theatre.\n\nThe Capitol Theatre is located in Port Hope, Ontario, Canada, and is one of the last three atmospheric movie theatres still in operation in Canada. Constructed in 1930, the interior of the auditorium was designed to resemble a walled medieval courtyard surrounded by a forest. It was also one of the first cinemas in Canada built expressly for talking pictures. It opened on Friday, August 15, 1930 with the film \"Queen High\" starring Charles Ruggles and Ginger Rogers.\n\nLe Grand Rex is the largest cinema, theater and music venue in Paris, with 2,800 seats. Opened in 1932, the cinema features a starred \"sky\" overhead, as well as interior fountains, and resembles a Mediterranean courtyard at night. The cinema features one of the largest screen in Europe. John Eberson assisted architect Auguste Bluysen with the project by putting input in.\n\nThe Lido Theatre was built in 1929 and designed by Max Blankstein. The Lido is the world's longest continuously operating atmospheric theatre (87 years straight as of 2016). The interior features an outdoor Mediterranean courtyard motif. It was built to seat 600 people but the current configuration allows for 350. The Lido has avoided major renovations, remaining close to its original design. A rare survivor in its class, one of the few cinemas to stay in the same family for four generations, it remains owned by the Rivalin family.\n\nThe Rialto Cinema originally seated 2,000. The cinema has been converted into a six-theater multiplex. Renovations in 1998 restored its Moorish-themed features and night sky.\n\nLocated in the city center. The Cineteca Alameda was opened on 27 February 1941 with Marlene Dietrich in \"Seven Sinners\". Seating was originally provided for over 1,000 in orchestra and balcony levels. In recent years it was used for concerts, film festivals and for screening classic movies, it seems to have closed in 2012, but had reopened by 2014 offering a mix of art house movies and live performances. It seem only the orchestra seating area is currently being used.\n\nThe fancy Palacio Chino opened in March 29, 1940. It used the shell of a former ball court, whose space was sufficient for a big movie theatre. It was the only one built ever in Mexico in Chinese style, but unlike the Grauman’s Chinese, the interior was of the atmospheric type. In 1945 it was listed as having 4,000 seats in two levels, orchestra and balcony. It featured a fairly big stage, enough so to hold a symphony orchestra, and indeed was sometimes used as a music theater. Celibidache once directed the National Symphony Orchestra here, as an alternate theater to Bellas Artes, itself the home theater of said orchestra. The inevitable comparation with Grauman’s Chinese stands only as original inspiration goes, because both buildings are very different. The Palacio Chino has a big, traditional flat facade, right in front of Iturbide street. The many windows of this facade are adorned as small pagodas, and there is a big, ornate marquee. The vestibule was spacious and full of Chinese decorations, even the ticket boots were rendered as pagodas. The auditorium was of the atmospheric type, with pagodas, temples and gold Buddha statues amid gardens. The ceiling was vault-like, not flat but very arched, and of course was painted deep blue. The screen was protected by a heavy black curtain, with Chinese motifs painted upon. The screen arch was very heavily decorated, with dragons appearing here and there.\n\nPurpose-built cinema constructed in 1903. It was renovated in 1935 in the atmospheric style. It is the only surviving atmospheric theatre in Scotland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21290934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21290934", "title": "Audition", "text": "Audition\n\nAn audition is a sample performance by an actor, singer, musician, dancer or other performer. It typically involves the performer displaying their talent through a previously memorized and rehearsed solo piece or by performing a work or piece given to the performer at the audition or shortly before. In some cases, such as with a model or acrobat, the individual may be asked to demonstrate a range of professional skills. Actors may be asked to present a monologue. Singers will perform a song in a popular music context or an aria in a Classical context. A dancer will present a routine in a specific style, such as ballet, tap dance or hip-hop, or show his or her ability to quickly learn a choreographed dance piece.\n\nThe audition is a systematic process in which industry professionals select performers, which is in some ways analogous to a job interview in the regular job market. In an audition, the employer is testing the ability of the applicant to meet the needs of the job and assess how well the individual will take directions and deal with changes. After some auditions, after the performer has demonstrated their abilities in a given performance style, the audition panel may ask a few questions that resemble those used in standard job interviews (e.g., regarding availability).\n\nAuditions are required for many reasons in the performing arts world. Often, employing companies or groups use auditions to select performers for upcoming shows or productions. An audition for a performing opportunity may be for a single performance (e.g., doing a monologue at a comedy club), for a series or season of performances (a season of a Broadway play), or for permanent employment with the performing organization (e.g., an orchestra or dance troupe). Auditions for performing opportunities may be for amateur, school, or community organizations, in which case the performers will typically not be paid. As well, auditions are used to select or screen candidates for entry to training programs (ballet school or circus school); university programs (B.Mus, M.Mus, MFA in Theater); performance-related scholarships and grants; or to be considered for representation by a talent agency or individual agent.\n\nFor actors in theater, film, and TV, the \"audition is a systematic process in which industry professionals make final casting decisions. Industry professionals may consist of casting directors, producers, directors or agency representatives\". In film and television, the audition is called a screen test, and it is filmed so that the casting director or director can see how the actor appears on screen. Auditions are advertised in major media outlets (such as newspaper or radio), industry magazines and newsletters (e.g., auditions for musicians are advertised in the American Federation of Musicians newsletter), audition websites, and through a talent/casting agencies. Some performers hire an agent, to be able to draw on the agent's connections with casting directors and performing arts companies. However, the agent will take a cut (often 10–20%) of the performer's earnings. Although an actor's talents comprise crucial criteria in the casting process, an almost equal amount of attention is given to an actor's \"type\", (a combination of personality, looks and general casting intuition) as required for a particular production.\n\nActors who are selecting an audition piece may select a monologue by a character who is close to their own age. They may wear neutral clothing that allows freedom of movement. Auditionees may avoid going over the stated time limit. By convention, some actors choose to not direct their speech to the audition panel if they are doing an on-stage audition. In some cases, the audition panel may request that the auditionee interacts with them (e.g., a director may ask the actor to speak the lines while looking directly at the director). An actor who is doing an audition may warm up before the audition, like an athlete would, although with an actor, a warm up might include vocal exercises in addition to stretching. Just as with any interview outside of the performing arts world, an auditionee may dress well. Even if the auditionee does not have expensive clothing, simple clothing may be acceptable if it is clean and of good quality. Auditionees know casting directors are also considering \"whether or not the actor will be easy to work with, that they know what they are doing and can take direction well\".\n\nAudition pieces are not always from the show the actor is being considered for; an actor wishing to be cast in \"Hamlet\" may not do a monologue from that play. Most performers do have a range of audition pieces and select something appropriate; an actor auditioning for \"Hamlet\" would have a dramatic Shakespearean monologue ready, and not perform a monologue from an Oscar Wilde comedy, or a contemporary playwright. Some auditions involve cold reading, or performing a script that the actor is not familiar with. Auditions often involve monologues or speeches, but not always. In some cases, an auditionee is asked to read a scene (with a second person reading the other character).\n\nFor most auditions, it is expected that auditionees will bring a professional 8\"x10\" photo called a \"head shot\" and a resume that indicates their acting experience and training. Actors may bring additional copies of the head shot and resume, in case there are additional members of the casting team present at the audition. The casting agent or company may \"call back\" an auditionee days, weeks, or even months after the initial audition for a second audition. At a major audition for a professional company, the time limits are strictly enforced. A musical theater performer may be given a moment to tell the piano accompanist the tempo, and state their name and audition number to the audition panel. Then, once the auditionee starts acting or singing, the clock starts running. A buzzer sounds when the time limit runs out, which may be a minute and a half, two minutes, or three minutes, depending on the company. At this point, the auditionee is expected to stop and leave to free up the stage for the next auditionee.\n\nRight before the audition, the casting director may give new instructions that were not in the advertisement; for example, due to time constraints, the time limit for the monologues might be cut in half, or the vocal selections might be cut. Actors know that it is important that they follow these last-minute instructions, and not be \"thrown off balance\" by these changes. At an audition, a director may ask for changes in the delivery of the lines or in other aspects of the performance. The goal may be to see if the auditionee is versatile or because the director disagrees with the initial approach used by the auditionee. In either case, the behavior of the auditionee is important; if the auditionee is cooperative in making the changes, it shows that he or she will be easy to work with. If a script is provided beforehand, actors often try to memorize as much as possible, because this shows that they have prepared and it allows them to look up from the script and show their facial expressions more.\n\nFilm auditions are different from theatre auditions. For film auditions, actors and actresses are given \"sides\" which are often a few pages of the script with the roles that they are auditioning for. These sides are often given to the actors 1–3 days before the audition.\n\nIn 2015, the widespread availability of relatively inexpensive video cameras has made video recordings of auditions feasible. To find their talent, casting directors are able to request video auditions from actors and actresses from a different state or country.\n\nIn some styles of music, such as jazz-oriented stage bands, instrumentalists may be asked to sight read printed music at various levels of difficulty. In jazz groups, auditionees may be asked to perform standard pieces (e.g., a jazz standard such as \"Now's the Time\") with an ensemble. Similarly, in a rock or blues band, auditionees may be asked to play a rock or blues standard. An auditionee for a rhythm section role (rhythm guitar, electric bass, drumkit, etc.) will be asked to play a range of standard styles or \"feels\" which are used in a given style. For example, a drummer applying to play in a jazz band might be asked to play a slow ballad, a medium \"standard\", and an up-tempo swing style. A bassist auditioning for a pop band might be asked to play in a Motown style bassline, a syncopated 1970s funk \"slapping\" style line, and a reggae-style bassline. A person auditioning for a role as a rhythm section member in some styles of music may be expected to be able to demonstrate the ability to perform as a backup singer.\n\nA performer auditioning for a solo or \"lead\" instrument role will typically perform prepared solos that showcase a range of skills, including the ability to perform a melody with sensitivity and expression; the ability to play virtuosic passages; and, in some styles (e.g., fusion jazz or blues), the ability to improvise a melody over a chord progression. In some popular genres, there is relatively less emphasis on \"stage presence\" and movement onstage, such as classic jazz or traditional 1950s-style country music. In these styles, there is more of a focus on the sound of the music and the expressiveness of the performer with their voice or instrument. In other genres, such as heavy metal \"shred guitar\" or hardcore punk, it may be very important that a performer can move about in a dramatic fashion onstage. One of the differences between instrumentalist auditions in rock music styles and Classical styles is that in a rock context, the performers will be expected to have memorized most or all of the music. In a Classical context, most or all of the music is read from sheet music (with the exception of a solo Bach suite movement or a solo concerto movement).\n\nFor rock, country, and other forms of popular music, auditions are used to test the ability of an instrumentalist or singer to perform a specific style of music, or several styles. A singer auditioning for a role in a musical theatre production would not, unless instructed otherwise, need to sing opera or country music, and a musician auditioning for a seat in an orchestra would not perform rock. Occasionally a musical theatre audition may require the performer to sing a song in the genre to which the musical pertains. For instance, a singer auditioning for \"Destry Rides Again\" may be asked to sing a standard country-western song. A person auditioning for \"The Rocky Horror Show\" may be asked to sing a standard rock song. As well, in some cases, an audition may require a performer to demonstrate pieces in several styles. A hard rock band auditioning a new singer may request that the individual perform songs from heavy metal and related styles such as blues rock. A pop or rock band that is selecting a new lead singer that has whittled the number of applicants down to the top two or three singers may test out how the singers perform in live shows by performing a few live concerts with each guest singer. This allows the band to see how the singer performs in a full multi-hour concert, including how well the singer can develop a rapport with the audience, deal with the inevitable problems that occur in live music (e.g., microphones failing or stage lights malfunctioning), and maintain their vocal endurance until the end of the evening.\nFor smaller roles in a large musical theater production, mass auditions are held at which many inexperienced or aspiring performers, most without agents, show up. These are popularly known as \"cattle calls\", since the hopefuls are often kept together in one large room. The musical \"A Chorus Line\" depicts this type of audition. \"American Idol\" also auditions its aspiring vocalists using this technique, since there are so many auditions. In musical theater and in pop music styles for which onstage dancing is part of the performance (e.g., hip hop), singers who are doing a vocal audition may also be required to demonstrate that they can dance while singing. In some popular music groups, such as a rock band, a backup singer may be expected to be able to play an instrument while singing, such as strumming a simple rhythm guitar part or playing a percussion instrument (e.g., tambourine or congas). While an ability to sing in multiple languages with the appropriate diction and pronunciation is more associated with Classical music than popular music, there are some popular styles where multiple languages are expected, including Latin jazz styles such as Bossa Nova (Portuguese songs may be requested); Tango (Spanish songs may be requested); folk music (French songs may be requested); and Celtic music (Irish songs may be requested).\n\nIn classical music, auditions are used to screen candidates for positions as instrumentalists in chamber groups or orchestras or as soloists, and to screen singers for positions as members of a choir or as solo performers. In classical music, auditions are also used to screen candidates for entry to training programs, university or Conservatory programs or degrees, and training festival activities (e.g., classical summer camps). In comparison with some types of pop music auditions, classical auditions tend to be much more formal. The performer may, by tradition, wear a tuxedo or a formal dress, and the judges may sit behind a desk and write comments on clipboards.\n\nIn classical music, each instrument or vocal type has a standard repertoire of music which is commonly requested at auditions. Instrumentalists in an orchestral context are typically asked to perform excerpts from the orchestral literature, including both exposed solos and \"tutti\" parts which are particularly demanding. Orchestral auditions are typically held in front of a panel that includes the conductor, the Concertmaster, and a number of Principal players from the orchestra. Since the post-WW II era, professional orchestra auditions often include a musician's union representative, who ensures that the audition is being run in a fair manner. In many major orchestras, a cloth screen may be used at some stages of the audition process, to protect the audition panel from allegations of favouritism or sexism.\n\nAn orchestral audition will normally set out a list of orchestral excerpts which each performer has to prepare. As well, each performer plays a movement from a Sonata or Concerto which may be performed with piano accompaniment. When the performer plays the orchestral excerpts, he or she may be given a tempo, or asked to follow the gestures of the conductor. Orchestral auditions are often run in several stages, in order to screen candidates and reduce those who are less likely to meet the needs of the job. A large number of applicants typically apply for a professional orchestra job. The orchestra personnel manager then selects the most promising candidates based on the experience and training indicated in the applicants' CVs (and, in some cases, based on the performing ability demonstrated in a recording of the applicant).\n\nThis first \"cut\" of auditionees then perform in front of the audition panel. Typically in a professional orchestra, this would require the performance of excerpts representing stylistic and technical challenges drawn from repertoire typical to that orchestra. The most promising candidates are invited to return for a second or third round of auditions, which allows the conductor and the panel to compare the best candidates. Performers may be asked to sight read orchestral music.\n\nIf a candidate is successful in passing the audition, typically a Trial period of several months to a year takes place allowing the Chief Conductor and Principal players to see if the individual can function well in an actual performance setting.\n\nThere is a standard repertoire of vocal literature for each voice type (e.g., soprano, alto) that is used at auditions for singers. Each sub-type of vocal activity has a separate standard audition repertoire (e.g., choirs, operas, etc.). A person auditioning for a role in a choir will be expected to be able to sight read choral parts. In auditions for opera, a singer will be expected to demonstrate the ability to act out the movements that are associated with the lyrics of the aria, which may include pretending to be dying from a stab wound, miming an activity (e.g., pouring wine), or doing a simple dance routine. Both choral and opera singers are expected to be able to follow the gestures of a conductor in regards to expression and tempo. Since microphones are not used in most classical music performances, the audition panel will be assessing the auditionees ability to project a strong, room-filling vocal tone. In classical music, in addition to judging singing ability (e.g., tone, intonation, etc.), the audition panel will be judging the applicant's ability to use the appropriate diction and pronunciation of the major languages used in Art music: German, Italian, and French. Other languages that the applicant may be asked to sing in include English, Spanish, Portuguese, and Latin.\n\nIn musical theatre, a standard audition consists of two sixteen-measure selections of songs, contrasting in style, intention, characters, time period, or all of the above. There is also usually a monologue portion, where the actor is asked to perform a one-minute monologue. A headshot and résumé are almost always required. Although auditions vary depending on the theatre, program, or show, this formula is considered “the norm” in the musical theatre world. The purpose of an audition is two-fold. Practically, performers audition to get a callback. \"Callbacks\", or callback auditions, allow the artistic team to assess a performer’s skills in accordance with specific characters. During the callback, the panel has shortlisted a candidate, because they have noted his or her potential for particular parts. As such, during a callback audition, the candidate is asked to sing the songs performed by certain characters or read their lines. The first audition is not a platform for selling oneself as a particular character. Character-specific auditions take place during callbacks. Instead, the first audition is a chance for the performer to show off the songs she does best.\n\nThere are many types of dance auditions for different performance venues. Dance companies hire employees for ballet and modern dance shows. Broadway companies hire dancers for traditional musicals (Rodgers and Hammerstein) and more modern dance musicals (e.g., \"Fame\" and \"Grease\"). Casinos, resorts, amusement parks, and cruise ships hire dancers for revue-style shows that can range from jazz dance to hip-hop. For these shows, some backup singing skills or acting skills may be required. Pop music concert producers and pop music video producers recruit dancers to perform onstage during concerts or during videos. For live pop concerts, onstage dancers may be required to perform simple backup singing. Movie and TV producers also hire dancers for short term shoots; even though a dancer may only get several days of work from a movie or TV show, there may be residual payments. Most auditions specify what type of dance skills are required (e.g., Classical, pointe, contemporary, jazz, hip-hop, etc.). In the case of modern dance, some dance companies ask applicants to demonstrate their ability to improvise dance moves.\n\nMany dance auditions test the ability of applicants to learning new choreography in a short time period, rather than showcasing a prepared work. In other cases, a short prepared solo piece may also be required (about 90 seconds long). Applicants will be instructed in a technical routine or pattern in a group session. Some auditions require applicants to have completed training at a recognised dance school or conservatoire, and in some cases, auditionees may be requested to bring a reference letter from a dance teacher or dance company director (especially in the case of young dancers with little professional experience). At some auditions, applicants are asked to make a short verbal statement about their dancing goals or why they wish to join the troupe. Auditionees should ensure that they know the major dance terms, because the judges may request that certain dance moves be demonstrated.\n\nDancers are often asked to bring one or two photographs, such as a \"headshot\" and a full-body photo of the applicant in a dancing pose. The clothing that auditionees need to wear at auditions varies. At some auditions, particularly Classical auditions, there is a strict dress code: applicants wear dance leotards and pointe shoes, and long hair is tied back. Other dance auditions specify loose clothing. For some contemporary dance auditions, applicants must dance barefoot. In some music theater roles, applicants need to bring tap shoes to demonstrate their tap dancing skills. Some auditions where there is a large number of applicants require the performers to wear a number pinned to their shirt, in a similar way to marathon runners. This way, if the casting director sees an exceptional dancer, he or she can take note of the number. Unless jewellery or make-up is an expected part of a dancer's appearance in a certain dance style, dance auditionees generally avoid jewellery and makeup.\n\nIn music theater and pop music, there is a lot of crossover between dancing and singing roles. Almost all dancers in music theater and many dancers in pop music will be expected to have some singing ability as a backup singer (singing harmony parts to accompany the solo vocalists). In rarer cases, dancers will be asked to demonstrate the ability to play a musical instrument (e.g., guitar), because there are some shows in which some of the dancer-actors have to play instruments onstage, such as the \"Threepenny Opera\". In music theater, there is also often crossover between dancing and acting roles. Dancers may be expected to be able to take on an acting role and speak lines (often in a supporting role).\n\nSome major dance companies have \"open calls\" once a year, in which any or almost any applicant can come to demonstrate their dancing skills. At these open calls, the entire group of applicants are taught a dance routine by a choreographer, and then the group of dancers performs the routine while judges assess their performance. It can be hard for a good dancer to get noticed by the judges in such a large group of dancers. For this reason, some dance coaches encourage their students to wear outgoing clothes and bright things to stand out, so that the dancer will get personal attention during his or her audition. For any audition interviews, dancers should send their resume and headshot to the company director ahead of time.\n\nPerformers auditioning for amusement parks world wide are generally viewed by one or more casting directors in a rehearsal hall or a large facility. Most theme park auditions, like other auditions, are closed to the public. This means that no one is allowed into the audition room who is not auditioning. Vocalists for Disney auditions are asked to prepare two separate vocal selections of contrasting styles. The singers do not sing the entire songs; instead they just need to sing the best 16 bars of each song. Disney provides a piano accompanist for all vocal auditions, and so singers have to bring sheet music in the correct key. Disney does not allow any pre-recorded accompaniment. The casting directors may also ask auditionees to learn additional music or learn a movement combination. Disney Parks & Resorts casts performers for theme parks, resorts, and cruise ships.\n\nAt Cirque du Soleil, depending on a performer's discipline, the audition may last an hour, a day or even two days. Depending on a performer's discipline, he or she might have to perform a solo presentation in front of the group of participants and/or participate in individual and group exercises following the solo presentation. Auditions for Cirque du Soleil are filmed.\n\nModelling agencies and other organizations that are looking for models, such as fashion designers and advertising agencies also use auditions to screen and select potential candidates. Aspiring female models for most fashion industry roles need to be in their teens or early twenties and be tall and slim. Although there are \"niche markets\" for non-svelte models (\"plus size models\" and \"real life models\" who model clothes for middle-market clothing catalogues), most female models need to be slender and between 108–125 lbs. Young men who are aspiring models should be between 18 and 25, tall, and fit. While male models who are selected at modelling auditions may well end up having careers that last till beyond age 25 (even into their 40s), modelling agencies prefer to recruit new models in the 18–25 age range. Most models work with an agent who arranges auditions, bookings, and negotiates fees. At an audition, casting agents will ask the model to demonstrate different poses, which a photographer may record with a digital camera.\n\nFor high fashion auditions, the model may be asked to demonstrate the \"catwalk\" style of modelling clothes on a raised runway. At most modelling auditions, models wear fairly simple clothes that will allow the talent agents to imagine the model in different garments. Typically, a model wears fairly body-hugging clothes, so that the judges can see the body type of the model. Some modelling agencies audition a large number of aspiring models in an \"open call\", in which agents consider applicants for under a minute or so each. Some agencies hold model searches, which is a type of beauty contest in which applicants audition for the opportunity of winning a model portfolio or a photo shoot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "68868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68868", "title": "Big Dumb Object", "text": "Big Dumb Object\n\nIn discussion of science fiction, a Big Dumb Object (BDO) is any mysterious object (usually of extraterrestrial or unknown origin and immense power) in a story which generates an intense sense of wonder by its mere existence; to a certain extent, the term deliberately deflates this.\n\nThe term was not in general use until Peter Nicholls included it in \"The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction\" as a joke in 1993, while its creation has been attributed to reviewer Roz Kaveney.\n\nBig Dumb Objects often exhibit extreme or unusual properties, or a total absence of some expected properties:\n\n\nSuch unexpected properties are usually used to rule out conventional origins for the BDO and increase the sense of mystery, and even fear, for the characters interacting with it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "339806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=339806", "title": "Burlesque", "text": "Burlesque\n\nA burlesque is a literary, dramatic or musical work intended to cause laughter by caricaturing the manner or spirit of serious works, or by ludicrous treatment of their subjects. The word derives from the Italian ', which, in turn, is derived from the Italian ' – a joke, ridicule or mockery.\n\nBurlesque overlaps in meaning with caricature, parody and travesty, and, in its theatrical sense, with extravaganza, as presented during the Victorian era. \"Burlesque\" has been used in English in this literary and theatrical sense since the late 17th century. It has been applied retrospectively to works of Chaucer and Shakespeare and to the Graeco-Roman classics. Contrasting examples of literary burlesque are Alexander Pope's \"The Rape of the Lock\" and Samuel Butler's \"Hudibras\". An example of musical burlesque is Richard Strauss's 1890 Burleske for piano and orchestra. Examples of theatrical burlesques include W. S. Gilbert's \"Robert the Devil\" and the A. C. Torr – Meyer Lutz shows, including \"Ruy Blas and the Blasé Roué\".\n\nA later use of the term, particularly in the United States, refers to performances in a variety show format. These were popular from the 1860s to the 1940s, often in cabarets and clubs, as well as theatres, and featured bawdy comedy and female striptease. Some Hollywood films attempted to recreate the spirit of these performances from the 1930s to the 1960s, or included burlesque-style scenes within dramatic films, such as 1972's \"Cabaret\" and 1979's \"All That Jazz\", among others. There has been a resurgence of interest in this format since the 1990s.\n\nThe word first appears in a title in Francesco Berni's \"Opere burlesche\" of the early 16th century, works that had circulated widely in manuscript before they were printed. For a time, burlesque verses were known as \"poesie bernesca\" in his honour. 'Burlesque' as a literary term became widespread in 17th century Italy and France, and subsequently England, where it referred to a grotesque imitation of the dignified or pathetic. Shakespeare's Pyramus and Thisbe scene in \"Midsummer Night's Dream\" and the general mocking of romance in Beaumont and Fletcher's \"The Knight of the Burning Pestle\" were early examples of such imitation.\n\nIn 17th century Spain, playwright and poet Miguel de Cervantes ridiculed medieval romance in his many satirical works. Among Cervantes' works are \"Exemplary Novels\" and the \"Eight Comedies and Eight New Interludes\" published in 1615. The term burlesque has been applied retrospectively to works of Chaucer and Shakespeare and to the Graeco-Roman classics.\n\nBurlesque was intentionally ridiculous in that it imitated several styles and combined imitations of certain authors and artists with absurd descriptions. In this, the term was often used interchangeably with \"pastiche\", \"parody\", and the 17th and 18th century genre of the \"mock-heroic\". Burlesque depended on the reader's (or listener's) knowledge of the subject to make its intended effect, and a high degree of literacy was taken for granted.\n\n17th and 18th century burlesque was divided into two types: High burlesque refers to a burlesque imitation where a literary, elevated manner was applied to a commonplace or comically inappropriate subject matter as, for example, in the literary parody and the mock-heroic. One of the most commonly cited examples of high burlesque is Alexander Pope's \"sly, knowing and courtly\" \"The Rape of the Lock\". Low burlesque applied an irreverent, mocking style to a serious subject; an example is Samuel Butler's poem \"Hudibras\", which described the misadventures of a Puritan knight in satiric doggerel verse, using a colloquial idiom. Butler's addition to his comic poem of an ethical subtext made his caricatures into satire.\n\nIn more recent times, burlesque true to its literary origins is still performed in revues and sketches. Tom Stoppard's 1974 play \"Travesties\" is an example of a full-length play drawing on the burlesque tradition.\n\nBeginning in the early 18th century, the term burlesque was used throughout Europe to describe musical works in which serious and comic elements were juxtaposed or combined to achieve a grotesque effect. As derived from literature and theatre, \"burlesque\" was used, and is still used, in music to indicate a bright or high-spirited mood, sometimes in contrast to seriousness.\n\nIn this sense of farce and exaggeration rather than parody, it appears frequently on the German-language stage between the middle of the 19th century and the 1920s. Burlesque operettas were written by Johann Strauss II (\"Die lustigen Weiber von Wien\", 1868), Ziehrer (\"Mahomed's Paradies\",1866; \"Das Orakel zu Delfi\", 1872; \"Cleopatra, oder Durch drei Jahrtausende\", 1875; \"In fünfzig Jahren\", 1911) and Bruno Granichstaedten (\"Casimirs Himmelfahrt\", 1911). French references to burlesque are less common than German, though Grétry composed for a \"drame burlesque\" (\"Matroco\", 1777). Stravinsky called his 1916 one-act chamber opera-ballet \"Renard\" (\"The Fox\") a \"Histoire burlesque chantée et jouée\" (\"burlesque tale sung and played\") and his 1911 ballet \"Petrushka\" a \"burlesque in four scenes\". A later example is the 1927 burlesque operetta by Ernst Krenek entitled \"Schwergewicht\" (\"Heavyweight\") (1927).\n\nSome orchestral and chamber works have also been designated as burlesques, of which two early examples are the Ouverture-Suite \"Burlesque de Quixotte\", TWV 55, by Telemann and the Sinfonia Burlesca by Leopold Mozart (1760). Another often-performed piece is Richard Strauss's 1890 Burleske for piano and orchestra. Other examples include the following:\n\nBurlesque can be used to describe particular movements of instrumental musical compositions, often involving dance rhythms. Examples are the Burlesca, in Partita No. 3 for keyboard (BWV 827) by Bach, the \"Rondo-Burleske\" third movement of Symphony No. 9 by Mahler, and the \"Burlesque\" fourth movement of Shostakovich's Violin Concerto No. 1.\n\nThe use of burlesque has not been confined to classical music. Well known ragtime travesties include \"The Russian Rag\", by George L. Cobb, which is based on Rachmaninoff's Prelude in C-sharp minor, and Harry Alford's \"Lucy's Sextette\" based on the sextet, 'Chi mi frena in tal momento?', from \"Lucia di Lammermoor\" by Donizetti.\n\nVictorian burlesque, sometimes known as \"travesty\" or \"extravaganza\", was popular in London theatres between the 1830s and the 1890s. It took the form of musical theatre parody in which a well-known opera, play or ballet was adapted into a broad comic play, usually a musical play, often risqué in style, mocking the theatrical and musical conventions and styles of the original work, and quoting or pastiching text or music from the original work. The comedy often stemmed from the incongruity and absurdity of the classical subjects, with realistic historical dress and settings, being juxtaposed with the modern activities portrayed by the actors. Madame Vestris produced burlesques at the Olympic Theatre beginning in 1831 with \"Olympic Revels\" by J. R. Planché. Other authors of burlesques included H. J. Byron, G. R. Sims, F. C. Burnand, W. S. Gilbert and Fred Leslie.\n\nVictorian burlesque related to and in part derived from traditional English pantomime \"with the addition of gags and 'turns'.\" In the early burlesques, following the example of ballad opera, the words of the songs were written to popular music; later burlesques mixed the music of opera, operetta, music hall and revue, and some of the more ambitious shows had original music composed for them. This English style of burlesque was successfully introduced to New York in the 1840s.\nSome of the most frequent subjects for burlesque were the plays of Shakespeare and grand opera. The dialogue was generally written in rhyming couplets, liberally peppered with bad puns. A typical example from a burlesque of \"Macbeth\": Macbeth and Banquo enter under an umbrella, and the witches greet them with \"Hail! hail! hail!\" Macbeth asks Banquo, \"What mean these salutations, noble thane?\" and is told, \"These showers of 'Hail' anticipate your 'reign'\". A staple of burlesque was the display of attractive women in travesty roles, dressed in tights to show off their legs, but the plays themselves were seldom more than modestly risqué.\nBurlesque became the speciality of certain London theatres, including the Gaiety and Royal Strand Theatre from the 1860s to the early 1890s. Until the 1870s, burlesques were often one-act pieces running less than an hour and using pastiches and parodies of popular songs, opera arias and other music that the audience would readily recognize. The house stars included Nellie Farren, John D'Auban, Edward Terry and Fred Leslie. From about 1880, Victorian burlesques grew longer, until they were a whole evening's entertainment rather than part of a double- or triple-bill. In the early 1890s, these burlesques went out of fashion in London, and the focus of the Gaiety and other burlesque theatres changed to the new more wholesome but less literary genre of Edwardian musical comedy.\n\nAmerican burlesque shows were originally an offshoot of Victorian burlesque. The English genre had been successfully staged in New York from the 1840s, and it was popularised by a visiting British burlesque troupe, Lydia Thompson and the \"British Blondes\", beginning in 1868. New York burlesque shows soon incorporated elements and the structure of the popular minstrel shows. They consisted of three parts: first, songs and ribald comic sketches by low comedians; second, assorted olios and male acts, such as acrobats, magicians and solo singers; and third, chorus numbers and sometimes a burlesque in the English style on politics or a current play. The entertainment was usually concluded by an exotic dancer or a wrestling or boxing match.\n\nWhile burlesque went out of fashion in England towards the end of the 19th century, to be replaced by Edwardian musical comedy, the American style of burlesque flourished, but with increasing focus on female nudity. Exotic \"cooch\" dances were brought in, ostensibly Syrian in origin. The entertainments were given in clubs and cabarets, as well as music halls and theatres. By the early 20th century, there were two national circuits of burlesque shows competing with the vaudeville circuit, as well as resident companies in New York, such as Minsky's at the Winter Garden.\nThe transition from burlesque on the old lines to striptease was gradual. At first, soubrettes showed off their figures while singing and dancing; some were less active but compensated by appearing in elaborate stage costumes. The strippers gradually supplanted the singing and dancing soubrettes; by 1932 there were at least 150 strip principals in the US. Star strippers included Sally Rand, Gypsy Rose Lee, Tempest Storm, Lili St. Cyr, Blaze Starr, Ann Corio and Margie Hart, who was celebrated enough to be mentioned in song lyrics by Lorenz Hart and Cole Porter. By the late 1930s, burlesque shows would have up to six strippers supported by one or two comics and a master of ceremonies. Comics who appeared in burlesque early in their careers included Fanny Brice, Mae West, Eddie Cantor, Abbott and Costello, W. C. Fields, Jackie Gleason, Danny Thomas, Al Jolson, Bert Lahr, Phil Silvers, Sid Caesar, Danny Kaye, Red Skelton and Sophie Tucker.\nThe uninhibited atmosphere of burlesque establishments owed much to the free flow of alcoholic liquor, and the enforcement of Prohibition was a serious blow. In New York, Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia clamped down on burlesque, effectively putting it out of business by the early 1940s. It lingered on elsewhere in the U.S., increasingly neglected, and by the 1970s, with nudity commonplace in theatres, reached \"its final shabby demise.\" Both during its declining years and afterwards there have been films that sought to capture American burlesque, including \"Lady of Burlesque\" (1943), \"Striporama\" (1953), and \"The Night They Raided Minsky's\" (1968).\nIn recent decades, there has been a revival of burlesque, sometimes called Neo-Burlesque, on both sides of the Atlantic. A new generation, nostalgic for the spectacle and perceived glamour of the classic American burlesque, developed a cult following for the art in the early 1990s at Billie Madley's \"Cinema\" and later at the \"Dutch Weismann's Follies\" revues in New York City, \"The Velvet Hammer\" troupe in Los Angeles and The Shim-Shamettes in New Orleans. Ivan Kane's Royal Jelly Burlesque Nightclub at Revel Atlantic City opened in 2012. Notable Neo-burlesque performers include Dita Von Teese, and Julie Atlas Muz and Agitprop groups like Cabaret Red Light incorporated political satire and performance art into their burlesque shows. Annual conventions such as the Vancouver International Burlesque Festival and the Miss Exotic World Pageant are held.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "534617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=534617", "title": "Care Bears", "text": "Care Bears\n\nThe Care Bears are a fictional group of multi-colored bear characters originally painted in 1981 by artist Elena Kucharik to be used on greeting cards from American Greetings, but later used for toys, in TV programs, and in films. There are 218 Care Bears to date. \n\nThe original development was through American Greetings' \"Those Characters From Cleveland\" research and development division, In 1983, Kenner turned the Care Bears into plush teddy bears. The Care Bears appeared in TV specials called \"The Care Bears in the Land Without Feelings\" (1983) and \"The Care Bears Battle the Freeze Machine\" (1984). They then had a television series from 1985 to 1988, and three feature films: \"The Care Bears Movie\" (1985), \"\" (1986) and \"The Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland\" (1987).\n\nEach Care Bear comes in a different color and has a specialized insignia on its belly that represents its personality. The movie \"\" named them \"belly badges\". Adding to the Care Bear family are the \"Care Bear Cousins\", which feature a lion, rabbit, penguin, raccoon, monkey, elephant, pig, dog, cat, and other such animals created in the same style as the teddy bears.\n\nIn 2002, the bears were reintroduced with new toys. Made by Play-Along Toys, the new toys offered features such as illuminated bellies upon touch, aerobic bears, and glow-in-the-dark bears. As part of this comeback, the Bears have appeared in two computer-animated movies: \"\" (2004), \"The Care Bears' Big Wish Movie\" (2005) and \"The Care Bears' Rise Up Of Kingdom\" (2006). In 2007, the franchise celebrated its 25th anniversary; another relaunch took place, as well as the release of \"Care Bears: Oopsy Does It!\".\n\nIn mid-2011, American Greetings announced a revival TV animated series titled \"\". The premiere of the series utilizes \"30 years of caring\". It premiered on The Hub on June 2, 2012. Though Welcome to Care-a-Lot lasted one season, a continuation of the series, \"Care Bears and Cousins\", was commissioned by Netflix and premiered November 6, 2015. The cast of characters and animation style of Welcome to Care-a-Lot remains for Care Bears and Cousins. Toy company Just Play debuted a range of Care Bears toys (plush, figures & blind bag collectibles) based on the Welcome to Care-a-Lot characters and style guide in Spring 2015. Just Play continued their range of product for Care Bears and Cousins in 2016.\n\nThe Care Bears were initially created in 1981 by Those Characters From Cleveland (TCFC), the licensing division of American Greetings. Jack Chojnacki, the co-president of TCFC, introduced the first Care Bear, to six businessmen—three from American Greeting Cards, and three from the toy company Kenner—in February 1981. On the employees' reaction to the toy, Chojnacki recalled in early 1985: \"It had a high aaaaaah factor.\"\n\nMuriel Fahrion, the artist who helped create Strawberry Shortcake's look, was also among the franchise's first concept artists. Working with TCFC Creative VP Ralph Shaffer, Muriel designed the first six bears, creating the best-selling greeting card themes for their belly graphics. Susan Trentel, Muriel's sister and doll designer of Strawberry Shortcake, designed the Care Bears plush. Once out of the concept stage children's book illustrator Elena Kucharik became the primary artist for the Care Bears creating hundreds of full color illustrations for cards, books and a myriad of licensed products. TCFC's creative team of artists and writers worked to create numerous characters in the line, which was a joint development by Those Characters From Cleveland and MAD (Marketing and Design Service of the toy group of General Mills).\n\nAs they had done with Strawberry Shortcake, once titled \"Project I\", American Greeting Cards called the Care Bears development \"Project II\" as they strove to make the character program secret until advertising was ready. At the start of the franchise, Care Bears was already established as its working title.\n\nOn September 24, 1982, the Care Bears franchise was launched in New York City before members of the area's Society of Security Analysts. Attending the event were American Greetings president Morry Weiss, and two employees of Those Characters from Cleveland: Jack Chojnacki and senior vice-president Henry Lowenthal. Eventually, the characters were announced as a toyline for production by Parker Brothers and Kenner the following spring, as well as pre-licensed characters and media stars. At that time, American Greetings touted their debut as \"the biggest character launch in the history of retailing\". On a US$5–6 million advertising budget and a wholesale commitment worth US$122.5 million, American Greetings introduced the characters to the general public in February 1983, with an appearance at New York City's Toy Fair; 26 licensees were involved upon launch. Among them was General Mills, a food company which owned the board game manufacturer Parker Brothers. In early 1983, Parker Brothers released six books featuring the Care Bears as part of its publishing division's first offerings. On television, the original ten Bears starred in their first syndicated special, Atkinson Film-Arts' \"The Care Bears in the Land Without Feelings\"; Kenner produced and sponsored it.\n\nIn December 1983, American Greetings and CPG Products lost a lawsuit against Easter Unlimited, importers of a line known as \"Message Bears\". According to New York City judge Leonard B. Sand, those toys lacked the \"heart-shaped 'touché tags'\" used to identify the Care Bears.\n\nIn 1984, AGC introduced a spin-off line, the Care Bear Cousins; another syndicated special, \"The Care Bears Battle the Freeze Machine\", came out that same year. A miniseries based on the toys was distributed by Lexington Broadcast Services Company. A year later, the Bears and Cousins starred in their first film, \"The Care Bears Movie\", produced by Nelvana Limited and released by The Samuel Goldwyn Company. It became the highest-grossing animated film made outside the Disney market at the time of its release. Later that autumn, DIC Entertainment released an 11-episode television series in syndication.\n\nIn 1986, Nelvana returned to the franchise with a second movie, \"\". Released by Columbia Pictures, the film featured a new villain, Dark Heart, and introduced more of the Care Bears and Care Bears Cousins: Harmony Bear, True Heart Bear, and Noble Heart Horse.\n\nLater that year, a TV series titled \"The Care Bears Family\" (also from Nelvana) premiered on the U.S. ABC network and Canada's Global. Lasting two seasons and consisting of over 70 episodes, this introduced the evil wizard No Heart and his sidekick Beastly. In the second season, No Heart's niece Shreeky was introduced.\n\nThe Care Bears' third film, \"The Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland\", debuted in 1987. A TV special, \"Care Bears Nutcracker Suite\", premiered on the Disney Channel in 1988.\n\nOver 40 million Care Bears were sold between 1983 and 1987, and American Greetings printed over 70 million of their cards during the decade. In whole, the sales of their merchandise reached over $2 billion during the 1980s.\n\nIn early 1991, Those Characters from Cleveland and Kenner embarked on a relaunch of the franchise, involving seven bears. One of the Care Bear Cousins, Proud Heart Cat, was released as a bear with white fur that sported the belly symbol of a heart-shaped American flag. The publishing company Random House released two tie-in books: \"The Care Bears and the Big Cleanup\" (1991) by Bobbi Katz, and \"The Care Bears and the Whale Tale\" (1992) by Peggy Kahn.\n\nIn 1999, the rights to the Care Bears franchise were bought by Jay Foreman, the president of Fort Lauderdale-based Play Along Toys, for less than $1 million; he also planned to acquire fellow American Greeting Cards property Strawberry Shortcake. Three years later, Kenton Avery Frederick American Greetings relaunched the Care Bear brand as part of the Bears' 20th anniversary celebration with a series of plush toys and movies. The artwork and design of the bears were changed for relaunch. Also, Champ Bear's colours were changed from tan to true blue, with his belly symbol changed to a winner's cup with a star, and Share Bear's belly symbol was changed from a milkshake with two straws to two lollipops crossed. The change to Share Bear's symbol stems from Play Along Toys' suggestion of the change on the grounds that sharing a milkshake may spread germs. Apart from that, many other minor changes were made to the designs, mostly involving lightening the colors of the bears and minor redesigns to the belly symbols.\n\nIn the midst of this revival, Play Along released brand new toys based on the newly redesigned Bears, sold at stores such as Wal-Mart, Kmart, Toys \"R\" Us, Target, KB Toys, and Mervyns. The new merchandise included the Bears doing aerobics; Tenderheart Bear as a patient (casting the child that is playing with the toy as the doctor); Champ Bear as a fireman; and the Care Bears themselves as Cubs. Over 70 million plush Bears have been sold since the re-launch. In addition, Lionsgate Home Entertainment and subsidiary FHE Pictures, in association with Nelvana, have made two direct-to-DVD computer-animated films, \"Care Bears: Journey to Joke-a-lot\" in 2004 and \"The Care Bears' Big Wish Movie\" in 2005. Various other music CDs featuring the bears and video games were also produced.\n\nNew versions of the various cousins were produced (with Proud Heart being changed back into a cat, in a different color and the same symbol she had in the 1980s franchise). Two of the Cousins, Treat Heart Pig and Noble Heart Horse, were never produced as 13 inch plushes in the 2000s, and the Cousins were not relaunched in the 2007 relaunch of the franchise.\n\nIn 2007, American Greetings relaunched Care Bears again, first with a series of dolls, then a new movie, \"\" and immediately before with a new TV series \"\". The animation and artwork is completely different from the originals giving the Care Bears have smaller body structures and redesigned belly symbols, which are now called belly badges. Also, instead of Nelvana, the film and the animated series are produced by SD Entertainment.\n\nAs part of the franchise's 25th anniversary celebrations, the Bears were redesigned by the American Greetings Properties illustration team, as was the logo of the franchise. The line consists of fifteen of the thirty-nine bears (as seen in \"\"). Five of the bears were chosen to be the focus of the franchise: Oopsy Bear, Cheer Bear, Funshine Bear, Grumpy Bear and Share Bear. The other bears include Wish Bear, True Heart Bear, Bedtime Bear, Tenderheart Bear, Love-a-lot Bear, Harmony Bear, Amigo Bear, Surprise Bear, Superstar Bear, Do Your Best Bear, Best Friend Bear, Play-A-Lot Bear, Heartsong Bear, Good Luck Bear and Hopeful Heart Bear, although the remaining 24 bears are also stated to have a release in the near future according to Play Along Toys.\n\nTheir new theme song is performed by former Letters to Cleo member, Kay Hanley, and the music video premiered on Fox and Nickelodeon. In August 2007, they appeared in the film \"Care Bears: Oopsy Does It!\". This was followed by the television series from SD Entertainment, \"Adventures in Care-a-lot\". The series premiered on CBS' \"KEWLopolis\" block on September 15, 2007.\n\nThe Care Bears franchise was rebooted upon the 2007 relaunch. Prior plot devices like the Cloudmobiles, Caring Meter, the Cloud Keeper, and even Care-a-lot castle were not referred to or mentioned as of the new series. In its place is the gathering tree, which is where the Care Bears now gather to meet or hold festivities. Also, the Care Bears have, up until the point of the first direct-to-DVD release for the new franchise (\"Grizzle-ly Adventures\"), never had humans visit Care-a-lot, and a new villain named Grizzle (who seeks to conquer Care-a-lot and nothing else) was introduced. A February 2007 article in the \"Wall Street Journal\" states that in the new version, \"they live in a village, centered on a big tree; with no castle in sight\".\n\nHowever, the Caring Meter made its return in \"Grizzle-y Adventures\", and the second direct-to-DVD release of the franchise, \"Ups and Downs\", included a passing remark regarding the Forest of Feelings. In addition, Care-a-lot castle reappeared in certain scenes in the new game for the V.Smile Baby Infant Development System, \"Play Day\".\n\nOn July 23, 2008, American Greetings announced that the Care Bears (along with \"Strawberry Shortcake\") would be sold to Cookie Jar Entertainment in an acquisition due to take place on September 30, 2008. By April 2009, it was announced that Cookie Jar Entertainment had problems in financing the acquisition and that a French company called MoonScoop has also expressed interest in the franchise. The deadline for Cookie Jar's acquisition was April 30, and MoonScoop's attempt June 7. In mid-August 2009, MoonScoop sued American Greetings, claiming the latter backed out of the planned US$95 million deal; AGC and Cookie Jar sued each other in the process as well. In late April 2010, the Cleveland company \"won summary judgment on MoonScoop SAS' contract\", as well as \"promissory estoppel claims\" in the case; MoonScoop filed for an appeal the following month. At the end of November 2012, the US District Court in Cleveland ruled in favor of American Greetings over MoonScoop.\n\nIn late 2009, American Greetings announced that the Care Bears will be re-imagined with the launch of a new series, \"Care Power Team\". This re-imagining re-used the \"Adventures in Care-a-lot\" designs, has the bears sport \"enhanced belly badges\", and sees the bears taking on emergencies. Soon after, a trio of new films appeared: \"\", \"\" and \"Care Bears: To the Rescue\". In the same year, it was announced that the master rights to the toys for the Care Bears have changed hands from Play Along Toys to Hasbro, in a deal that also involved Strawberry Shortcake. However, it was only in mid-2013 that the first Care Bear toys from Hasbro appeared. There has been no word on what caused the delay.\n\nIn July 2011, the card company announced that a new television series, the franchise's first in CGI, is in development. Entitled \"\", it premiered on The Hub on June 2, 2012.\n\nIn December 2013, AG Properties and Mindworks Entertainment announced they will collaborate with Sanrio for a co-branding with the character franchise \"Little Twin Stars\". An expanded rollout is expected in March 2014.\n\nIn July 2014, it was announced that Hasbro has lost the rights to making the toys to another toy company called \"Just Play\". It is widely thought that the reason for the change is due to American Greetings being unhappy with how long it took Hasbro to release a toyline from the time it acquired the rights to make the toys.\n\nIn October 2014, When The Hub changed over to Discovery Family, it was revealed that Welcome to Care-A-Lot has been cancelled and that there won't be further work on the show.\n\nIn January 15, 2015, it was revealed that Netflix had commissioned a new series called \"Care Bears and Cousins\" after The Hub cancelled \"Welcome to Care-a-Lot\". The show was originally expected to premiere sometime in 2016, but the release was eventually pushed back to November 2015 and it premiered with six episodes. It was followed by another six episodes.\n\nIn September 2018, a new television series, titled \"Care Bears: Unlock the Magic\", was announced. The series is to premiere on the Boomerang premium streaming service. The series order includes 48 11-minute regular episodes, two 22-minute specials and 20 shorts. The series will introduce a new character named Dibble, who will serve as \"the team\"s newest pet and companion\". \n\nThe franchise consists mainly of the Care Bears themselves, as well as the later additions the Care Bear Cousins. Both of them live in the Kingdom of Caring, which is made up of Care-a-lot (the home of the Care Bears proper) and the Forest of Feelings (home to the Care Bear Cousins). In 1989, Carole Ashkinaze of \"The Atlanta Journal-Constitution\" referred to them as \"the whimsical, late 20th-century descendents of what we used to know as guardian angels: furry, friendly, adorable creatures whose mission is to guide small children and protect them from bogeymen. Running against a Care Bear is like, well, running against the Easter Bunny.\"\n\nAccompanying them are the Star and Heart Buddies, who look out for the Bears and Cousins whenever they are on missions in caring; and the Birds, who are usually seen in the Forest of Feelings with the Care Bear Cousins and watch over them. A less recurring character is The Cloud Keeper, the portly gentleman who maintains Care-a-lot. He only appeared in some of the franchise's early publications and on the DiC-produced TV episodes.\n\nThe ten original Care Bears consisted of Bedtime Bear, Birthday Bear, Cheer Bear, Friend Bear, Funshine Bear, Good Luck Bear, Grumpy Bear, Love-a-lot Bear, Tenderheart Bear, and Wish Bear. Later on, additional bears joined them, as well as the Cousins.\n\nFor the new 2007 TV series, \"\", five of the Care Bears were chosen to be the main characters of the show. As seen on the Care Bears website, they are Share Bear, Cheer Bear, Funshine Bear, Grumpy Bear, and the new bear introduced in the movie, Oopsy Bear who would frequently make a mess of things. However, the other Care Bears still make appearances in the series. The unofficial role of leader of the bears, as of the new series, was transferred from Tenderheart Bear to Cheer Bear. The cousins were not relaunched in the 2007 series.\n\nSome elements of the Care Bears franchise pay homage to the legend of King Arthur. For example, the name of the main characters' residence, Care-a-lot, is a play on King Arthur's legendary Camelot castle. The Care Bear Family sits around a heart-shaped table, similar to the Round Table used by Arthur and his knights. In addition, Sir Lancelot's name inspired that of Love-a-lot Bear.\n\nThroughout the movies and series, various villains have tried to stop the Bears and Cousins in the background on their missions. On the first two specials and DiC television series, they battled against Professor Coldheart, his assistant Frostbite, and occasionally Auntie Freeze; in Nelvana's version, they faced Wizard No Heart, his bumbling assistant Beastly and his ill-tempered niece Shreeky, and minor villains such as Dr. Fright and Sour Sam. In the movies, they went up against Nicholas and the Evil Spirit in \"The Care Bears Movie\", Dark Heart in \"\", The Wizard of Wonderland and his assistants Dim & Dumb in \"The Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland\", and the Rat King and Evil Vizier in \"Care Bears Nutcracker Suite\". Following the 2002 revival, Sir Funnybone the rat was introduced as a villain in the movie \"Care Bears: Journey to Joke-a-lot\", while \"The Care Bears' Big Wish Movie\" broke from tradition in that it did not have a villain. For the 2007 revival, the new film \"Care Bears: Oopsy Does It!\" introduced new villains, Grizzle and WingNut, who persists into the new TV series, \"\".\n\nThe Care Bears' ultimate weapon is the \"Care Bear Stare\" (a.k.a. \"Belly Magic\"), in which the collected Bears stand together and radiate light from their respective belly symbols. These combine to form a ray of love and good cheer which could bring care and joy into the target's heart. The Care Bear Stare has several different looks. One has a beam coming from the belly being made up of several replicated images of the symbol. Another variation forms a rainbow when multiple Bears and/or Cousins are involved. A yellow beam with red hearts is sometimes seen as well. The movies \"Care Bears: Journey to Joke-a-lot\" and \"The Care Bears' Big Wish Movie\" do not feature the Care Bear stare, but it does return in \"Oopsy Does It!\". In the new series, \"Care Bears Adventures in Care-a-lot\", the stare appears as a beam of light in the color of the bear from which it originates, but is initiated by simply rubbing the symbol.\n\nIn the original animated specials and the DiC series, the Care Bear Stare is initiated by the phrase \"Care Bears...prepare to stare!\" while in the Nelvana series and later versions it is initiated by the phrase \"Care Bears Countdown!\"\n\nDuring the movies and the DiC series, the Care Bear Cousins call their weapon the \"Care Bear Cousin Call\". In the DiC series, the call looks identical to the Care Bear Stare and is often performed at the same time without it being referred to as the call. In the first movie, the Cousins, excluding Swift Heart Rabbit, simply made whatever animal noise is common to their species since they did not have any belly symbols; those are later given to them by the Care Bears at the end of the movie. In the second movie, the Call looks like a musical score which radiates from their belly symbols. By the start of the Nelvana series, the Care Bear Cousin Call was no longer used and the Cousins simply performed the Care Bear Stare.\n\nAlthough commonly used on villains, the stare and call have been also been used on humans and the Care Bears themselves. It was occasionally used in the DiC series to cure Care Bears and humans who were placed under the effects of Professor Coldheart's uncaring magic. It also occurred once in \"Adventures in Care-a-lot\", when it was used to temporarily cheer Grumpy up in the episode \"Tell-Tale belly\".\n\nIn addition to the Care Bear Stare, the Care Bears can also use their belly symbols to summon other assistance such as heart-shaped balloons, cloud cars, rainbow bridges and sending out a distress signal.\n\nShown prominently in most of the Care Bears movies and TV episodes made in the 80s, the Caring Meter is typically in the dead center of Care-a-lot inside the Care Bears' main meeting hall. This meter shows how much caring there is both in Care-a-lot and on Earth. In the 1980s movies/cartoons, it is shown as an un-numbered clock-like meter. In \"The Care Bears' Big Wish Movie\", the meter is shown with a raincloud (less caring) side and a rainbow (more caring) side. Ideally, the Caring Meter should be all the way towards the rainbow side. Whenever the Bears see the meter drop towards the raincloud side, they try to prevent it from getting worse by going on \"caring missions\" to try to get more people to care or for the Bears themselves to do caring deeds. If the meter drops near zero, Care-a-lot will suffer disasters, such as thunderstorms, buildings and rainbows crumbling (earlier movies) or the bright colors of Care-a-lot gradually turning into black and white (later movies). If the meter were to reach all the way to zero (there is no caring \"anywhere\"), then Care-a-lot would be gone forever.\n\nInitially, no mention was made of the Caring Meter in \"Care Bears: Oopsy Does It!\" and the first season of \"Adventures in Care-a-lot\". With the release of \"Grizzle-y Adventures\", the franchise's first direct-to-DVD release, the Caring Meter has returned, and the Care Bears have begun to interact with humans once again.\n\nApart from toys, books, greeting cards and animated media, the Care Bears have been prominently featured in merchandising as well, some of which includes gummy bears, party goods, cell phone covers, interior decoration sets, stationery, school supplies, stickers, clothing, accessories and many other goods. During the early 2000s relaunch, the classic Care Bear toys were available at stores such as Carlton Cards, Claire's, and Spencer Gifts.\n\nWhen the franchise was introduced in the 1980s, a mistake was made while manufacturing the stuffed animals causing Bedtime Bear (blue) and Wish Bear (aqua) to swap colors. As soon as the mistake was discovered, the two bears returned into their appropriate colors. Later, a children's story was written explaining why the bears had switched colors.\n\nIn his 1986 essay, \"The Shortcake Strategy\", Tom Englehardt referred to the Care Bears dolls as \"highly specialized\" toys. \"So specialized [are they] that instead of being complex individual personalities, they are no more than carefully labeled fragments of a personality\", he stated. \"Together, they must engage in a series of specialized interventions as complex as those of any real-life medical unit.\"\n\nMany children's books have been based on, and have featured, the Care Bears and Care Bear Cousins. Some early publications include \"Meet the Care Bear Cousins\" (based on the first movie), \"Sweet Dreams for Sally\", \"The Witch Down the Street\", \"The Trouble with Timothy\", and \"A Sister for Sam\". All of these titles were published by toy makers Parker Brothers, who was a licensee of the characters. Over 45 million Care Bears books were sold during the 1980s. As of 2006, Scholastic Press has published books based on the Bears' first two CGI films, as well as the new toys, while Modern Publishing publishes a small number of activity and baby books featuring the bears for the toddler market. Publications International and Penny Candy Press are also known to have published a few sound books featuring the bears in the past.\n\nIn \"Playing by Different Rules\", a 1988 book chronicling the Parker Brothers/General Mills merger, Ellen Wojahn wrote that Parker's Care Bears books (along with those based on sister property Strawberry Shortcake) \"were, in fact, little more than illustrated brochures for Kenner's projects—and who knew [by 1984] how long the likes of these characters would remain popular?\"\n\nBetween November 1985 and January 1989, the Care Bears appeared in a 20-issue comic book series published by Marvel's Star Comics; the books were drawn by DC Comics artist Howard Post. The November 13, 1986 issue featured a crossover with another American Greetings property, the Madballs.\n\nDuring the same period, over in Britain the Care Bears also appeared in a comic book series published by Marvel UK with artwork by Mario Capaldi. The periodic comics were later bundled into hardcover Care Bear Annual books. Some of these UK comic book issues also had stories and art from the US comic series.\n\nAt the height of the '80s Care Bears craze, Kid Stuff Records released several LPs based on the franchise. These included \"Introducing the Care Bears\", \"The Care Bears Care For You\", \"Adventures in Care-a-lot\", \"The Care Bears' Birthday Party\", and \"The Care Bears' Christmas\" (all from 1983), and 1986's \"Friends Make Everything Better\" (released as a promotion with Trianimic). They released the soundtrack albums for the first two movies. The albums based on the toys were best sellers in children's music during their prime.\n\nAll of the albums from 1983 (except for \"Birthday Party\") featured writing, production, and performance credits from Mark Volman and Howard Kaylan (who were the lead singers of The Turtles, also known as Flo & Eddie; former Mothers of Invention from Frank Zappa's 1970–1972 period). The soundtrack album from The Care Bears Movie featured songs by Carole King and John Sebastian, who sang lead for The Lovin' Spoonful.\n\nIn the midst of the 2002 revival, Madacy Kids released brand new Care Bear CDs. In 2004, \"Meet the Care Bears\", \"Care Bears Holiday Hugs\", \"Care Bears Christmas Eve\", and the \"Care Bears: Journey to Joke-a-lot\" soundtrack album came out, as well as \"Care Bears Nighty-Night\" the following year.\n\nThe cover of both \"Care Bears Holiday Hugs\" and \"Care Bears Nighty-Night\" advertises another two CDs, called \"Care Bears Share A Smile\" and \"Care Bears Let's Be Friends\". As of April 2008, Both Share A Smile and Let's Be Friends have been folded into a single album and released as a digital download from www.Amazon.com and www.Walmart.com, however it is at this date not available as a physical CD. This has caused some difficulties to international fans as Amazon.com and Walmart.com will not sell digital downloads to fans who reside outside North America.\n\nApproximately 50 seconds into the music video for the breakout single \"I Need Some Fine Wine and You, You Need to Be Nicer\" from Swedish rock band The Cardigans' sixth studio album \"Super Extra Gravity\", there is a brief appearance of Bedtime Bear. He is shown again for the last time at the 76th second, lying on a bed in close proximity to the featured dog.\n\nA Care Bears game was planned for the Atari 2600 in 1983. It was preliminarily completed and ready for beta testing, but the project was canceled before testing could begin. The beta prototype subsequently disappeared into obscurity and the only known existing prototype to date is an early alpha of the game. No other games featuring the bears were ever made during the period.\n\nIn 2004, the Bears starred in their first official game, \"Care-a-lot Jamboree\" for the PC. A few months later, another game featuring the Care Bears for the PC, \"Let's Have a Ball!\" was released. In the same year they were featured in \"Care Bears: A Lesson in Caring\" for the V.Smile educational game console.\n\nIn 2005, they appeared in \"Catch a Star\" (also for the PC) and \"Care Bears: Care Quest\" (for the Game Boy Advance).\n\nLike the movies, no game for any systems was produced in 2006, and no new game was released in time for the 2007 relaunch. However, in August 2008, a new game, \"Care Bears Play Day\", was released for the V.Smile Baby Infant Development System, finally breaking the two years of silence for the franchise on the gaming front.\n\nthem, \"Care Bears Share-A-Story\", was introduced by Play Along in July 2005. The toy is based upon the same basic idea of a Teddy Ruxpin. The head, mouth and eyes of the Care Bear move around as a cartridge plays fairy tales such as Goldilocks and the Three Care Bears, Jack and the Beanstalk and the Three Little Pigs. A hardback book version of the story comes with it so the parent and child can read along as the story plays. The toy ships with the story \"Goldilocks and the Three Bears\", and additional story cartridges and books are to be purchased separately. Also, apparently only Share Bear was ever made as such a toy.\n\nAdditionally, Care Bears Sing-along pals were also introduced. These Care Bears plush toys sing three different songs while their heads rock back and forth and could synchronize wirelessly with other singing Care Bears of the series to sing together in a group (the effective wireless coverage being three feet, although the range might deteriorate due to environmental conditions and remaining battery strength). While initially introduced in a rather large variety of designs, at the moment only the Share Bear, Cheer Bear and Funshine Bear models are still being made, with the physical appearance of the bears redesigned to match the 25th anniversary looks.\n\nAnother Care Bear smart toy is the Care Bears Tenderheart Smart Check-up. The toy comes with an interactive plush Tenderheart bear and various toy medical equipment. The interactive plush has soft-touch points throughout the body and can be fully played with without the toy medical equipment.\n\nLastly, there are a line of Care Bears smart toys that would play hide and seek with the owner. The line, called \"Hide 'N Seek Care Bears\", comes in two designs: Secret Bear and Surprise Bear. Both bear comes with a wireless handpiece. To play the toy, a third party, usually the parent, must partake in the game by hiding the bear. The child then has to find the bear, with the handpiece occasionally providing hints on how close the child is to the bear through audible instructions.\n\nThe Care Bears appeared in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York City in 1982, 1983, 1984 and 1985. With the redesign of the characters on the heels of their 25th anniversary, the Care Bears returned to the parade for the holiday in 2007, 2008 and 2009. Also in those latter two years, they appeared at the Macy's Flower Show in the flagship New York store.\n\nIn 1984 and 1985, the Care Bears appeared at the San Diego Zoo in California, performing in a stage show at the amphitheater.\n\nTenderheart Bear, Funshine Bear and Cheer Bear appeared in a live-action 1985 TV special produced by ABC station WLS-TV in Chicago called \"Be A Safe Kid\", teaching kids how to be safe from strangers.\n\nIn the Summer and Fall of 1986 and 1987, the ABC television network toured shopping malls across the country with their stage show \"The ABC Family Fun Fair\" promoting their Saturday morning cartoon lineup for those years. With \"The Care Bears Family\" series as part of that block, some of the cast were part of the show...Funshine Bear, Cheer Bear and Braveheart Lion in the 1986 edition and Cheer Bear with Tenderheart Bear in the 1987 tour.\n\nDuring the Summers from 1988 through 1992, the Care Bears were the official characters in residence at Dorney Park & Wildwater Kingdom near Allentown PA. On the park's Center Stage, they performed in \"The Care Bear Song & Dance Revue\" and also did many walkabout meets & greets with guests around the amusement park. Dorney Park also had the animatronic \"Care-A-Lot Castle\" show created by Sally Industries.\n\nTenderheart Bear appeared at the Teddy Bear Rally in Amherst, MA from 1996 to 2005.\n\nThroughout the 2000s, the Care Bears have appeared in the DooDah Parade in Ocean City, NJ.\n\nIn the mid-2000s, the Care Bears starred in their own stage show, called \"Care Bears Live\", organized by VEE Corporation.\n\nThe Care Bears appeared in the 2007 St. Patrick's Day Parade in Chicago, where, as grand marshal, Good Luck Bear ceremoneously dyed the Chicago River green from a motorboat.\n\nThe Care Bears have been appearing in the annual Pacific National Exhibition in Vancouver, BC, Canada since 2008.\n\nDuring the Christmas holiday season, the Care Bears have done shows and appearances in Singapore at the Downtown East shopping mall and entertainment district from 2008 through 2010.\n\nDuring the 2010s, Tenderheart Bear has appeared in the Greenwich Village Halloween Parade in New York City.\n\nFunshine Bear and Share Bear appear in America's Children's Holiday Parade taking place in Oakland, CA early during the Christmas season.\n\nFunshine and Share have also been appearing in the Indy 500 Festival Parade in Indianapolis, IN over Memorial Day weekend.\n\nAs part of the Care Bears' 30th Anniversary, Share Bear appeared at the Noodlecat restaurant in San Diego, CA as part of The Hub's presence at Comicon 2012.\n\nAlso in connection with their 30th anniversary, Cheer Bear appeared at The Toonseum in Pittsburgh, PA during a 2012 exhibit about the Care Bears' animated television series, and also at the Pittsburgh Comic Arts Festival sponsored by them.\n\nOn the weekend in the middle of June 2013, Funshine Bear, Cheer Bear, Share Bear and Grumpy Bear appeared onstage for \"A Care Bears Dance Party\" at Sesame Place in Langhorne, PA.\n\nIn July 2013, Funshine Bear and Love-A-Lot Bear appeared at Anthrocon, a convention for the furry fandom in Pittsburgh, PA, which took place in the David L. Lawrence Convention Center.\n\nIn April 2015, Cheer Bear appeared in the Cherry Blossom Parade in Washington, D.C.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14102828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14102828", "title": "Child's Play (franchise)", "text": "Child's Play (franchise)\n\nChild's Play (also called Chucky) is an American horror franchise centered on a series of seven films created by Don Mancini. The films mainly focus on Chucky (voiced by Brad Dourif), a notorious serial killer known as the \"Lakeshore Strangler\" whose soul is transferred inside a Good Guy doll following a voodoo ritual in order to avoid the afterlife and possibly avoid going to Hell. The original film, \"Child’s Play\", was released on November9, 1988. The film has spawned six sequels and has gone into other media, such as comic books, a video game, tie-in merchandise, and an upcoming television show. The first, second, and fourth films were box office successes with all of the films earning over $182 million worldwide. Including revenues from sales of videos, DVDs, VOD and merchandise, the franchise has generated over $250 million. It also won a Saturn Award for Best Horror Franchise.\n\nThe film series originally started out as straight horror with the first installment \"Child’s Play\", which appears to have more psychological horror elements, while its successors are straightforward slasher films with elements of dark humor. As the films progressed, they became satirical and campy, until the series briefly became a horror comedy, with 1998's \"Bride of Chucky\" and 2004's \"Seed of Chucky\". In 2012, it was confirmed that a new film would be made under the title \"Curse of Chucky\" and be released direct-to-video. Unlike \"Bride\" and \"Seed\", \"Curse of Chucky\" is a full-fledged horror film much like the original three installments. However, it does maintain the campy humor to a small degree. Since \"Bride of Chucky\", titles have no longer been released under the \"Child's Play\" brand name and now use \"Chucky\" and will continue to do so with future films. The latest installment to the series, titled \"Cult of Chucky\", was released on October3, 2017.\n\nSeveral short films have been made featuring the Chucky character: on the DVD release of \"Seed of Chucky\", a short film entitled \"Chucky's Vacation Slides\", set during the events of the film, was included, and a series of short films inserting Chucky into the events of other horror films entitled \"Chucky Invades\" was released in the run-up to the release of \"Curse of Chucky\". On television, Chucky has appeared in commercials and also on \"Saturday Night Live\", with a separate voice actor voicing the character. Chucky appeared in a pretaped segment during an October 1998 episode of World Championship Wrestling's \"Monday Nitro\" program as a heel, taunting wrestler Rick Steiner who was a face at the time and promoting \"Bride of Chucky\".\n\n\"Child’s Play\" is the first and only in the series to be distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer/United Artists (until \"Seed of Chucky\" which is distributed by Rogue) before the franchise was sold by Universal Pictures. The film is directed by Tom Holland, written by Holland, John Lafia, and Don Mancini, and starring Catherine Hicks, Chris Sarandon, Alex Vincent, and Brad Dourif. The film was released on November 9, 1988. Set in 1988, a serial killer and voodoo practitioner named Charles Lee \"Chucky\" Ray is mortally wounded and transfers his soul via a voodoo ritual into a child-sized \"Good Guy\" doll. The doll is found by a homeless peddler and sold to Karen Barclay, who gives it to her son Andy as a birthday gift. As time goes on Chucky has to get his soul out of the doll before it turns human and the transfer becomes permanent, and thus has to possess the first person he told his secret to - Andy. Desperate to leave his doll body, Chucky terrorizes the Barclays in order to restore his soul.\n\n\"Child’s Play 2\" is the second film in the series and the first film distributed by Universal Pictures. The film is directed by John Lafia, written by Mancini, Vincent and Dourif reprise their roles as Andy Barclay and the voice of Chucky. The film was released on November 9, 1990. The movie takes place in 1990, two years after the events of the first film. While Andy is living in foster care, the doll's manufacturer has taken a positive corporate stance and remade it to prove there is nothing wrong with the Good Guy brand. After a freak electrical malfunction brings Chucky back to life in a new Good Guy doll, he continues to follow Andy in order to transfer his soul from his doll body before it will once again becomes his permanent form.\n\n\"Child's Play 3\", also known as \"Child’s Play 3: Look Who’s Stalking!\", is the third film in the series, and the last film to be titled as \"Child's Play\", before the title change as \"Chucky\". The film is directed by Jack Bender, written by Mancini, and had Dourif reprise once again his role as Chucky, Alex Vincent replaced as Andy Barclay by Justin Whalin as an older version of Andy and a supporting cast of Perrey Reeves and Jeremy Sylvers. The film was released on August 20, 1991. Set in 1998, eight years after the events of the second film, the Good Guy factory has re-opened after the negative publicity, and as Chucky's remains are removed, some blood from his destroyed human-doll body drips into a vat of melted plastic used to re-mould the Good Guy line. Chucky returns in a new body, going on a hunt for the now 16-year-old Andy Barclay, who has left to attend a military academy after the results of the first two films. While attempting to reach Andy, Chucky finds a new boy, Ronald Tyler, who he shares his \"secret\" with. With a new \"Good Guy\" doll body brings the possibility of possessing a new human body, Chucky attempts to restore his soul to human form through Tyler as Andy attempts to stop the killer Good Guy doll once and for all.\n\nThe film picks up a month after the events of \"Child's Play 3\". Unlike the first three films, this film focuses entirely on Chucky and Tiffany. Charles Lee Ray's former girlfriend and his accomplice, Tiffany, acquires Chucky's remains, stitches them together and via a voodoo ritual revives Charles Lee Ray, albeit in a much different form. Chucky kills Tiffany, transferring her soul into a bride doll, and the two maniacs force a young couple to bring them to Ray's grave, where Chucky plans to use a voodoo amulet to finally get a new body. In the end, the Tiffany doll gives birth to a new form of life (Glen/Glenda) as it flies out of a now dead Tiffany and attacks a detective. No one knows whether the detective is dead or alive as the screen cuts to black and closing credits roll.\n\n\"Seed of Chucky\" is the fifth installment, and the first film other than the original \"Child's Play\" not to be distributed by Universal Pictures. Chucky and Tiffany's child Glen finds his parents six years later, in 2004, and brings them back to life, but is horrified by their murders. Chucky and Tiffany force a pregnancy on actress Jennifer Tilly, which is accelerated by voodoo magic. Glen suffers a split personality disorder, having both a male and female soul in his/her body, and dismembers his father. Tiffany uses the ritual to take over Tilly's body and as Tilly bears twins, Glen's dual personality now has a body each of its own. In an epilogue set five years later, in 2009, one of Chucky's severed arms is mailed to the home of his family, where it attacks the now-human Glen.\n\n\"Curse of Chucky\" is the first direct-to-video film in the series. In 2013, Nine years after the events of the fifth film and four years after its epilogue, Chucky is delivered to the family home of Nica and Sarah Pierce, where Chucky terrorizes and kills the family one by one. Chucky is driven by revenge, as Sarah was the one who called the police on him while he was still human, leading to his original death in the first film by detective Mike Norris. Nica survives, but is institutionalized, and blamed for the murders. Chucky is collected by Tiffany, who delivers him to Alice. Chucky successfully transfers his soul into Alice's body which will be explained in Cult of Chucky, as he does the soul ritual the camera moves to reveal Alice's grandmother emerging from the basement, with a plastic bag around her head, slowly dying. Six months later, Chucky is mailed to his next victim, who just so happens to be none other than his longtime original nemesis from the original first three films, Andy Barclay, who points a shotgun at Chucky and shoots him through the head.\n\nIn 2017, Four years after \"Curse of Chucky\", Chucky returns to terrorize Nica at the mental institution where she is admitted. Chucky goes on yet another murderous rampage, killing disbelieved employees & tenants at the institution with various dramatic tricks. When a now vigilante Andy Barclay figures out Chucky's plan, he breaks into the institution in an attempt to disarm his newly created voodoo plot. But in the end, Nica ends up being possessed by Chucky, which causes her to gain the ability to walk and leaves with Tiffany.\n\nIn July 2018, \"Collider\" reported that a modern-day version of \"Child's Play\", a reboot, is in development at MGM without the involvement of Mancini or Kirschner. Lars Klevberg will direct the film, with a script from Tyler Burton Smith (of \"Polaroid\" and \"Quantum Break\" fame, respectively). David Katzenberg and Seth Grahame-Smith will serve as producers. The plot will reportedly feature a group of kids, similar to \"Stranger Things\", and a hi-tech version of the Good Guy Doll. Production will begin in September, later that year.\n\nLater, in September 2018, Gabriel Bateman, Aubrey Plaza and Brian Tyree Henry were cast as Andy Barclay, and Karen Barclay, and Detective Mike Norris, respectively.\n\nIn October 2017, Don Mancini stated that he intends in having Glen and Glenda from \"Seed of Chucky\" return in a future film, and acknowledged that most references to that character had been cut from \"Cult of Chucky\". In February 2018, it was announced that a \"Child's Play\" television series will be a continuation of the film's story arc. Mancini also stated that following the TV show, feature films will continue to be developed in the future.\n\nIn an interview with \"Bloody Disgusting\" Mancini discussed the potential of a \"Child's Play\" film set on a train as well as revealing plans for a crossover film with the \"Nightmare on Elm Street\" franchise, tentatively referred to as \"Child’s Play on Elm Street\".<br>\n\nI would like to do Freddy and Chucky, just because I think they would be a fun double act,\" he explains. \"I’m more really interested in the characters. My pitch for Freddy vs. Chucky is Child’s Play on Elm Street. Chucky ends up in some kid’s house on Elm Street, and Chucky and Freddy inevitably meet in the dreamscape. Chucky sleeps. Why not? Chucky sleeps, Chucky dreams. And they have this admiration for each other. But they realize quickly that Elm Street isn’t big enough for the two of them, so in a riff on Dirty Rotten Scoundrels they have a contest: who can kill the most teenagers before the sun comes up? \n\nIn September 2017 in a separate interview with Cinema Blend, Mancini confirmed his intent to make the crossover film, describing it as \"cool and doable\", confirming that the film would be titled \"Child’s Play on Elm Street\" and that he was currently in discussion with New Line Cinema about the film. The foundation for a crossover film was previously laid in \"Bride of Chucky\", in which Freddy Krueger's bladed glove had appeared in the Lockport police evidence depository at the beginning of the film.\n\nIn February 2018, it was announced that a television series titled \"Child's Play: The TV Series\", is in development with involvement from franchise creator Don Mancini, and producer David Kirschner. The show will share continuity with the original film series, and be a continuation of that story. Mancini stated that besides the TV series, feature films will still continue to be developed. By June of the same year, it was confirmed that Brad Dourif would return for the 8-part series to voice Charles Lee \"Chucky\" Ray.\n\nOn the home media DVD and Blu-ray release of \"Seed of Chucky\" in 2005, a short film entitled \"Chucky's Vacation Slides\" was included in the special features. The short, set during the events of \"Seed of Chucky\", follows Chucky, Tiffany, and Glen after having returned from a family vacation. The film implies that the events of \"Seed of Chucky\" take place over the course of 5–10 years. While browsing through their photographs of their vacation on a slide projector, Tiffany notices various corpses in the background of certain photographs, realizing that Chucky has been killing people again. Tiffany leaves, with a distraught and sickened Glen, while Chucky continues to view the photographs. After a delivery man arrives with a pizza, Chucky leads him to his garage and kills him off-screen. Brad Dourif, Jennifer Tilly and Billy Boyd all reprise their roles from the films.\n\nLeading up to the DVD release of \"Curse of Chucky\" in 2013, a series of short film videos were released. The clips showed Chucky interrupting the events of several other horror films. Brad Dourif and Edan Gross reprised their roles as Chucky and the Good Guy Doll, respectively. \n\n\n\nJoe Renzetti composed the first \"Child’s Play\", followed by Graeme Revell, who composed the soundtrack for \"Child’s Play 2\" and \"Bride of Chucky\". John D'Andrea and Cory Lerios wrote the score for \"Child’s Play 3\", while Pino Donaggio composed \"Seed of Chucky\". Joseph LoDuca composed the score for \"Curse of Chucky\" and \"Cult of Chucky\".\n\nThe following crimes have been associated with the \"Child’s Play\" films:\n\nIn December 1992 four people who tortured and killed 16-year-old Suzanne Capper were said to be influenced by one of the \"Child's Play\" movies. During the torturing of the girl, the perpetrators taunted her by playing her a song, (\"Hi, I'm Chucky (Wanna Play?)\" by 150 Volts, featuring samples from the movie \"Child's Play\".\n\nIn 1993, two youths who abducted and murdered a toddler named James Bulger were said to have been influenced by the film \"Child’s Play 3\". The supposed link between the murder and the film was denied by film censor James Ferman.\n\nAccording to a relative of two boys aged 10 and 12 who brutally attacked a nine-year-old and 11-year-old boy in Edlington, South Yorkshire in April 2009, the attackers watched horror movies, including \"Chucky\" films, from the age of about six or seven. Elena Lobacheva, a Russian serial killer arrested in 2015, was reportedly obsessed with the film \"Bride of Chucky\", which she cited as being an inspiration for the murders that she and her gang committed throughout Moscow.\n\nBeginning in 1992, Innovation Publishing released the first comic books based on the films, in the form of a three-issue adaptation of \"Child’s Play 2\". It was later collected in a trade paperback. The success of the adaptation led to a monthly series of new stories starting in 1991. The series, titled \"Child’s Play: The Series\", ended in 1992 after only five issues. This was followed by a three-issue adaptation of \"Child’s Play 3\".\n\nIn 2007, Devil's Due Publishing obtained the license to publish \"Child's Play\" comics and released a one-shot crossover with Hack/Slash titled \"Hack/Slash vs. Chucky\" which takes place after the events of the \"Seed of Chucky\" film. This was followed by a four-issue series called \"Chucky\". A second volume began in early 2009 but ceased publication after only one issue.\n\nSlimstown Studios announced an endless runner video game titled \"Chucky: Slash & Dash\". The game is scheduled to be released on iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch and Android devices. It is the result of an agreement with Universal Partnerships & Licensing to develop and publish the first officially licensed smartphone and tablet \"Child’s Play\" video game. The gameplay is actually inspired by the second film's climax.\n\nIn the game, Chucky is stuck in a never-ending nightmare in which he's endlessly running through the factory that produces Good Guys dolls. Players control Chucky while sprinting through the factory floor, the catwalks, the warehouse, or even outside, and need to avoid conveyor belts, forklifts, acid pools, barrels and other obstacles. Chucky can also eliminate security guards patrolling the factory using his classic knife or other more outlandish weapons like a cleaver, screwdriver, or hatchet. As they play, gamers collect batteries that can be used to purchase in-game items or power-ups, such as a double battery bonus, a fast start, or extra lives that can extend a run after dying.\n\nThe app was released on November 1, 2013.\n\nSince 1992, Chucky has starred in his own shows at Universal Studios \"Halloween Horror Nights\", entitled, \"Chucky's In-Your-Face Insults\" and \"Chucky's Insult Emporium\".\n\nIn 2009, the climax of \"Child’s Play 3\" received its own maze, entitled \"Chucky's Fun House\". \"Curse of Chucky\" has also received its own scarezone in the 2013 lineup.\n\nIn 2017, Chucky played host to the Titans of Terror Tram which featured iconic horror villains Leatherface, Freddy Krueger, and Jason Voorhees.\n\n"}
{"id": "13612929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13612929", "title": "Cinephilia", "text": "Cinephilia\n\nCinephilia (; also cinemaphilia or filmophilia) is the term used to refer to a passionate interest in films, film theory, and film criticism. The term is a portmanteau of the words cinema and philia, one of the four ancient Greek words for love. A person with a passionate interest in cinema is called a cinephile (), cinemaphile, filmophile, or, informally, a film buff (also movie buff).\n\nIn English, \"cinephile\" is sometimes used interchangeably with the word cineaste (), though in the original French the term \"cinéaste\" () refers to a cinephile who is also a filmmaker.\n\nIn a review of a book on the history of cinephilia, Mas Generis writes: \"Cinephilia, is the condition of a sexual attraction to movies.\" Generis also introduces a quote from film scholar Annette Michelson that states that there is, \"No one such thing as cinephilia, but rather forms and periods of cinephilia.\" As described by Antoine de Baecque and Thierry Frémaux, \"The definitive essence of cinephila is a culture of the discarded that prefers to find intellectual coherence where none is evident and to eulogize the non-standard and the minor.\"\n\nFilm historian Thomas Elsaesser wrote that it \"reverberates with nostalgia and dedication... more than a passion of going to the movies and only a little less than an entire attitude towards life\".\n\nSince the beginning of the silent era, there have been film clubs and publications in which people who felt passionately about cinema could discuss their interests and see rare and older works. At the beginning of the sound era, there were more and more people interested in seeing older films, which led to the establishment of organizations such as the Cinémathèque Française, the first major archive devoted to film preservation.\n\nPerhaps the most notable cinephilic community of the 20th century was the one that developed in Paris in the decades following World War II. An influx of foreign films that had been withheld during the Occupation, as well as the screening programs of local film clubs and the Cinémathèque Française, generated interest in world cinema amongst the city's intellectual youth culture. In general, the cinephiles of the period set a template for future like-minded groups by having keen enthusiasm for both older and contemporary films.\n\nInfluential film clubs of the period included Objectif 49, whose members included Robert Bresson and Jean Cocteau, and the Ciné-Club du Quartier Latin (Cinema Club of the Latin Quarter). \"Revue du Cinéma\", a magazine published by members of the two clubs, later evolved into the influential film magazine \"Cahiers du Cinéma\".\n\nMany of the people who attended the screenings became film critics and later filmmakers, founding the film movement known as the French New Wave. André Bazin, François Truffaut, Jacques Doniol-Valcroze, Claude Chabrol, Jean-Luc Godard, Alexandre Astruc, Jacques Rivette, Luc Moullet and others were regulars, and several, most notably Truffaut, maintained their ties to the community after they had achieved fame.\n\nThe community fostered an interest in directors and films that had been neglected, forgotten or simply unknown in the West, and led to the development of the auteur theory. The directors the French cinephiles of the period had strong interests in included F. W. Murnau, Robert Flaherty, Sergei Eisenstein, Jean Renoir, Jean Vigo, Orson Welles, Anthony Mann, Louis Feuillade, D. W. Griffith, the Lumière Brothers, Alfred Hitchcock and Georges Méliès, whose films would be screened from nitrate prints on special occasions.\n\nWith the popular success of the French New Wave, film-going became fashionable in Europe and America. Revival screenings and independently run cinemas specializing in foreign films became increasingly common. In the United States, New York City was often seen as the center of cinephile culture, due to the wide variety of films available to see at any given time. This culture was also helped by the popularity in America of figures such like Pauline Kael, Andrew Sarris and Susan Sontag. Certain writers and critics, including Sontag, would later come to view this as the \"golden age\" of film-going in the US. Directors such as Ingmar Bergman, Akira Kurosawa, Michelangelo Antonioni and Federico Fellini enjoyed a great deal of popularity in the US and influenced the young generation of film enthusiasts who would become the New Hollywood, including Martin Scorsese, Peter Bogdanovich, Francis Ford Coppola and Woody Allen. Due to growing public interest in films from other countries, specialty distributors such as Janus Films and New Yorker Films began importing and subtitling foreign movies.\n\nThe era also saw the growth of college film societies in the US. Though some, like Doc Films at the University of Chicago, had existed since the 1930s, the 1960s saw directors of all generations regularly make appearances at college campuses, whether to revisit their old films or to discuss new ones.\n\nAt the same time, the Parisian cinephilic culture became increasingly politicized. Critics, and by extension the cinephiles who followed their work, began to emphasize political aspects of films and directors. Though many of the major figures of the post-war community has been originally aligned with the political right—including most of the \"Cahiers du Cinéma\" group—by the late 1960s \"Cahiers\" and the young cinephile public in general had aligned with various forms of the Left, with some figures, such as Jean-Luc Godard, aligning with Maoism. In this very politicized climate, cinema was often seen as directly connected to Marxism. Many members of this new generation of cinephiles would become critics and directors, including Serge Daney, Philippe Garrel, and Andre Techine.\n\nThough most of the world's major film festivals had existed for decades by this point—including the Berlin International Film Festival, the Cannes Film Festival and the Venice Film Festival—the period saw the establishment of festivals in nearly every major city. The New York Film Festival, the Karlovy Vary International Film Festival and the Chicago International Film Festival were all started during this time. The Toronto International Film Festival, often seen as second only to the Cannes Film Festival in terms of importance, was founded towards the end of this period, in 1976.\n\nAs VHS tapes and later DVDs became more common, cinephilia became less associated with filmgoing in theatres.\n\nWhile Japanese films have enjoyed worldwide distribution in the mid 20th century, the late 20th century saw an increase in interest amongst cinephiles in cinema from other Asian countries, especially China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and, later, Thailand.\n\nSince the beginning of the 21st century, blogging has become a large part of cinephile culture. In the English-speaking world, established critics and theorists like Dave Kehr, David Bordwell, Jonathan Rosenbaum, Glenn Kenny, Wheeler Winston Dixon and Adrian Martin, as well as non-professional cinephiles like Girish Shambu and Acquarello, play key roles in building interest in films or theories amongst cinephiles by writing and communicating through blogs. Forums and podcasts have become popular ways to stir discussion, allowing cinephiles from different countries and cultures to discuss ideas about film. The social networking and video streaming service Mubi caters specifically to cinephiles, allowing its members access to films that sometimes haven't been distributed theatrically or on video in their home countries. Home video distribution labels such as The Criterion Collection and Masters of Cinema cater to cinephiles, often including large amounts of supplemental and critical material with their releases.\n\nAs was the case with the French cinephilia of the post-war era, the international cinephilic community that has developed on the Internet often emphasizes films and figures that do not have strong critical or popular recognition, including many directors who work within genre film, in what is sometimes dubbed vulgar auteurism. These include Abel Ferrara, Bela Tarr, Michael Mann, Apichatpong Weerasethakul, Park Chan-wook, Kiyoshi Kurosawa, Philippe Garrel, Pedro Costa, Lucrecia Martel and Jose Luis Guerin.\n\nThroughout the history of cinema, there have been numerous directors who developed their understanding of cinema through filmgoing and participation in cinephile communities and organizations instead of within the formal settings of either a film school or a film studio. Directors who began as cinephiles include Jean-Luc Godard, Claude Chabrol, François Truffaut, Satyajit Ray, Quentin Tarantino, Jacques Rivette, Ed Wood, Andre Techine, Pedro Costa, Brian de Palma, Jim Jarmusch, Paul Thomas Anderson, Wim Wenders, Wes Anderson, Éric Rohmer, Hal Hartley and Aki Kaurismäki.\n\nThe directors of the French New Wave, who learned about filmmaking by attending screenings at film clubs and discussing movies amongst themselves, are often seen as models for cinephiles. Their intellectual omnivorousness, which equated an interest in cinema with strong understandings of literature, art and sometimes philosophy, has continued to have influence on cinephiles. \n\nOn the other hand, many directors emphasize their lack of cinephilia or interest in movies. Abbas Kiarostami, popular with cinephiles, often emphasized his disinterest in cinema when interviewed.\n\nThere has also been different forms of \"cinephobia\" (fear or hatred of cinema) from the current fear of \"losing\" celluloid film in the digital age through anxieties about moral values on the big screen to the point of censorship. \n\nTelephilia is the term used to refer to a passionate interest in television.\n\nIt was coined by \"The New York Times\" critic Frank Rich, in a pejorative way, as \"the pathological longing of Americans, no matter how talentless, to be on television\".\n\nFor years, television was frowned upon as inferior to film until the advent of quality television in the 1980s when recording and reproduction technologies allowed the spectator to release his/her viewing from the palimpsest's rigidity. \n\nAnti-heroic series like \"The Sopranos\" and \"The Wire\" were cited as improving television content thus earning critical praise. \n\nIt also rivals cinephilia for relevance as production values are higher than ever before on shows such as \"Mad Men\", \"Breaking Bad\" and \"Homeland\". Despite this development, there are still intellectuals who consider telephilia as inferior to cinephilia particularly in cases of obsessions for modern television programs belonging to genres such as melodrama and soap opera. This is also explained by the view that highlighted the unattainable nature of the cinema, which makes it more desirable and extraordinary since it features a regime of presence-yet-absence filmic image, allowing a form of cinematic stardom capable of triggering a series of psychic mechanisms. This is contrasted with television, which is perceived to be more present and immediate - with its stars \"famous only in so far as he or she makes frequent television appearances.\" Some observers, however, note that there is now a destabilization of traditional notions of what constitutes cinephilic tendency due to the availability of film on home media technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "5928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5928", "title": "Clown", "text": "Clown\n\nA clown is a comic performer who employs slapstick or similar types of physical comedy, often in a mime style.\n\nClowns have a varied tradition with significant variations in costume and performance. The most recognisable modern clown character is the \"Auguste\" or \"red clown\" type, with outlandish costumes featuring distinctive makeup, colourful wigs, exaggerated footwear, and colourful clothing. Their entertainment style is generally designed to entertain large audiences. \n\nModern clowns are strongly associated with the tradition of the circus clown, which developed out of earlier comedic roles in theatre or \"Varieté\" shows during the 19th to mid 20th centuries.\n\nMany circus clowns have become well known and are a key circus act in their own right. The first mainstream clown role was portrayed by Joseph Grimaldi (who also created the traditional whiteface make-up design). In the early 1800s, he expanded the role of Clown in the harlequinade that formed part of British pantomimes, notably at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane and the Sadler's Wells and Covent Garden theatres. He became so dominant on the London comic stage that harlequinade Clowns became known as \"Joey\", and both the nickname and Grimaldi's whiteface make-up design were, and still are, used by other types of clowns.\n\nThe comedy that clowns perform is usually in the role of a fool whose everyday actions and tasks become extraordinary—and for whom the ridiculous, for a short while, becomes ordinary. This style of comedy has a long history in many countries and cultures across the world. Some writers have argued that due to the widespread use of such comedy and its long history it is a need that is part of the human condition. \n\nThe \"fear of clowns,\" circus clowns in particular as a psychiatric condition has become known by the term coulrophobia.\n\nThe \"\"clown\" character developed out of the zanni \"rustic fool\" characters of the early modern commedia dell'arte, which were themselves directly based on the \"rustic fool\"\" characters of ancient Greek and Roman theatre.\nRustic buffoon characters in Classical Greek theater were known as \" sklêro-paiktês\" (from \"paizein\" \"to play (like a child)\") or \"deikeliktas\", besides other generic terms for \"rustic\" or \"peasant\". In Roman theater, a term for clown was \"fossor\", literally \"digger; labourer\".\n\nThe English word \"clown\" was first recorded c. 1560 (as \"clowne, cloyne\") in the generic meaning \"rustic, boor, peasant\". \nThe origin of the word is uncertain, perhaps from a Scandinavian word cognate with \"clumsy\".\nIt is in this sense that \"Clown\" is used as the name of fool characters in Shakespeare's \"Othello\" and \"The Winter's Tale\".\nThe sense of \"clown\" as referring to a professional or habitual fool or jester developed soon after 1600, based on Elizabethan \"rustic fool\" characters such as Shakespeare's.\n\nThe harlequinade developed in England in the 17th century, inspired by the commedia dell'arte. It was here that \"Clown\" came into use as the given name of a stock character. Originally a foil for Harlequin's slyness and adroit nature, Clown was a buffoon or bumpkin fool who resembled less a jester than a comical idiot. He was a lower class character dressed in tattered servants' garb.\n\nThe now-classical features of the clown character were developed in the early 1800s by Joseph Grimaldi, who played Clown in Charles Dibdin's 1800 pantomime \"Peter Wilkins: or Harlequin in the Flying World\" at Sadler's Wells Theatre, where Grimaldi built the character up into the central figure of the harlequinade.\n\nThe circus clown developed in the 19th century. The modern circus derives from Philip Astley's London riding school, which opened in 1768. Astley added a clown to his shows to amuse the spectators between equestrian sequences. American comedian George L. Fox became known for his clown role, directly inspired by Grimaldi, in the 1860s.\nTom Belling senior (1843–1900) developed the \"red clown\" or \"Auguste\" (\"Dummer August\") character c. 1870, acting as a foil for the more sophisticated \"white clown\". Belling worked for Circus Renz in Vienna. Belling's costume became the template for the modern stock character of circus or children's clown, based on a lower class or \"hobo\" character, with red nose, white makeup around the eyes and mouth, and oversized clothes and shoes. The clown character as developed by the late 19th century is reflected in Ruggero Leoncavallo's 1892 opera \"Pagliacci\" (\"Clowns\").\nBelling's \"Auguste\" character was further popularized by Nicolai Poliakoff's \"Coco\" in the 1920s to 1930s.\n\nThe English word \"clown\" was borrowed, along with the circus clown act, into many other languages, such as French \"clown\", Russian (and other Slavic languages) кло́ун, Greek κλόουν, Danish/Norwegian \"klovn\", Romanian \"clovn\" etc.\n\nItalian retains \"Pagliaccio\", a Commedia dell'arte zanni character, and derivations of the Italian term are found in other Romance languages, such as French \"Paillasse\", Spanish \"payaso\", Catalan/Galician \"pallasso\", Portuguese \"palhaço\", Greek παλιάτσος, Turkish \"palyaço\", German \"Pajass\" (via French), Yiddish פּאַיאַץ (\"payats\"), Russian пая́ц.\n\nIn the early 20th century, with the disappearance of the rustic simpleton or village idiot character of everyday experience, North American circuses developed characters such as the tramp or hobo. Examples include Marceline Orbes, who performed at the Hippodrome Theater(1905), Charlie Chaplin's \"The Tramp\" (1914), and Emmett Kelly's \"Weary Willie\" based on hobos of the Depression era. Another influential tramp character was played by Otto Griebling during the 1930s to 1950s. Red Skelton's Dodo the Clown in \"The Clown\" (1953), depicts the circus clown as a tragicomic stock character, \"a funny man with a drinking problem\".\n\nIn the United States, Bozo the Clown was an influential \"Auguste\" character since the late 1950s. \"The Bozo Show\" premiered in 1960 and appeared nationally on cable television in 1978. McDonald's derived its mascot clown, Ronald McDonald, from the \"Bozo\" character in the 1960s. Willard Scott, who had played \"Bozo\" during 1959–1962, performed as the mascot in 1963 television spots. The McDonald's trademark application for the character dates to 1967.\n\nBased on the \"Bozo\" template, the US custom of birthday clown, private contractors who offer to perform as clowns at children's parties, developed in the 1960s to 1970s. The strong association of the (\"Bozo\"-derived) clown character with children's entertainment as it has developed since the 1960s also gave rise to \"Clown Care\" or \"hospital clowning\" in children's hospitals by the mid 1980s. Clowns of America International (established 1984) and World Clown Association (established 1987) are associations of semi-professionals and professional performers.\n\nThe shift of the \"Auguste\" or \"red clown\" character from his role as a foil for the white in circus or pantomime shows to a \"Bozo\"-derived standalone character in children's entertainment by the 1980s also gave rise to the evil clown character, the attraction of clowns for small children being based in their fundamentally threatening or frightening nature.\n\nThere are different types of clowns portrayed around the world. They include\n\nThe classical pairing of the White Clown with Auguste in modern tradition\nhas a precedent in the pairing of Pierrot and Harlequin in the Commedia dell'arte.\nOriginally, Harlequin's role was that of a light-hearted, nimble and astute servant, paired with the sterner and melancholic Pierrot.\n\nIn the 18th-century English Harlequinade, Harlequin was now paired with Clown.\nAs developed by Joseph Grimaldi around 1800, Clown became the mischievous and brutish foil for the more sophisticated Harlequin, who became more of a romantic character. The most influential such pair in Victorian England were the Payne Brothers, active during the 1860s and 1870s.\n\nThe \"white clown\", or \"clown blanc\" from the original French, is a sophisticated character, as opposed to the clumsy auguste. They are also distinguished as the \"sad clown\" (blanc) and \"happy clown\" (auguste).\n\nThe Auguste face base makeup color is a variation of pink, red, or tan rather than white. Features are exaggerated in size, and are typically red and black in color. The mouth is thickly outlined with white (called the muzzle) as are the eyes. Appropriate to the character, the auguste can be dressed in either well-fitted garb or in a costume that does not fit — either oversize or too small is appropriate. Bold colors, large prints or patterns, and suspenders often characterize Auguste costumes.\n\nThe auguste character-type is often an anarchist, a joker, or a fool. He is clever and has much lower status than the whiteface. Classically the whiteface character instructs the auguste character to perform his bidding. The auguste has a hard time performing a given task, which leads to funny situations. Sometimes the auguste plays the role of an anarchist and purposefully has trouble following the whiteface's directions. Sometimes the auguste is confused or is foolish and makes errors less deliberately.\n\nThe \"contra-auguste\" plays the role of the mediator between the white clown and the auguste character. He has a lower status than the white clown but a higher status than the auguste. He aspires to be more like the white clown and often mimics everything the white clown does to try to gain approval. If there is a contra-auguste character, he often is instructed by the whiteface to correct the auguste when he is doing something wrong.\n\nThere are two major types of clowns with \"whiteface\" makeup:\nThe classic \"white clown\" is derived from the Pierrot character. His makeup is white, usually with facial features such as eyebrows emphasized in black. He is the more intelligent and sophisticated clown, contrasting with the rude or grotesque \"Auguste\" types. Francesco Caroli and Glenn \"Frosty\" Little are examples of this type. The second type of whiteface is the buffoonish clown of the \"Bozo\" type, known as \"Comedy\" or \"Grotesque Whiteface\". This type has grotesquely emphasized features, especially a red nose and red mouth, often with partial (mostly red) hair. \nIn the comedic partnership of Abbott and Costello, Bud Abbot would have been the classic whiteface and Lou Costello the comedy whiteface or Auguste.\n\nTraditionally, the whiteface clown uses \"clown white\" makeup to cover the entire face and neck, leaving none of the underlying natural skin visible. In the European whiteface makeup, the ears are painted red.\n\nWhiteface makeup was originally designed by Joseph Grimaldi in 1801. He began by painting a white base over his face, neck and chest before adding red triangles on the cheeks, thick eyebrows and large red lips set in a mischievous grin. Grimaldi's design is used by many modern clowns. According to Grimaldi's biographer Andrew McConnell Stott, it was one of the most important theatrical designs of the 1800s.\n\nAmerica's first great whiteface clown was stage star George \"G.L.\" Fox. Following English Joseph Grimaldi, Fox popularised the Humpty Dumpty stories throughout the land in the first half of the 19th century in America.\n\nThe character clown adopts an eccentric character of some type, such as a butcher, a baker, a policeman, a housewife or hobo. Prime examples of this type of clown are the circus tramps Otto Griebling and Emmett Kelly. Red Skelton, Harold Lloyd, Buster Keaton, Charlie Chaplin and Sacha Baron Cohen would all fit the definition of a character clown.\n\nThe character clown makeup is a comic slant on the standard human face. Their makeup starts with a flesh tone base and may make use of anything from glasses, mustaches and beards to freckles, warts, big ears or strange haircuts.\n\nThe most prevalent character clown in the American circus is the \"hobo\", \"tramp\" or \"bum\" clown. There are subtle differences in the American character clown types. The primary differences among these clown types is attitude. According to American circus expert Hovey Burgess, they are :\n\nClowns International claims to be the oldest clown society in the world. It was set up in 1946. Apart from being a membership organisation, Clowns International has set up a museum of clown memorabilia and a register of clown make-up. The latter also has a collection of full eggshells decorated as replicas of the specific clown's head.\n\nThe World Clown Association (WCA) is a worldwide organization for clowns, jugglers, magicians, and face painters. It holds an annual convention, mainly in the United States.\n\nClowns of America International, Inc. (COAI) is a Minnesota-based nonprofit clown arts membership organization which aims \"to share, educate, and act as a gathering place for serious minded amateurs, semiprofessionals, and professional clowns\".\n\nIn the circus, a clown might perform other circus roles or skills. Clowns may perform such skills as tightrope, juggling, unicycling, Master of Ceremonies, or ride an animal. Clowns may also \"sit in\" with the orchestra. Other circus performers may also temporarily stand in for a clown and perform their skills in clown costume.\n\nFrameworks are the general outline of an act that clowns use to help them build out an act. Frameworks can be loose, including only a general beginning and ending to the act, leaving it up to the clown's creativity to fill in the rest, or at the other extreme a fully developed script that allows very little room for creativity.\n\nShows are the overall production that a clown is a part of, it may or may not include elements other than clowning, such as in a circus show. In a circus context, clown shows are typically made up of some combination of Entrées, Side dishes, Clown Stops, Track Gags, Gags and bits.\n\n\n\n\"Clown Stops\" or \"interludes\" are the brief appearances of clowns in a circus while the props and rigging are changed. These are typically made up of a few \"gags\" or several \"bits\". Clown stops will always have a beginning, a middle, and an end to them, invariably culminating in a blow-off. These are also called \"reprises\" or \"run-ins\" by many, and in today's circus they are an art form in themselves. Originally they were bits of \"business\" usually parodying the act that had preceded it. If for instance there had been a tightrope walker the reprise would involve two chairs with a piece of rope between and the clown trying to imitate the \"artiste\" by trying to walk between them, with the resulting falls and cascades bringing laughter from the audience. Today, interludes are far more complex, and in many modern shows the clowning is a thread that links the whole show together.\n\nAmong the more well-known clown stunts are: squirting flower; the \"too-many-clowns-coming-out-of-a-tiny-car\" stunt; doing just about anything with a rubber chicken, tripping over one's own feet (or an air pocket or imaginary blemish in the floor), or riding any number of ridiculous vehicles or \"clown bikes\". Individual prop stunts are generally considered individual bits.\n\nIn anthropology, the term \"clown\" has been extended to comparable jester or fool characters in non-Western cultures. A society in which such \"clowns\" have an important position are termed \"clown societies\", and a \"clown\" character involved in a religious or ritual capacity is known as a \"ritual clown\".\n\nThe most ancient \"clowns\" have been found in the Fifth dynasty of Egypt, around 2400 BC. Unlike court jesters, clowns have traditionally served a socio-religious and psychological role, and traditionally the roles of priest and clown have been held by the same persons.\nPeter Berger writes that \"It seems plausible that folly and fools, like religion and magic, meet some deeply rooted needs in human society\". For this reason, clowning is often considered an important part of training as a physical performance discipline, partly because tricky subject matter can be dealt with, but also because it requires a high level of risk and play in the performer.\n\nIn Native American mythology, the Trickster channels the spirit of the Coyote and becomes a sacred Clown character. A Heyoka is an individual in Native cultures who lives outside the constraints of normal cultural roles. The Heyoka plays the role of a backwards clown, doing everything in reverse. The Heyoka role is sometimes best filled by a Winkte.\n\nMany native tribes have a history of clowning.\nThe Canadian Clowning method developed by Richard Pochinko and furthered by his former apprentice, Sue Morrison, combines European and Native American clowning techniques.\n\nIn this tradition, masks are made of clay while the creator's eyes are closed. A mask is made for each direction of the medicine wheel. During this process, the clown creates a personal mythology that explores their personal experiences.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "15711838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15711838", "title": "Cornelian dilemma", "text": "Cornelian dilemma\n\nA Cornelian dilemma (\"dilemme cornélien\") (spelled in translation with two \"l\"'s i.e. \"Corneillian\") is a dilemma for someone to oblige and choose from each options, revealing a detrimental effect on anyone. It involves the character experiencing an inner conflict, forcing them to choose between love with honour or desire with duty. It is introduced in \"Le Cid\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47786614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47786614", "title": "Devilman", "text": "Devilman\n\nDevilman and other characters from the series have shown up in cameo appearances numerous times in Go Nagai's other works. The most notable is Tomoharu Katsumata's 1973 feature film \"Mazinger Z vs. Devilman\", which features Devilman teaming up with Nagai's titular robot to fight Dr. Hell.\n\nAkira Fudo is a timid teenage boy who lives with Miki Makimura and her family after his parents died on a trip to the Arctic. One day, Akira's best friend, Ryo Asuka, asks for help when his archaeologist father died after uncovering a mask during an excavation of ancient Mayan ruins, confirming the existence of ancient apex predators that assimilate other lifeforms to evolve: demons. The mask is revealed to be a fossilized demon skull that shows the wearer the world as it was many millennia ago when demons roam the Earth. Ryo's plan is to prevent the revival of demons: \"To fight a demon, one must become a demon.\"\n\nRyo believes that people like Akira with a pure heart may be able to harness a demon's powers without being consumed and Akira agrees to help after they encounter demons in Ryo's house. Ryo takes his friend to a nightclub in his father’s basement then picks a fight and draws blood to attract demonic attention. Demons begin to possess the clubbers and threaten Ryo and Akira, until a powerful demon known as Amon – the Lord of War, also called the Beast of Hell – consumes Akira. But Akira manages to retain his sense of self while possessing some Amon's personality traits and power as he becomes known as Devilman. Throughout the series, Devilman has many battles with the demon hordes, encountering foes such as Amon's harpy-like lover Sirène, the water demon Geruma, and a large turtle-demon Jinmen who incorporates the souls of his victims into his shell.\n\nEventually, the demons start a world war with humanity which causes mass panic and paranoia across the planet with mankind turning on itself. Akira starts to gather other Devilmen like him to fight the demons, only to be betrayed by when Ryo exposed him to the public which resulted in Miki's parents arrested by the government while she and her brother were violently murdered by a mob which Akira slaughtered in retribution. It was then that Ryo reveals himself as the reincarnation of the fallen angel Satan, having unconsciously orchestrated his true plan while exploiting humanity's flaws and fell in love with Akira as he arranged his transition into Devilman. With no one left to protect, Akira ends his friendship with Satan as they eventually settle things in an epic battle lasting twenty years after humanity is extinct.\n\nDuring the final battle, Satan reveals to Akira that the demons were unintentionally created by God and that he defied the order to kill them out of deeming that they have a right to live. Satan convinced the demons to enter a state of hibernation in the ice to conserve their strength for the final battle with God, awakening to find Earth ravaged by humanity which he resolved to exterminate first. It was then that Satan realizes his actions made him and the demons were no better than God, learning too late that he already killed Akira when asking for his forgiveness. The series ends with the Devilman army defeated, which Satan weeping for the loss off his dearest love as an army of angels appear in the distance to wipe out the remains of Satan's army.\n\n\"Devilman\" evolved from Go Nagai's previous manga, \"Demon Lord Dante\", after Toei Animation approached Nagai about turning \"Dante\" into a television series. The producers wanted certain elements toned down, and a more human-like anti-hero created. \"Devilman\" was born as a result of this. Go Nagai worked on the anime's scenario along with renowned screenwriter and science-fiction novelist Masaki Tsuji, who wrote the scripts for 35 of the TV series' 39 episodes. Along with the television series, \"Devilman\" was also produced as a serialized manga in \"Shōnen Magazine\" beginning in 1972. Go Nagai designed the manga to be more horror-like and mature than the anime version. \n\nNagai designed \"Devilman\" as an anti-war work; the fusion of humans and demons is an analogy for the draft, and Miki's violent death parallels the death of peace. \"There is no justice in war, any war,\" wrote Nagai, \"nor is there any justification for human beings killing one another. \"Devilman\" carries a message of warning, as we step toward a bright future.\"\n\nThe manga was originally published by Kodansha from to in \"Shōnen Magazine\". The series has been published in \"tankōbon\" format several times, most of them by Kodansha. Starting with the 1987 publishing, most Kodansha editions include \"Shin Devilman\", which originally was not meant to be included in the canon of the original series, as a part of the volumes.<ref name=\"Shin Devilman - d/visual\"></ref> The manga has been translated into English in a series of five bilingual manga volumes published by Kodansha.\n\nThe manga has also been published along with \"Cutie Honey\" in the magazine published by JIVE during 2004 in order to take advantage of the release of the live-action films of both series.\n\nA one-shot, which is not originally part of \"Shin Devilman\", but that has always been compiled along with the series in \"tankōbon\", was published in the magazine \"Variety\" by Kadokawa Shoten. This 16-page story does not have any text and it presents the moments of Akira after the death of Miki in the original series, but before the battle with Satan, as he buries the remains of Miki and encounters Ryo.\n\nSeven Seas Entertainment announced the publication of the original manga for 2018. \n\nThe anime television series was 39 episodes long and ran from to on NET (now TV Asahi). Outside Japan, the TV series was broadcast in Italy in 1983 and enjoyed great popularity there. A DVD box set of the series was released in Japan on September 21, 2002. The TV series has been licensed for the first time in North America by Discotek Media who released the series on DVD in 2014.\n\n was released in by King Records. It was followed by , released in by Bandai Visual. Kazuo Komatsubara, an animation director on the original TV series, was the character designer for the OVAs, which were animated by his Oh Production.\n\nBoth were directed by Umanosuke Iida (credited under his birth name, Tsutomu Iida) and were closely developed in conjunction with Nagai himself. The OVAs' plot revolves around Akira's transformation into Devilman up until his battle with Sirène. Besides a few minor alterations, the OVAs are faithful to the original manga. Both OVAs were released on Laserdisc and on a single DVD by Bandai Visual in . The two OVAs were also the only \"Devilman\" anime to have been commercially released in the United States (by Manga Entertainment) prior to 2014. The DVD release included only the English-dubbed version (the original Japanese version was previously released on VHS in 1995 by L.A. Hero and Dark Image Entertainment).\n\nIn 2000, \"\" was released as a pay-per-view event in Japan and was later released on video and DVD. It covers the period between the humans becoming aware of demons and the semi-final battle between Devilman and Amon. The battle between Devilman and Satan does not occur in this OVA.\n\nIn 2015, \"Cyborg 009 VS Devilman\" was released. The 3-episode OVA features Devilman battling the cast of Shotaro Ishinomori's \"Cyborg 009\".\n\nA 10-episode original net animation adaptation produced by Science Saru and directed by Masaaki Yuasa, titled \"Devilman Crybaby\", was released worldwide on January 5, 2018 exclusively on Netflix.\n\n\"Mazinger Z Vs. Devilman\" is a crossover animated film between \"Devilman\" and \"Mazinger Z\" produced by Toei and released in . The movie features alternative versions of the events from both series, and is therefore not canonical to either one.\n\nIn , a live-action tokusatsu film directed by Hiroyuki Nasu was theatrically released in Japan. The film starred Hisato Izaki as Devilman, Yūsuke Izaki as Ryo Asuka and Ayana Sakai as Miki Makimura. The cast also included AV Idol Maria Yumeno.\n\nA large number of soundtrack albums have been released since the beginning of the original series.\n\nThree novels have been released. The first one was written by Go Nagai's brother Yasutaka Nagai with illustrations by Go. It was originally published in 1981 by Asahi Sonorama in four books. It is not related to the manga \"Shin Devilman\", from which some chapters were also written by Yasutaka. With the release of the first OVA, in 1987 a single volume novel based on it was released by Kodansha titled . It was also written by Yasutaka Nagai, but it had illustrations by the OVA's main designer, Kazuo Komatsubara. In 1999 a second novelization of 4 volumes titled was published by MediaWorks and once again written by Yasutaka and illustrated by Go. All three series of novels are unrelated to each other even though all were written by Yasutaka Nagai.\n\nA video game based on \"Devilman\" was released for the Famicom by Namco on . Bandai also released a game based on \"Devilman\" for the Sony PlayStation and Windows 98 on . Along with several of Nagai's other creations, Devilman appeared in the Japanese Super Famicom game .\n\nDevilman and other characters from the series have shown up in cameo appearances numerous times in Go Nagai's other works. Miki is the first female protagonist of the 1974 manga \"Oira Sukeban\", and Akira has appeared in various incarnations of \"Cutie Honey\", most notably the 1994 OVA \"New Cutie Honey\". Miki and Ryo Asuka also appear as dogs (with dog-like bodies and human heads) in the \"Violence Jack\" manga. In 1997, Nagai created \"Devil Lady\", based on his idea of if the main character was a woman. The \"Devil Lady\" series contains its own original story that stands out from the \"Devilman\" series. Fudo's silhouette briefly appears in the opening credits of \"Devil Lady\". The cast of \"Devilman\" also crossed over with characters from \"Mazinger Z\" and \"Violence Jack\" in the 1991 OVA \"CB Chara Nagai Go World\". This release featured the familiar characters in comical and lighthearted antics in super deformed forms. In this series, it is revealed that Violence Jack is a future version of Akira Fudo. It is also revealed that Miki is an otaku and that she knew of Akira's identity as Devilman due to reading the manga offscreen.\n\nGo Nagai created the manga \"Devilman Saga\" (デビルマンサーガ) in 2014 which is said to conclude the Devilman trilogy. It is published in Shogakukan's \"Big Comic\".The story takes place in the year 2025, a roboticist named Fudou Yuuki joins a project involving a large mural depicting humanity's true past as well as the ancient but advanced technology found in Antarctica.\n\nThe manga has sold over 50 million copies as of March 2017. \n\nThe storyline in \"Devilman\" made it stand apart from other manga of the time. However, its controversial violence made it a major target of protest for the PTA and other groups.\n\nGo Nagai is said to have been highly shocked that his giant-robot work \"Mazinger Z\", which was on Japanese TV at the same time as \"Devilman\" and which he originally did not take very seriously, surpassed \"Devilman\" in popularity. The reason was that he had worked especially hard on \"Devilman\" and only made \"Mazinger\" as a way to blow off steam.\n\nDevilman was ranked fifth in Mania Entertainment's 10 Most Iconic Anime Heroes written by Thomas Zoth who commented that \"Shonen manga developed a dark tone with Devilman's graphic violence, casual blasphemy, and theme of using evil itself to fight evil.\" A character designer from SNK admitted that \"Devilman\" was an influence in designing Kyo Kusanagi.\n\nJason Huff of The Anime Review Notes \"a couple of enjoyable bits\" in the OVA adaptation, yet ultimately recommends Vampire Hunter D instead \"if you want to see a splatterfest of grotesque monsters getting all gooey and split in two\", . Helen McCarthy and Jonathan Clements of The Anime Encyclopedia said that the series was brought down by \"the messy confluence of Japanese and European mythology\". Though comments about the series and statements making incorrect claims on the series, make it seem as if they never read it.\n\n"}
{"id": "4637600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4637600", "title": "Dialect coach", "text": "Dialect coach\n\nA dialect coach is an acting coach who helps an actor design the voice and speech of a character in the context of an on-camera (film, television or commercial), stage (theatre, musical theatre, opera, etc.), radio or animation voiceover production. The dialect coach often does original research on dialects and speech patterns, prepares training materials, provides instruction and works on lines with the actor. A dialect coach will give the actor feedback focusing on issues of credibility, consistency, and clarity. A dialect coach may also be employed to help comedians hone impressions of celebrities, to train non-actor public speakers in vocal character and delivery, or to help singers improve in diction and attain a balance between tone and articulation, especially when singing in a second language.\n\nThe term \"dialect coach\" persists as the primary designation for an accent or language coach in the US and Canadian entertainment businesses. However, other designations may also be used. Some dialect coaches will refer to themselves as \"dialogue coaches\" (or, occasionally, by the historical designation, \"dialogue directors\"), especially when working on a second language or when offering acting coaching on straight dialogue in the performer's own language or dialect.\n\nIn the opera world, coaches who help opera singers with articulation of lyrics (often in an unfamiliar language, such as Russian, German or Czech) are called \"diction coaches.\" In the United Kingdom, dialect coaches are generally called \"accent coaches\" and are not acting coaches.\n\nThe term \"voice coach\" is applied to those who work with breathing, voice and text in the theatre in the UK, though this usage is not common in the US film and television businesses where the term \"voice coach\" would generally be understood to refer to a singing coach (a.k.a., a \"vocal coach\").\n\nLikewise, on US stage productions the term \"voice coach\" is also avoided to prevent confusion with either a vocal (singing) coach or someone who coaches actors in techniques for inducing a state of heightened relaxation prior to a rehearsal or performance, and who may offer guidance on breath support or vocal practices intended to promote effective placement of resonances in the upper body, the actor's availability of expression and appropriate projection.\n\nIn some cases, voice warm-up coaching integrates full-body work in yoga, movement or balance. Many actors believe that such warm-ups and exercises reduce the likelihood of vocal damage, most especially during expression of high intensity emotion outdoors or in a large performing venue in the absence of electronic amplification (e.g., microphones and a PA system). A dialect coach may also be engaged to coach voice issues in this latter sense in conjunction with theatrical dialect coaching. Not every dialect coach has the training and knowledge to also do vocal coaching in a singing sense.\n\nOn a film or television production, dialect coaches are typically hired by the line producer during pre-production to begin preparing cast far in advance of the first day of principal photography. If engaged during principal photography, it is the unit production manager, production manager, production supervisor, production coordinator or, in some cases, executive producer who is likely to interview prospective coaches in behalf of the production. If engaged only during post-production, the coach may even be hired directly by the post producer. In advance of being hired, coaches may be interviewed by the showrunner or a staff writer in the case of episodic television or by the film director in the case of a feature film. Dialect coaches may work with any members of the cast, but are brought in especially often to work with celebrity actors who have been cast in roles which require accents other than their own or even the performance of dialogue in languages unknown to the actors. Therefore, frequently, the actors themselves will ask Production to hire a particular coach. \n\nHowever the coach comes to be hired, the creatives will often consult with the dialect coach early in the process in order to acquaint the dialect coach with the overall creative vision and to start the actor as early as possible to allow time for the character's voice to become fully integrated by the actor prior to the actor's first shoot day. Once hired, the coach will typically prepare actors over a number of sessions either remotely, on set, at the Production Office or in the actor's own home. Coaches who work in serialized television are expected to be especially flexible as there may be no opportunity for a meeting between the episode director and coach, as shooting scripts may not be finalized until very close to the day of the shoot and as last-minute casting decisions and limitations on actor-availability may make it difficult to schedule advance coaching.\n\nDuring production, the key second assistant director typically schedules coaching sessions. Many creatives will ask that the coach be present at read-throughs or story conferences, at production meetings (if serving as key coach) and during at least some first-team rehearsals. While a shot is set-up, the coach will be kept in close proximity to the actors to be coached. Often, the coach will be assigned a dressing room, or, on location, a room in the honeywagon, double-banger or triple-banger near the actors' trailers. On set, the dialect coach will be issued a wireless headset and given a chair (exclusive, if on set regularly) in video village in order to facilitate access to the director and to the script supervisor who may be asked by the coach to relay notes on pronunciation and clarity, particularly if the dialogue is in dialect or language unfamiliar to the post-production team. An on-set coach may also work with an actor between takes if needed, especially on last minute changes to the script. Later, the coach may be brought back for dubbing or to pick up new lines during the post-production process, sometimes via a feed from a remote studio when the actors are no-longer available in person.\n\nOn a stage production, dialect coaches are typically brought in by a director or artistic director with contractual terms negotiated by a producer or general manager. Coaches work closely with the production stage manager who coordinates meetings with the director and coaching sessions for the cast collectively or individually. The coach will often also be present to give notes to the actors at some rehearsals, partial runs and full runs. Coaching typically takes place throughout the rehearsal process, but especially before the actors begin memorizing their lines and again after the show is loaded into the performance space. Understudies may be coached alongside the principal performers or after the show goes into previews. Coaching may continue in a limited way during a run.\n\nIn the film and television businesses, dialect coaches are very well paid. Coaches are customarily given on-screen credits for their work on films and for substantial contributions to serialized television. The wording of the credit may vary with the specific requirements of the production. On some shows, dialect coaches may be asked to contribute intellectual property to the production in the form of, for instance, dialogue polishing in English or other languages. They may serve as technical consultants in the areas of culture and written language. They often guide, or engage with, the cast's process of creating a character and consult on the overall vocal design for the production. Consequently, the deal memos for coaches may include compensation terms that are not typical for crew positions, leading to the adage that dialect coaches are neither above-the-line nor below-the-line, but on-the-line.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, South Africa, the UK and the US, dialect coaches remain among a very small minority of production staff who are not unionized; their deals may differ in substance from production to production in these jurisdictions. In Australia and New Zealand, dialect coaches who are employed on a film or theatre set are covered under the Media, Entertainment and Arts Alliance. On English-language Canadian film and television productions, dialect coaches are unionized under the Alliance of Canadian Cinema, Television and Radio Artists. Coaches are not unionized under the Union des artistes for French-language productions in Canada.\n\nIn the theater, coaches who help actors hone dialects or character voices typically seek compensation on a par with designers and may be credited as dialect coaches, dialect designers or voice and speech directors. Dialect coaches are not unionized for live performances in Canada, the Republic of Ireland, South Africa, the UK or the US. \n\nThere is no membership branch of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences that incorporates dialect coaching, nor is there a peer group of the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences that accords active membership status to coaches.\n\nDue to budget constraints, producers of student films and stage plays, showcase theater and slimly financed independent films and web series may avoid hiring a dialect coach, and instead substitute the services of a low-paid or volunteer native speaker model in hopes that the actors will be able to learn mimetically, retain the accent and act in it without expert guidance or monitoring. In some such cases, cast members may themselves pay a coach, sometimes in consultation with the director, though employing crew is not normally regarded as a cast member’s responsibility. In other cases, actors may attempt to self-study the dialect using commercially available training materials or web-based voice archives which host native-speaker recordings of oral histories or interviews or other scripted speech. The majority of such archives also provide native-speaker recordings of phonemically balanced narrative passages, especially \"Comma Gets a Cure,\" which is structured around the lexical sets of English and other phonological patterns of potential interest to the student of dialect.\n\nWhile there are many hundreds of voice and speech trainers connected with drama courses throughout the English-speaking world who may control a stock of \"stage dialects\" for general use, far fewer specialize in dialect coaching. A web search of dialect coaches with Internet Movie Database listings produces fewer than 100 living film and TV coaches worldwide, the majority showing few recent jobs, credited or uncredited. Most of these dialect coaches work on an ad hoc basis on individual productions. However, in some cases, a coach may become attached to a theatre company as a resident voice and speech director, especially if the coach has a second specialization (esp. Shakespeare or voice). As with many aspects of the entertainment business, entry into the field of dialect coaching is very competitive. Because dialect coaches are not always called for every day of a shoot, many coaches find a way to supplement income while maintaining their availability for coaching, often by acting, directing (including animation voice directing), teaching in related areas (public speaking, etc.) or taking on private students, especially for auditions. Outside of the entertainment businesses based in English-speaking countries, dialect coaching is less common, and opportunities rarer.\n\nDialect coaches, especially those who teach in theater education programs, may become active in such professional societies as the Australian Voice Association, the British Voice Association, the International Centre for Voice and the Voice and Speech Trainers Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "8835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8835", "title": "Digimon", "text": "Digimon\n\nDigimon ( \"Dejimon\", branded as Digimon: Digital Monsters, stylized as DIGIMON), short for \"Digital Monsters\" ( \"Dejitaru Monsutā\"), is a Japanese media franchise encompassing virtual pet toys, anime, manga, video games, films and a trading card game. The franchise focuses on Digimon creatures, which are monsters living in a \"Digital World\", a parallel universe that originated from Earth's various communication networks.\n\nThe franchise was first created in 1997 as a series of virtual pets, akin to—and influenced in style by—the contemporary Tamagotchi or nano Giga Pet toys. The creatures were first designed to look cute and iconic even on the devices' small screens; later developments had them created with a harder-edged style influenced by American comics. The franchise gained momentum with its first anime incarnation, \"Digimon Adventure\", and an early video game, \"Digimon World\", both released in 1999. Several seasons of the anime and films based on them have aired, and the video game series has expanded into genres such as role-playing, racing, fighting, and MMORPGs. Other media forms have also been released.\n\nIn the year 1996 came the Tamagotchi, created by Akihiro Yokoi, Aki Maita and Takeichi Hongo, which was one of the inspirations for the first release of the franchise, a device marketed in June 1997 with the name Digimon, a short for \"Digital Monster\". Aiming at the male audience and created by Akiyoshi Hongo (a pseudonym that refers to the creators of \"Tamagotchi\"), this device shows to players a virtual pet composed entirely of data and designed to play and fight. In February 1998, the \"DigiMon\" fighting game, compatible with Windows 95 and developed by Rapture Technologies, Inc., was announced. The one-shot manga \"C'mon Digimon\", designed by Tenya Yabuno, was published in the Japanese magazine V-Jump by Shueisha in 1997.\n\nA second generation of \"virtual pets\" was marketed six months after the launch of the first, followed by a third in 1998. Each player starts with a baby-level digital creature that has a limited number of attacks and transformations and to make the creature stronger by training and nourishing the creature; when the player is successful in a workout, the Digimon becomes strong, when the player fails, the Digimon becomes weak. Two devices can be connected, allowing two players to battle with their respective creatures, an innovation at the time, however, the battle is only possible from the moment the creature is in the child level or bigger. Playgrounds and subways were where the majority of users of the apparatus were concentrated; The virtual pet was banned in some Asian schools by being considered by parents and teachers as very noisy and violent. The first Digimon were created by Japanese designer Kenji Watanabe, influenced by American comics, which were beginning to gain popularity in Japan, and as such began to make his characters look stronger and \"cool.\" Other types of Digimon, which until the year 2000 totaled 279, came from extensive discussions and collaborations between the Bandai company members. There are currently over 1300 Digimon.\n\nDigimon hatch from types of eggs which are called . In the English iterations of the franchise there is another type of Digi-Egg that can be used to digivolve, or transform, Digimon. This second type of Digi-Egg is called a in Japanese. They age via a process called \"Digivolution\" which changes their appearance and increases their powers. The effect of Digivolution, however, is not permanent in the partner Digimon of the main characters in the anime, and Digimon who have digivolved will most of the time revert to their previous form after a battle or if they are too weak to continue. Some Digimon act feral. Most, however, are capable of intelligence and human speech. They are able to digivolve by the use of Digivices that their human partners have. A further level has since been used in the video games, even higher than Mega, known as \"Ultra\" in the dub.\n\nThe \"Digimon\" anime series was produced by Toei Animation and Bandai of Japan. Beginning in 1999, the franchise was given an anime as the first of the \"Digimon\" movies aired in theaters in Japan. Originally, the \"Digimon Adventure\" movie was supposed to be a short film, but after the storyboard was finished, a request for \"Digimon\" becoming a children's television show was made, which later became the basis for \"Digimon Adventure\". Several more series would follow, most of them with their own tie-in movies. The series was dubbed for release in Western markets, with the first four series under the title \"Digimon: Digital Monsters\".\n\n\nSeveral \"Digimon\" featurette films were released in Japan, with some of them seasonal tie-ins for their respective television series. In addition to the, \"\", an American film featuring \"Digimon Adventure\", \"Digimon Adventure: Children's War Game!\", \"Digimon Adventure 02: Part 1: Digimon Hurricane Touchdown!!/Part 2: Supreme Evolution!! The Golden Digimentals\", was released in the United States and Canada by Fox Kids through 20th Century Fox on October 6, 2000.\n\n\nIn the United States, the series premiered in August 1999 on the Fox Broadcasting Company. It was dubbed by Saban Entertainment (later Sensation Animation), and was initially broadcast through Fox Kids. The first four series were collectively retitled \"Digimon: Digital Monsters\". Some scenes from the original version were modified or omitted in order to comply with Fox's standards and practices. The show also featured more jokes and added dialogue, along with a completely different musical score. As a cross-promotional stunt, 2001 and 2002 saw \"Digi-Bowl\" specials co-produced with Fox Sports; \"NFL on Fox\" commentator Terry Bradshaw provided interstitial segments in-between episodes as if the episodes were actually a football game.\n\nAfter Disney acquired Saban during \"Digimon: Digital Monsters (Season 3)\", the first three series moved to the cable network ABC Family, while the fourth (\"Frontier\") premiered on UPN due to a deal between Disney and UPN. UPN aired the show until late August 2003, when they severed their ties to Disney. \"Frontier\" aired on ABC Family concurrently, and reran (alongside the first three seasons) on that channel and Toon Disney (for the latter under the Jetix branding) for several years after. \"Digimon Data Squad\" also had a brief run on Toon Disney/Jetix and successor Disney XD. Toei Animation has however released an official subtitled version of \"Digimon Xros Wars\". Funimation Entertainment has online streaming rights to subtitled versions of \"Digimon Adventure 02\" and \"Digimon Tamers\".\n\nIn September 2012, Saban Brands announced it had re-acquired the \"Digimon\" franchise. In February 2013, Saban acquired \"Digimon Fusion\" for broadcast on Nickelodeon in the United States starting September 7, 2013. After three episodes, the show was moved to Nicktoons starting October 13, 2013.\n\n\"Digimon Adventure\" and its two sequels, \"Digimon Adventure 02\" and \"Digimon Tamers\", were added to the Netflix Instant Streaming service in 2013 and 2014 with Japanese audio and English subtitles. Crunchyroll began streaming the English-subtitled version of \"Digimon Fusion\" outside Japan in November 2011. The English-localized version of its first season became available on Netflix starting September 13, 2014, followed by the second season on March 8, 2016. After Crunchyroll acquired streaming rights to the dubbed versions and Funimation acquired rights to the subtitled versions, the dubbed versions of \"Adventure\", \"Adventure 02\", and \"Tamers\" were briefly removed from Netflix.\n\nIn Canada, the English versions were broadcast on YTV, but only the first 26 episodes of \"Digimon Fusion\" were shown. The dubbed version of \"Data Squad\" aired on Family Channel. In the United Kingdom, \"Digimon: Digital Monsters\" first aired in the UK on subscription cable/satellite channel Fox Kids but gained most popularity on terrestrial channel ITV's children's slot CITV from 2001-2002, which broadcast \"Adventure\", \"Adventure 02\" and a small amount of \"Tamers\" airing during after school hours. The entirety of \"Tamers\" aired on cable/satellite channel Fox Kids from 2002–04. \"Digimon Frontier\" was originally announced on Jetix but was later dropped. The series eventually saw a release on October 29, 2018.. From 2011, \"Digimon Data Squad\" (the fifth series/season) airs in the UK on Kix! (the show's sole provider). According to Fox Kids's (2000–03) and Kix's (2010-) BARB Television ratings, \"Adventure\", \"Adventure 02\" & \"Tamers\" have been the most popular series'/seasons in the United Kingdom and was consistently in the weekly top 10 broadcasts for both channels for new episodes. Broadcast rights and merchandising sub-licensing rights for Digimon Fusion in the UK have been acquired by ITV Studios Global Entertainment, Digimon Fusion has aired since Spring 2014 on Digital Terrestrial Channel, CITV.\n\nDigimon first appeared in narrative form in the one-shot manga \"C'mon Digimon\", released in the summer of 1997. \"C'mon Digimon\" spawned the popular \"Digimon Adventure V-Tamer 01\" manga, written by Hiroshi Izawa, which began serialization on November 21, 1998.\n\n\nA Chinese manhua was written and drawn by Yuen Wong Yu (余 遠鍠 \"Yu Yuen-wong\"), who based its storyline on the television series. This adaptation covers \"Digimon Adventure\" in five volumes, \"Digimon Adventure 02\" in two, \"Digimon Tamers\" in four, and \"Digimon Frontier\" in three. The original stories are heavily abridged, though on rare occasions events play out differently from the anime. The Chinese language version was published by Rightman Publishing Ltd. in Hong Kong. Yu also wrote \"D-Cyber\".\n\nTwo English versions were also released. The first one was published by Chuang Yi in Singapore. The second one, which was adapted by Lianne Sentar, was released by TOKYOPOP in North America.<br>The three volumes for \"Digimon Frontier\" have been released by Chuang Yi in English. These have not been released by TOKYOPOP in North America or Europe. However, the Chuang Yi releases of \"Digimon Frontier\" were distributed by Madman Entertainment in Australia.\n\nDark Horse Comics published American-style Digimon comic books, adapting the first thirteen episodes of the English dub of \"Digimon Adventure\" in 2001. The story was written by Daniel Horn and Ryan Hill, and illustrated by Daniel Horn and Cara L. Niece.\n\nThe Italian publishing company, Panini, approached Digimon in different ways in different countries. While Germany created their own adaptations of episodes, the United Kingdom (UK) reprinted the Dark Horse titles, then translated some of the German adaptations of \"Adventure 02\" episodes. Eventually the UK comics were given their own original stories, which appeared in both the UK's official \"Digimon Magazine\" and the official UK Fox Kids companion magazine, \"Wickid\". These original stories only roughly followed the continuity of \"Adventure 02\". When the comic switched to the \"Tamers\" series the storylines adhered to continuity more strictly; sometimes it would expand on subject matter not covered by the original Japanese anime (such as Mitsuo Yamaki's past) or the English adaptations of the television shows and movies (such as Ryo's story or the movies that remained undubbed until 2005). In a money saving venture, the original stories were later removed from \"Digimon Magazine\", which returned to printing translated German adaptations of \"Tamers\" episodes. Eventually, both magazines were cancelled.\n\nThe Digimon series has a large number of video games which usually have their own independent storylines with a few sometimes tying into the stories of the anime series or manga series. The games consists of a number of genres including life simulation, adventure, video card game, strategy and racing games, though they are mainly action role-playing games. The games released in North America are: \"Digimon World\", \"Digimon World 2\", \"Digimon World 3\", \"Digimon World 4\", \"Digimon Digital Card Battle\", \"Digimon Rumble Arena\", \"Digimon Rumble Arena 2\", \"Digimon Battle Spirit\", \"Digimon Battle Spirit 2\", \"Digimon Racing\", \"Digimon World DS\", \"Digimon World Data Squad\", \"Digimon World Dawn and Dusk\", \"Digimon World Championship\", and \"Digimon Masters\".\n\nIn late 2009, Bandai created a webpage in Japanese showing a new game to be released in 2010 called \"\", which uses the same engine as their predecessors \"Digimon World DS\" and \"Digimon World Dawn and Dusk\" and was released on July 1, 2010. In February 2010, a website for the online multiplayer game, \"Digimon Battle Online\", was launched, showing it to be based primarily in the world of the Tamers saga and its characters.\n\nOn September 22, 2011, online game publisher Joymax announced the release of an MMORPG game called \"Digimon Masters\", which was developed by the Korean publisher DIGITALIC.\n\nIn 2011, Bandai posted a countdown on a teaser site. Once the countdown was finished, it revealed a reboot of the Digimon World series titled \"\". An enhanced version of the game released on Nintendo 3DS as \"Digimon World Re:Digitize Decode\" in 2013.\n\nA new fighting game for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 was revealed in the summer of 2014, named \"Digimon All-Star Rumble\". It was released in North America, Europe and Australia in November of the same year. \"\", a role-playing game in the \"Digimon Story\" sub-series, was released in 2015 for PlayStation Vita and PlayStation 4 in Japan. It has also been released with English subtitles in North America and the rest of the world in 2016.\n\nThe Digimon Collectible Card Game is a card game based on Digimon, first introduced in Japan in 1997 and published by Bandai. The third season (\"Digimon Tamers\") utilized this aspect of the franchise by making the card game an integral part of the season. Versions of the card game are also included in some of the Digimon video games including \"Digital Card Battle\" and \"Digimon World 3\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37176881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37176881", "title": "E! (European TV channel)", "text": "E! (European TV channel)\n\nE! is a European television channel, operated by E! Entertainment Europe B.V. and owned by NBCUniversal. It features entertainment-related programming, reality television and Hollywood gossip and news. E! currently has an audience reach of 600 million homes internationally.\n\nE! Entertainment Television was founded by Larry Namer and Alan Mruvka in the United States.\n\nThe network launched on 31 July 1987 as Movietime, a service that aired movie trailers, entertainment news, event and awards coverage, and interviews as an early example of a national barker channel. Three years later, in June 1990, Movietime was renamed E! Entertainment Television to emphasise its widening coverage of the celebrity-industrial complex, contemporary film, television and music, daily Hollywood gossip, and fashion.\n\nIn the Fall of 1999, Zone Vision launched E! Entertainment in Poland, under a licensing agreement on the Polish digital platform Wizja TV, with Zone's Studio Company providing localized content. The channel was shut down by 2002.\nIn 2002 E! launched in Europe with its headquarters situated in Amsterdam in the Netherlands. One of the first countries E! broadcast in was Germany, where it telecast daily. In the Summer of 2006 E! began localizing in France, Italy and the UK.\n\nAt the end of 2011 E! launched in HD in Eastern Europe. Followed by The UK and Ireland on 8 October 2012, Germany on 30 April 2013 and other European countries.\n\nE! has localised versions of the same channel including the UK, Ireland, Benelux, France, Germany, Poland, Italy and Russia. The channels share similar content but with localised advertising and dubbing and/or subtitling. These channels are licensed by Ofcom. Alexander von Roon produces the German version. Melinda Cohen and Sabrina Alashi host.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29200595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29200595", "title": "Encyclopedia of Performing Arts", "text": "Encyclopedia of Performing Arts\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Performing Arts (Italian: Enciclopedia dello Spettacolo; sometimes cited as Enciclopedio dello Spettacolo) was an Italian language specialty encyclopedia of performing arts, published between 1954 and 1965. Its first editor was the Italian theatre critic and journalist, Silvio D'Amico. Considered to be the most comprehensive international performing arts encyclopedia, it is included in the reference section of many libraries.\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Performing Arts was created by two separate projects, one dating to 1945 and the other to 1954.\n\nStarting in 1945 or 1946, D'Amico conceived of a project to develop an encyclopedia of the performing arts. Undertaken by an editorial team composed of a few people and led by D'Amico, it was produced in three or four years and contained four volumes. Considered superficial, it was not publishable. However, it developed a model for scientific study of the theater and other performing arts.\n\nConceived as a set of 12 volumes, the second project took on an ethnographic approach. It had the advantage of a stable editorial group and used foreign employees. D'Amico's editorial staff worked at the Palazzo Doria Pamphili, Via del Plebiscito 112. The attorney Carlo Minù, D'Amico's brother-in-law, found funding for the second project and referred D'Amico to publishers. In drawing up lists of dramas, operas, ballets and films, the editorial team wondered if it their work was worthwhile or helpful. It was Francesco Savio who sometimes said, \"Of course it is; if someone else wants one day to create an Encyclopedia of Performing Arts, they would find this materials to be useful.\" When the news spread that the encyclopedia was about to be published, a delegation arrived wanting guidance in the organizational work to start up an encyclopedia of Prague theater.\n\nThe structure of the work was better articulated. Responsibility for each section, such as film, music, or theater, was delegated to an initial small staff that rapidly grew to thirty editors that coordinated over five hundred employees. Large blocks of work were assigned to collaborators, many of them in foreign countries.\n\nD'Amico felt that the second project benefited from finding amateur collectors without whose assistance entire sectors of biographical entries would have been less detailed. Collected material came from abroad or was bought directly in the antique market. An example of a collector was Ulderico Rolandi, a gynecologist who lived in the Via Veneto, and who had made a hobby of collecting, filing and examining librettos. He had accumulated what was thought to be the largest collection of opera librettos after the Library of Congress. Another example was David Turcotte who had developed a catalog of American cinema.\n\nThe project suffered a severe crisis in 1957, two years after the death of D'Amico, due to disagreements between the editorial office and the publisher. The publisher's expectation was to publish two volumes a year, but the editorial staff was only able to put out a single volume each year. Because of this crisis, there is an imbalance between the first volume and the last four whose detail is considered sometimes less accurate.\n\nPublished between 1954 and 1962, the original nine volume \"Enciclopedia dello Spettacolo\" covers ballet, films, opera, plays, theater, vaudeville, and other areas of entertainment. They include signed essays that discuss performers, directors, and writers. Other sections discuss genres and themes, as well as history, technical subjects, and bibliographies. The encyclopedia is over 18,000 pages in length and profusely illustrated with thousands of illustrations of which 700 are in the text, 1800 are out of the text, and there are 320 color plates. The first print run of 10,000 copies was followed by a reprint of 5,000 additional copies. Originally published in Rome by Casa Editrice Le Maschere, reprints were published by UNEDI.\n\nPublished in Rome by Unione Editoriale in 1966, the \"Enciclopedia dello spettacolo. Aggiornamento 1955-1965\" (\"Encyclopedia of Performing Arts, Supplementary 1955-1965) is an update of the main set. The Aggiornamento addresses developments and biographies.\n\nPublished in Rome by Unione Editoriale in 1968, the \"Enciclopedia dello spettacolo. Indice-repertorio\" (Encyclopedia of Performing Arts. Index-Directory) is a title index of the 145,000 entries cited in the main set and the supplements. It addresses author, genre and year of composition.\n\nD'Amico conceived of the project and brought it to fruition. The theater section was under the direction of Luigi Squarzina; he also did the film section. D'Amico's father worked on the drama theatre section, while his brother Mario worked on the music section. Gabriele Baldini and later Gian Luigi Rondi were responsible for the cinema section. Additional sections were led by others including: classical antiquity by Bruno Gentili, German theater by Paolo Chiarini, Slavic theater by Angelo Maria Ripellino, English theater by Brunacci, French theater by Gian Carlo Roscioni, Iberian theater by Luciana Stegagno Picchio, and Italian theater by Niccolò Gallo, Giulio Cesare Castello, and Caesar Garboli. The Chamber music section was under the direction of D'Amico's son, Fedele D'Amico, a musicologist, with Nino Pirrotta, Franco Serpa and Emilia Zanetti as editors.\n\nConsultants included Sabatino Moscati for Hebrew and Yiddish theater; Dario Puccini for the Iberian language theater; Luigi Salvini for Slavic, Finno-Ugric and Romanian language theater; Giuliano Bertuccioli for Chinese language theater. Almost all of the drawings were made by young, recent graduates. Some of the illustrations were edited by Helen Poveledo. Texts and drafts were reviewed by professors.\n\nMost libraries found it to be an essential component of their reference section.\n\nThe proposed biographies of many lesser figures were not included as the editorial staff were unable to keep up with the publisher's deadline.\n\nCriticisms of the encyclopedia have included the fact that it was only available in the Italian language, that it was Eurocentric, and that non-European theater and 20th century theater were underrepresented. While the encyclopedia was first published in the 1950s, it was based on pre-World War II documentation. By the 1970s, the \"Encyclopedia of Performing Arts\" was considered out of date.\n"}
{"id": "10011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10011", "title": "Epistolary novel", "text": "Epistolary novel\n\nAn epistolary novel is a novel written as a series of documents. The usual form is letters, although diary entries, newspaper clippings and other documents are sometimes used. Recently, electronic \"documents\" such as recordings and radio, blogs, and e-mails have also come into use. The word \"epistolary\" is derived from Latin from the Greek word ἐπιστολή \"epistolē\", meaning a letter (see epistle).\n\nThe epistolary form can add greater realism to a story, because it mimics the workings of real life. It is thus able to demonstrate differing points of view without recourse to the device of an omniscient narrator.\n\nThere are two theories on the genesis of the epistolary novel. The first claims that the genre originated from novels with inserted letters, in which the portion containing the third person narrative in between the letters was gradually reduced. The other theory claims that the epistolary novel arose from miscellanies of letters and poetry: some of the letters were tied together into a (mostly amorous) plot. Both claims have some validity. The first truly epistolary novel, the Spanish \"Prison of Love\" (\"Cárcel de amor\") (c.1485) by Diego de San Pedro, belongs to a tradition of novels in which a large number of inserted letters already dominated the narrative. Other well-known examples of early epistolary novels are closely related to the tradition of letter-books and miscellanies of letters. Within the successive editions of Edmé Boursault's \"Letters of Respect, Gratitude and Love\" (\"Lettres de respect, d'obligation et d'amour\") (1669), a group of letters written to a girl named Babet were expanded and became more and more distinct from the other letters, until it formed a small epistolary novel entitled \"Letters to Babet\" (\"Lettres à Babet\"). The immensely famous \"Letters of a Portuguese Nun\" (\"Lettres portugaises\") (1669) generally attributed to Gabriel-Joseph de La Vergne, comte de Guilleragues, though a small minority still regard Marianna Alcoforado as the author, is claimed to be intended to be part of a miscellany of Guilleragues prose and poetry.\nThe founder of the epistolary novel in English is said by many to be James Howell (1594–1666) with \"Familiar Letters\" (1645–50), who writes of prison, foreign adventure, and the love of women.\n\nThe first novel to expose the complex play that the genre allows was Aphra Behn's \"Love-Letters Between a Nobleman and His Sister\", which appeared in three volumes in 1684, 1685, and 1687. The novel shows the genre's results of changing perspectives: individual points were presented by the individual characters, and the central voice of the author and moral evaluation disappeared (at least in the first volume; her further volumes introduced a narrator). Behn furthermore explored a realm of intrigue with letters that fall into the wrong hands, faked letters, letters withheld by protagonists, and even more complex interaction.\n\nThe epistolary novel as a genre became popular in the 18th century in the works of such authors as Samuel Richardson, with his immensely successful novels \"Pamela\" (1740) and \"Clarissa\" (1749). In France, there was \"Lettres persanes\" (1721) by Montesquieu, followed by \"Julie, ou la nouvelle Héloïse\" (1761) by Jean-Jacques Rousseau, and Laclos' \"Les Liaisons dangereuses\" (1782), which used the epistolary form to great dramatic effect, because the sequence of events was not always related directly or explicitly. In Germany, there was Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's \"Die Leiden des jungen Werthers\" (1774) (\"The Sorrows of Young Werther\") and Friedrich Hölderlin's \"Hyperion\". The first North American novel, \"The History of Emily Montague\" (1769) by Frances Brooke was written in epistolary form.\n\nStarting in the 18th century, the epistolary form was subject to much ridicule, resulting in a number of savage burlesques. The most notable example of these was Henry Fielding's \"Shamela\" (1741), written as a parody of \"Pamela\". In it, the female narrator can be found wielding a pen and scribbling her diary entries under the most dramatic and unlikely of circumstances. Oliver Goldsmith used the form to satirical effect in \"The Citizen of the World\", subtitled \"Letters from a Chinese Philosopher Residing in London to his Friends in the East\" (1760–61). So did the diarist Fanny Burney in a successful comic first novel, \"Evelina\" (1788).\n\nThe epistolary novel slowly fell out of use in the late 18th century. Although Jane Austen tried her hand at the epistolary in juvenile writings and her novella \"Lady Susan\" (1794), she abandoned this structure for her later work. It is thought that her lost novel \"First Impressions\", which was redrafted to become \"Pride and Prejudice\", may have been epistolary: \"Pride and Prejudice\" contains an unusual number of letters quoted in full and some play a critical role in the plot.\n\nThe epistolary form nonetheless saw continued use, surviving in exceptions or in fragments in nineteenth-century novels. In Honoré de Balzac's novel \"Letters of Two Brides\", two women who became friends during their education at a convent correspond over a 17-year period, exchanging letters describing their lives. Mary Shelley employs the epistolary form in her novel \"Frankenstein\" (1818). Shelley uses the letters as one of a variety of framing devices, as the story is presented through the letters of a sea captain and scientific explorer attempting to reach the north pole who encounters Victor Frankenstein and records the dying man's narrative and confessions. Published in 1848, Anne Brontë's novel \"The Tenant of Wildfell Hall\" is framed as a retrospective letter from one of the main heroes to his friend and brother-in-law with the diary of the eponymous tenant inside it. In the late 19th century, Bram Stoker released one of the most widely recognized and successful novels in the epistolary form to date, \"Dracula\". Printed in 1897, the novel is compiled entirely of letters, diary entries, newspaper clippings, telegrams, doctor's notes, ship's logs, and the like.\n\nThere are three types of epistolary novels: monologic (giving the letters of only one character, like \"Letters of a Portuguese Nun\" and \"The Sorrows of Young Werther\"), dialogic (giving the letters of two characters, like Mme Marie Jeanne Riccoboni's \"Letters of Fanni Butlerd\" (1757), and polylogic (with three or more letter-writing characters, such as in Bram Stoker's \"Dracula\"). In addition, a crucial element in polylogic epistolary novels like \"Clarissa\", and \"Dangerous Liaisons\" is the dramatic device of 'discrepant awareness': the simultaneous but separate correspondences of the heroines and the villains creating dramatic tension.\n\nAn important strategic device in the epistolary novel for creating the impression of authenticity of the letters is the fictional editor.\n\nEpistolary novels have made several memorable appearances in more recent literature:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4416127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4416127", "title": "Final Destination", "text": "Final Destination\n\nFinal Destination is an American horror franchise composed of five films, comic books and novels. It is based on an unproduced spec script by Jeffrey Reddick, originally written for \"The X-Files\" television series, and was distributed by New Line Cinema. All five films center around a small group of people who escape impending death when one individual (the protagonist of each film) has a sudden premonition and warns them that they will all die in a terrible mass-casualty accident. After avoiding their foretold deaths, the survivors are killed one by one in bizarre accidents caused by an unseen force creating complicated chains of cause and effect, resembling Rube Goldberg machines in their complexity.\n\nThe series is noteworthy among other films in the horror genre in that the antagonist is not a stereotypical slasher or other physical being, but Death personified, subtly manipulating circumstances in the environment with a design on claiming anyone who escapes their fated demise.\n\nIn addition to the films, a novel series, which includes the novelizations of the first three films, was published throughout 2005 and 2006 by Black Flame. A one-shot comic book titled \"Final Destination: Sacrifice\" was released alongside select DVDs of \"Final Destination 3\" in 2006, and a comic series titled \"Final Destination: Spring Break\" was published by Zenescope Entertainment in 2007.\n\nIn the original \"Final Destination\", high school student Alex Browning (Devon Sawa) boards Volee Airlines Flight 180 with his classmates for a field trip to Paris, France. Before take-off, Alex has a premonition that the plane will explode in mid-air, killing everyone on board. When the events from his vision begin to repeat themselves in reality, he panics, and a fight breaks out, which leads to several passengers being left behind, including Clear Rivers (Ali Larter), Carter Horton (Kerr Smith), Billy Hitchcock (Seann William Scott), Valerie Lewton (Kristen Cloke), Terry Chaney (Amanda Detmer), and Tod Waggner (Chad Donella), who witness the plane explode moments later. Afterwards, the survivors begin to die one by one through a series of bizarre accidents, and Alex attempts to find a way to \"cheat\" Death's plan before it is too late. Six months later, Alex, Clear, and Carter travel to Paris to celebrate their survival, believing they have finally cheated Death; however, after Carter is crushed by a giant neon sign, they realize that Death's plan is still in action.\n\n\"Final Destination 2\", picking up one year after the first film, features college student Kimberly Corman (A. J. Cook) heading to Daytona Beach for spring break with her friends Shaina, Dano, and Frankie (Sarah Carter, Alex Rae, and Shaun Sipos). En route, Kimberly has a premonition of a huge car pile-up on Route 23, killing everyone involved. She stalls her SUV on the entrance ramp, preventing several people from entering the highway, including state trooper Thomas Burke (Michael Landes), Eugene Dix (T.C. Carson), Rory Peters (Jonathan Cherry), Kat Jennings (Keegan Connor Tracy), Nora and Tim Carpenter (Lynda Boyd and James Kirk), Evan Lewis (David Paetkau), and pregnant Isabella Hudson (Justina Machado). While Officer Burke questions Kimberly, the pile-up occurs as she predicted. In the days following the accident, the survivors begin to die one by one in a series of bizarre accidents. After learning about the explosion of Flight 180, Kimberly teams up with Clear Rivers, the only survivor of Flight 180, to try to save a new group of people from Death. This time the survivors are told that only \"new life\" can defeat Death, and they must stay alive long enough for Isabella to have her baby. It is later revealed that Isabella was never meant to die in the pile-up, and Kimberly drowns herself in a lake so that she can be resuscitated by emergency staff, thus granting her \"new life\"; saving her and Officer Burke.\n\n\"Final Destination 3\", set five years after the explosion of Flight 180 and four years after the pile-up on Route 23, has high school student Wendy Christensen (Mary Elizabeth Winstead) visiting an amusement park for grad night with her friends Kevin Fischer (Ryan Merriman), Jason Wise (Jesse Moss), and Carrie Dreyer (Gina Holden). As Wendy and her friends board the Devil's Flight roller coaster, Wendy has a premonition that the ride will crash, killing everyone on board. When Wendy panics a fight breaks out and several people leave or are forced off the ride before the accident occurs, including Kevin, Wendy's younger sister Julie (Amanda Crew), Ian McKinley (Kris Lemche), Perry Malinowski (Maggie Ma), Erin Ulmer (Alexz Johnson), Lewis Romero (Texas Battle), Frankie Cheeks (Sam Easton), and Ashley Freund and Ashlyn Halperin (Chelan Simmons and Crystal Lowe). When the survivors start to die one by one in a series of strange accidents, Wendy and Kevin set out to save those who remain after they learn of the events of the first two films. Most of their attempts are futile, with the exception of Julie and themselves, leading them to believe they have cheated Death. However, the three \"coincidentally\" cross paths five months later and are caught in a horrifying subway accident.\n\nIn \"The Final Destination\", set nine years after the explosion of Flight 180, eight years after the pile-up on Route 23 and four years after the Devil's Flight disaster, college student Nick O'Bannon (Bobby Campo) visits the McKinley Speedway for a study break with his friends Lori Milligan, Janet Cunningham, and Hunt Wynorski. While watching the race, Nick has a premonition that a race car crash will send debris into the stands, causing the stadium to collapse on the guests. When Nick panics a fight breaks out and several people leave before the accident occurs, including, his friends Lori (Shantel VanSanten), Janet (Haley Webb), and Hunt (Nick Zano), security guard George Lanter (Mykelti Williamson), and spectators Jonathan Groves (Jackson Walker), Andy Kewzer (Andrew Fiscella), Samantha Lane (Krista Allen), Carter Daniels (Justin Welborn), and Nadia Monroy (Stephanie Honoré). Once again, the survivors are killed in a series of strange accidents except for Janet, who is rescued just moments before her death. This leads the remaining survivors to believe that they have cheated Death, until Nick has another premonition of a disastrous explosion at a shopping mall, which he manages to prevent, saving himself, Lori, and Janet. Two weeks later, Nick realizes the mall disaster vision was only meant to lead them to where Death needed them to be and all three are killed by a runaway semi.\n\nIn \"Final Destination 5\", set two months before the explosion of Flight 180, Sam Lawton (Nicholas D'Agosto) is on his way to a corporate retreat with his colleagues. While they cross the North Bay Bridge, Sam has a premonition that the bridge will collapse, killing everyone on it. Sam manages to persuade several of his co-workers to get off the bridge before the accident occurs, including Molly Harper (Emma Bell), Nathan Sears (Arlen Escarpeta), Peter Friedkin (Miles Fisher), Dennis Lapman (David Koechner), Olivia Castle (Jacqueline MacInnes Wood), Isaac Palmer (P. J. Byrne), and Candice Hooper (Ellen Wroe). After Candice and Isaac die in bizarre accidents, Sam is warned that Death is still after the survivors and told that if he wants to live he must kill someone who was never meant to die on the bridge, and claim their remaining lifespan. Olivia and Dennis are killed before they have a chance to save themselves, but Nathan claims the lifespan of a co-worker when he accidentally causes his death in a warehouse accident. Peter attempts to kill Molly, jealous that she survived instead of Candice. He eventually gains the lifespan of an investigating agent, but is killed by Sam before he can kill Molly. Sam and Molly later board a plane to Paris, which is later revealed to be Flight 180 from the first film. Unable to get off the plane, both are killed in the resulting explosion. The landing gear is sent flying towards New York City and crashes into a cocktail bar, killing Nathan, since the co-worker whose life he claimed had a terminal illness and was due to die \"any day now\".\n\n\"Final Destination\" was written by Jeffrey Reddick after having \"read a story about a woman who was on vacation and her mom called her and said, 'Don’t take the flight tomorrow, I have a really bad feeling about it.'\". The woman switched flights and the plane she was originally supposed to take crashed. Originally having written the script as an episode of \"The X Files\", Reddick decided to turn the script into a feature-length film at the behest of one of his New Line Cinema colleagues. After reading his spec script, New Line Cinema hired Reddick to write the screenplay; James Wong and Glen Morgan were later brought on board to help with the script, making alterations to comply with their standards.\n\n\"Final Destination\", when compared to other top-grossing American horror franchises—\"A Nightmare on Elm Street\", \"Friday the 13th\", \"Halloween\", \"Hannibal Lecter\", \"Psycho\", \"Saw\", \"Scream\" and \"The Texas Chainsaw Massacre\"—and adjusting for the 2011 inflation is the tenth highest grossing horror franchise in the United States at approximately $347.8 million.\n\nThe first three films received mixed reviews. The fourth film received mostly negative reviews. The fifth film received mixed reviews. The franchise has been praised for its innovative premise, of the invisible abstract concept of Death killing people, instead of a usual slasher killer; the death sequences have also been praised for their creativity.\n\nIn early 2011, Tony Todd said in an interview with Dread Central that if \"Final Destination 5\" was a success at the box office, then two sequels would be filmed back-to-back. On August 23, 2011, when asked whether he would be directing a sequel, Steven Quale elaborated, \"Who knows. Never say never. I mean, it'll be up to the fans. We'll see how this one performs internationally, and if it makes as much money as the fourth one, I'm sure Warner Brothers will want to make another one.\"\n\nThroughout 2005, publishing company Black Flame released a series of \"Final Destination\" books which faithfully follow the premise of the films, with each involving a group of people who find themselves targeted by Death after surviving a catastrophe of some sort due to a character experiencing a precognitive vision. Their first five novels all featured original stories, with the first novel, entitled \"Dead Reckoning\", has punk rocker Jessica Golden saving herself and several others from the collapse of Club Kitty in Los Angeles, earning Death's ire. \"Destination Zero\", also set in LA, has magazine employee Patricia Fuller and few others survive a train bombing and afterward, while being stalked by Death, Patti learns this is not the first time her family has been hunted by the entity. \"End of the Line\" has a group of New York City subway crash survivors, led by twins Danny and Louise King, trying to escape Death, who uses an unknowing agent to hasten its acquisition of the survivors. In \"Dead Man's Hand\" a group meant to die in the crash of a Las Vegas glass elevator are stalked by both Death and the FBI, the latter believing the group's savior Allie Goodwin-Gaines was responsible for the elevator crash. \"Looks Could Kill\" has beautiful New York model Stephanie \"Sherry\" Pulaski stopping her friends from boarding a yacht when she has a vision of it exploding, but is left horribly disfigured and comatose by flying debris moments afterward when her vision comes true; eventually awakening the embittered Stephanie makes a deal with Death, aiding it in claiming her friends in exchange for having her good looks restored.\n\nAfter the run of the original series of books Black Flame released novelizations of the first three films in January 2006. Black Flame's last \"Final Destination\" novel was \"Death of the Senses\" released in mid-2006. Taking place in New York the book has a homeless man named Jack Curtis saving policewoman Amy Tom from a maniac after having a vision of Amy's death; Amy's attacker is later revealed to be a serial killer who was meant to murder six other people (representing the first five senses and a sixth) who Death begins targeting as Jack and Amy rush to find and warn the intended victims. It was, due to a printing error, only available for a short period of time before being recalled, leaving only a few copies in circulation. A tenth novel, titled \"Wipeout\" and written by Alex Johnson, was planned, but cancelled; the book would have featured a pair of surfers and several others, after surviving a plane crash in Hawaii, being hunted by Death and the survivor of another disaster, an unstable soldier who had nearly died in an ambush in Afghanistan.\n\nThe first \"Final Destination\" comic book, titled \"Sacrifice\", was published by Zenescope Entertainment and came packaged with a limited-edition DVD of \"Final Destination 3\", sold exclusively at Circuit City stores. The premise of the story involves the survivor of a terrible accident and his friend Jim, who continually experiences images of other people's deaths, isolating himself from the rest of the world to escape the visions that torment him. Zenescope later released a five-issue miniseries, titled \"Final Destination: Spring Break\", which involves a group led by Carly Hagan being stalked by Death after surviving a hotel fire and becoming stranded in Cancún, Mexico. The miniseries was later released in a trade paperback collection, which included the \"Sacrifice\" comic as bonus content.\n\n"}
{"id": "54285124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54285124", "title": "Grapevine radio", "text": "Grapevine radio\n\nGrapevine radio refers to the transmission infrastructures, used for distributing audio programs, which were built to serve a small number of rural upstate South Carolina communities from the early 1930s to the middle 1940s. Despite their name, these systems did not employ radio transmitters, but were actually a type of \"telephone newspaper\", because the programs were sent telephonically over wires strung to subscribing homes.\n\nThe equipment used to distribute programming over a facility's wire network was located at a central site, for example a general store's back room. Programs normally consisted of retransmissions of radio stations, however, some programming was locally produced, originating from a studio at the distribution site or relayed from a local church or other gathering place. The locally produced programs included announcements and emergency messages, commercials and live performances. The transmissions were made daily, generally starting around 6 a.m. and running until 10:00 p.m. or midnight.\n\nThe grapevine systems soon became unneeded, because they primarily served homes that did not have electricity. Once a community received electric service the local grapevine system would soon close down, as the subscribers switched to radio receivers that could receive a wide selection of programs at no cost, instead of the single program and monthly fees characteristic of the grapevine systems.\nInformation about the grapevine installations (also called \"speakerline\") is limited, because of their brief history and the fact that they do not appear to have been established outside a small region of South Carolina. Unlike radio stations, they did not require government approval to operate. Their existence was also dependent on an unusual and short-lived economic and technical environment, as they required a central distribution site that had access to electricity, plus a surrounding community of prospective subscribers that did not have electric service.\n\nThroughout the 1930s large parts of the United States, including most farms, did not have electricity. Although organized radio broadcasting had begun in the early 1920s, in rural upstate South Carolina there were no nearby radio stations strong enough to be picked up by battery-less crystal radio receivers, and although battery-powered sets existed, without electrical service there was no convenient way to recharge the batteries. The economic struggles caused by the Great Depression meant that many people could not even afford a newspaper subscription. Thus, there was a lack of entertainment and a strong sense of isolation in the region. As one person remembered, connecting to the grapevine service meant that \"we had 'arrived' and were at last in touch with the outside world\".\n\nThe rural electrification projects of the 1930s and 1940s eventually eliminated potential customers, making the grapevine systems no longer needed as their former customers switched to listening to radio stations.\n\nThe first grapevine system was begun in the winter of 1930-1931 by a high school student, Gordon F. Rogers, who lived on farm in central Greenville county near Mauldin, South Carolina. The Rogers farm, unlike most of its neighbors, had electrical service. Gordon Rogers had shown an early aptitude for engineering, developing a clock that automatically turned on the farm's chicken coup lights at 3:00 a.m., as well as an automated system for watering the chickens. Rogers also had an early interest in radio. Dissatisfied with a battery operated set, he successfully reconditioned a vacuum tube receiver that ran on AC electrical power. At this point he decided to also run a single-wire connection with a ground return from his receiver to a loudspeaker at the home of a neighbor who didn't have electricity. With this setup, whenever Rogers' radio was on the neighbor also heard what was being received. Word of this innovation quickly spread, and within a month lines had been run to seven nearby homes.\n\nRogers' system was essentially sending one-way telephone signals over his own wires, but he had to use voltages far higher than that used by standard telephone lines, because he was sending not only audio but also the power needed to operate what would become hundreds of loudspeakers. His initial setup output was 2.5 watts, but as the system expanded this was increased in steps over time to 350-400 watts. This occasionally led to issues when his wires ran too close to standard telephone lines, which sometimes picked up the strong grapevine transmissions. Special steps had to be taken to eliminate interference with the telephone company's service.\n\nSubscribers had to provide the wire, poles (often actually fence posts) and speakers needed to connect to the main system lines. Unskilled attempts by individuals to tap into the lines without paying generally caused service disruptions for nearby customers, which made it possible to locate and remove the improper connections. Although at first the service was provided for free, as the number of participants grew Rogers began charging a monthly 10 cent fee. This charge was later raised to 25 cents, and at times a $1 surcharge was applied to finance replacement of sections of the transmission lines that needed to be upgraded from the original iron wire to higher quality materials. The system became profitable enough to finance Rogers' attendance at Clemson College. In 1933, at the time of his college enrollment, the system had 5 miles (8 kilometers) of lines and 15 subscribers. Increasing demand, spurred by finding a source of affordable speakers ($2.85 each), expanded the number of connections to more than 200 within the next four months, and by June 1934 the transmission lines spanned 15 miles (24 kilometers). By around 1935, there were 600 homes connected to the grapevine service, including sites in Spartanburg and Laurens counties, located up to 24 miles (38 kilometers) distant from the Rogers farm distribution site. The infrastructure had also grown to 400 miles (645 kilometers) of transmission lines.\n\nProgramming was provided for about 12 hours each day. Rogers introduced a \"local talent\" program that featured live performances. A record player provided music for times when static made it difficult to receive the radio rebroadcasts that provided most of the schedule. Provisions were also made to make local announcements. In addition, a carrier current link from the system based at Ware Place allowed programming originating at that location to be picked up and concurrently transmitted by the Mauldin system. \n\nIn the spring of 1936, Rogers, now a junior at Clemson, presented a paper, \"Bringing Radio to the Rural Home\", at a regional conference of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, which provided technical information about his innovation. His review won first place in its category. The Mauldin-based system remained in operation until the area received electrical service, shutting down around 1939.\n\nGordon Rogers' original system served northern Greenville county. A second wire network, originating from a small store in Ware Place, South Carolina, was later established which provided an extensive program service for the southern part of the county. The store's owners, J. R. Chandler, Jr. and his cousin J. E. Chandler, became familiar with the Mauldin facility, and around 1934 arranged for Gordon Rogers and Sherman Fox to install similar distribution equipment at their store. The Chandlers became active participants operating the system and supplying local programming. A studio, which included a piano and a pulpit, was built in the rear of the store. There was also a connection to the local school.\n\nSubscribers were initially charged 25 cents a month, which was later increased to 35 cents. Individual homes had to maintain their local wire connections, and purchase their own speakers: $3 to $5 for a small one, and $7 to $8 for a large one. An unusual additional benefit resulted from the discovery that, after the grapevine programming ended for the night, individual subscribers could hear each other if they spoke loudly into their speakers, resulting in a form of party-line communication. At its peak over 500 homes were connected. The system continued to run during World War II in order to supply war news, after which it was shut down.\n\nThis installation helped launch the political career of Robert C. Wasson, who went on to become the state's Tax Chairman. The Wasson family ran a small store in Hickory Tavern, South Carolina, located in southwest Laurens county. The needed equipment was purchased in March 1936 and the service was immediately popular. Later that year, when Robert Wasson announced what would be a successful candidacy for the state House of Representatives, a newspaper report noted that the store he ran \"is known as Wasson Brothers store, mill, and grapevine radio system serving 200 rural homes\".\n\nCustomers were charged 25 cents per month, and paid $6.50 for a small speaker or $10.50 for a large one — this fee included installation. Robert Wasson's mother, Effie Owens Wasson, handled most of the operational duties, and at its peak about 500 houses within a 12 mile (19 kilometer) radius were connected. Regular news reports and live entertainment made up an important part of the daily schedule. Advertising over the facility was credited with helping to establish the Eaddy-Blakes corner drug store in Laurens, and a former pharmacy employee later wrote that \"were Dr. Eaddy still living I'm sure he would attribute the biggest thing to his success in the drug business was this advertising... It cost him about a dollar a week and he had every person from the area as a regular customer in a short time\". \n\nRobert Wasson served seven terms in the South Carolina legislature. One of his political objectives was getting electrical service for his community, and after the rural electrification program reached his district the grapevine service ceased operations in 1939.\n\nSaylors Crossroads, South Carolina is a small community located in southeastern Anderson county. This system was inspired by the existence of the Ware Place operations, and was established by Charles Murdock in 1937. The Murdock family operated a general store, and a small studio was constructed in a building behind the store. The grapevine service was run by Selma Saylors, who was the twin sister of Charles Murdock's wife. Programming primarily consisted of relaying the transmissions of a local radio station, WAIM in Anderson. WAIM signed off at 9 p.m. each evening, and at that point the program source was switched to picking up \"a station in Cincinnati\" (presumably WLW). Local programming included the Sunday morning church services from Mount Bethel Baptist Church, carried from 1938 to 1940. \n\nSubscribers paid 45 cents a month, and chose between three speaker sizes: a smaller square-shaped speaker for $7.50, a larger square-shaped speaker for $9.50, and a heart-shaped speaker for $12.50. The speaker purchases financed the installation of the wire connection to the main transmission lines. At its peak, the service had 500 subscribers. This system ended operations in 1941, after the community received electric service.\nThis system was operated by Carl Ellison, who owned a general store located at Williamston, South Carolina in east central Anderson county. It remained in operation for \"seven or eight years\", starting sometime in the 1930s and continuing through at least 1940. It had also been initially inspired by the Ware Place operations.\n\nThe Ellisons lived in a house behind the general store, and they converted their living room to serve as a studio for locally produced programming. The service cost 50 cents a month, and reached 700 subscribers. Like the Ware Place system, after the grapevine programming ended for the night individuals could be heard by other subscribers by speaking loudly into their speakers. The system featured ministers from Greenville who preached over the system on Friday nights. It also carried the Sunday services from the First Baptist Church in Williamston.\n\nGordon Rogers estimated that a total of ten to twelve grapevine operations were eventually installed, all located in South Carolina. Additional locations reportedly included Walhalla (located in the center of South Carolina's easternmost county, Oconee), another \"near Mauldin\", and one \"across the Savannah river from Augusta, Georgia\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1786165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1786165", "title": "Helen (unit)", "text": "Helen (unit)\n\nA helen is a humorous unit of measurement based on the concept that Helen of Troy, from the \"Iliad\", had a \"face that launched a thousand ships\". The helen is thus used to measure quantities of beauty in terms of the theoretical action that could be accomplished by the wielder of such beauty.\n\nThe classic reference to Helen's beauty is Marlowe's lines from the 1592 play \"The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus\", \"Was this the face that launched a thousand ships / And burnt the topless towers of Ilium?\" In the tradition of humorous pseudounits, then, 1 millihelen is the amount of beauty needed to launch a single ship.\n\nAccording to \"The Rebel Angels\", a 1981 novel by Robertson Davies, this system was invented by Cambridge mathematician W.A.H. Rushton. Isaac Asimov claimed to have invented the term in the 1940s as a graduate student in his 1992 collection of jokes and limericks. In a 1958 letter to the \"New Scientist\", R.C. Winton proposes the milli-Helen as the amount of beauty required to launch one ship. In response, P. Lockwood noted that the unit had been independently proposed by Edgar J. Westbury and extended by the pair to negative values, where −1 milli-Helen was the amount of ugliness required to sink a battleship.\n\nThe Catalogue of Ships from Book II of \"The Iliad\", which describes in detail the commanders who came to fight for Helen and the ships they brought with them, details a total of 1,186 ships which came to fight the Trojan War. As such, Helen herself has a beauty rating of 1.186 helens, capable of launching \"more\" than one thousand ships.\n\nThe \"system\" has been expanded by some writers, such as conceiving of negative values as measures of the ugliness required to \"beach\" a thousand ships. Writing a humorous article about the concept, David Goines considered a range of metric prefixes to the unit, ranging from the atto<nowiki>helen</nowiki> (ah) which could merely \"light up a Lucky while strolling past a shipyard\", to the tera<nowiki>helen</nowiki> (Th) able to \"launch the equivalent of one quadrillion Greek warships and make serious inroads on the welfare of the galaxy\".\n\nTheoretical physicist Thomas Fink defines beauty in \"The Man's Book\" both in terms of ships launched and in terms of the number of women, on average, than whom one woman will be more beautiful. He defines one \"helen\" (H) as the quantity of beauty to be more beautiful than 50 million women, the number of women estimated to have been alive in the 12th century BCE.\nFink also defines a related, but smaller unit called a “\"helena\"” (Ha), based on a logarithmic scale, like the Richter scale, or decibels (dB). Ten helena (Ha) is the beauty sufficient for one oarsman (of which 50 are on a ship) to risk his life, or to be the most beautiful of a thousand women. Since the unit is logarithmic on a base of 2, for beauty to increase by 1 Ha, a woman must be the most beautiful of twice as many women, so one \"helen\" is equivalent to 25.6 Ha. The most beautiful woman who ever lived would score 34.2 Ha, the equivalent of 1.34 helen, the pick of a dozen women would be 3.6 Ha, or 0.14 helen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2566880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2566880", "title": "Iceberg theory", "text": "Iceberg theory\n\nThe iceberg theory (sometimes known as the \"theory of omission\") is a style of writing (turned colloquialism) coined by American writer Ernest Hemingway. As a young journalist, Hemingway had to focus his newspaper reports on immediate events, with very little context or interpretation. When he became a writer of short stories, he retained this minimalistic style, focusing on surface elements without explicitly discussing underlying themes. Hemingway believed the deeper meaning of a story should not be evident on the surface, but should shine through implicitly.\n\nLike other American writers such as Mark Twain, Stephen Crane, Theodore Dreiser, Sinclair Lewis and Willa Cather, Hemingway worked as a journalist before becoming a novelist. After graduating from high school he went to work as a cub reporter for \"The Kansas City Star\", where he quickly learned that truth often lurks below the surface of a story. He learned about corruption in city politics, and that in hospital emergency rooms and police stations a mask of cynicism was worn \"like armour to shield whatever vulnerabilities remained\". In his pieces he wrote about relevant events, excluding the background. As foreign correspondent for the \"Toronto Star\", while living in Paris in the early 1920s, he covered the Greco-Turkish War in more than a dozen articles. As his biographer Jeffrey Meyers explains, \"he objectively reported only the immediate events in order to achieve a concentration and intensity of focus—a spotlight rather than a stage\". From the Greco-Turkish War he gained valuable writing experience that he translated to the writing of fiction. He believed fiction could be based on reality, but that if an experience were to be distilled, as he explained, then \"what he made up was truer than what he remembered\".\n\nIn 1923, Hemingway conceived of the idea of a new theory of writing after finishing his short story \"Out of Season\". In \"A Moveable Feast\", his posthumously published memoirs about his years as a young writer in Paris, he explains: \"I omitted the real end [of \"Out of Season\"] which was that the old man hanged himself. This was omitted on my new theory that you could omit anything ... and the omitted part would strengthen the story.\" In chapter sixteen of \"Death in the Afternoon\" he compares his theory about writing to an iceberg.\n\nHemingway's biographer Carlos Baker believed that as a writer of short stories Hemingway learned \"how to get the most from the least, how to prune language and avoid waste motion, how to multiply intensities, and how to tell nothing but the truth in a way that allowed for telling more than the truth.\" Baker also notes that the writing style of the \"iceberg theory\" suggests that a story's narrative and nuanced complexities, complete with symbolism, operate under the surface of the story itself.\n\nFor example, Hemingway believed a writer could describe an action, such as Nick Adams fishing in \"Big Two-Hearted River,\" while conveying a \"different\" message about the action itself—Nick Adams concentrating on fishing to the extent that he does not have to think about the unpleasantness of his war experience. In his essay \"The Art of the Short Story\", Hemingway is clear about his method: \"A few things I have found to be true. If you leave out important things or events that you know about, the story is strengthened. If you leave or skip something because you do not know it, the story will be worthless. The test of any story is how very good the stuff that you, not your editors, omit.\" A writer explained how it brings a story \"gravitas\":\n\nFrom reading Rudyard Kipling Hemingway absorbed the practice of shortening prose as much as it could take. Of the concept of omission, Hemingway wrote in \"The Art of the Short Story\": \"You could omit anything if you knew that you omitted and the omitted part would strengthen the story and make people feel something more than they understood.\" By making invisible the structure of the story, he believed the author strengthened the piece of fiction and that the \"quality of a piece could be judged by the quality of the material the author eliminated.\" His style added to the aesthetic: using \"declarative sentences and direct representations of the visible world\" with simple and plain language, Hemingway became \"the most influential prose stylist in the twentieth century\" according to biographer Meyers.\n\nIn her paper \"Hemingway's Camera Eye\", Zoe Trodd explains that Hemingway uses repetition in prose to build a collage of snapshots to create an entire picture. Of his iceberg theory, she claims, it \"is also a glacier waterfall, infused with movement by his multi-focal aesthetic\". Furthermore, she believes that Hemingway's iceberg theory \"demanded that the reader feel the \"whole\" story\" and that the reader is meant to \"fill the gaps left by his omissions with their feelings\".\n\nHemingway scholar Jackson Benson believes Hemingway used autobiographical details to work as framing devices to write about life in general—not only about his life. For example, Benson postulates that Hemingway used his experiences and drew them out further with \"what if\" scenarios: \"what if I were wounded in such a way that I could not sleep at night? What if I were wounded and made crazy, what would happen if I were sent back to the front?\" By separating himself from the characters he created, Hemingway strengthens the drama. The means of achieving a strong drama is to minimize, or omit, the feelings that produced the fiction he wrote.\n\nHemingway's iceberg theory highlights the symbolic implications of art. He makes use of physical action to provide an interpretation of the nature of man's existence. It can be convincingly proved that, \"while representing human life through fictional forms, he has consistently set man against the background of his world and universe to examine the human situation from various points of view.\"\n\nGwendolyn Tetlow believes that Hemingway's early fiction such as \"Indian Camp\" shows his lack of concern for character development by simply placing the character in his or her surroundings. However, in \"Indian Camp\" the use of descriptive detail such as a screaming woman, men smoking tobacco, and an infected wound build a sense of veracity.\nIn other words, a story can communicate by subtext; for instance, Hemingway's \"Hills Like White Elephants\" does not mention the word \"abortion\", although in the story the male character seems to be attempting to convince his girlfriend to have an abortion. \"Big Two-Hearted River\" Hemingway explains \"is about a boy ... coming home from the war ... So the war, all mention of the war, anything about the war, is omitted.\" Hemingway intentionally left out something in \"Indian Camp\" and \"Big Two-Hearted River\"—two stories he considered to be good.\n\nBaker explains that Hemingway's stories about sports are often about the athletes themselves and that the sport is incidental to the story. Moreover, the story \"A Clean Well Lighted Place\" which on the surface is about nothing more than men drinking in a cafe late at night, is in fact about that which brings the men to the cafe to drink, and the reasons they seek light in the night—none of which is available in the surface of the plot, but lurks in the iceberg below. Hemingway's story \"Big Two-Hearted River\" is ostensibly about nothing, as is \"A Clean Well Lighted Place\", but within nothing lies the crux of the story.\n\nBenson believes that the omission Hemingway applies functions as a sort of buffer between himself as the creator of a character and the character. He explains that as an author creates a \"distance\" between himself and the character he \"becomes more practiced, it would seem.\" Benson says in Hemingway's fiction the distance is necessary, and successful in early fiction such as in \"The Sun Also Rises,\" but if he as \"the author does not deliberately create such distance the fiction fails,\" as in the later works such as \"Across the River and into the Trees\".\n\nBaker calls Hemingway's \"Across the River and into the Trees\" a \"lyric-poetical novel\" in which each scene has an underlying truth presented via symbolism. According to Meyers an example of omission is that Renata, like other heroines in Hemingway's fiction, suffers a major \"shock\"—the murder of her father and the subsequent loss of her home—to which Hemingway alludes only briefly. Hemingway's pared down narrative forces the reader to solve connections. As Stoltzfus remarks: \"Hemingway walks the reader to the bridge that he must cross alone without the narrator's help.\"\n\nHemingway believed that if context or background had been written about by another, and written about well, then it could be left out of his writing. Of \"The Old Man and the Sea\" he explains: \"In writing you are limited to by what has already been done satisfactorily. So I have tried to do something else. First I have tried to eliminate everything unnecessary to conveying experience to the reader so that after he has read something it will become part of his experience and seem actually to have happened.\" Paul Smith, author of \"Hemingway's Early Manuscript: The Theory and Practice of Omission\", believes Hemingway applied the theory of omission in effort to \"strengthen [the] iceberg\".\n\nIn October 1954 Hemingway received the Nobel Prize in Literature. He jokingly told the press he believed Carl Sandburg and Isak Dinesen deserved the prize more than he, but that the prize money would be welcome. The prize was awarded to Hemingway \"for his mastery of the art of narrative, most recently demonstrated in \"The Old Man and the Sea\", and for the influence that he has exerted on contemporary style.\" A few days after the announcement, Hemingway spoke with a \"Time\" magazine correspondent, while on his boat fishing off the coast of Cuba. When asked about the use of symbolism in his work, and particularly in the most recently published \"Old Man and the Sea\", he explained:\n\nNo good book has ever been written that has in it symbols arrived at beforehand and stuck in ... That kind of symbol sticks out like raisins in raisin bread. Raisin bread is all right, but plain bread is better. ... I tried to make a real old man, a real boy, a real sea, a real fish and real sharks. But if I made them good and true enough they would mean many things. The hardest thing is to make something really true and sometimes truer than true.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3313367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3313367", "title": "Independent media", "text": "Independent media\n\nIndependent media refers to any form of media, such as radio, television, newspapers or the Internet, that is free of influence by government or corporate interests. The term has varied applications. Within the United States and other developed countries, it is often used synonymously with alternative media to refer to media that specifically distinguish themselves in relation to the mainstream media. In international development, the term independent media is used in relation to the development of new media outlets, particularly in areas where there is little to no existing media presence.\n\nIn developed countries, alternative media are media that are alternatives to the business or government-owned mass media. Proponents of alternative media argue that the mainstream media are biased. While sources of alternative media can also be biased (sometimes proudly so), the bias tends to be significantly different than that of the mainstream media, hence \"alternative\". As such, advocacy journalism tends to be a component of many alternative outlets. Because the term \"alternative\" has connotations of self-marginalization, some media outlets now prefer the term \"independent\" over \"alternative\". An independent media means that no one should control and influence its coverage of news.\n\nIn many developing countries, the only media available, particularly at the national level, are government-controlled radio and television stations and newspapers. Even if not overtly controlled by the state, outlets may have strong ties to or be influenced by the government. In such situations, it is often difficult to distinguish those outlets that are truly independent from those that are influenced by the government. For example, a newspaper may provide quality, unbiased coverage of the economy, health, and other issues, but still avoid reporting on the government. This issue is particularly compounded by issues of self-censorship, soft censorship, and other subtle government influences.\n\nSelf-censorship is the act of censoring or classifying one's own work out of fear of or deference to the sensibilities of others without an authority directly pressuring one to do so. Self-censorship is often practiced by film producers, film directors, publishers, news anchors, journalists, musicians, and other kinds of authors. In authoritarian countries, creators of artworks may remove material that their government might find controversial for fear of sanction by their governments. In pluralistic capitalist countries, self-censorship can also occur, particularly in order to conform to the expectations of the market. For example, the editor of a periodical may consciously or unconsciously avoid topics that will anger advertisers or the publication's parent company in order to protect their livelihood.\n\nSoft, or indirect, censorship is the practice of influencing news coverage by applying financial pressure on media companies that are deemed critical of a government or its policies and rewarding media outlets and individual journalists who are seen as friendly to the government. This problem goes largely unnoticed, yet can have a dramatic impact on the reporting of media outlets that can otherwise be considered independent.\n\nMany organizations engage in efforts to help the development of free and independent media in countries around the world. These efforts can take many forms, from funding the establishment of an entirely new media outlet to assisting an existing outlet in improving its professional capacity. Common efforts at independent media development include: journalist training and education; improving the legal environment for media; efforts to improve the sustainability of existing outlets; media literacy training; digital media training and integration; infrastructure development; and monitoring and evaluation efforts.\n\nSome development organizations and experts make a distinction between media development and media for development. \"Media development\" refers to efforts to directly improve the media in a society through the means mentioned above. \"Media for development\" refers to more indirect efforts at using existing media to convey messages about specific development issues. Such efforts include many ICT for Development (ICT4D) projects. Media for development has been applied to education, healthcare, business, disaster relief, corruption, minority empowerment, and local community engagement, among other development goals.\n\nWhile development of the media sector is a common activity of many development organizations, there are a small number that engage in direct media development as their primary purpose. In the U.S., the three main media development implementers are Internews, International Center for Journalists (ICFJ), and International Research & Exchanges Board (IREX). In addition, organizations like the Center for International Media Assistance, Reporters Without Borders, Article 19, and others monitor media development efforts and freedom of the press around the world.\n"}
{"id": "377436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377436", "title": "Lighting technician", "text": "Lighting technician\n\nElectrical lighting technicians (ELT) or simply lighting tech., are involved with rigging stage and location sets and controlling artificial, electric lights for art and entertainment venues (theatre or live music venues) or in video, television, or film production.\n\nIn a theater production, lighting technicians work under the lighting designer and master electrician. In video, television, and film productions, lighting technicians work under the direction of the gaffer or chief lighting technician who takes their direction from the cinematographer. In live music, lighting technicians work under the lighting director. All heads of department report to the production manager.\n\nLighting technicians are responsible for the movement and set up of various pieces of lighting equipment for separation of light and shadow or contrast, depth of field or visual effects. Lighting Technicians may also lay electrical cables, wire fixtures, install color effects or image patterns, focus the lights, and assist in creating effects or programming sequences.\n\nA lighting technician's work concerns safety of rigging and working with objects which can be very heavy and get very hot.\n\nSome local unions such as the International Alliance of Television Stage Employees (IATSE) Hollywood chapter local #728, have been qualifying members by certification and recognition through the Entertainment Stage Technologies Association (ESTA)with their Entertainment Technicians Certification Program (ETCP). Basic skill sets are now standardized, and sets and stage are safer through this program. \n\nOfficially called the electrical lighting technician (ELT), or the rigging electrical lighting technician (RELT), are also called or known as set lighting technicians, lamp operator, electrician, electric, spark or a juicer. \n\nThe lighting technicians on a motion picture set handle all of the electrical needs as well as place and focus all of the lighting under the direction of the gaffer (chief lighting technician). \n\nLighting techs also:\n\n\nAlso specialty duties are called upon the lighting technician such as...\n\n\nHours of work also vary. For example, those employed by large television productions generally work more than 40 hours a week, 60 hours or more are not uncommon. Technicians and other crew members typically work a 12-hour day.\n\nDepending on script requirements, stage and locations bring on their own requirements for lighting and effects. Out of state, or country to get the right look in a script is not uncommon. Location work always brings on its own challenges. Weather is always a factor when going to a location. Technicians are like scouts and have to be prepared for all kinds of weather as per the season.\n\nWorking conditions for lighting technicians vary a great deal from one job to another. Lighting technicians generally spend a lot of time on their feet and the pace of work can become hectic. Last-minute changes are often required and safety precautions must be observed when handling hot lamps, climbing ladders or working on high voltage electrical cables and equipment. Lighting technicians are routinely required to lift and carry the heaviest and more dangerous equipment compared to the other departments and office staff.\n\nThe film set electrical department hierarchy is as follows:\n\n\nIn live music performances, concerts, and other entertainment, stage lighting technicians (also called a lighting tech, lighting operator, stage electrician, \"sparky\", \"lampy\", or \"techie\") set up lighting and make effects for live performances, concerts and any other show/production involving lighting. \n\nDuties include:\n\nThe Stage lighting department hirearchy is as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44427162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44427162", "title": "Monarch (film)", "text": "Monarch (film)\n\nMonarch is a British costume drama involving Henry VIII. It was written and directed by John Walsh and released in 2000 at the Mill Valley Film Festival. It was re-released in 2014 after the film negative, thought lost, was rediscovered.\n\n\"Monarch\" is part fact, part fiction and unfolds around one night in the life of a hated king susceptible to assassination, and paranoid with the thought of his own mortality. The film is set in just one night when the injured Henry VIII arrives at a manor house closed for the season. Henry is without the power of his throne. He is vulnerable to those around him and to his own mental issues. He had left England financially and morally bankrupt; his collection of enemies became his only constant.\n\nIn an \"Irish Post\" interview, Walsh said “Often you can find out more about someone in a small time frame rather than you can if the two-hour film spans their whole life. Most bio-pics become little more than a montage of facts. If you confine a character to that time frame you can find out more about them.”\n\nT. P. McKenna plays Henry VIII, while Jean Marsh plays an amalgamation of his ex-wives. Peter Miles played a courtier to King Henry. James Coombes (known for his James Bond style role in the Cadbury chocolate Milk Tray advertisements popular on UK television) played the King's personal protection guard.\n\nIt was shot on 35mm Kodak 5287 stock using Arriflex cameras. Principal photography commenced in October 1996 at Charlton House in south London, making it the only film about Henry VIII entirely shot in the borough where he was born: Greenwich. This Jacobean building served as the main location, with filming taking place inside and outside the house. The gardens were the backdrop for the opening title sequence. The Grand Salon and the Long Gallery featured heavily for the film’s dramatic scenes with Henry VIII. The house's clock tower was also utilised as the hiding place for Will, the ground-keeper's son, who hid from men who break into the house. Although set at night much of the filming took place during the day; black drapes were hung outside of the building to create a night effect.\n\nIn an interview with newspaper \"The Greenwich Visitor\" (page 5), Walsh discussed how he wanted his depiction of Henry VIII to be more grounded and less like those portrayals from Hollywood. He also discussed the difficulty of filming on a location and how the film benefited from using 35mm Kodak film stock.\n\nIn 2014 a remastered version of \"Monarch\" was released following discovery of the original film negative, previously thought lost. The remastered version premiered on 14 September 2014 at London's Tricycle Theatre. Walsh discussed the issues around finding the lost negatives for \"Monarch\" and other lost projects with BBC Radio 2's Janice Long.\n\nRestoration was completed at Premier. The film scanning and restoration team worked closely with director John Walsh, re-mastering from the original 35mm colour camera negative after it was discovered in a vault almost 20 years after it was originally filmed. In an interview about the project for the BBC, John Walsh explained:\n\nEvery frame of film was scanned in high definition at Premier and had more than 10,000 particles removed by hand by the restoration team. A new sound mix was also created from the original elements in Premier’s in-house audio department. In an article with \"The Weekender\" in November 2017 John discussed the importance restoration and preservation of older films to future-protect film such as \"Monarch\":\n\nThe film received strong reviews on its re-release in 2014 which were in contrast with the poor reviews in 2000. In 2000 Dennis Harvey wrote in Variety that \"\"Monarch\" plays out an OK premise to results at once turgid and ridiculous.\" and describes McKenna's performance as \"hammy\". In 2014 the \"Radio Times\" film critic Jeremy Aspinall called it \"a fascinating, haunting little gem, with a richly nuanced performance from McKenna\".\nThe film's realistic approach was noted by the BBFC who certified it a 15 on the basis that it \"contains strong bloody violence\".\n\n\"Monarch\" was released for the first time on DVD on 7 April 2014 by FremantleMedia. It included extras on the making of the film and the restoration process. A high definition version is also available to view on iTunes.\n\n\"DVD Compare\" said \"The film features an extraordinary British cast, is well written, and is perfectly paced.\" \"The Movie Waffler\" gave the film four stars for the main feature and four stars for the DVD extras, saying “McKenna is the beating heart of \"Monarch\", part wounded bear, part Augustus Gloop petulance.” It adds “This menacingly pessimistic view of British history and government is an immensely entertaining gothic melodrama, the creepy details that Walsh weaves into the film.”\n\n"}
{"id": "39531197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39531197", "title": "Nagelbalken", "text": "Nagelbalken\n\nNagelbalken (German for nail beam) is a competition in which participants compete against each other to drive nails into a wooden beam. It can be found as a game of leisure at events and festivals, often for children and as a wedding custom.\n\nAccording to Florian Dering, a museologist at the Munich Stadtmuseum, the nail beam game as folk amusement has been around since the 1920s. This driving of nails into dimensional lumber has been used by showmen and charities to raise money, and also at weddings to have the newly married couple show their skills to the audience. \n\nDering reports a series of administrative regulations: the vertical cross-section of the plank should be at least 12 cm by 12 cm, and have no knots or protruding branches. Several hammers are used, each having a weight of at least 400 g and a handle length of at least 30 cm. The nails provided should have a round (but not smooth) head, and be at least two inches long. The nail bar is usually mounted at table height and secured to sawhorses by way of screw clamps. Rarely, a tree trunk is used in place of the wooden beam.\n\nCompetitive nailing can be a solo game, for example at fairs, where driving the nail home in one to three blows wins a small prize, or as a contest between individuals or teams.\n\nFor Expo 2000, the Bundesanstalt für Arbeitsschutz und Arbeitsmedizin in Dortmund presented the \"Exhibition Of The Labor World\" to demonstrate different aspects of workplace security. A Nagelbalken area was provided to demonstrate a person's physical competence. Amoung many other things at the exhibition, the \"Living And Working World\" area in which the nail bar appeared dealt with the intellectual, psychological, physical, and social competence of people, which was implemented scenographically in four so-called \"elementary spaces\": four cubic, monomaterially formed spaces that were meant to arouse the senses by way of light, sounds, artistic ciphers, and smells.\n\nCraftsmen in German-speaking countries have driven nails into certain wooden shapes for luck for centuries, as in the case of the Stock im Eisen in Vienna. This art was used as a fund-raising tool during the First World War, when the craft was adapted as a means of gathering donations for war-time charities, in the form of Nail Men. For a fee, a single nail could be partially driven into the figure. When completed, the figure would be transformed from wood to metal.\n\n"}
{"id": "255991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=255991", "title": "Narrative", "text": "Narrative\n\nA narrative or story is a report of connected events, real or imaginary, presented in a sequence of written or spoken words, or still or moving images, or both. The word derives from the Latin verb \"narrare\", \"to tell\", which is derived from the adjective \"gnarus\", \"knowing\" or \"skilled\".\n\nNarrative can be organized in a number of thematic or formal categories: non-fiction (such as definitively including creative non-fiction, biography, journalism, transcript poetry, and historiography); fictionalization of historical events (such as anecdote, myth, legend, and historical fiction); and fiction proper (such as literature in prose and sometimes poetry, such as short stories, novels, and narrative poems and songs, and imaginary narratives as portrayed in other textual forms, games, or live or recorded performances).\n\nNarrative is found in all forms of human creativity, art, and entertainment, including speech, literature, theatre, music and song, comics, journalism, film, television and video, video games, radio, gameplay, unstructured recreation, and performance in general, as well as some painting, sculpture, drawing, photography, and other visual arts, as long as a sequence of events is presented. Several art movements, such as modern art, refuse the narrative in favor of the abstract and conceptual.\n\nOral storytelling is the earliest method for sharing narratives. During most people's childhoods, narratives are used to guide them on proper behavior, cultural history, formation of a communal identity, and values, as especially studied in anthropology today among traditional indigenous peoples.\n\nNarratives may also be nested within other narratives, such as narratives told by an unreliable narrator (a character) typically found in noir fiction genre. An important part of narration is the narrative mode, the set of methods used to communicate the narrative through a process narration (see also \"Narrative Aesthetics\" below).\n\nAlong with exposition, argumentation, and description, narration, broadly defined, is one of four rhetorical modes of discourse. More narrowly defined, it is the fiction-writing mode in which the narrator communicates directly to the reader.\n\nA narrative is a telling of some true or fictitious event or connected sequence of events, recounted by a narrator to a narratee (although there may be more than one of each). Narratives are to be distinguished from descriptions of qualities, states, or situations, and also from dramatic enactments of events (although a dramatic work may also include narrative speeches). A narrative consists of a set of events (the story) recounted in a process of narration (or discourse), in which the events are selected and arranged in a particular order (the plot). The category of narratives includes both the shortest accounts of events (for example, \"the cat sat on the mat\", or a brief news item) and the longest historical or biographical works, diaries, travelogues, and so forth, as well as novels, ballads, epics, short stories, and other fictional forms. In the study of fiction, it is usual to divide novels and shorter stories into first-person narratives and third-person narratives. As an adjective, \"narrative\" means \"characterized by or relating to storytelling\": thus narrative technique is the method of telling stories, and narrative poetry is the class of poems (including ballads, epics, and verse romances) that tell stories, as distinct from dramatic and lyric poetry. Some theorists of narratology have attempted to isolate the quality or set of properties that distinguishes narrative from non-narrative writings: this is called narrativity.\n\nOwen Flanagan of Duke University, a leading consciousness researcher, writes, \"Evidence strongly suggests that humans in all cultures come to cast their own identity in some sort of narrative form. We are inveterate storytellers.\" Stories are an important aspect of culture. Many works of art and most works of literature tell stories; indeed, most of the humanities involve stories.\nStories are of ancient origin, existing in ancient Egyptian, ancient Greek, Chinese and Indian cultures and their myths. Stories are also a ubiquitous component of human communication, used as parables and examples to illustrate points. Storytelling was probably one of the earliest forms of entertainment. As noted by Owen Flanagan, narrative may also refer to psychological processes in self-identity, memory and meaning-making.\n\nSemiotics begins with the individual building blocks of meaning called signs; and semantics, the way in which signs are combined into codes to transmit messages. This is part of a general communication system using both verbal and non-verbal elements, and creating a discourse with different\nmodalities and forms.\n\nIn \"On Realism in Art\" Roman Jakobson argues that literature exists as a separate entity. He and many other semioticians prefer the view that all texts, whether spoken or written, are the same, except that some authors encode their texts with distinctive \"literary\" qualities that distinguish them from other forms of discourse. Nevertheless, there is a clear trend to address literary narrative forms as separable from other forms. This is first seen in Russian Formalism through Victor Shklovsky's analysis of the relationship between composition and style, and in the work of Vladimir Propp, who analysed the plots used in traditional folk-tales and identified 31 distinct functional components. This trend (or these trends) continued in the work of the Prague School and of French scholars such as Claude Lévi-Strauss and Roland Barthes. It leads to a structural analysis of narrative and an increasingly influential body of modern work that raises important theoretical questions:\n\nIn literary theoretic approach, narrative is being narrowly defined as fiction-writing mode in which the narrator is communicating directly to the reader. Until the late 19th century, literary criticism as an academic exercise dealt solely with poetry (including epic poems like the \"Iliad\" and \"Paradise Lost,\" and poetic drama like Shakespeare). Most poems did not have a narrator distinct from the author.\n\nBut novels, lending a number of voices to several characters in addition to narrator's, created a possibility of narrator's views differing significantly from the author's views. With the rise of the novel in the 18th century, the concept of the narrator (as opposed to \"author\") made the question of narrator a prominent one for literary theory. It has been proposed that perspective and interpretive knowledge are the essential characteristics, while focalization and structure are lateral characteristics of the narrator.\n\nThe role of literary theory in narrative has been disputed; with some interpretations like Todorov's narrative model that views all narratives in a cyclical manner, and that each narrative is characterized by a three part structure that allows the narrative to progress. The beginning stage being an establishment of equilibrium--a state of non conflict, followed by a disruption to this state, caused by an external event, and lastly a restoration or a return to equilibrium--a conclusion that brings the narrative back to a similar space before the events of the narrative unfolded.\n\nOther critiques of literary theory in narrative challenge the very role of literariness in narrative, as well as the role of narrative in literature. Meaning, narratives and their associated aesthetics, emotions, and values have the ability to operate without the presence of literature and vice versa. According to Didier Costa, the structural model used by Todorov and others is unfairly biased towards a Western interpretation of narrative, and that a more comprehensive and transformative model must be created in order to properly analyze narrative discourse in literature. Framing also plays a pivotal role in narrative structure; an analysis of the historical and cultural contexts present during the development of a narrative is needed in order to more accurately represent the role of narratology in societies that relied heavily on oral narratives.\n\nA writer's choice in the narrator is crucial for the way a work of fiction is perceived by the reader. There is a distinction between first-person and third-person narrative, which Gérard Genette refers to as intradiegetic and extradiegetic narrative, respectively. Intradiagetic narrators are of two types: a homodiegetic narrator participates as a character in the story. Such a narrator cannot know more about other characters than what their actions reveal. A heterodiegetic narrator, in contrast, describes the experiences of the characters that appear in the story in which he or she does not participate.\n\nMost narrators present their story from one of the following perspectives (called narrative modes): first-person, or third-person limited or omniscient. Generally, a first-person narrator brings greater focus on the feelings, opinions, and perceptions of a particular character in a story, and on how the character views the world and the views of other characters. If the writer's intention is to get inside the world of a character, then it is a good choice, although a third-person limited narrator is an alternative that does not require the writer to reveal all that a first-person character would know. By contrast, a third-person omniscient narrator gives a panoramic view of the world of the story, looking into many characters and into the broader background of a story. A third-person omniscient narrator can be an animal or an object, or it can be a more abstract instance that does not refer to itself. For stories in which the context and the views of many characters are important, a third-person narrator is a better choice. However, a third-person narrator does not need to be an omnipresent guide, but instead may merely be the protagonist referring to himself in the third person (also known as third person limited narrator).\n\nA writer may choose to let several narrators tell the story from different points of view. Then it is up to the reader to decide which narrator seems most reliable for each part of the story. It may refer to the style of the writer in which he/she expresses the paragraph written. See for instance the works of Louise Erdrich. William Faulkner's \"As I Lay Dying\" is a prime example of the use of multiple narrators. Faulkner employs stream of consciousness to narrate the story from various perspectives.\n\nIn Indigenous American communities, narratives and storytelling are often told by a number of elders in the community. In this way, the stories are never static because they are shaped by the relationship between narrator and audience. Thus, each individual story may have countless variations. Narrators often incorporate minor changes in the story in order to tailor the story to different audiences.\n\nThe use of multiple narratives in a story is not simply a stylistic choice, but rather an interpretive one that offers insight into the development of a larger social identity and the impact that has on the overarching narrative, as explained by Lee Haring. Haring analyzes the use of framing in oral narratives, and how the usage of multiple perspectives provides the audience with a greater historical and cultural background of the narrative. She also argues that narratives (particularly myths and folktales) that implement multiple narrators deserves to be categorized as its own narrative genre, rather than simply a narrative device that is used solely to explain phenomena from different points of view.\n\nHaring provides an example from the Arabic folktales of \"A Thousand and One Nights\" to illustrate how framing was used to loosely connect each story to the next, where each story was enclosed within the larger narrative. Additionally, Haring draws comparisons between \"Thousand and One Nights\" and the oral storytelling observed in parts of rural Ireland, islands of the Southwest Indian Ocean, and African cultures such as Madagascar.\"I'll tell you what I'll do,\" said the smith. \"I'll fix your sword for you tomorrow, if you tell me a story while I'm doing it.\" The speaker was an Irish storyteller in 1935, framing one story in another (O'Sullivan 75, 264). The moment recalls the Thousand and One Nights , where the story of \"The Envier and the Envied\" is enclosed in the larger story told by the Second Kalandar (Burton 1 : 113-39), and many stories are enclosed in others.\"\n\nNarrative is a highly aesthetic art. Thoughtfully composed stories have a number of aesthetic elements. Such elements include the idea of narrative structure, with identifiable beginnings, middles and ends, or exposition-development-climax-denouement, with coherent plot lines; a strong focus on temporality including retention of the past, attention to present action and protention/future anticipation; a substantial focus on character and characterization, \"arguably the most important single component of the novel\" (David Lodge \"The Art of Fiction\" 67); different voices interacting, \"the sound of the human voice, or many voices, speaking in a variety of accents, rhythms and registers\" (Lodge \"The Art of Fiction\" 97; see also the theory of Mikhail Bakhtin for expansion of this idea); a narrator or narrator-like voice, which \"addresses\" and \"interacts with\" reading audiences (see Reader Response theory); communicates with a Wayne Booth-esque rhetorical thrust, a dialectic process of interpretation, which is at times beneath the surface, forming a plotted narrative, and at other times much more visible, \"arguing\" for and against various positions; relies substantially on the use of literary tropes (see Hayden White, \"Metahistory\" for expansion of this idea); is often intertextual with other literatures; and commonly demonstrates an effort toward \"bildungsroman\", a description of identity development with an effort to evince \"becoming\" in character and community. \n\nWithin philosophy of mind, the social sciences and various clinical fields including medicine, narrative can refer to aspects of human psychology. A personal narrative process is involved in a person's sense of personal or cultural identity, and in the creation and construction of memories; it is thought by some to be the fundamental nature of the self. The breakdown of a coherent or positive narrative has been implicated in the development of psychosis and mental disorder, and its repair said to play an important role in journeys of recovery. Narrative Therapy is a school of (family) psychotherapy.\n\nIllness narratives are a way for a person affected by an illness to make sense of his or her experiences. They typically follow one of several set patterns: \"restitution\", \"chaos\", or \"quest\" narratives. In the restitution narrative, the person sees the illness as a temporary detour. The primary goal is to return permanently to normal life and normal health. These may also be called cure narratives. In the chaos narrative, the person sees the illness as a permanent state that will inexorably get worse, with no redeeming virtues. This is typical of diseases like Alzheimer's disease: the patient gets worse and worse, and there is no hope of returning to normal life. The third major type, the quest narrative, positions the illness experience as an opportunity to transform oneself into a better person through overcoming adversity and re-learning what is most important in life; the physical outcome of the illness is less important than the spiritual and psychological transformation. This is typical of the triumphant view of cancer survivorship in the breast cancer culture.\n\nPersonality traits, more specifically the Big Five personality traits, appear to be associated with the type of language or patterns of word use found in an individual's self-narrative. In other words, language use in self-narratives accurately reflects human personality. The linguistic correlates of each Big Five trait are as follows:\n\n\nHuman beings often claim to understand events when they manage to formulate a coherent story or narrative explaining how they believe the event was generated. Narratives thus lie at foundations of our cognitive procedures and also provide an explanatory framework for the social sciences, particularly when it is difficult to assemble enough cases to permit statistical analysis. Narrative is often used in case study research in the social sciences. Here it has been found that the dense, contextual, and interpenetrating nature of social forces uncovered by detailed narratives is often more interesting and useful for both social theory and social policy than other forms of social inquiry.\n\nSociologists Jaber F. Gubrium and James A. Holstein have contributed to the formation of a constructionist approach to narrative in sociology. From their book The Self We Live By: Narrative Identity in a Postmodern World (2000), to more recent texts such as Analyzing Narrative Reality (2009)and Varieties of Narrative Analysis (2012), they have developed an analytic framework for researching stories and storytelling that is centered on the interplay of institutional discourses (big stories) on the one hand, and everyday accounts (little stories) on the other. The goal is the sociological understanding of formal and lived texts of experience, featuring the production, practices, and communication of accounts.\n\nIn order to avoid \"hardened stories,\" or \"narratives that become context-free, portable and ready to be used anywhere and anytime for illustrative purposes\" and are being used as conceptual metaphors as defined by linguist George Lakoff, an approach called narrative inquiry was proposed, resting on the epistemological assumption that human beings make sense of random or complex multicausal experience by the imposition of story structures.\" Human propensity to simplify data through a predilection for narratives over complex data sets typically leads to narrative fallacy. It is easier for the human mind to remember and make decisions on the basis of stories with meaning, than to remember strings of data. This is one reason why narratives are so powerful and why many of the classics in the humanities and social sciences are written in the narrative format. But humans read meaning into data and compose stories, even where this is unwarranted. In narrative inquiry, the way to avoid the narrative fallacy is no different from the way to avoid other error in scholarly research, i.e., by applying the usual methodical checks for validity and reliability in how data are collected, analyzed, and presented. Several criteria for assessing the validity of narrative research was proposed, including the objective aspect, the emotional aspect, the social/moral aspect, and the clarity of the story.\n\nIn mathematical sociology, the theory of comparative narratives was devised in order to describe and compare the structures (expressed as \"and\" in a directed graph where multiple causal links incident into a node are conjoined) of action-driven sequential events.\n\nNarratives so conceived comprise the following ingredients:\n\nThe structure (directed graph) is generated by letting the nodes stand for the states and the directed edges represent how the states are changed by specified actions. The action skeleton can then be abstracted, comprising a further digraph where the actions are depicted as nodes and edges take the form \"action a co-determined (in context of other actions) action b\".\n\nNarratives can be both abstracted and generalised by imposing an algebra upon their structures and thence defining homomorphism between the algebras. The insertion of action-driven causal links in a narrative can be achieved using the method of Bayesian narratives.\n\nDeveloped by Peter Abell, the theory of Bayesian Narratives conceives a narrative as a directed graph comprising multiple causal links (social interactions) of the general form: \"action a causes action b in a specified context\". In the absence of sufficient comparative cases to enable statistical treatment of the causal links, items of evidence in support and against a particular causal link are assembled and used to compute the Bayesian likelihood ratio of the link. Subjective causal statements of the form \"I/she did b because of a\" and subjective counterfactuals \"if it had not been for a I/she would not have done b\" are notable items of evidence.\n\nLinearity is one of several narrative qualities that can be found in a musical composition. As noted by American musicologist, Edward Cone, narrative terms are also present in the analytical language about music. The different components of a fugue — subject, answer, exposition, discussion and summary — can be cited as an example. However, there are several views on the concept of narrative in music and the role it plays.\nOne theory is that of Theodore Adorno, who has suggested that ‘music recites itself, is its own context, narrates without narrative’. Another, is that of Carolyn Abbate, who has suggested that ‘certain gestures experienced in music constitute a narrating voice’. Still others have argued that narrative is a semiotic enterprise that can enrich musical analysis.\nThe French musicologist Jean-Jacques Nattiez contends that ‘the narrative, strictly speaking, is not in the music, but in the plot imagined and constructed by the listeners’. He argues that discussing music in terms of narrativity is simply metaphorical and that the ‘imagined plot’ may be influenced by the work's title or other programmatic information provided by the composer. However, Abbate has revealed numerous examples of musical devices that function as narrative voices, by limiting music’s ability to narrate to rare ‘moments that can be identified by their bizarre and disruptive effect’. Various theorists share this view of narrative appearing in disruptive rather than normative moments in music.\nThe final word is yet to be said, regarding narratives in music, as there is still much to be determined.\n\nA narrative can take on the shape of a story, which gives listeners an entertaining and collaborative avenue for acquiring knowledge. Many cultures use storytelling as a way to record histories, myths, and values. These stories can be seen as living entities of narrative among cultural communities, as they carry the shared experience and history of the culture within them. Stories are often used within indigenous cultures in order to share knowledge to the younger generation. Due to indigenous narratives leaving room for open-ended interpretation, native stories often engage children in the storytelling process so that they can make their own meaning and explanations within the story. This promotes holistic thinking among native children, which works towards merging an individual and world identity. Such an identity upholds native epistemology and gives children a sense of belonging as their cultural identity develops through the sharing and passing on of stories.\n\nFor example, a number of indigenous stories are used to illustrate a value or lesson. In the Western Apache tribe, stories can be used to warn of the misfortune that befalls people when they do not follow acceptable behavior. One story speaks to the offense of a mother's meddling in her married son's life. In the story, the Western Apache tribe is under attack from a neighboring tribe, the Pimas. The Apache mother hears a scream. Thinking it is her son's wife screaming, she tries to intervene by yelling at him. This alerts the Pima tribe to her location, and she is promptly killed due to intervening in her son's life.\n\nIndigenous American cultures use storytelling to teach children the values and lessons of life. \nAlthough storytelling provides entertainment, its primary purpose is to educate. Alaskan Indigenous Natives state that narratives teach children where they fit in, what their society expects of them, how to create a peaceful living environment, and to be responsible, worthy members of their communities. In the Mexican culture, many adult figures tell their children stories in order to teach children values such as individuality, obedience, honesty, trust, and compassion. For example, one of the versions of La Llorona is used to teach children to make safe decisions at night and to maintain the morals of the community.\n\nNarratives are considered by the Canadian Métis community, to help children understand that the world around them is interconnected to their lives and communities. For example, the Métis community share the “Humorous Horse Story” to children, which portrays that horses stumble throughout life just like humans do. Navajo stories also use dead animals as metaphors by showing that all things have purpose. Lastly, elders from Alaskan Native communities claim that the use of animals as metaphors allow children to form their own perspectives while at the same time self-reflecting on their own lives.\n\nAmerican Indian elders also state that storytelling invites the listeners, especially children, to draw their own conclusions and perspectives while self-reflecting upon their lives. Furthermore, they insist that narratives help children grasp and obtain a wide range of perspectives that help them interpret their lives in the context of the story. American Indian community members emphasize to children that the method of obtaining knowledge can be found in stories passed down through each generation. Moreover, community members also let the children interpret and build a different perspective of each story.\n\nIn historiography, according to Lawrence Stone, narrative has traditionally been the main rhetorical device used by historians. In 1979, at a time when the new Social History was demanding a social-science model of analysis, Stone detected a move back toward the narrative. Stone defined narrative as organized chronologically; focused on a single coherent story; descriptive rather than analytical; concerned with people not abstract circumstances; and dealing with the particular and specific rather than the collective and statistical. He reported that, \"More and more of the 'new historians' are now trying to discover what was going on inside people's heads in the past, and what it was like to live in the past, questions which inevitably lead back to the use of narrative.\"\n\nSome philosophers identify narratives with a type of explanation. Mark Bevir argues, for example, that narratives explain actions by appealing to the beliefs and desires of actors and by locating webs of beliefs in the context of historical traditions. Narrative is an alternative form of explanation to that associated with natural science.\n\nHistorians committed to a social science approach, however, have criticized the narrowness of narrative and its preference for anecdote over analysis, and clever examples rather than statistical regularities.\n\nStorytelling rights may be broadly defined as the ethics of sharing narratives (including—but not limited to—firsthand, secondhand and imagined stories). In \"Storytelling Rights: The uses of oral and written texts by urban adolescents\", author Amy Shuman offers the following definition of storytelling rights: “the important and precarious relationship between narrative and event and, specifically, between the participants in an event and the reporters who claim the right to talk about what happened.\"\n\nThe ethics of retelling other people’s stories may be explored through a number of questions: whose story is being told and how, what is the story’s purpose or aim, what does the story promise (for instance: empathy, redemption, authenticity, clarification)--and at whose benefit? Storytelling rights also implicates questions of consent, empathy, and accurate representation. While storytelling—and retelling—can function as a powerful tool for agency and advocacy, it can also lead to misunderstanding and exploitation.\n\nStorytelling rights is notably important in the genre of personal experience narrative. Academic disciplines such as performance, folklore, literature, anthropology, Cultural Studies and other social sciences may involve the study of storytelling rights, often hinging on ethics.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6720119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6720119", "title": "Nickelodeon Robot Wars", "text": "Nickelodeon Robot Wars\n\nNickelodeon Robot Wars is a game show that aired on Nickelodeon from August 25, 2002 to October 6, 2002. Hosted by Dave Aizer, the show was Nickelodeon's take on \"Robot Wars\", the popular and long-running robot-fighting game show. The show was canceled after one season, and subsequently aired on Nickelodeon GAS.\n\nThe series of six shows was filmed at Shepperton Studios in England in January 2002 at the same time as the second season of the \"Robot Wars: Extreme Warriors\" series shown on The New TNN American television network (now Spike). Both shows featured American teams and robots flown to England for the filming.\n\nSeven different tournaments took place over the six show series. Most of the tournaments aired within a single show, but a few spread out over multiple shows.\n\nThe show featured robot competitors familiar to fans of the American series of Robot Wars, such as 'Rosie The Riveter' and 'The Revolutionist,' but the robot operators were all children associated with the teams.\n\nTo suit the younger audience, a few adjustments and changes were made to the arena and House Robots.\n\n"}
{"id": "25984459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25984459", "title": "Olli", "text": "Olli\n\nOlli is a cartoon character and a stuffed toy and a drink. The character Olli was original created in 2004 by Dutch designer and film director Hein Mevissen and writer Diederiekje Bok as a character for a bottled mineral water. Olli was one of many characters used on the packages and posters of the bottled water brand and John's Phone. Olli was launched on a party of MTV In Rotterdam in 2004. In 2013 Olli was again part of a campaign. This time to save the Rotterdam Zoo Diergaarde Blijdorp. Olli is part of the Ollimania family which is the company that created and owns all characters. Olli became a national hype in the Netherlands from the launch in 2004. After the launch Olli became the symbol of Rotterdam and professional football club Feyenoord.\nOn September 10, 2015, Ollimania and its creators Hein Mevissen and Diederiekje Bok donated a huge Olli statue to the Sophia Children’s Hospital in Rotterdam. They did this to give a smile to the little patients and parents in the hospital. This original big Olli is there to stay.\n\nThe first two Ollimania books were launched in October 2014. 'Olli en het poepkanon' and 'Olli is een olifant'. Both books made it into the top 10 of best sold children books in the Netherlands. In June 2015 Ollimania published again two new books called 'Olli en de woestijndraak' and 'Olli op reis'.\n\n\nHein Mevissen and Diederiekje Bok from design company John Doe designed Olli from the basic shape of a soccer ball. They believe the basic shape, size and character was part of Olli's success. This made Olli easily recognizable to audiences. Olli is drawn in a minimalist style, requiring only a few lines and one primary color. Olli was created in three sizes, one small size 4.7 in. one medium, size 11 in. and one big size 7.2 ft.\n\nThere are two big Olli's. They are the elder version of small Olli. The Big Olli's is a special creature model made for several charities. One is a permanent hard plastic polyester statue at the Sophia Children's Hospital and another one has a temporarily place at the Rotterdam Zoo. The big Olli that is used in the short film to save the Rotterdam ZOO is stored at a secret location according to the creators.\n\nOlli is toy elephant grown to the size of a real elephant. Olli is a lovable character with furry friends living in a Japanese fantasy world. Later in 2013 there was a story added that he was also the favorite toy of Famous Soccer player Giovanni van Bronckhorst. Together they are the main cast of a short film. In Rotterdam, Netherlands of 1980, Giovanni van Bronckhorst is a little boy (played in the short film by the son of Giovanni van Bronckhorst). One day, he discovers a stuffed Elephant at the Rotterdam Zoo and immediately grows attached to it. The name of the elephant is Olli. Giovanni takes him everywhere he goes, especially when he plays soccer. One day during a soccer game, he loses Olli in the canal of Rotterdam. 28 years later in 2013, Giovanni became a Famous Soccer Player and trainer of soccer club Feyenoord and Olli, also grew big, reunite again.\n\nHein Mevissen and Diederiekje Bok have a history in creating things that help people. To give something back to society and convince big brands to do so too. Olli was a few times part of a strategy they developed in 2004 and created Olli as a separate brand to generate awareness and in one campaign to generate more traffic and money for a ZOO in Rotterdam.\n\nIn December 2013 Hein Mevissen and Diederiekje Bok of John Doe got awarded with the highest Dutch advertising award the Golden Loeki for this campaign. The agency John Doe got the award in a Live television show from Arian Buurman, CEO of the Stichting Ether Reclame who hosts the Loeki awards.\n\nIn 2013 Olli was used to help and save the Rotterdam zoo to generate money after the zoo lost government funding. In one year over 200.000 Olli's were sold. Olli also generated 75.000 more visitors for the Rotterdam zoo. Ollimania is a licensing\n\nOllimania is always involved with giving back to the community. Ollimania works with local charity organizations as well as collaborating on common projects, fund‐raisings and social activities. In 2013 Ollimania saved a historic Zoo. In 2015 Ollimania brings its stuffed toy characters to children hospitals, where he interact with little patients by distributing Ollimania presents, reading out Ollimania stories, taking pictures and even organizing birthday celebrations for the most needing ones and their families. On September 10, 2015, Ollimania and its creators Hein Mevissen and Diederiekje Bok donated a huge Olli statue to the Sophia Children’s Hospital in Rotterdam. They did this to give a smile to the little patients and parents in the hospital. This original big Olli is there to stay.\n\nIn 2015 John Doe BV/Ollimania started a lawsuit against the Dutch insurance company ASR Nederland for copyright infringement. The Dutch Insurance company used illegally images and foto’s from Ollimania to sell insurances to their customers. The Dutch court ruled in favor of John Doe BV/ Ollimania and urged ASR Nederland to stop their copyright infringement.\nASR Nederland had a license for a year on one of the Olli toys that expired in August 2014. The insurance company also kept 30.000 toys that were meant for the Rotterdam zoo to earn money to keep the ZOO open. ASR Nederland was entitled to keep the toys and distribute them however they see fit as long they would not infringe the copyrights of John Doe BV and Olli again. ASR Nederland is the biggest insurance company of the Netherlands with almost 3000 employees. Hein Mevissen, the artist and creator of Olli urged the insurance company to look in their hearts and give the toys back to the ZOO where they belong.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25731260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25731260", "title": "Panayiotou v Sony Music Entertainment (UK) Ltd", "text": "Panayiotou v Sony Music Entertainment (UK) Ltd\n\nPanayiotou and others v Sony Music Entertainment (UK) Ltd. ([1994] ChD 142) was a contract and entertainment law case before the High Court of Justice's Chancery Division. The plaintiff, entertainer George Michael, argued that his recording contract constituted an unreasonable restraint of trade. Michael alleged that the defendant had failed to promote his album \"Listen Without Prejudice Vol. 1\" with due vigour as punishment when the artist decided to downplay his status as a sex symbol. Michael described his situation as \"professional slavery\" because his contract required that he produce music and cede the copyright to Sony for many years, leaving him no control over how the music would be marketed nor placing a reciprocal requirement that the label invest in promotion. Had the case succeeded, it might have curtailed the practice of signing artists to multi-album contracts. The court wholly rejected the claims.\n\nGeorgios Panayiotou, known professionally as George Michael, signed with Innervision Records in 1982 at the age of eighteen as part of the then relatively unknown pop duo Wham!. Innervision were distributed by CBS Records. In 1984 this contract was nullified as part of a legal compromise wherein Wham! were obligated to produce up to eight new albums for CBS Records; the label and the contract were acquired by Sony Music Entertainment in 1987. Following Wham!'s success and subsequent break up, Michael renegotiated a new eight-album deal with Sony as a solo artist in 1988. This deal was further renegotiated in 1990 to reflect Michael's superstar status, achieving terms comparable to similarly high-grossing artists. Michael's first solo album, \"Faith\", was released in 1987 and had sold 14 million copies by the time suit was filed; his second solo album, \"Listen Without Prejudice Vol. 1\" was released in 1990 and had sold 5 million copies. \"Listen Without Prejudice\" represented a new direction for Michael, downplaying the sex symbol status he had cultivated with Wham! in favour of a more reserved identity purely as a serious musician; he decided not to place his highly recognisable image on the album cover and declined to appear in promotional videos. Michael alleged that Sony under-promoted his new album in response to these decisions. He further charged that the contract restricting him from seeking a new label and prevented him from managing his professional image as he saw fit. Michael described this imbalance of power and his long-term lack of control over his career as \"professional slavery\".\n\nIt was common practice in the recording industry to sign many emerging artists like Wham!, banking that long-term profits from the few commercial successes would cover the losses from promoting the remainder. A decision holding Michael's contract unenforceable could have dramatically reduced the expected return on investment for signing and promoting an emerging artist, leading to fears that the practice would end. Michael argued that the structure of the industry concentrated power in too few hands, and that these companies competed by selling music, but not in the terms offered to new artists. This led to an imbalance of power, where the artist was contractually obligated to produce a set number of albums of acceptable quality and cede copyright to the label, but the label did not bear a reciprocal obligation to market and promote the product, in accordance with the artist's wishes or otherwise.\n\nMichael was advanced a sum of £1 million in February 1992 under the terms of the 1990 contract. This amount was returned to Sony in August of the same year in preparation for filing suit in October.\n\nMichael filed suit before the Chancery Division on 30 October 1992, and Justice Jonathan Parker issued a ruling on 1 June 1994. The plaintiff's claims were wholly rejected. Parker held that Michael's contracts were reasonable and fair, especially in consideration of his access to expert legal advice, several renegotiations, and terms comparable to the industry standard for an artist of his commercial success. There were five prongs to the justice's dismissal:\n\nIn July 1995, Sony sold the contract to rival record companies Virgin Records and DreamWorks Records.\n"}
{"id": "679469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=679469", "title": "Philadelphia Sphas", "text": "Philadelphia Sphas\n\nThe Philadelphia Sphas, also stylized SPHAs or SPHAS, were an American basketball franchise that existed in professional, semi-professional, and exhibition forms. They played their home games in the ballroom of Philadelphia's Broadwood Hotel. The team's name is an acronym, derived from South Philadelphia Hebrew Association (the group that initially funded the team), and the team's players, at least in its earlier years, were primarily Jewish. Future Philadelphia Warriors owner Eddie Gottlieb founded the team as an amateur group shortly after he and some close friends graduated from high school, and the team evolved into a professional unit that played in many leagues around the Philadelphia area and the East Coast, most notably the Eastern Basketball League and the American Basketball League, between which the Sphas won 10 championships. The Sphas won a total of 12 championships, their first two coming from the early Philadelphia League and Philadelphia Basket Ball League.\n\nWith the 1946 advent of the Basketball Association of America, the immediate predecessor of the NBA, the ABL became a minor-league, and the Sphas would remain there as a semi-professional team until 1949. Gottlieb sold the team in 1950 to Red Klotz, a former Spha. 1949 would be the last year the Sphas were affiliated with a league, but thanks to Gottlieb's friendship with Abe Saperstein, president and owner of the Harlem Globetrotters, the Sphas lived on as one of the exhibition teams that the Globetrotters would play, although they would retain only the franchise name, not the Jewish makeup of the team.\n\nDespite popular wisdom, the Sphas did not directly evolve into the Washington Generals. Instead, Saperstein had asked Klotz to create a separate exhibition team because the Sphas had beaten the Globetrotters on more than one occasion. After creating the Generals, Klotz sold the Sphas to one of his players, Pete Monska, who coached the team \"for a year or two until it disbanded [in October 1959.]\" The Sphas played their last game as the original team on October 17, 1959, losing to the Globetrotters in a double-header exhibition game. The Sphas were then reconstituted as the Baltimore Rockets, another Globetrotters exhibition team.\n\nThe Sphas' existence began in 1917 as an amateur team by neighborhood friends Eddie Gottlieb, Harry Passon, and Hughie Black, who wanted to keep their high school championship team together. The team's first season took place in the American League of Philadelphia, a minor league that comprised six area teams. They were sponsored by the Young Men's Hebrew Association of South Philadelphia, and were called Philadelphia YMHA for that season. The team turned in a 4–11 record, tied for last in the league that year. After that season, the YMHA withdrew its support for the team, citing dissatisfaction with the game's violent nature.\n\nAfter losing their sponsorship from the YMHA, Gottlieb, Passon, and Black approached the South Philadelphia Hebrew Association about sponsoring the team. The association agreed to sponsor the men, and provided funding for uniforms to the team. The new uniforms featured the acronym SPHA in Hebrew (ספהא) across the front. Again, their sponsorial relationship was short-lived, as the SPHA withdrew their sponsorship shortly after for an unspecified reason. The men had better financial solvency this time around, as they opened a sporting goods store, calling it P.G.B. Sporting Goods. With the store, they created new uniforms, but kept the Sphas moniker as a way of paying tribute to their upbringing. Douglas Stark, author of \"The SPHAS: The Life and Times of Basketball's Greatest Jewish Team\", noted that \"[f]or a number of years, the team was known as the Wandering Jews, because the team did not have its own home court.\" The team continued to play in the American League of Philadelphia after losing their partnership with the SPHA, and played in two different leagues during the 1922–23 season: The Manufacturer's League, containing teams from area companies, and the Philadelphia League, which consisted of teams from the greater Philadelphia area, a number of them religious. In their single season in the Manufacturer's League, the team (known as Philadelphia Passon, Gottlieb, Black since they competed through Passon and Black's sporting goods store) turned in an overall 8–6 record, finishing 3rd in the first half of that season and 6th (out of 8) in the second half. Their first season in the Philadelphia League was a disappointing one, turning in an 8–11 record and finishing 2nd in the first half of the season, but last in the second half at 1–8. The Sphas' next season in the Philadelphia League would prove more fruitful (due in part to the increased number of games), as the Sphas turned in a 25–15 record, overcoming a first half slump of 14–13 (5th out of 8) to finish first in the second half of the season with an 11–3 record. They went on that year to defeat the Tri-Council Caseys 2–0 for their first championship.\n\nFor the 1924–25 season, the Philadelphia League reconstituted itself as the Philadelphia Basket Ball League, dropping the number of teams in the league to six. The Sphas continued a strong spate of play, finishing 1st in the first half of the season, and third in the second half. They would go on to be repeat champions that season, winning 2–1 again over Tri-Council. Due to the success of the Sphas against teams in the Philadelphia area, and frustration with playing in the \"poorly managed\" Eastern League in 1924–25, owner Eddie Gottlieb set up games against professional teams from the newly-formed American Basketball League. The Sphas played a six-game stretch against the Brooklyn Arcadians, Fort Wayne Caseys, Cleveland Rosenblums, Washington Palace Five, and a team from New York's Metropolitan League, the Paterson Legionaires. The Sphas won five out of six games in this series, and Gottlieb subsequently scheduled games against two top barnstorming teams of the day, the Original Celtics and New York Renaissance. The Sphas defeated the Original Celtics 2–1 and swept the Rens, 2–0. The team's victories over these top barnstorming teams gave them increased notability in the burgeoning professional basketball community. Riding the wave of victories his team achieved against the ABL and barnstorming teams, Gottlieb entered the Sphas in the ABL, rechristening them the Philadelphia Warriors. During their two years in the ABL as the Warriors, the team performed moderately well, finishing third (14–7) and then fourth (10–11) in the 1926–27 season. For the 1927–28 season, the ABL split into two divisions (Eastern and Western). The Warriors played in the Eastern Division and finished third with a 30–21 record. This allowed them entry into the playoffs, where they lost to the New York Celtics 2–0.\n"}
{"id": "5669042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5669042", "title": "Pleorama", "text": "Pleorama\n\nThe best-known pleorama was a 19th-century moving panorama entertainment where the viewers sat in a rocking boat while panoramic views on painted canvas rolled past. The word has sometimes been used for other entertainments or innovations.\n\nArchitect Carl Ferdinand Langhans introduced a pleorama in Breslau in 1831 with scenes of the Bay of Naples on both sides of 24 \"voyagers\" sitting in a wooden boat floating in a pool of water. The illusion was enhanced by light and sound effects: the boatman singing, Vesuvius erupting. Writer/artist August Kopisch was involved in designing the hour-long show.\n\nCarl Wilhelm Gropius, who had a diorama exhibit in Berlin, took over management of this pleorama in 1832, and there was also a pleorama of a journey along the river Rhine. \n\nThe Swiss writer Bernard Comment, among others, has pointed out the similarities between Langhans' pleorama and the ambitious mareorama at the 1900 Paris Exhibition.\n\nA similar idea was used for a London \"padorama\" in 1834. Spectators were seated in railway carriages to watch a moving panorama of scenes visible from the Liverpool and Manchester Railway.\n\nIn 1850s Finland the name \"pleorama\" was given to shows which presented historic scenes and panoramic views using glass, but posters for these do not mention anything resembling Langhans' boat concept.\n\nThe name \"pleorama\" was coined from Greek elements. Like other 19th century novelties ending in \"-orama\" - diorama and cyclorama, for instance - the second half of the word has the sense of 'something seen'. The \"pleo-\" part here is understood to come from a Greek word meaning 'float' which applies to Langhans' boat in water idea. \"Pleorama\" is also the 21st century name of an innovative \"floating house\". \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4961790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4961790", "title": "Praetexta", "text": "Praetexta\n\nThe praetexta or fabula praetexta was a genre of Latin tragedy introduced at Rome by Gnaeus Naevius in the third century B.C. It dealt with historical Roman figures, in place of the conventional Greek myths. Subsequent writers of \"praetextae\" included Ennius, Pacuvius and Lucius Accius. The name refers to the \"toga praetexta\", the official dress of Roman magistrates.\n\nAll Roman Republican tragedies are now lost. From the Imperial era only one play has survived, the \"Octavia\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3931478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3931478", "title": "Process drama", "text": "Process drama\n\nProcess drama is a method of teaching and learning drama where both the students and teacher are working in and out of role.\n\nAs a teaching methodology, process drama developed primarily from the work of Brian Way, Dorothy Heathcote and Gavin Bolton and through the work of other leading drama practitioners. Cecily O'Neill describes process drama being used to explore a problem, situation, theme or series of related ideas or themes through the use of the artistic medium of unscripted drama. Process drama was described by O'Mara (1999) as\" a dynamic way of working that requires teachers to reflect-in-action\", constantly dealing with unique situations that require novel approaches. It has its roots in dramatic play, where normally developing children in every culture in the world will create their own imagined worlds, often with the co-participation of an empathetic adult (usually the parent) in role.\n\nProcess drama in school settings usually involves the whole class working with the teacher in role in a made-up scenario. When they are working in process drama, the students and teachers work together to create an imaginary dramatic world within which issues are considered and problems can be solved. In this world they work together to explore problems and issues such as, \"How do communities deal with change?\", \"How do we accept other people into our community?\" or themes such as environmental sustainability, betrayal, truth and other ethical and moral issues. Sometimes the work may begin as light-hearted, but the teacher always layers more dramatic tension and complexity into the work as the teacher is aiming for a pedagogical outcome. Students learn to think beyond their own points of view and consider multiple perspectives on a topic through playing different roles. For instance, if the issue being discussed is logging a forest, they may play the loggers, people who live in the forest community and environmentalists. Playing a range of positions encourages them to be able to recast themselves as the \"other\" and to consider life from that viewpoint, thereby creating complexity and enabling us to explore multiple dimensions of the topic. Process drama does what the character Atticus Finch advocates: the ability to work for social justice comes from the ability to understand another perspective—to be able to try on someone else's shoes and walk around in them for a while. Process drama allows us to \"try on\" other people's shoes, to walk the paths they tread and to see how the world looks from their point of view.\n\nProcess drama is also suggested as a tool to promote literacy development through opportunities for dramatic play in early childhood settings within which children speak for a range of purposes in role.\n"}
{"id": "9025700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9025700", "title": "Realism (theatre)", "text": "Realism (theatre)\n\nRealism in the theatre was a general movement that began in the 19th-century theatre, around the 1870s, and remained present through much of the 20th century. It developed a set of dramatic and theatrical conventions with the aim of bringing a greater fidelity of real life to texts and performances. Part of a broader artistic movement, it includes Naturalism and Socialist realism.\n\nRussia's first professional playwright, Aleksey Pisemsky, along with Leo Tolstoy (in his \"The Power of Darkness\" of 1886), began a tradition of psychological realism in Russia. A new type of acting was required to replace the declamatory conventions of the well-made play with a technique capable of conveying the speech and movements found in the domestic situations of everyday life. This need was supplied by the innovations of the Moscow Art Theatre, founded by Konstantin Stanislavski and Vladimir Nemirovich-Danchenko. Whereas the subtle expression of emotion in Anton Chekhov's \"The Seagull\" through everyday small-talk had initially gone unappreciated in a more traditionally conventional production in St Petersburg, a new staging by the Moscow Art Theatre brought the play and its author, as well as the company, immediate success. A logical development was to take the revolt against theatrical artifice a step further in the direction of naturalism, and Stanislavski, especially in his production of Maxim Gorky's \"The Lower Depths\", helped this movement achieve international recognition. The Moscow Art Theatre's ground-breaking productions of plays by Chekhov, such as \"Uncle Vanya\" and \"The Cherry Orchard\", in turn influenced Maxim Gorky and Mikhail Bulgakov. Stanislavski went on to develop his 'system', a form of actor training that is particularly well-suited to psychological realism.\n\n19th-century realism is closely connected to the development of modern drama, which, as Martin Harrison explains, \"is usually said to have begun in the early 1870s\" with the \"middle-period\" work of the Norwegian dramatist Henrik Ibsen. Ibsen's realistic drama in prose has been \"enormously influential.\"\n\nIn opera, \"verismo\" refers to a post-Romantic Italian tradition that sought to incorporate the Naturalism of Émile Zola and Henrik Ibsen. It included realistic – sometimes sordid or violent – depictions of contemporary everyday life, especially the life of the lower classes. \n\n3D details were added by 1800. By 1850 settings, costumes and details became historically accurate and had more logic to the plays.\n\nAs part of a strategic argument in his day, Stanislavski used the term \"psychological realism\" to distinguish his 'system' of acting from his own Naturalistic early stagings of the plays of Anton Chekhov, Maxim Gorky, and others. Jean Benedetti argues that:\nNaturalism, for him, implied the indiscriminate reproduction of the surface of life. Realism, on the other hand, while taking its material from the real world and from direct observation, selected only those elements which revealed the relationships and tendencies under the surface. The rest was discarded.\nAs used in critical literature today, however, the term Naturalism has a broader scope than that, within which all of Stanislavski's work falls. In this broader sense, Naturalism or \"psychological realism\" is distinct both from Socialist realism and the critical realism developed by the epic theatre of Bertolt Brecht.\n\n\n“Introduction to Theatre -- Realism.” Women's Liberation Movement, https://novaonline.nvcc.edu/eli/spd130et/realism.htm\n"}
{"id": "41118442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41118442", "title": "Residual media", "text": "Residual media\n\nResidual media refers to media that are not new media, but are nonetheless still prevalent in society. The term is offered as an alternative to the term old media. Residual media attempts to act as a corrective to the idea that when media become old, they absolutely become obsolete, or “dead media.” Residual media “reveals that, ultimately, new cultural phenomena rely on encounters with the old”. While old media can, and often does, become obsolete, they do not die. Instead, old media persist in our culture—either in storage units or landfills, or as cultural capital for niche groups—or they can be moved to other parts of the world and other cultures. Regardless of where they end up, the media is not dead, they are still very much living, changing, and evolving. Residual media helps show that the transition between old and new media is not simplistic, well-defined, or sweeping. Examples of residual media include film cameras and film, record players and LP records, radio, letters, and postcards, etc.\n\nResidual media was first defined in the edited collection \"Residual Media\" by Charles R. Acland. The term itself stems from Raymond Williams' study of culture’s dominant, emergent, and residual forms. The residual forms, Williams says, are “experiences, meanings and values which cannot be expressed in terms of the dominant culture,” but “are nevertheless lived and practiced on the basis of residue—cultural as well as social—of some previous social formation”. In relation to media, the dominant culture would be new media, while the residual would be the forms of media that have come before, but are still in use regardless of the new supplanting them. Williams’s definition of the residual is also important because it emphasizes that these old forms of media are “still active in the cultural process, not only and often not at all as an element of the past, but as an effective element of the present”. Residual media, though antiquated or seen as lesser than the new media, still exist in the present and still affect that which is dominant. The way we interact with the old still informs the way we interact with the new, and the new informs the way we interact with the old. The idea of residual media is closely related to Jay David Bolter and Richard Grusin's theory of Remediation (Marxist theory).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2491812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2491812", "title": "Retrogaming", "text": "Retrogaming\n\nRetrogaming, also known as classic gaming and old school gaming, is the playing or collecting of older personal computer, console, and arcade video games in contemporary times. Usually retrogaming is based upon systems that are obsolete or discontinued.\n\nRetrogaming has three main activities; vintage retrogaming, retrogaming emulation, and ported retrogaming. Vintage retrogaming includes games that are played on the original hardware. Emulation involves newer systems simulating old gaming systems, while ported retrogaming allows games to be played on modern hardware via ports or compilations. Additionally, the term could apply to a newer game, but with features similar to those of older games, such as an \"retro RPG\" which features turn-based combat and an isometric camera perspective.\n\nParticipants in the hobby are sometimes known as retrogamers in the United Kingdom, while the terms \"classic gamers\" or \"old school gamers\" are more prevalent in the United States. Similarly, the games are known as retrogames, classic games, or old school games.\n\nRetrogaming has existed since the early years of the video game industry, but was popularized with the popularity of the Internet and emulation technology. It is argued that the main reasons players are drawn to retrogames are nostalgia for different eras, the idea that older games are more innovative and original, and the simplicity of the games that requires less hours of gameplay.\n\nRetrogaming and retrocomputing have been described as preservation activity and as aspects of the remix culture.\n\nRetro games are generally those produced from the 1970s to early 2000s, and can include video games for systems and consoles from the 1st through 6th generations of video game consoles as well as personal computer games for retrocomputing platforms. Arcade games are also popular, and were frequently attributed to individual programmers. The transition between the retro and modern era coincides with the shift from 2D to 3D games. Some games are played on the original hardware; others are played through emulation. Some retro games can still be played online using just the internet browser via DOS emulation. In some cases, entirely new versions of the games are designed, or remade. As well as playing games, a subculture of retrogaming has grown up around the music in retro games.\n\nIn the wake of increasing nostalgia and the success of retro-compilations in the fifth, sixth, and seventh generations of consoles, retrogaming has become a motif in modern games, as well. Modern retrogames impose limitations on color palette, resolution, and memory well below the actual limits of the hardware in order to mimic the look of older hardware. These may be based on a general concept of retro, as with \"Cave Story\", or an attempt to imitate a specific piece of hardware, as with \"La Mulana\" and its MSX color palette.\n\nThis concept, known as Deliberate Retro and NosCon, began to gain traction thanks in part to the independent gaming scene, where the short development time was attractive and commercial viability was not a concern. Major publishers have embraced modern retrogaming with releases such as \"Mega Man 9\", an attempt to mimic NES hardware; \"Retro Game Challenge\", a compilation of new games on faux-NES hardware; and Sega's \"Fantasy Zone II\" remake, which uses emulated System 16 hardware running on PlayStation 2 to create a 16-bit reimagining of the 8-bit original.\n\nVintage retrogaming involves players collecting the original hardware, cartridges, and discs the video games were originally released on. The hardware collected includes arcade systems, old home consoles, and their cartridges and discs. Some of these collectables can be fairly expensive and hard to find, limiting the access to these old games. The vast majority, however, sell for much less than their retail price.\n\nThe popularity of vintage retrogaming has led to the circulation of pirated copies of retro games, which are generally considered to lack the collector value of the original cartridges and discs.\n\nRetrogaming emulation involves older gaming systems being emulated on new hardware. It bypasses the need to collect old consoles and original games. ROMs, read only memory files, are taken directly from the original cartridge or disc from third parties. They are then typically put online through file sharing sites and played via emulators on modern hardware. They are also often sold as re-releases, typically in compilations containing multiple games running on emulation software. Since emulation is a more accessible way to take part in retrogaming, it helped to popularize and expand on the hobby.\n\nPorted retrogaming involves old games being played on new systems, just as emulation. It differs from emulation because the games are being rewritten for the new system and don't use the original ROM files. Ported games are available through official collections, console-based downloads, and plug and play systems. Ported retrogaming is comparatively rare, since emulation is a much easier and more accurate method of running retro games on modern hardware.\n\nModern retrogaming may sometimes be more broadly applied to games that feature retro-style designs and reimaginings with more modern graphics. These enhanced remakes include \"\", \"Space Invaders Extreme\", \"Super Mega Worm\", \"3D Dot Game Heroes\". Some are based directly upon the enhanced emulation of original games, as with Nintendo's \"NES Remix\".\nWhen remakes are created by an individual or a group of enthusiasts without commercial motivation, such games sometimes are also called fangames. These are often motivated by the phenomenon of abandonware, which is the discontinuation of sales and support by the original producers. Examples of fan-made remakes are \"\", \"\", and \"Freeciv\".\n\nThe nostalgia-based revival of older game styles has also been accompanied by the development of the modern chiptune genre of game music. Chiptunes are characterized by severe limitations of sound imposed by the author's self-restriction to using only the original sound chips from 8-bit or 16-bit games. These compositions are featured in many retro-style modern games and are popular in the demoscene.\n\nWith the new possibility of the digital distribution in mid-2000 the commercial distribution of old classical game titles became feasible again as deployment and storage costs dropped significantly: \n\nA digital distributor specialized in bringing old games out of abandonware is \"GOG.com\" (formerly called \"Good Old Games\") who started 2008 to search for copyright holders of classic games to re-release them legally and DRM-free.\n\nNotable online platforms for classic video game re-releases include Nintendo's Virtual Console and Sony's PlayStation Network.\n\nMobile application developers have been purchasing the rights and licensing to re-release vintage arcade games on iOS and Android operating systems. Some publishers are creating spinoffs to their classic games, keeping the core gameplay while adding new features, levels, and styles of play.\n\nPlug-and-play systems have been released or licensed by companies such as Atari, Sega, and Nintendo. These systems include stand-alone game libraries and plug directly into the user’s television.\n\nThe video game industry has an active audience, including the retrogaming sector. The retrogaming community has both online and physical spaces where retrogames are discussed, collected, and played.\n\nThere are several websites and online forums devoted to both retrogaming and video games in general. The content on these online platforms typically includes reviews of older games, interviews with developers, fan-made content, game walkthroughs, and message boards for discussions. Many gameplay videos posted online feature attempts at breaking speedrun or high score records.\n\nThe competitive Fighting game community traces its legacy from old-school arcades. Some fighting games have continued to receive arcade releases after the end of the arcade era. Face-to-face competition of \"Super Street Fighter II Turbo\" has been featured in the Evolution Championship Series.\n\nThere are several events that retrogamers can take part in. Exhibits typically include vendors, retrogames available to play, tournaments, costumes, and live music, such as the Vancouver Retro Gaming Expo, run by Phase 3 events. This event has been occurring annually since March 17, 2012.\n\nRetrogaming is recognized by museums worldwide. For example, the \"RetroGames\" arcade museum of Karlsruhe, Germany was founded in 2002 and the Computerspielemuseum Berlin was founded in 1997. Some classical art museums bear a video gaming retrospective, as with 2012's Smithsonian American Art Museum exhibition titled \"The Art of Video Games\" or as part of the Museum of Modern Art \"Applied Design\" exhibition in 2013. Starting in 2015, The National Museum of Play adds games annually to the World Video Game Hall of Fame.\n\nThough many abandonware titles are available for free download on third-party websites, the duration of copyright on creative works in most countries is far longer than the era of home computing.\n\nEmulators are typically created by third parties, and the software they run is often taken directly from the original games and put online for free download. While it is completely legal for anyone to create an emulator for any hardware, unauthorized distribution of the code for a retro game is an infringement of the game's copyright. Some companies have made public statements regarding the issues, such as Nintendo, stating that \"the introduction of emulators created to play illegally copied Nintendo software represents the greatest threat to date in the intellectual property rights of video game developers”. However, video game developers and publishers typically turn a blind eye to emulation. One reason for this is that at any given time, most of the games illegally distributed for emulation are not presently being sold by the company which owns the game, and so the damages the company would collect in the event of a successful lawsuit would most likely be negligible.\n\n\nWireless Controller For NES Classic Edition\nretrogaming8-bit.com\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20171019163302/https://www.retrogaming8-bit.com/"}
{"id": "468458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=468458", "title": "Ripley's Believe It or Not!", "text": "Ripley's Believe It or Not!\n\nRipley's Believe It or Not! is an American franchise, founded by Robert Ripley, which deals in bizarre events and items so strange and unusual that readers might question the claims. Originally a newspaper panel, the \"Believe It or Not\" feature proved popular and was later adapted into a wide variety of formats, including radio, television, comic books, a chain of museums, and a book series.\n\nThe Ripley collection includes 20,000 photographs, 30,000 artifacts and more than 100,000 cartoon panels. With 80-plus attractions, the Orlando-based Ripley Entertainment, Inc., a division of the Jim Pattison Group, is a global company with an annual attendance of more than 12 million guests. Ripley Entertainment's publishing and broadcast divisions oversee numerous projects, including the syndicated TV series, the newspaper cartoon panel, books, posters, and games.\n\nRipley first called his cartoon feature, originally involving sports feats, \"Champs and Chumps\", and it premiered on December 19, 1918, in the \"New York Globe\". Ripley began adding items unrelated to sports, and in October 1919, he changed the title to \"Believe It or Not\". When the \"Globe\" folded in 1923, Ripley moved to the \"New York Evening Post\". In 1924, the panel began being syndicated by Associated Newspapers, (formed as part of a cooperative that had included the \"Globe\"). That same year, Ripley hired Norbert Pearlroth as his researcher, and Pearlroth spent the next 52 years of his life in the New York Public Library, working ten hours a day and six days a week in order to find unusual facts for Ripley.\n\nOther writers and researchers included Lester Byck. In 1930, Ripley moved to the \"New York American\" and was picked up by the King Features Syndicate, being quickly syndicated on an international basis.\n\nRipley died in 1949; those working on the syndicated newspaper panel after his death included Paul Frehm (1938–1978; he became the full-time artist in 1949), and his brother Walter Frehm (1948–1989); Walter worked part-time with his brother Paul and became a full-time Ripley artist from 1978 to 1989. Others who assisted included Clem Gretter (1941–1949), Bob Clarke (1943–1944), Joe Campbell (1946–1956), Art Sloggatt (1971–1975), Carl Dorese, and Stan Randall. Paul Frehm won the National Cartoonists Society's Newspaper Panel Cartoon Award for 1976 for his work on the series. Clarke later created parodies of \"Believe It or Not!\" for \"Mad\", as did Wally Wood and Ernie Kovacs, who also did a recurring satire called \"Strangely Believe It!\" on his TV programs. Other strips and books borrowed the Ripley design and format, such as Ralph Graczak's \"Our Own Oddities\", John Hix's \"Strange as it Seems\", and Gordon Johnston's \"It Happened in Canada\". The current artist is John Graziano and current researcher is Sabrina Sieck.\n\nAt the peak of its popularity, the syndicated feature was read daily by about 80 million readers, and during the first three weeks of May 1932 alone, Ripley received over two million pieces of fan mail. Dozens of paperback editions reprinting the newspaper panels have been published over the decades. Recent \"Ripley's Believe It or Not!\" books containing new material have supplemented illustrations with photographs.\n\n\"Peanuts\" creator Charles M. Schulz's first publication of artwork was published by Ripley. It was a cartoon claiming his dog was \"a hunting dog who eats pins, tacks, screws, nails and razor blades.\" Schulz's dog Spike later became the model for \"Peanuts\"' Snoopy.\n\nSome notable books:\n\nA series of paperback books containing annotated sketches from the newspaper feature:\n\nRipley Entertainment produces a range of books featuring unusual facts, news stories and photographs. In 2004 Ripley Entertainment founded Ripley Publishing Ltd, based in the United Kingdom, to publish new \"Believe It or Not\" titles. The company produces \"the New York Times\" bestselling \"Ripley's Believe It or Not! Annuals\", the children’s fiction series \"Ripley’s RBI\", an educational series called the \"Ripley’s Twists\", the \"Ripley's Believe It or Not! Special Edition\" in conjunction with Scholastic USA and a number of other titles. At the height of his popularity Robert Ripley received thousands of letters a day from the public, and Ripley Entertainment continues to encourage submissions from readers who have strange stories and photographs that could be featured in \"Ripley’s Believe It or Not!\" books and media.\n\nThe people whose items are featured in such books as \"Strikingly True\", have what Edward Meyer, Vice President of Exhibits and Archives at Ripley Entertainment Inc. describes as an obsession. \"Whatever it is they're after, it is so important to them that all the rest of the world can go on without them. They want to make something that makes them immortal, makes them a little different than you and me.\" Despite the wide range of true and unbelievable art, sculpture, photographs, interactive devices, animal oddities, and recycled objects contained within the Ripley's collection, rarely considered are alien or witchcraft-type stories, which are, according to Meyers, difficult to prove. To be included in Ripley's Believe It or Not books, museums, or television shows, items must undergo scrutiny from Ripley's staff and be 100% authenticated.\n\nOn April 14, 1930, Ripley brought \"Believe It or Not\" to radio, the first of several series heard on NBC, CBS and the Mutual Broadcasting System. As noted by Ripley On Radio, Ripley's broadcasts varied in length from 15 minutes to 30 minutes and aired in numerous different formats. When Ripley's 1930 debut on \"The Collier Hour\" brought a strong listener reaction, he was given a Monday night NBC series beginning April 14, 1930, followed by a 1931–32 series airing twice a week. After his strange stories were dramatized on NBC's \"Saturday Party\", Ripley was the host of \"The Baker's Broadcast\" from 1935 to 1937. He was scheduled in several different 1937–38 NBC timeslots and then took to the road with popular remote broadcasts. \"See America First with Bob Ripley\" (1938–40) on CBS expanded geographically into \"See All the Americas\", a 1942 program with Latin music. In 1944, he was heard five nights a week on Mutual in shows with an emphasis on World War II. \"Romance, Rhythm and Ripley\" aired on CBS in 1945, followed by \"Pages from Robert L. Ripley's Radio Scrapbook\" (1947–48).\n\nRobert Ripley is known for several radio firsts. He was the first to broadcast nationwide on a radio network from mid-ocean, and he also participated in the first broadcast from Buenos Aires to New York. Assisted by a corps of translators, he was the first to broadcast to every nation in the world simultaneously.\n\nAs the years went on, the show became less about oddities and featured guest-driven entertainment such as comedy routines. Sponsors over the course of the program included Pall Mall cigarettes and General Foods. The program ended its successful run in 1948 as Ripley prepared to convert the show format to television.\n\nThe newspaper feature has been adapted into more than a few films and TV shows.\n\n\nOn October 4, 2004, Paramount Pictures announced plans for a film that would chronicle the life of Robert Ripley. The film would be produced by James Jacks and his Alphaville Films company, associated with Paramount. Scott Alexander and Larry Karaszewski were hired to write the script. Jacks explained, \"It's about the exploits of Robert Ripley, one of the most popular newspaper cartoonists in the '30s and '40s, who was well known for going around the world and looking for oddities and getting into adventures while doing so. We want to make a series of movies that, if not quite the truth, are the adventures that should have happened.\" Jacks also said, \"We want to turn it into an \"Indiana Jones\", a goofy version, as played by Johnny Depp. When they saw we had the writers from \"Larry Flynt\", they thought that we wanted to make the kinky version, but we saw a chance to do a Spielberg-type movie with one of their characters.\"\n\nOn November 29, 2005, it was announced that Tim Burton would direct the film, with Jim Carrey starring as Robert Ripley. Filming was to begin in October 2006, for a 2007 release. Paramount hinted that the film, if successful, could be the start of a \"Ripley's\" film series. In addition to Jacks, Sean Daniel and Richard D. Zanuck were also to serve as producers for the film. Zanuck spent six weeks in China to scout filming locations for the project.\n\nOn June 12, 2006, Paramount delayed the start of production on the film for at least a year because its projected budget went over the allowed $150 million. Carrey had waived his entire upfront salary to help keep costs low, but the project remained over budget. Burton and Carrey also wanted to have Alexander and Karaszewski make changes to the film's script to focus more on Ripley's \"Believe It or Not\" column. Carrey was adamant on avoiding what happened with his previous project, \"Fun with Dick and Jane\", which required reshoots and additional editing as a result of beginning production without a script. Filming had been scheduled to begin in China in November 2006. Although Paramount could have delayed production to spring 2007, the film was delayed further to allow Burton to film \"\".\n\nIn December 2006, Burton and Carrey approved writer Steve Oedekerk to rewrite the script. Oedekerk had worked with Carrey on several previous projects. Production was to begin in China in winter 2008, for a 2009 release. In January 2007, Zanuck said he was no longer involved with the project, and that he was unaware that it was proceeding. Oedekerk's draft was completed in June 2007, and was approved that month by Paramount, Burton, and Carrey. At that time, Carrey hoped to have production finished by summer 2008. Later that month, it was reported that Paramount may be searching for a new director.\n\nIn October 2008, Chris Columbus pitched an idea for the film that was approved by Carrey and Paramount. Columbus' idea involved scrapping the previous China-based storyline entirely. Negotiations were underway that month to hire Columbus as director, with plans to hire a writer afterwards. Paramount planned to release the film in 2011, and hoped that it would be the start of a \"Ripley's\" film series. In January 2011, Eric Roth was hired to write the script, with Carrey still attached to star. Ken Atchity and Chi-Li Wong joined the project as producers, alongside Jacks and Daniel.\n\n\n\nWhen Ripley first displayed his collection to the public at the Chicago World's Fair in 1933, it was labeled Ripley’s Odditorium and attracted over two million visitors during the run of the fair. (In an apparent promotional gimmick, beds were provided in the Odditorium for people who \"fainted\" daily.) That successful exhibition led to trailer shows across the country during the 1930s, and Ripley's collections were exhibited at many major fairs and expositions, including San Francisco, San Diego, Dallas, and Cleveland. In New York, the famed Times Square exhibit opened in 1939 on Broadway. In 1950, a year after Ripley's death, the first permanent Odditorium opened in St. Augustine, Florida.\n\n, there are 32 Ripley's \"Believe It or Not!\" Odditoriums around the world. Odditoriums, in the spirit of \"Believe It or Not!\", are often more than simple museums cluttered with curiosities. Some include theaters and arcades, such as the ones in Gatlinburg, Tennessee and Wisconsin Dells, Wisconsin. Others are constructed oddly, such as the Orlando, Florida Odditorium which is built off-level as if the building is sinking.\nExpected to open summer 2016 is the first Odditorium in the Netherlands, at Dam square in Amsterdam.\n\n\n\nAmsterdam - The Ripley's Believe It or Not! Amsterdam museum opened on June 23, 2016 at the Dam Square, Dam 21, in a building that belongs to the Heritage of Amsterdam. It has more than 500 exhibits.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAuthorities at the company insist that they thoroughly investigate everything and ensure their accuracy before they publish their research. This is emphasized on their television show, where they often say \"If you see it on Ripley's, you can bet that it's real\". However, two claims appearing in their books have been dubbed \"myths\" by MythBusters.[Which ones?] One claim which had previously appeared in Ripley's books, concerning an accidental execution of 1,200 Turkish prisoners ordered under Napoleon Bonaparte, has had its accuracy called into question by Snopes.\n\n\"Ripley's\" has reported the urban legend of Frank Tower - an individual who was supposed to have survived the sinkings of the RMS \"Titanic\", RMS \"Empress of Ireland\", and RMS \"Lusitania\" - as being factual. However, this story has been debunked by several sources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1831585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1831585", "title": "Robotica", "text": "Robotica\n\nRobotica is a robot combat show (similar to the early seasons of \"Robot Wars\") produced for the American television cable channel TLC, a subsidiary of the Discovery Channel from April 4, 2001 to November 16, 2002. Ahmet Zappa and Tanya Memme hosted all three seasons while Tanika Ray only hosted the first season with Dan Danknick replacing her for the second and third seasons.\n\nEach preliminary show in the first season of \"Robotica\" featured four robots weighing as much as 210 pounds paired off in a series of three challenges. The winners of each pairing faced each other in a Robot-sumo style \"Fight to the Finish\" to determine the winner of the show.\n\n\nTotal points were added for the three events to determine a winner. In the event of a tie, the robot who won the greater number of events advanced.\n\nThe Fight to The Finish took place on a 16' by 16' platform elevated high above the floor. A low guard rail surrounded the platform for the first minute and then fell away. The last robot on the platform moved on to the finals.\n\nThe finals worked the same way as the preliminary shows, except there were six robots, competing in three pairs. Three robots met in the Fight to the Finish. The winner of the show was awarded the largest cash prize in robot combat to that date: $12,000.\n\n\"Robotica\" seasons 2 and 3 featured redesigned challenges. The Speedway was eliminated, The Gauntlet was redesigned, and The Maze had been completely re-done and renamed The Labyrinth.\n\nThe former side-by-side Gauntlet course was now arranged in a diamond-shape. The first barrier wall was now a wooden plank, the walls of metal cans, bricks, and concrete paving stones remained, and the safe was gone. Each robot had to complete their own two legs of the diamond and then return through the opponent's rubble field before climbing a ramp up to the Forest of Glass in the center of the diamond. When all the glass strips were broken, a final glass sheet lowered as the final challenge. Scoring was 10 points for each barrier, 5 points for each rubble wall, 10 points for first up the ramp, 5 points for second up the ramp, 15 points for the final glass pane. This challenge had 150 total points available and a three-minute time limit.\nThe former two-path Maze was now a single Labyrinth wherein both robots could roam to choose from six scoring obstacles. Also roaming the Labyrinth were two rat-shaped robots named the \"Robotica Rats\" that could interfere with (or sometimes help) the competitors. Breaking the glass strip beyond each obstacle claimed the points. Obstacles were:\nRobots started together in a motorized rotating turntable, where combat was encouraged. A robot could be penalized the entire point total for an obstacle if they broke down or got stuck in a position that blocked access to the obstacle.\n\nAt the end of three minutes, or when all the obstacles were cleared, the exit opened. The final glass strip on the far side of the exit was worth 30 points. This challenge had 150 total points available and a four-minute time limit.\n\nThe winning pair of robots faced each other in The Fight to The Finish. The platform was enlarged from season 1; it was now a 25' by 25' elevated platform. A new rule called for robots to hold the other robot 'pinned' for no more than 15 seconds before release. A low guard rail surrounded the platform for the first minute, then fell away. The last robot on the platform moved on to the finals.\n\nFor the finals, three pairs of robots competed in The Gauntlet. The two robots with the lowest scores were eliminated, and the remaining four robots paired off for The Labyrinth. The two winning robots met in The Fight to The Finish to determine the champion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3105326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3105326", "title": "Senecan tragedy", "text": "Senecan tragedy\n\nSenecan tragedy refers to a set of ancient Roman tragedies. Ten of these plays exist, of which most likely eight were written by the Stoic philosopher and politician Lucius Annaeus Seneca. The group includes \"Hercules Furens\", \"Medea\", \"Troades\", \"Phaedra\", \"Agamemnon\", \"Oedipus\", \"Phoenissae\", \"Thyestes\", \"Hercules Oetaeus\", and \"Octavia\". \"Hercules Oetaeus\" is generally considered not to have been written by Seneca, and \"Octavia\" is certainly not. In the mid-16th century, Italian humanists rediscovered these works, making them models for the revival of tragedy on the Renaissance stage. The two great, but very different, dramatic traditions of the age — French neoclassical tragedy and Elizabethan tragedy — both drew inspiration from Seneca. Usually, the Senecan tragedy focuses heavily on supernatural elements.\n\nAlthough many of the Senecan tragedies adapt the same Greek myths as tragedies by Sophocles, Aeschylus, and Euripides, scholars tend not to view Seneca's works as direct adaptations of the Attic works, as Seneca's approach to the myths differs significantly from the Greek poets and often contains themes familiar from his philosophical writings. It is possible that Seneca's tragic style was more directly influenced by Augustan literature.\n\nFrench neoclassical dramatic tradition, which reached its highest expression in the 17th-century tragedies of Pierre Corneille and Jean Racine, drew on Seneca for form and grandeur of style. These neoclassicists adopted Seneca's innovation of the confidant (usually a servant), his substitution of speech for action, and his moral hairsplitting.\n\nThe Elizabethan dramatists found Seneca's themes of bloodthirsty revenge more congenial to English taste than they did his form. The first English tragedy, \"Gorboduc\" (1561), by Thomas Sackville and Thomas Norton, is a chain of slaughter and revenge written in direct imitation of Seneca. (As it happens, \"Gorboduc\" does follow the form as well as the subject matter of Senecan tragedy: but only a very few other English plays—e.g. \"The Misfortunes of Arthur\"—followed its lead in this.) Senecan influence is also evident in Thomas Kyd's \"The Spanish Tragedy\", and in Shakespeare's \"Titus Andronicus\" and \"Hamlet\". All three share a revenge theme, a corpse-strewn climax, and The Spanish Tragedy and Hamlet also have ghosts among the cast; all of these elements can be traced back to the Senecan model.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "379153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=379153", "title": "Subplot", "text": "Subplot\n\nIn fiction, a subplot is a secondary strand of the plot that is a supporting side story for any story or the main plot. Subplots may connect to main plots, in either time and place or in thematic significance. Subplots often involve supporting characters, those besides the protagonist or antagonist. Subplots may also intertwine with the main plot at some point in a story.\n\nSubplots are distinguished from the main plot by taking up less of the action, having fewer significant events occur, with less impact on the \"world\" of the work, and occurring to less important characters. \n\nIn screenwriting, a subplot is referred to as a \"B story\" or a \"C story,\" etc.\n"}
{"id": "45451026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45451026", "title": "Summer park", "text": "Summer park\n\nA summer park is a form of theme park with a summertime theme, open only during the summertime season. Instead of electricity-generated carousels, playgrounds and swimming pool make up most attractions.\n\nIn Denmark, several summer parks have been built.\n\nIn Sweden, the phenomenon was booming by the mid and late 1980s. After expanding during the economic boom, a decrease began in the early 1990s during the economc recession, but also because of the introduction of a wider entertainment market.\n"}
{"id": "38243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38243", "title": "Suspension of disbelief", "text": "Suspension of disbelief\n\nThe term suspension of disbelief or willing suspension of disbelief has been defined as a willingness to suspend one's critical faculties and believe something surreal; sacrifice of realism and logic for the sake of enjoyment. The term was coined in 1817 by the poet and aesthetic philosopher Samuel Taylor Coleridge, who suggested that if a writer could infuse a \"human interest and a semblance of truth\" into a fantastic tale, the reader would suspend judgement concerning the implausibility of the narrative. Suspension of disbelief often applies to fictional works of the action, comedy, fantasy, and horror genres. Cognitive estrangement in fiction involves using a person's ignorance to promote suspension of disbelief.\n\nThe phrase \"suspension of disbelief\" came to be used more loosely in the later 20th century, often used to imply that the burden was on the reader, rather than the writer, to achieve it. This might be used to refer to the willingness of the audience to overlook the limitations of a medium, so that these do not interfere with the acceptance of those premises. These premises may also lend to the engagement of the mind and perhaps proposition of thoughts, ideas, art and theories.\n\nSuspension of disbelief is often an essential element for a magic act or a circus sideshow act. For example, an audience is not expected to actually believe that a woman is cut in half or transforms into a gorilla in order to enjoy the performance.\n\nAccording to the theory, suspension of disbelief is an essential ingredient for any kind of storytelling. With any film, the viewer has to ignore the reality that they are viewing a staged performance and temporarily accept it as their reality in order to be entertained. Black-and-white films provide an obvious early example that audiences are willing to suspend disbelief, no matter how implausible the images appear, for the sake of entertainment. With the exception of totally color blind people (achromats), no person viewing these films sees the real world without color, but some are still willing to suspend disbelief and accept the images in order to be entertained. Suspension of disbelief is also supposed to be essential for the enjoyment of many films and television shows involving complex stunts, special effects, and seemingly unrealistic plots and characterizations.\n\nColeridge coined the phrase in his \"Biographia Literaria\", published in 1817, in the context of the creation and reading of poetry. Chapter XIV describes the preparations with Wordsworth for their revolutionary collaboration \"Lyrical Ballads\" (first edition 1798), for which Coleridge had contributed the more romantic, gothic pieces including \"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner\". Poetry and fiction involving the supernatural had gone out of fashion to a large extent in the 18th century, in part due to the declining belief in witches and other supernatural agents among the educated classes, who embraced the rational approach to the world offered by the new science. Alexander Pope, notably, felt the need to explain and justify his use of elemental spirits in \"The Rape of the Lock\", one of the few English poems of the century that invoked the supernatural. Coleridge wished to revive the use of fantastic elements in poetry. The concept of \"willing suspension of disbelief\" explained how a modern, enlightened audience might continue to enjoy such types of story.\n\nColeridge recalled:\n\nThe notion of such an action by an audience was however recognized in antiquity, as seen particularly in the Roman theoretical concerns of Horace, who also lived in an age of increasing skepticism about the supernatural, in his \"Ars Poetica\" (with the quotation \"Ut pictura poesis\").\n\nSuspension of disbelief is sometimes said to be an essential component of live theater, where it was recognized by Shakespeare, who refers to it in the Prologue to \"Henry V\":\n\nPsychological critic Norman Holland points to a neuroscientific explanation. When we hear or watch any narrative, our brains go wholly into perceiving mode, turning off the systems for acting or planning to act, and with them go our systems for assessing reality. We have, in Coleridge's second, more accurate phrase, \"poetic faith\". That's why humans have such trouble recognizing lies: they first believe, then have to make a conscious effort to disbelieve.\n\nOnly when we stop perceiving to think about what we have seen or heard, only then do we assess its truth-value. If we are really \"into\" the fiction – \"transported\", in the psychologists' term – we are, as Immanuel Kant pointed out long ago, \"disinterested\". We respond aesthetically, without purpose. We don't judge the truth of what we're perceiving, even though if we stop being transported and think about it, we know quite well it's a fiction.\n\nSuspension of disbelief has also been used within a mental health context by Frank DeFulgentis in his book \"Flux\". It is an attempt to describe the phenomenon of forgetting irrational thoughts associated with cases of OCD. In the book, the author suggests 'suspending disbelief' as opposed to forcing ourselves to forget; similar to how one would put a virus in quarantine. We can thereby allow ourselves to be absorbed in the activities around us until these irrationalities vanish on their own accord.\n\nAesthetic philosophers generally reject claims that suspension of disbelief accurately characterizes the relationship between people and \"fictions.\" Kendall Walton notes that, if viewers were to truly suspend disbelief at a horror movie and accept its images as absolute fact, they would have a true-to-life set of reactions. For instance, audience members would cry out, \"Look behind you!\" to an endangered on-screen character or call the police when they witnessed an on-screen murder.\n\nHowever, many of these criticisms simply fail to notice that Coleridge's original statement came in a restrictive clause. The formulation \"...that willing suspension of disbelief for the moment which constitutes poetic faith,\" of necessity implies that there are different sorts of suspension of disbelief and specifies that poetic faith is one instance of a larger class. One need not choose to believe that a character in a horror film is a real person in order, for example, to choose to believe that the character is looking at the building seen in the following reverse-shot.\n\nNot all authors believe that suspension of the disbelief adequately characterizes the audience's relationship to imaginative works of art. J. R. R. Tolkien challenges this concept in his essay \"On Fairy-Stories\", choosing instead the paradigm of secondary belief based on inner consistency of reality. Tolkien says that, in order for the narrative to work, the reader must believe that what he reads is true within the secondary reality of the fictional world. By focusing on creating an internally consistent fictional world, the author makes secondary belief possible. Tolkien argues that suspension of disbelief is only necessary when the work has failed to create secondary belief. From that point the spell is broken, and the reader ceases to be immersed in the story and must make a conscious effort to suspend disbelief or else give up on it entirely.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1654279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1654279", "title": "Swimsuit competition", "text": "Swimsuit competition\n\nA swimsuit competition, more commonly now called a bikini contest, is a beauty contest in which one of the judging criteria is the physical attributes of contestants, which is judged and ranked while contestants wear a swimsuit, typically a bikini.\n\nBikini contests may be organised or sponsored by related companies for marketing purposes or to try to find and attract new talent to promote their products, masquerading as mild adult entertainment in the forms of a beauty contest. Swimwear competitions have been a part of beauty pageants, such as the Miss America and Miss World pageants and by organizations such as Hawaiian Tropic, and may also be held in a bar or nightclub, during intermissions of boxing or wrestling matches or at a car show. Bodybuilding and fitness competitions have evolved to include a bikini division. Participants in such contests may be competing for prizes including trophies, money, and modeling contracts.\n\nIn the United States, beauty pageants of women in bathing costumes became popular from the 1880s. However, such events were not regarded as respectable. Beauty contests became more respectable with the first modern \"Miss America\" contest held in 1921, though less respectable beauty contests continued to be held.\n\nPublic swimsuit competitions are subject to local decency laws, which generally require nipples and labia to be covered. More specific standards of dress or nudity may be determined by the contest organisers. Contestants may be permitted or required to wear certain types of bikini, such as the microkini (a bikini consisting of a minimal top and thong). Contest organisers may also specify the contestants' age range. In many contests the winners are determined by a panel of judges, but in some cases formal judging is absent and the winner is decided by popular vote. Announcers often present the competition, and they may also help the contestants to connect with the crowd. Winning over the crowd is of principal importance for many competitions, as results can be heavily influenced by audience input.\n\nBikini contests may be organised or sponsored by related companies for marketing purposes or to try to find and attract new talent to promote their products. Miss Hawaiian Tropic is organized by Playtex to promote \"Hawaiian Tropic\", its suntan lotion. NOPI runs the annual Hot Import Nights bikini contest, which is held in conjunction with the import car-show in Atlanta, Georgia, and the annual Hooter's bikini competition.\n\nThere are some swimsuit competitions which aim to judge the beauty of a single part of body, such as female buttocks (for example, the Miss Bum Bum contest held in Brazil, and the Miss Reef contest held in several South American countries).\n\nDespite their popularity and women's voluntary participation, swimsuit competitions, especially bikini contests, may be controversial. Critics argue that beauty contests reinforce the idea that girls and women are primarily valued for their physical appearance, and that this puts pressure on women to conform to conventional beauty standards by spending time and money on fashion, cosmetics, hair styling and even cosmetic surgery. It depletes their bodies of nutrients, energy and even water at the end and expresses a totally unrealistic and unsustainable lifestyle, centered purely around how little fat and how much spray tan they have on. This pursuit of physical beauty even encourages some women to diet to the point of harming themselves.\n\nThe first Miss World contest was organized by Eric Morley in 1951 as a promotion for swimwear at the Festival of Britain. The press welcomed the spectacle and referred to it as \"Miss World\". When the winner Kiki Håkansson from Sweden was crowned in a bikini, countries with religious traditions threatened to withdraw delegates. The bikinis were outlawed and evening gowns introduced instead. Håkansson remains the only Miss World crowned in a bikini, a crowning that was condemned by the Pope. The bikini was banned from Miss World beauty pageants after the controversy.\n\nBikinis reappeared in later contests amid additional controversy. In the 1970s and 1980s the contest was regularly picketed by feminist protesters. The pageant disappeared for a while and in 1996, when the Miss World contest was held in Bangalore, India, dozens of Indian groups opposed to the event claimed that the contest degraded women by featuring them in bikinis. Social activist Subhashini Ali commented, \"It's not an IQ test. Neither is it a charity show. It's a beauty contest in which these things have been added on as sops.\" The protests were so intense that the organizers were finally compelled to shift the venue of the \"Swimsuit Round\" to Seychelles. Countering these claims, the contest organizer says that the organization has raised ₤300 million for charity in many of the countries where it operates since 2000.\n\nIn 2013, the Miss World event was hosted by Indonesia, the world's largest Muslim-majority country. The country's top Muslim clerical body, the Indonesian Ulema Council, suggested that the event should be cancelled because it promotes \"hedonism, materialism, and consumerism,\" and is nothing but \"an excuse to show women's body parts that should remain covered.\" The organizers later announced that the bikini would be replaced by one-piece swimsuits and sarongs, traditional beachwear on the resort island of Bali. Pageant Chairwoman Julia Morley explained, \"I do not want to upset or get anyone in a situation where we are being disrespectful.\"\n\nCritics accuse the Miss World organizers of caving to extremist pressures. They point out that Bali is a destination for tourists from across the world who often wear minimal swimwear.\n\nBrooke Magnanti argued that the decision to yield to religious fundamentalists was not a victory for feminism:\n\nDonald Trump, who owned the Miss Universe beauty pageant until it was acquired by William Morris Endeavor, a competitor to the Miss World contest, was delighted to learn of the rival organization's decision. He told Fox TV, \"Well, I own Miss Universe, so I'm actually very happy about it—because if Miss World doesn't have bikinis their ratings go right down the tubes.\" Coincidentally, Miss Teen USA, a Miss Universe pageant, abolished swimsuit competitions in favour of a sportswear competition in 2016.\n\nVida Samadzai was the 2003 Afghani contestant for the Miss Earth title. She was severely condemned by the both Afghan authorities and community for seeking the title. Samadzai was born in Afghanistan but raised in the United States. She was living in India at the time of the contest. The Afghan Supreme Court banned swimsuit contests and said that appearing naked in beauty contests is completely un-Islamic, and is against Afghan tradition, human honour and dignity. Habiba Sarabi, the Afghan women affairs minister, said Samadzai's semi-naked appearance \"is not women's freedom but in my opinion is to entertain men\". Afghanistan's embassy in Washington DC declared that claims by Afghan American Samadzai to represent Afghanistan is baseless. Samadzai, the second woman to be crowned Miss Afghanistan after Zohra Daoud's crowning in 1972, received a number of death threats and had to be under the protection of FBI for three months. She said she was a bit uncomfortable wearing the \"70s style red bikini\" and was aware of the risks involved.\n\n\"Miss Tanguita\", which translates as \"Miss Child Bikini\", is held in Barbosa, Santader, Colombia as annual part of the \"del Rio Suarez\" Festival. The organisers deny the allegations that the competition is a camouflage for sexual exploitation, and instead describe it as an awareness event about the importance of children's fitness. Activists say that the competition, though legal, abuses the human rights of minors.\n\nBeginning in 2016, the Miss Teen USA pageant removed the swimsuit competition and replaced it with an athleticwear round.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4346924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4346924", "title": "Talent show", "text": "Talent show\n\nA talent show is an event in which participants perform the arts of singing, dancing, lip-syncing, acting, martial arts, playing an instrument, or other activities to showcase skills. Many talent shows are performances rather than contests, but some are actual contests. In the instance of a contest, participants may be motivated to perform for a reward, trophy, or prize of some kind. For example, a high school might not have many students with any interest in performing in front of the student body for the sole purpose of performing alone and may offer different prizes as an incentive for these students to participate in the contest.\n\nSince the late 1980s, talent shows have become a notable genre of reality television, such as \"Notun Kuri\" (1976), \"Popstars\" (1999), \"Star Academy\" (2001), \"Idol\" (2001), \"The X Factor\" (2004), \"So You Think You Can Dance\" (2005), \"Got Talent\" (2006), \"The Voice\" (2010), \"Rising Star\" (2013), \"Tri Akkorda (Russian Talent Show) (2014)\" and \" (\"2018\")\", which have been critical in catapulting some amateur artists to stardom and resulting in their commercially successful careers.\n\nTalent shows can be seen as a way to help boost the self-esteem, confidence, and assurance of youth. Some communities and companies see talent shows as a way to help prevent juvenile delinquency among children, teens, and young adults. As a result, these communities create programs such as \"Girls Only!\" in San Diego to promote the growth of these otherwise trouble youth to better the community. Such programs are created with the hope to prevent youth from the possibilities of entering delinquency or lives of crime.\n"}
{"id": "699158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=699158", "title": "Technical director", "text": "Technical director\n\nA technical director (TD) is usually a senior technical person within e.g. a software company, engineering firm, film studio, theatrical company or television studio. This person usually possesses the highest level of skill within a specific technical field.\n\nIn software development, a technical director is typically responsible for the successful creation and delivery of the company's product to the marketplace by managing technical risks and opportunities; making key software design and implementation decisions with the development teams, scheduling of tasks including tracking dependencies, managing change requests, and guaranteeing quality of deliveries and educating the team on technical best practices.\n\nTypical responsibilities:\n\nIn visual effects (VFX) (Industrial Light and Magic, Sony Pictures Imageworks), feature animation (Pixar, Dreamworks Animation) and game development (Naughty Dog), a technical director's responsibilities vary from studio to studio and as such, the term is not very well defined.\n\nTypically, a TD is a combination of an artist and a programmer, responsible for the more technical aspects of film production, such as programming shaders, developing character rigs and animation setups, performing complex simulation tasks and setting up the pipeline (how the data is passed from one stage in the film production to the next). In contrast to a programmer, a TD would normally not work on large programming projects, but rather make heavy use of scripting languages such as Python, MEL, MAXScript, or shell scripting. Another responsibility of a TD is to look after any technical problems the regular artists encounter and to develop custom tools to improve the artists' workflow.\n\nIn these industries, \"technical artist\", \"technical animator\" and \"generalist TD\" are sometimes used as synonyms.\n\nFrequently, the role of a TD is more precisely defined. Various areas of computer graphics require a high degree of specialized technical/scientific knowledge and therefore merit more precise categorization. As an example, a skilled Character TD has a strong understanding of human/animal anatomy, movement, and mechanics, whereas a skilled Lighting TD might have a detailed understanding of the physical properties of light and surfaces.\n\nThose categories include (but are not limited to) the following.\n\nTechnical directors usually have a background in computer science, though such education often lacks expertise in practical film and media production. Filmakademie Baden-Württemberg offers a unique, 30-month postgraduate course for technical directing. The course is open to applicants worldwide (English language skills required). Aside from working on film, animation, vfx and game projects, the students also engage in research.\n\nIt is a technical director's job to make sure the technical equipment in the theater is functional, maintained and safe. The technical director, along with the production manager, is responsible for the overall organization of the technical production process. Duties included are generating necessary working drawings for construction (in conjunction with a draftsperson, if there is one); budget estimations and maintaining of accounts; materials research and purchasing; scheduling and supervising build crews; coordinating load-ins; handling conflicts that arise between different departments; and organizing the strike and clean-up for the production. Often times the Technical Director can serve as the head of the scenic department, supervising the master carpenter, carpenters, charge artists and leading them in the realiziation of the scenic designer's vision. \n\n\"Technical director\" can also refer to the in-house chief designer or master carpenter for a smaller theater company.\n\nIn venues that host touring productions, the TD may also be responsible for advancing the technical rider, hiring local crew, renting equipment and liaisoning between the tour manager and the local crew.\n\nThe technical director works in a production control room of a television studio and operates the video switcher and associated devices as well as serving as the chief of the television crew. For a remote broadcast outside of the studio, the TD will perform the same duties in a mobile production truck. It is the TD's job to ensure all positions are manned and all equipment and facilities are checked out and ready before the recording session or live broadcast begins. They typically will switch video sources, perform live digital effects and transitions, and insert pre-recorded material, graphics and titles as instructed by the director. In larger productions, the director does not actually operate the production equipment, allowing him/her to coordinate the production and make rapid decisions without worrying about how to mechanically execute the effect or camera move being called for. The technical director may provide training to more inexperienced members of the technical crew when needed. In consultation with the director, the TD may have more or less input into the creative side of the production, depending on the situation. He/she may provide the director with guidance on crew assignments, camera shots and the most efficient way to accomplish any given effect. The TD is usually responsible for the technical quality of the signal being recorded or broadcast and will use various measuring devices and displays to ensure quality control.\n\nTechnical directors commonly work on productions that are either broadcast live or recorded on video tape or video servers. Television productions shot on film generally do not use TDs, as the camera cuts and effects are realized in post production after the shooting is completed.\n\nThe terminology in the UK differs in some respects from the above description: The production control room is called a \"gallery\", a mobile production truck is called an \"OB van\" or a \"scanner\" (a BBC term). In UK television practice, the technical director is the senior technical person in the gallery and supervises the technical team, but does not operate the \"vision mixer\". The TD is responsible for ensuring that the gallery is technically fit for purpose, the routing of internal and external sources, as well as liaison with other technical areas such as master control rooms and transmission suites. They may additionally perform vision control duties, matching the exposure and colour balance of the cameras (\"racking\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "143196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=143196", "title": "The Beatles Anthology", "text": "The Beatles Anthology\n\nThe Beatles Anthology is a television documentary, a three-volume set of double albums, and a book focusing on the history of the Beatles. Paul McCartney, George Harrison and Ringo Starr all participated in the making and approval of the works, which are sometimes referred to collectively as the \"Anthology\" project, while John Lennon had archival interviews.\n\nThe documentary series was first broadcast in November 1995, with expanded versions released on VHS and Laserdisc in 1996 and on DVD in 2003. The documentary used interviews with the Beatles and their associates to narrate the history of the band as seen through archival footage and performances. The \"Anthology\" book, released in 2000, paralleled the documentary in presenting the group's history through quotes from interviews.\n\nThe initial volume of the album set (\"Anthology 1\") was released the same week of the documentary's airdate, with the subsequent two volumes (\"Anthology 2\" and \"Anthology 3\") released in 1996. They included unreleased performances and outtakes presented in roughly chronological order, along with two new songs based on demo tapes recorded by Lennon after the group broke up: \"Free as a Bird\" and \"Real Love\", both produced by Jeff Lynne.\n\nApproximately coinciding with the release of the \"Free as a Bird\" single and \"Anthology 1\" album (the first of three double-CD albums), \"The Beatles Anthology\" series of documentaries was broadcast on ITV in the United Kingdom and ABC television in the United States in 1995. The \"Anthology\" series takes a form similar to that of the \"Anthology\" book, by being a series of first-person accounts by the Beatles themselves, with no external \"objective\" narration. Footage in the \"Anthology\" series features voice-over recordings of all four Beatles to push the narrative of the story, with contributions from their producer, road manager and others. As well as telling their story through archival footage, Paul McCartney, George Harrison and Ringo Starr appear in interview segments recorded exclusively for the series; John Lennon appears only in historic archival footage. The Beatles' wives, past and present, do not appear (excluding archival footage such as video from India and the music video for Harrison's song \"Something\").\n\nThe series, which was made over five thousand hours of planning and production, is composed of numerous film clips and interviews that present a complete history of the band from the Beatles' own personal perspectives. When it aired on ABC, the series comprised six hour-long programs, aired on three nights in November 1995. The series was later released, as eight expanded episodes, on VHS, laserdisc and as a boxed set of five DVDs (4 discs with 2 episodes apiece and a disc of extras).\n\nAir dates on ABC:\n\n\nPart 1 of the series drew 17 million households, meaning an average of 27.3 million viewers, which was much better than usual for ABC at the time, but behind most broadcasts of \"Friends\" on NBC, which in its second season was averaging 29.4 million viewers per episode.\n\nIn promoting the series during this time, ABC identified itself as \"A-Beatles-C\" – an homage to the mid-1960s Cousin Felica-era \"77 W-A-Beatles-C\" call sign of the network's flagship NYC AM radio station – and several of the network's prime-time sitcoms replaced their regular opening credit themes with Beatles tracks.\n\nTo accompany the \"Anthology\" series, three albums were issued, each containing two CDs or three vinyl LPs of mostly never-before-released Beatles material (the exceptions being the Tony Sheridan-era material), although many of the tracks had appeared on bootlegs for many years prior.\n\nTwo days after the first television special in the series had aired, \"Anthology 1\" was released to stores, and included music recorded by the Quarrymen, the famous Decca Records audition tapes, and various out-takes and demos from the band's first four albums. It also included the song \"Lend Me Your Comb\", omitted from the collection \"Live at the BBC\", released the previous year (1994). The song \"Free as a Bird\" was included at the very start. 450,000 copies of \"Anthology 1\" were sold in its first day of release, the most sales for an album in a single day ever. The band's first drummer Pete Best, replaced by Ringo Starr in 1962 before the Beatles recorded professionally for EMI, received his first substantial Beatles royalties from this album, for the inclusion of early demo tracks on which he played.\n\n\"Anthology 2\" was released on 17 March 1996. The second collection presented out-takes and demos from the Beatles' sessions for \"Help!\", \"Rubber Soul\", \"Revolver\", \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" and \"Magical Mystery Tour\". These included selected early demos and takes for Lennon's \"Strawberry Fields Forever\", previously available only to bootleg collectors. The new song \"Real Love\" – which, like \"Free as a Bird\", was based on an unfinished Lennon recording – was also included in the two-CD collection.\n\n\"Anthology 3\" was released on 28 October 1996. The third collection featured out-takes and demos from \"The Beatles\" (\"White Album\"), \"Abbey Road\" and \"Let It Be\", as well as several songs from Harrison and McCartney which later became post-Beatle tracks.\n\nThe three album covers, when laid side-by-side, become one long painted collage of various peeling posters and album covers representing the different stages of the Beatles' career. This was the work of Klaus Voormann, who also created the album cover for \"Revolver\" in 1966. The \"Anthology\" covers required Voormann to recreate elements of his cover for \"Revolver\" within the collage. During the music video for \"Free as a Bird\", the \"Anthology\" collage appears as posters on a shop window as the camera pans quickly across the street. The design also adorned the VHS, laserdisc and DVD releases, again to be properly encountered by laying the cases side-by-side. Upon the release of \"Anthology 3\", HMV stores made available a limited edition cardboard sleeve designed to hold all three CD volumes of which each side of the sleeve make up half of the collage.\n\nAll three albums were made digitally available on the iTunes Store on 14 June 2011, alongside a new \"Anthology Highlights\" album which featured a selection of tracks from all three albums and reached number 184 on \"Billboard\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s United States Top Current Albums chart.\n\n\nIn October 2000, \"The Beatles Anthology\" book was released, which included interviews with all four band members and others involved, plus rare photos. Many of the interviews quoted are from those featured in the documentary films. The book is designed as a large-format hardback, with imaginative artwork throughout, and several visually impressive and colourful spreads featuring graphics relevant to the proceeding chronology, photographic arrays and a variety of text styles and layouts. The book went straight to the top of the \"New York Times\" bestsellers list. In 2002, the book was released as a large-format paperback.\n\nDuring early 1995 as work on \"The Beatles Anthology\" continued, Yoko Ono and McCartney recorded an avant-garde piece called \"Hiroshima Sky Is Always Blue\". Ono provided vocals and McCartney played bass, while Sean Lennon, Linda McCartney, and McCartney's children played various instruments. The piece was broadcast on Japanese public television in memory of the 50th anniversary of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima.\n\nThe track \"Carnival of Light\" recorded during the \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" sessions was intended to be released on the \"Anthology 2\" album, but was vetoed by George Harrison.\n\nIt was reported that McCartney, Harrison and Starr worked on a new composition called \"All for Love\" in March 1995, intended as a track on \"Anthology 3\", but the effort was abandoned. No version of the song has reached the public.\n\nEach of the three \"Anthology\" albums was accompanied by a promotional CD sampler sent to radio stations shortly before the official release dates. These CDs have since become highly sought collector's items. Even rarer is a vinyl version of the sampler for \"Anthology 2\", which was only sent to college radio stations and featured a different cover (though the contents were the same).\n\nIn October 1996 there was a strictly limited release from EMI, a slip case cover to house all three CD volumes, which have since become extremely rare, fetching high prices among collectors.\n\nThe success of the \"Anthology\" albums was parodied by the release of the Rutles' \"Archaeology\" some months later. Delays in the release of the third volume of the Beatles' series ultimately meant that the Rutles' parody arrived in shops on the same day as its inspiration.\n\n\"Weird Al\" Yankovic parodied \"The Beatles Anthology\" in an \"Al TV\" special. He said he had a copy of a fictional \"Anthology 17\", which he claimed would not be available to the public for a while. He played for the audience a track of Paul McCartney brushing his teeth and Ringo Starr shaving before \"The Ed Sullivan Show\".\n\n\"The Beatles Anthology\" was also parodied on the short-lived \"Dana Carvey Show\", which was being aired on ABC around the same time that \"Anthology\" was being televised on the network.\n"}
{"id": "55060343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55060343", "title": "Theatre for Young Audiences", "text": "Theatre for Young Audiences\n\nTheatre for Young Audiences (TYA) is a branch of theatre arts that encompasses all forms of theatre that are attended by or created for younger audiences. It blankets many different forms of theatre methods and expressions, including plays, dance, music, puppetry, circus, physical theatre, and many others. It is globally practiced, takes many forms, both traditional and non-traditional, and explores a wide variety of themes ranging from fairy tales to parental abuse. \n\nOriginating in the 20th century, TYA is a recent branch of Theatre Arts. It takes on many functions in different settings and places around the world. In the US, for instance, it is often entertainment-centered, although its roots lie in education. Many writers and production companies have started catering specifically to TYA audiences, causing a continuous increase in theatrical material for children. In the present day, TYA production companies or groups can be found in most regions of the US and around the world. \n\nTheatre performed by or for children dates back hundreds of years. The first mention is seen in a 1784 entry in Madame de Genlis’s Memoirs, in which she describes a performance by her two daughters to the Duke of Chartres. TYA became its own branch of theatre in the 20th century, first appearing in Moscow, when Russian actress Natalia Satz founded the Moscow Theatre for Children in 1918. In its early stages, the Moscow Theatre for Children viewed its goal as representing childhood needs, separating the struggles of childhood from those of adult life. Similar TYA groups were established in England, the US, France, and Czechoslovakia between World War I and World War II . \n\nEducation was the main purpose of TYA when it first arrived to the US. In 1903, Alice Minnie Herts founded The Children’s Educational Theatre, which was the first US company to produce theatrical work both with and for children. Although it did not last long, The Children’s Educational Theatre inspired both the birth of other companies around the country, as well as continuous growth in the writing and production of plays for younger audiences . The Drama League of America was another big influence in TYA within the US: children’s leagues were established in cities across the country, and material for younger audiences was both presented at these establishments and distributed to any interested groups. The Drama League was responsible for changing theatre for children from its originally purely educational intent into the broader Theatre for Young Audiences known today. Once the TYA movement started to gain traction, many different companies and playwrights chose to partake in this new branch of theatre. Some include early TYA playwright Constance Mackay, the Chicago company The Junior League, New York producer Clare Tree Major, The Children’s Theatre of Evanston, and many others. Today, TYA continues to thrive, with an increasing number of playwrights, performers, producers, and companies taking part in it. \n\nMost TYA productions in the US are plays, with a fast-growing number of musicals taking second place. However, most performing arts forms have been adapted and incorporated into Theatre for Young Audiences, including physical theatre, operas, puppetry, dance, street performance, and many others. Some companies specifically cater to non-traditional theatre forms, such as the MainStreet Theatre Company and the Center for Pupetry Arts, Atlanta. Several major companies performing Theatre for Young Audiences exist across the US, including but not limited to Minneapolis Children’s Theatre Company, Seattle Children’s Theatre, Lexington Children’s Theatre, Adventure State Chicago, and Boston Children’s Theatre, all producing work specifically for younger audiences throughout the year, offering performances both of new work and TYA classics . \n\nMost Theatre for Young Audiences plays are written by adult playwrights, although occasional projects are led and constructed by the younger audiences themselves. Different schools of thought within TYA argue whether or not younger characters should be portrayed by children or by adult actors. At the present, most TYA productions in children’s companies around the country count on casts of professional adult actors to portray all roles. For instance, the Arvada Center’s 2016 production of an adaptation of the novel \"Junie B. Jones\" was produced with adult actors, including Melissa Morris, Katie Jackson, and Rachelle Wood, portraying characters who are around the age of 12. A number children’s companies in the US have designated programs, in which the children engage with workshops and experimental rehearsals in order to create a TYA production with child actors. Those are rarely, however, part of the companies’ main stage season. Many Theatre for Young Audiences productions still revolve around traditional child-friendly topics, such as fairy tales and magical quests. A number of theatre companies, such as Seattle Children’s Theatre and the Minneapolis Children’s Theatre Company, have been working to create and produce plays and musicals for young audiences that are more intelligent and diverse. Recent work has explored themes that include parental abuse (e.g. \"An Afternoon of the Elves\" by Janet Taylor Lisle), divorce (e.g. \"Doors\", by Suzan Zeder), death (e.g. \"Afflicted\", by Laurie Brooks), and social barriers such as racism, xenophobia, and homophobia (e.g. \"The Transition of Doodle Pequeño\", by Gabriel Jason Dean).\n"}
{"id": "299309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=299309", "title": "Theatrical constraints", "text": "Theatrical constraints\n\nTheatrical constraints are various rules, either of taste or of law, that govern the production, staging, and content of stage plays in the theater. Whether imposed externally, by virtue of monopoly franchises or censorship laws, or whether imposed voluntarily by actors, directors, or producers, these restraints have taxed the creative minds of the theatre to tackle the challenges of working with and around them.\n\nThe Classical unities, requiring \"unity\" of \"time, place, and subject\", is the most well-known of all theatrical constraints. It was first employed by the Ancient Greeks and later became more fully embraced in France. Another example is the Japanese prohibition of female acting in 1625, then the prohibition of young male actors in 1657, that create \"Onnagata\" which is the ground of Japanese theatrical tradition. In the Elizabethan theatre of Shakespeare, a similar ban forbade all actresses from appearing on stage, at all; the parts of women were generally played by boys. The plot of \"Shakespeare in Love\" turns on this fact.\n\nIn cinema, the Dogme 95 films form a body of work produced under voluntary constraints that severely limit both the choice of subjects and the choice of techniques used to bring them to the screen.\n\nAnother culturally significant constraint occurred in France. In the late seventeenth century (1697 to be exact), Italian companies were prohibited from appearing in France, so native actors – strolling players going from fairground to fairground, market place to market place – took over the Italian plays and made the roles their own with great success.\n\nBut this aroused the jealousy of the Comédie-Française which decided to outlaw all spoken dialogue except in its own theatre. To overcome this, the travelling players divided their plays into soliloquies and performed nothing but monologues – which brought them even greater success than previously. One actor would say his lines, run off into the wings, while another appeared in order to reply. He would then go off in his turn, allowing the first one to come back and reply, and so on and so forth.\n\nAfter this, the Comédie-Française declared that they alone had the right to use speech on stage. Consequently, the public theatre found its way round this by using song instead of speech – and this is how French Operetta came into being. But then the Academy of Music proclaimed that they alone should be given the right to sing!\n\nSo in the markets and fairgrounds the itinerant actors created a new theatrical form by holding up cue-cards (like sub-titles or karaoke) containing the words of the plays or songs, which the audience then acted or sang for them. This became even more successful, with crowds coming from all around to see how the actors had overcome such rigid censorship.\n\nSome of the restrictions, or traditions born of them, may have still been in place in the nineteenth century, at least if Marcel Carné's \"Les Enfants du Paradis\" is a reliable guide. This also explains why France has given the world so many mimes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37091206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37091206", "title": "Throwaway line", "text": "Throwaway line\n\nIn comedy, a throwaway line (also: throwaway joke or throwaway gag) is a joke delivered \"in passing\" without being the punch line to a comedy routine, part of the build up to another joke, or (in the context of drama) there to advance a story or develop a character. Throwaway lines are often one-liners, or in-jokes, and often delivered in a deadpan manner.\n\nIn comic strips (Sunday comics in particular) throwaway gags are often placed in the throwaway panels of the comic, and are located there so that removing the throwaway panels for space reasons will not destroy the narrative of the central comic.\n\nIn episodic fiction, a line intended originally as a throwaway line in one episode may later be retconned by being incorporated into the back-story of the main drama, and used to develop the longer-term plot.\n"}
{"id": "2005810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005810", "title": "Ultra Series", "text": "Ultra Series\n\nThe is the collective name for all the shows produced by Tsuburaya Productions featuring Ultraman, his many brethren, and the myriad Ultra Monsters. The Ultra Series is one of the prominent tokusatsu superhero genre productions from Japan, along with Toei produced series \"Kamen Rider\", \"Super Sentai\" and the \"Metal Heroes\". The Ultra Series is also one of the most well known examples of the \"daikaiju\" (大怪獣, \"giant monster\") genre, along with Toho's \"Godzilla\" series, and Daiei Film's \"Gamera\" series. However, the Ultra Series also falls into the \"kyodai hīro\" (巨大ヒーロー, \"giant hero\") subgenre of tokusatsu shows.\n\nAs revealed in \"\", the Ultramen are a technologically advanced civilization who were originally identical to humans. They were evolved into their current state of being following the activation of the Plasma Spark, which replaced their dead sun. Ultraman and his many kin are usually red-and-silver (although several color variations have been seen in recent years) and have glowing yellow almond-shaped dome eyes (although there are exceptions to both the shape and color) and various abilities, most notably firing energy beams from their crossed hands and flight. They share a strong cultural sense of justice and duty, a majority of Ultramen joining the to maintain peace in the universe from invaders and monsters.\n\nThe Ultramen that are sent to other worlds are given Color Timers, or \"warning lights\", which blink with increasing frequency and turn from blue to red if an Ultraman's energy supply dwindles or he is mortally wounded. Due to human pollution and the light filtering effects of the atmosphere, an Ultraman can remain active on Earth for a limited span of minutes before their energy is depleted and they die. This forces an Ultraman to either assume a human form or merge with a human host body. The latter process has healing properties that include reviving a recently dead person with their own lifeforce.\n\nUltra beings also appear to be near-impossible to permanently kill, as several times an Ultra being has been killed only to be revived by another member of their species. As when Mebius' allies revived him with their energy after his defeat by Empire, an Ultraman can be revived with a massive energy infusion. Ultramen always try to avoid battles in inhabited areas or near innocent bystanders, and try minimize collateral property damage. If these concerns cannot be met, a city like Tokyo could be destroyed.\n\nThe show \"Ultraman\" was followed by many other series. Sequels to the original series are: \"Ultra Seven\" (1967, TBS), \"The Return of Ultraman\" (1971, TBS), \"Ultraman Ace\" (1972, TBS), \"Ultraman Taro\" (1973, TBS), \"Ultraman Leo\" (1974, TBS), \"Ultraman 80\" (1980, TBS), \"Ultraman Tiga\" (1996, MBS), \"Ultraman Dyna\" (1997, MBS), \"Ultraman Gaia\" (1998, MBS), and \"Ultraman Cosmos\" (2001, MBS). Recently the studio tried a reinvention of the hero through the \"Ultra N Project\", which involved three heroes: Ultraman Noa (the \"mascot\" of the Ultra N Project, who appears in stage shows as well as the final episode of \"Ultraman Nexus\") in late 2003, \"Ultraman Nexus\" (2004, CBC), and \"ULTRAMAN\" (2004, Shochiku Productions). This was followed by a return to old-school style series in the form of \"Ultraman Max\" (2005, CBC). In the course of the \"Max\" series, another new hero known as Ultraman Xenon was also introduced. April 2006 saw the 40th anniversary series, \"Ultraman Mebius\", which signalled a long-awaited return to the original universe. Another hero was also introduced: \"Ultraman Hikari\", formerly known as Hunter Knight Tsurugi.\n\nThe franchise has also been in the movie theaters, starting with \"Ultraman Zearth\" and \"Ultraman Zearth 2,\" \",\" released in 2000, as well as \"ULTRAMAN,\" a movie that opened in December 2004. The straight-to-video market also saw the release of \"Ultraman Neos\" in 2000, as well as special features for Ultraman Tiga, Dyna, and Gaia, who have teamed up in theatrical features (Tiga and Dyna once, as well as the three of them all together). The \"Ultraman Mebius and Ultra Brothers\" movie opened in September 2006.\n\nForeign productions include the 1987 Hanna-Barbera co-production \"\" (in Japanese, \"Ultraman USA\"), an animated movie; \"\" (in Japanese, \"Ultraman Great\"), an Australian 1991 production and \"\" (in Japanese, \"Ultraman Powered\"), produced in the United States in 1993. Ultraman series have also been dubbed into various languages, including English, Spanish (only \"Ultra Q\", the original \"Ultraman\", \"Ultra Seven\", \"Return of Ultraman\", \"Ultraman Great\" & \"Ultraman Tiga\" were known to be translated into Spanish), Portuguese (\"Ultraman\", \"Ultra Seven\", \"Return of Ultraman\" and \"Ultraman Tiga\" in Brazil), Korean, Malay, Mandarin, Indonesian, Cantonese and Filipino (\"Ultraman Tiga\", \"Ultraman Dyna\", \"Ultraman Gaia\", \"Ultraman Nexus\", \"Ultraman Max\" and \"Ultraman Mebius\"). Also of note is the American English dub of \"Ultraman Tiga\" by 4Kids Entertainment that aired in 2002. The dub considerably distorted the characterization and general mood of the series, and it achieved only limited success.\n\nIn 1993, Tsuburaya Productions and Toei Company co-produced \"Ultraman vs. Kamen Rider,\" a crossover with the original Ultraman and Toei's \"Kamen Rider\". This direct-to-video feature is co-copyrighted by both Toei (and its subordinates, Toei Video and Ishinomori Productions) and Tsuburaya Productions.\n\nAt present, Tsuburaya Productions accepts 36 Ultramen as official (counting Ultraman Legend, the combined form of Ultramen Cosmos and Justice, as a separate entity). This figure does not account for Thai-produced Ultramen. (The figure is 38 if Next, Noa, and Nexus are counted as separate entities—it has been revealed in \"Nexus\" that all three are a single being with various modes used by different hosts.) In 2013, the Ultra Series was cited in the Guinness Book of World Records as the record-holder for the most number of spinoff shows. The Ultraman brand generated $7.4 billion in merchandising revenue from 1966 to 1987.\n\nThe government of Malaysia banned the printing of an \"Ultraman\" book because it compared the character of Ultraman King (from the film \"\") with \"Allah\", the Arabic word for God, even though it is commonly used in Malaysian to refer to any \"God\". The Ministry of Home Affairs stated that the comparison may \"confuse Muslim children and damage their faith\".\n\nIn 2017, \"\" and \"\" were released on January 8, 2017 in the United States as a double feature; this was the first North American theatrical release of an Ultraman feature film in its entire 50-year history. \"Ultraman Max\", \"Ultraman 80\", \"Ultraman Neos\", \"Ultraman Nexus\", \"Ultraseven X\", \"The Ultraman\" and more series began airing in the United States on the TOKU channel.\n\nAt the Tokyo Comic Con on December 7, 2017, Tsuburaya Productions revealed that an anime adaptation of the manga was planned for release in 2019.\n\nAlthough the different Ultra series and movies take place in different continuities, that does not mean that they take place in different canons. A major plot aspect of the Ultra Series is the multiverse, which is a collection of countless bubble-shaped universes. This was first hinted at in \"Ultraman Tiga\", and then again in \"Ultraman Dyna\", when the title character gets sucked into a wormhole that transports him throughout the multiverse. The multiverse was first glimpsed in the 2010 film \"\" when Ultraman Zero has to travel through it in order to get to his destination. The multiverse has become a bigger and bigger element of the plot over time, and the Ultras are now often seen traveling through the multiverse. In fact, the 2012 film \"Ultraman Saga\" takes place in four different universes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n1998 \"Ultra Seven\" series\n\n\n1999 \"Ultra Seven\" series\n\n\n2001 Heisei Ultraman side stories\n\n\n2002 \"Ultra Seven: EVOLUTION\" series\n\n\n2007 Ultraman Mebius side story: \"Hikari Saga\"\n\n\n2008 Ultraman Mebius side story: \"Armored Darkness\"\n\n\n2009 Ultraman Mebius side story: \"Ghost Reverse\"\n\n\n2010 \n\n\n2011 Ultraman Zero side story: \"Killer the Beatstar\"\n\n\n\n\nIn Japan, there have been several box sets that were released which would each contain a particular Ultra series. As of now, there are only four such box sets. The sets were released as part of the Digital Ultra movement where the shows would be re-released with digital remastering.\n\nThe following are the series which have been released as such:\n\nThe \"Digital Ultra\" re-release order of the series may not match the chronological order in which they were originally aired in Japan.\n\nUltraman's licensing rights outside Japan have been the subject of a prolonged legal dispute between Tsuburaya Productions and Chaiyo Productions (also called Tsuburaya Chaiyo Co Ltd) based in Thailand. Tsuburaya had previously collaborated with Chaiyo on the production of two movies, \"The 6 Ultra Brothers vs. the Monster Army\" and \"Jumborg Ace & Giant\"—the latter of which featured another Tsuburaya superhero, Jumborg Ace—in 1974. Sompote Saengduenchai, founder/president of Chaiyo Productions, claimed and maintained that in 1976, the late Noboru Tsuburaya, Eiji's son, who had died in 1995, had given him and his company a contract which had given him rights to everything Ultraman outside Japanese territories in exchange for a monetary loan. The claim is rumored to have originated from a gamble held by a drunken Hajime Tsuburaya (Noboru's older brother) and Sompote Saengduenchai over the rights to the franchise.\n\nIn spite of the fact that the document failed to state clearly and specifically exactly what had been given to Tsuburaya in exchange for these rights, Japanese and Thai courts accepted this contract as real and binding because of the supposed hanko of the late Noboru Tsuburaya in the document. Tsuburaya Productions insisted and maintained that the contract was a forgery (due to factual errors, including the faulty titles of the series in the document, such as \"Ultra Q\" being called \"Ultraman 1: Ultra Q\", \"Ultra Seven\" being called \"Ultraman 3: Ultraman Seven\", and Tsuburaya Productions being called \"Tsuburaya Prod. and Enterprises\", a name the company never did business under), and repeatedly contested the issue.\n\nIn the course of the legal battle, Sompote presented photos of himself sharing his photos of Thai Buddhist edifices stating that Eiji had based Ultraman's face on the said edifices, a claim which he has continued to hold since the dispute began. No other evidence supporting this claim was known to exist.\n\nAfter an 8-year battle in the courts of both countries, Sompote Saengduenchai was awarded a favorable decision on April 27, 2004. The exact ruling fell into some dispute: Some said it only gave him merchandising rights for the first six Ultra Series (\"Ultra Q\" through \"Ultraman Taro\") and \"Jumborg Ace\" outside Japan, and broadcasting rights of said shows within Thailand. Other accounts, usually reported in the Thai/Asian media, said that Chaiyo had gained the rights to those six shows everywhere outside Japan. The latter could be taken as Chaiyo's side of the story, as Tsuburaya was reported in the Japanese media to continue taking further action against them.\n\nTsuburaya decided not to market any of the disputed six Ultra Series outside Japan until it had completely settled the rights issues with Chaiyo, although the company continued to merchandise and distribute all of the Ultraman programs created after Ultraman Taro, including the theatrical feature \"Ultraman the Next,\" throughout the world. Because of the copyright struggle, importing literature on Ultraman into Singapore and Malaysia was prohibited. It also resulted in a slight backlash against Thai Ultraman fans, who were assumed to be outright Chaiyo supporters.\n\nIn 2005 the American company BCI Eclipse announced they had acquired the DVD rights to \"Ultraman\" from Chaiyo. A 3-disc box set containing the first 20 episodes of the series was released on July 18, 2006, and a second 3-disc box set containing the remaining 19 episodes was released on November 7, 2006. Both sets feature the original Japanese monaural dialogue track as well as the English-dubbed version produced by United Artists for North American syndication. At certain times, the English dialogue track switched over to the Japanese dialogue for small periods of time. This was because BCI had used audio from older recordings in which several scenes had to be cut or shortened for the American broadcast in order to fit running time constraints. Tsuburaya Productions still held on to the complete original English dubbing materials, which they had obtained from a warehouse in 1997, and refused to provide them for BCI. (Contrary to BCI's statements, the original English dubs were complete and uncut, except for a small cut in the conclusion of Episode 36, \"Gift From The Sky.\")\n\nDuring the time of the legal battle, Chaiyo came up with three of their own Ultras: Ultraman Millennium, Dark Ultraman (an evil Ultra), and Ultraman Elite. These were not used for purposes other than stage shows and merchandise. Chaiyo also created a TV series he called \"Project Ultraman\", un-aired as of late March 2008, a joint project in China featuring his own Ultraman and attaching Hong Kong star, Ekin Cheng to the project.\n\nOn August 23, 2006, Tsuburaya Productions filed a new lawsuit against Chaiyo for copyright infringement and plagiarism (concerning their three original Ultraman characters), and the court case was taken to China. The Chinese courts in Beijing opened \"The Ultraman Copyright Study Group\" in response to the lawsuit. In April 2007, the Thailand Intellectual Property Court ruled in favor of Tsuburaya Productions, ordering Chaiyo to cease and desist making commercial profits from Chaiyo-produced Ultraman characters such as Millennium, Dark, and Elite. The defendants were also fined THB 15,000,000 (approx. JPY 50,904,959 or USD 428,673.50 c. April 2007) plus interest and attorneys' fees. \"Project Ultraman\" went on hiatus as a result of the ruling, which implied that although Chaiyo owned the right to some of the Ultraman series, it did not own the right to Ultraman and his brothers, including the design. Chaiyo gained permission to merchandise the original series, but lost the right to create and market its own Ultraman, or even use the original, without Tsuburaya's consent.\n\nOn February 5, 2008, Thailand's Supreme Court ruled in favor of Tsuburaya Productions of Japan after they made an appeal to the initial ruling. The ruling ended the long legal battle by finding Sompote Saengduenchai was not a co-creator of Ultraman. The decision ended Sompote's bid to continue his enterprise, and the court gave Sompote 30 days to stop profiteering from Ultraman. The final ruling saw Tsuburaya Productions as the sole copyright owner. Sompote was also required to pay THB 10,700,000 plus interest at the rate of 7.5 per cent a year starting from December 16, 1997, when the original lawsuit was filed.\n\nIn 2009, the Thai Intellectual Property Court and the Tokyo District Court both ruled in favour of the Thai company. This led to the Tokyo District Court on September 30, 2010, ordering Tsuburaya Productions Co of Japan to pay damages of 16.36 million yen (Bt5.9 million) to Sompote Saengduenchai of Thailand for violating his overseas copyrights on Ultraman characters.\n\nAfter the announcement of the \"\" movie in July 2017, the dispute on the ownership of the franchise has escalated. But in November 20, 2017, through a Los Angeles court ruling by judge Judge Andre Birotte Jr, Tsuburaya won the lawsuit against Chaiyo and affiliate groups on the rights of the series after the jury concluded that the supposed agreement between Noboru Tsuburaya and Chaiyo was \"not authentic\". Despite UM Corporation and Chaiyo filing a counter-dispute, on April 18, 2018, the legal court came to a definite close where a final judgement states that the dispute and the document was deemed invalid, forbidding UMC to use the Ultra Series and all its related characters and forced them to pay Tsubaraya damages for its infringement of its rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "421616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=421616", "title": "Washington Generals", "text": "Washington Generals\n\nThe Washington Generals are an American basketball team, best known for their spectacular losing streak in exhibition games against the Harlem Globetrotters. The team have also played under several different aliases in their long history as the Globetrotters' perennial opponents.\n\nThe Generals exist primarily as a part of the Harlem Globetrotters' act, effectively being stooges for the Globetrotters. While the Globetrotters play tricks and spectacular displays of skill for the crowd, the Generals appear to attempt to play a \"normal\" game of basketball. The Generals' games involve playing genuine basketball at times, but also not interfering in the Globetrotters' tricks. Almost always this results in resounding wins for the Globetrotters. Despite their losses, the Generals' roster consists of relatively competent players. A recurring part of the act is the \"guest General\", where, for a short period, an invited person (usually a local celebrity) comes on court to play for the Generals. There can exist multiple teams of Generals simultaneously, each following different touring Globetrotters teams. \n\nWhile the Generals were closely associated with the Globetrotters, they were, for most of their history, an independent franchise owned by their founder, Louis \"Red\" Klotz. In 2017 they were purchased from the Klotz family by Globetrotters' owners Herschend Entertainment and officially revived from a two-year hiatus.\n\nThe Generals were created in 1952 by Louis \"Red\" Klotz, a former player for the Philadelphia Sphas, a former ABL team that became one of the Globetrotters' exhibition rivals. Globetrotters owner Abe Saperstein had invited Klotz to create a squad to accompany his team on their tours, in part because the Sphas had beaten the Globetrotters on more than one occasion while serving as one of the Globetrotters' exhibition teams. With a nod to Dwight D. Eisenhower, the team was named the Washington Generals. \n\nThe Generals remained a continuous presence in the Globetrotters act from then on, however to give the illusion of variety they often played under a variety of different names with changes of uniform. During the 1971–72 season, the Generals' name was alternated with the \"Boston Shamrocks\", \"New Jersey Reds\", \"Baltimore Rockets\", and \"Atlantic City Seagulls\". The team rotated between these identities for a few seasons before going back to the Generals identity full-time. In 1995 Klotz \"disbanded\" the Generals and formed the \"New York Nationals\" which again was only a nominal change.\n\nJohn Ferrari, the son-in-law of Klotz, took over as general manager of the team in 1987.\n\nAfter a 12-year hiatus, the team returned to their Generals identity on October 9, 2007, playing against the Globetrotters at the 369th Harlem Armory. The Globetrotters won 54–50. The monikers of \"International Elite\" and the \"Global Select\" were adopted prior to the 2011–12 World Tour. For the 2013–14 Harlem Globetrotters World Tour, the team took on the moniker of the \"World All-Stars.\"\n\nThe Generals would occasionally play teams other than the Globetrotters. Among these games, which were competitive, they managed to record victories against the Taiwanese national team and a low-level Red Army team.\n\nIn 2015, the Harlem Globetrotters management chose to end contractual relations with the Generals organization, resulting in the Generals ceasing operations. The Generals played their last game against the Globetrotters on August 1, 2015 in Wildwood, New Jersey. Overall, the Globetrotters had defeated the Generals over 16,000 times in their combined history.\n\nFrom 2015 the Globetrotters' opposition was organised by their own management. In 2017, Herschend Family Entertainment, the owners of the Harlem Globetrotters, bought the Washington Generals from the Klotz family and revived them as an active team with Kenny Smith as general manager and Sam Worthen as coach. The Generals held a tongue-in-cheek \"draft\" where they selected various unavailable persons including LaVar Ball and Conor McGregor.\nAs a reintroduction for the team, they were entered in ESPN's The Basketball Tournament 2017. Despite having a rare opportunity to play serious, competitive basketball, their long losing run continued with a first round loss.\n\nVery rarely Washington Generals players have been \"promoted\" to the Globetrotters. Derick \"Dizzy\" Grant was transferred in 2010 and Jonte \"Too Tall\" Hall made the transition in 2011.\n\nPaul Sturgess made the opposite transition. The former Globetrotter, after a few seasons playing for other teams, transferred back into the setup as part of the arranged opposition. The Sturgess adopts the persona of \"Cager\", a masked adversary who adopts a villainous role.\n\nFigures vary as to exactly how often the Generals have beaten their rivals. Some reports say six, while the team's official website reports having three victories over the Globetrotters, one each in 1954, 1958 and 1971. The 1971 win is the most storied of these, and is sometimes reported as the team's sole victory.\n\nPlaying as the \"New Jersey Reds\", they won 100–99 on January 5, 1971 in Martin, Tennessee, ending their 2,495-game losing streak. Klotz credits the overtime win to a guard named Eddie Mahar, who was team captain. Harlem's captain, Curly Neal, did not play in this game.\n\nWhile the Globetrotters were entertaining the crowd that day, they lost track of the game and the score. They found themselves down 12 points with two minutes left to go. Forced to play normal basketball, the Globetrotters rallied but could not recover. \n\nThe Reds secured their victory when the 50-year-old Klotz hit the winning basket with seconds left. Then Meadowlark Lemon missed a shot that would have given the game back to the Globetrotters. The timekeeper tried to stop the clock but couldn't. When the final buzzer sounded, the crowd was dumbfounded and disappointed. Klotz described the fans' reaction: \"They looked at us like we killed Santa Claus.\"\n\nSome children in the stands cried after the loss. The Reds celebrated by dousing themselves with orange soda instead of champagne. Lemon was furious, saying, \"You lost, I didn't lose,\" but still visited the opposing team’s locker room to congratulate the Reds.\n\n"}
