{"id": "27049851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27049851", "title": "Absentee business owner", "text": "Absentee business owner\n\nAn absentee business owner is one who does not personally manage the business but owns it or does not live in the community in which the business operates. Studies show that money spent locally circulates back into the community three times as much when it is not spent with an absentee-owned business. Local currency has been implemented in some communities as a countermeasure to this effect. Neighborhood investment, in which members of the community are given opportunities to become partial owners of new developments, is another method.\n\nIn Brazil, studies found that more than a third of the profits generated from tourism were exported to absentee business owners. In Vietnam, the economic expansion of the 1990s was associated with a rise in absentee business owners. There has also been concern that tourism profits in Southern Africa go to absentee business owners. \n\nAbsentee business owners can be more vulnerable to theft by employees, especially when recordkeeping is turned over to employees, unless proper internal controls and review are implemented. In the United States, many business-owning military reservists have become absentee business owners during long tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "56484527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56484527", "title": "Assam Global Investors' Summit", "text": "Assam Global Investors' Summit\n\nAssam Global Investors' Summit or Advantage Assam Global Investors' Summit on 3–4 February 2018 is an economic summit organised by the Government of Assam. The main aim of the summit is to increase the trade and other relations with Southeast Asia. Members and Delegates from ASEAN and BBIN countries along with industrialists and business leaders of India and around the world are invited in this summit. The Summit aims at highlighting the geo-strategic advantages offered to investors by Assam. The summit will also focus on India's Act East Policy which will help in achieving balanced and fast-paced growth of the north-eastern region and development of MSME sector.\n\nThe summit is organised in Sarusajai Stadium, Guwahati.\n\nIt is the first of its type of summit organised in Assam and Northeast India.\n\nThe summit will focus investing on different sectors like: Power, Agriculture & Food Processing, IT & ITeS, River Transport & Port Townships, Plastics & Petrochemicals, Pharmaceuticals & Medical Equipment, Handloom, Textiles & Handicrafts, Tourism, Hospitality & Wellness, Civil Aviation and Petroleum and Natural Gas.\n\nOne the first day of the summit, notable chief guests visited are Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi,Chief Minister of Assam Sarbananda Sonowal, Prime Minister of Bhutan Tshering Tobgay, Japanese Ambassador to India Kenji Hiramatsu, CEOs and MDs of companies like Tata Group,Reliance Industries, Sun Pharma, Patanjali, ONGC, OIL, Spicejet, ITC Limited, etc. The government has already announced a plan of to improve connection with the North-East, with the network of 15 railway lines.\n\nOn The first day of mega investor exposition for Assam named as \"Advantage Assam\" witnessed a sign of 176 MoUs with 160 companies amounting to .\n\nThis table represents the amount of money invested in day 1.\n"}
{"id": "19657756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19657756", "title": "Asset recovery software", "text": "Asset recovery software\n\nAsset Recovery Software is a business term that refers to a set of software tools or modules used in executing asset recovery transactions, managing buyer relationships, and controlling associated business processes. The key purpose of these tools is to help companies effectively identify, reuse, and divest idle assets.\n\nAlthough the functionality included in these systems can vary, it commonly includes one or more of the following:\n\n\nAsset recovery software can include anything ranging from a small desktop application to an application that resides on a server that can be accessed by many people across diverse geographic locations. The current trend in larger asset recovery departments is toward increased collaboration and web applications.\nThe introduction of cloud technology and the rise Software-as-a-service model led to many new offerings focusing on different aspects of asset recovery. Firms can choose between solutions focusing on internal asset redeployment (e.g. AssetGlobe) or alternatives developed by online auction, asset trading and recycling providers.\n\nOrganizations that adopt asset recovery software generally expect to realize several benefits. These can be monetary or process improvement benefits. Some of these benefits include:\n\n"}
{"id": "5230166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5230166", "title": "Backstage pass", "text": "Backstage pass\n\nA backstage pass is an employee pass which allows its bearer access to employees-only areas at a performance venue. They are most commonly associated with rock music groups.\n\nSuch passes are usually a laminated paper worn on a lanyard, or on chain link or key chain holder at the belt, or a simpler \"stick-on\" applied to one's clothing. Plastic or paper wristbands may also be used. However, some elaborately designed backstage passes have been used by Bill Graham Productions/Winterland, Beaver Productions and many other regional and local promoters. To deter counterfeiting, passes often include holograms or color-shifting properties.\n\nAt any one concert or event there are about 200 to 400 backstage passes available. Again, mainly these are for the performers, stage crews, roadies, security guards,\nperformer's agents. Sometimes relatives or close friends of performers, stage crew, promoters, etc. \nwill get backstage passes to concerts. \n\nSome venues (including the House of Blues venues and Irving Plaza in New York) require their own passes to be worn, even by laminate holders for the tour. Large music festivals, such as Ozzfest and the Bonnaroo Music and Arts Festival also usually issue their own passes.\n\nBackstage passes sometimes become memorabilia sold to die-hard fans, especially when the pass is signed by a performer.\n\nIn media, the term \"Backstage Pass\" may be used to signify the presence of expanded coverage of certain musical groups.\n\nThere are a number of different types of backstage passes:\n\n\nOtto Printing (in Kentucky) and PERRi Entertainment (in Reno, NV) helped establish the industry and were two of the largest manufactures and designers of passes up until 2003. When PERRi folded, the current leading printer of backstage passes emerged: ACCESS Event Solutions. Reno has become the largest source for backstage pass printing. Otto is still printing passes and is the oldest printer of backstage passes. While currently Reno and Otto Printing produce the largest amount of back stage passes, there are many companies looking to surpass them in it.\n\nThere are some ways to get backstage passes. One way is to get employed for the venue. \nSome backstage passes are given as prizes by official fan clubs. Sometimes local radio stations and/or local music shops will obtain one or a few from the concert promoters or their agents and will give away as a type of promotional prize.\n\n"}
{"id": "522230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=522230", "title": "Balanced scorecard", "text": "Balanced scorecard\n\nThe balanced scorecard is a strategy performance management tool – a semi-standard structured report, that can be used by managers to keep track of the execution of activities by the staff within their control and to monitor the consequences arising from these actions.\n\nThe phrase 'balanced scorecard' primarily refers to a performance management report used by a management team, and typically this team is focused on managing the implementation of a strategy or operational activities - in a recent survey 62% of respondents reported using Balanced Scorecard for strategy implementation management, 48% for operational management. Balanced Scorecard is also used by individuals to track personal performance, but this is less common - only 17% of respondents in the survey using Balanced Scorecard in this way, however it is clear from the same survey that a larger proportion (about 30%) use corporate Balanced Scorecard elements to inform personal goal setting and incentive calculations.\n\nThe critical characteristics that define a balanced scorecard are:\n\nBalanced scorecard is an example of a closed-loop controller or cybernetic control applied to the management of the implementation of a strategy. Closed-loop or cybernetic control is where actual performance is measured, the measured value is compared to a reference value and based on the difference between the two corrective interventions are made as required. Such control requires three things to be effective:\n\nWithin the strategy management context, all three of these characteristic closed-loop control elements need to be derived from the organisation's strategy and also need to reflect the ability of the observer to both monitor performance and subsequently intervene – both of which may be constrained. Balanced Scorecard was initially proposed as a general purpose performance management system. Subsequently, it was promoted specifically as an approach to strategic performance management. Balanced scorecard has more recently become a key component of structured approaches corporate strategic management.\n\nTwo of the ideas that underpin modern balanced scorecard designs concern making it easier to select which data to observe, and ensuring that the choice of data is consistent with the ability of the observer to intervene.\n\nOrganizations have used systems consisting of a mix of financial and non-financial measures to track progress for quite some time. One such system was created by Art Schneiderman in 1987 at Analog Devices, a mid-sized semi-conductor company; the Analog Devices Balanced Scorecard. Schneiderman's design was similar to what is now recognised as a \"First Generation\" Balanced Scorecard design.\n\nIn 1990 Art Schneiderman participated in an unrelated research study led by Robert S. Kaplan in conjunction with US management consultancy Nolan-Norton, and during this study described his work on performance measurement. Subsequently, Kaplan and David P. Norton included anonymous details of this balanced scorecard design in a 1992 article. Kaplan and Norton's article wasn't the only paper on the topic published in early 1992 but the 1992 Kaplan and Norton paper was a popular success, and was quickly followed by a second in 1993. In 1996, the two authors published a book \"The Balanced Scorecard\". These articles and the first book spread knowledge of the concept of balanced scorecard widely, and has led to Kaplan and Norton being seen as the creators of the concept.\n\nWhile the \"corporate scorecard\" terminology was coined by Art Schneiderman, the roots of performance management as an activity run deep in management literature and practice. Management historians such as Alfred Chandler suggest the origins of performance management can be seen in the emergence of the complex organisation – most notably during the 19th Century in the USA. More recent influences may include the pioneering work of General Electric on performance measurement reporting in the 1950s and the work of French process engineers (who created the \"tableau de bord\" – literally, a \"dashboard\" of performance measures) in the early part of the 20th century. The tool also draws strongly on the ideas of the 'resource based view of the firm' proposed by Edith Penrose. However it should be noted that none of these influences is explicitly linked to original descriptions of balanced scorecard by Schneiderman, Maisel, or Kaplan & Norton.\n\nKaplan and Norton's first book remains their most popular. The book reflects the earliest incarnations of balanced scorecards – effectively restating the concept as described in the second Harvard Business Review article. Their second book, \"The Strategy Focused Organization\", echoed work by others (particularly a book published the year before by Olve et al. in Scandinavia) on the value of visually documenting the links between measures by proposing the \"Strategic Linkage Model\" or strategy map.\n\nAs the title of Kaplan and Norton's second book highlights, even by 2000 the focus of attention among thought-leaders was moving from the design of Balanced Scorecards themselves, towards the use of Balanced Scorecard as a focal point within a more comprehensive strategic management system. Subsequent writing on Balanced Scorecard by Kaplan & Norton has focused on uses of Balanced Scorecard rather than its design (e.g. \"The Execution Premium\" in 2008), however many others have continued to refine the device itself (e.g. Abernethy et al.).\n\nThe characteristics of the balanced scorecard and its derivatives is the presentation of a mixture of financial and non-financial measures each compared to a 'target' value within a single concise report. The report is not meant to be a replacement for traditional financial or operational reports but a succinct summary that captures the information most relevant to those reading it. It is the method by which this 'most relevant' information is determined (i.e., the design processes used to select the content) that most differentiates the various versions of the tool in circulation. The balanced scorecard indirectly also provides a useful insight into an organisation's strategy – by requiring general strategic statements (e.g. mission, vision) to be precipitated into more specific/tangible forms.\n\nThe first versions of balanced scorecard asserted that relevance should derive from the corporate strategy, and proposed design methods that focused on choosing measures and targets associated with the main activities required to implement the strategy. As the initial audience for this were the readers of the Harvard Business Review, the proposal was translated into a form that made sense to a typical reader of that journal – managers of US commercial businesses. Accordingly, initial designs were encouraged to measure three categories of non-financial measure in addition to financial outputs – those of \"customer,\" \"internal business processes\" and \"learning and growth.\" These categories were not so relevant to public sector or non-profit organisations, or units within complex organizations (which might have high degrees of internal specialization), and much of the early literature on balanced scorecard focused on suggestions of alternative 'perspectives' that might have more relevance to these groups(e.g. Butler et al. (1997), Ahn (2001), Elefalke (2001), Brignall (2002), Irwin (2002), Radnor et al. (2003)).\n\nModern balanced scorecards have evolved since the initial ideas proposed in the late 1980s and early 1990s, and the modern performance management tools including Balanced Scorecard are significantly improved – being more flexible (to suit a wider range of organisational types) and more effective (as design methods have evolved to make them easier to design, and use).\n\nDesign of a balanced scorecard is about the identification of a small number of financial and non-financial measures and attaching targets to them, so that when they are reviewed it is possible to determine whether current performance 'meets expectations'. By alerting managers to areas where performance deviates from expectations, they can be encouraged to focus their attention on these areas, and hopefully as a result trigger improved performance within the part of the organization they lead.\n\nThe original thinking behind a balanced scorecard was for it to be focused on information relating to the implementation of a strategy, and over time there has been a blurring of the boundaries between conventional strategic planning and control activities and those required to design a balanced scorecard. This is illustrated well by the four steps required to design a balanced scorecard included in Kaplan & Norton's writing on the subject in the late 1990s:\n\n\nThese steps go far beyond the simple task of identifying a small number of financial and non-financial measures, but illustrate the requirement for whatever design process is used to fit within broader thinking about how the resulting balanced scorecard will integrate with the wider business management process.\n\nAlthough it helps focus managers' attention on strategic issues and the management of the implementation of strategy, it is important to remember that the balanced scorecard itself has no role in the formation of strategy. In fact, balanced scorecards can co-exist with strategic planning systems and other tools.\n\nThe first generation of balanced scorecard designs used a \"four perspective\" approach to identify what measures to use to track the implementation of strategy. `The original four \"perspectives\" proposed were:\n\nThe idea was that managers used these perspective headings to prompt the selection of a small number of measures that informed on that aspect of the organisation's strategic performance. The perspective headings show that Kaplan and Norton were thinking about the needs of non-divisional commercial organisations in their initial design. These categories were not so relevant to public sector or non-profit organisations, or units within complex organizations (which might have high degrees of internal specialization), and much of the early literature on balanced scorecard focused on suggestions of alternative 'perspectives' that might have more relevance to these groups(e.g. Butler et al. (1997), Ahn (2001), Elefalke (2001), Brignall (2002), Irwin (2002), Flamholtz (2003), Radnor et al. (2003)).\n\nThese suggestions were notably triggered by a recognition that different but equivalent headings would yield alternative sets of measures, and this represents the major design challenge faced with this type of balanced scorecard design: justifying the choice of measures made. \"Of all the measures you could have chosen, why did you choose these?\" These issues contribute to dis-satisfaction with early Balanced Scorecard designs, since if users are not confident that the measures within the Balanced Scorecard are well chosen, they will have less confidence in the information it provides.\n\nAlthough less common, these early-style balanced scorecards are still designed and used today.\n\nIn short, first generation balanced scorecards are hard to design in a way that builds confidence that they are well designed. Because of this, many are abandoned soon after completion.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, an improved design method emerged. In the new method, measures are selected based on a set of \"strategic objectives\" plotted on a \"strategic linkage model\" or \"strategy map\". With this modified approach, the strategic objectives are distributed across the four measurement perspectives, so as to \"connect the dots\" to form a visual presentation of strategy and measures.\n\nIn this modified version of balanced scorecard design, managers select a few strategic objectives within each of the perspectives, and then define the cause-effect chain among these objectives by drawing links between them to create a \"strategic linkage model\". A balanced scorecard of strategic performance measures is then derived directly by selecting one or two measures for each strategic objective. This type of approach provides greater contextual justification for the measures chosen, and is generally easier for managers to work through. This style of balanced scorecard has been commonly used since 1996 or so: it is significantly different in approach to the methods originally proposed, and so can be thought of as representing the \"2nd generation\" of design approach adopted for the balanced scorecard since its introduction.\n\nIn the late 1990s, the design approach had evolved yet again. One problem with the \"second generation\" design approach described above was that the plotting of causal links amongst twenty or so medium-term strategic goals was still a relatively abstract activity. In practice it ignored the fact that opportunities to intervene, to influence strategic goals are, and need to be, anchored in current and real management activity. Secondly, the need to \"roll forward\" and test the impact of these goals necessitated the creation of an additional design instrument: the Vision or Destination Statement. This device was a statement of what \"strategic success\", or the \"strategic end-state\", looked like. It was quickly realized that if a Destination Statement was created at the beginning of the design process, then it was easier to select strategic activity and outcome objectives to respond to it. Measures and targets could then be selected to track the achievement of these objectives. Design methods that incorporate a Destination Statement or equivalent (e.g. the results-based management method proposed by the UN in 2002) represent a tangibly different design approach to those that went before, and have been proposed as representing a \"third generation\" design method for balanced scorecards.\n\nDesign methods for balanced scorecards continue to evolve and adapt to reflect the deficiencies in the currently used methods, and the particular needs of communities of interest (e.g. NGO's and government departments have found the third generation methods embedded in results-based management more useful than first or second generation design methods).\n\nThis generation refined the second generation of balanced scorecards to give more relevance and functionality to strategic objectives. The major difference is the incorporation of Destination Statements. Other key components are strategic objectives, strategic linkage model and perspectives, measures and initiatives.\n\nIn 1997, Kurtzman found that 64 percent of the companies questioned were measuring performance from a number of perspectives in a similar way to the balanced scorecard. Balanced scorecards have been implemented by government agencies, military units, business units and corporations as a whole, non-profit organizations, and schools.\n\nBalanced scorecard has been widely adopted, and consistently has been found to be the most popular performance management framework in a widely respected annual survey (e.g. see results from 2003 and 2013).\n\nTheorists have argued from the earliest days of discussion of Balanced Scorecard usage that much of the benefit of the balanced scorecard comes from the design process itself. Indeed, it is argued that many failures in the early days of balanced scorecard could be attributed to this problem, in that early balanced scorecards were often designed remotely by consultants - it is suggested that by not being involved in the design, the relevant managers who were to use the device did not trust, and so failed to engage with and use the devices.\n\nSince the balanced scorecard was popularized in the early 1990s, a large number of alternatives to the original 'four box' balanced scorecard promoted by Kaplan and Norton in their various articles and books have emerged. Most have very limited application, and are typically proposed either by academics as vehicles for expanding the dialogue beyond the financial bottom line – e.g. Brignall (2002) or consultants as an attempt at differentiation to promote sales of books and / or consultancy (e.g. Neely et al. (2002), Bourne (2002), Niven (2002)).\n\nMany of the structural variations proposed are broadly similar, and a research paper published in 2004 attempted to identify a pattern in these variations – noting three distinct types of variation. The variations appeared to be part of an evolution of the balanced scorecard concept, and so the paper refers to these distinct types as \"generations\". Broadly, the original 'measures in four boxes' type design (as initially proposed by Kaplan & Norton) constitutes the 1st generation balanced scorecard design; balanced scorecard designs that include a 'strategy map' or 'strategic linkage model' (e.g. the Performance Prism, later Kaplan & Norton designs the Performance Driver model of Olve, Roy & Wetter (English translation 1999, 1st published in Swedish 1997)) constitute the 2nd Generation of Balanced Scorecard design; and designs that augment the strategy map / strategic linkage model with a separate document describing the long-term outcomes sought from the strategy (the \"destination statement\" idea) comprise the 3rd generation balanced scorecard design.\n\nVariants that feature adaptations of the structure of balanced scorecard to suit better a particular viewpoint or agenda are numerous. Examples of the focus of such adaptations include the triple bottom line, decision support, public sector management, and health care management. The performance management elements of the UN's Results Based Management system have strong design and structural similarities to those used in the 3rd Generation Balanced Scorecard design approach.\n\nBalanced scorecard is also linked to quality management tools and activities. Although there are clear areas of cross-over and association, the two sets of tools are complementary rather than duplicative.\n\nBalanced scorecard is also used to support the payments of incentives to individuals, even though it was not designed for this purpose and is not particularly suited to it.\n\nAcademic criticism of the balanced scorecard can be broken into three distinct (but overlapping) areas of concern.\n\n\nIn response to these concerns there have been many studies seeking to provide (retrospective) academic underpinnings for the Balanced Scorecard concept, and to provide case study and validation information for the various design generations. There are relatively few reliable assessments of the effectiveness of the approaches embodied in Balanced Scorecard, but some studies demonstrate a link between the use of balanced scorecards and better decision making or improved financial performance of companies. \n\nBroadcast surveys of usage have difficulties in this respect, due to the wide variations in definition of 'what a balanced scorecard is' noted above (making it hard to work out in a survey if you are comparing like with like). Single organization case studies suffer from the 'lack of a control' issue common to any study of organizational change – what the organization would have achieved if the change had not been made isn't known, so it is difficult to attribute changes observed over time to a single intervention (such as introducing a balanced scorecard). However, such studies as have been done have typically found balanced scorecard to be useful.\n\nConsideration has been given to the effect of organisation size on Balanced Scorecard effectiveness: \n\nIt is important to recognize that the balanced scorecard by definition is not a complex thing – typically no more than about 20 measures spread across a mix of financial and non-financial topics, and easily reported manually (on paper, or using simple office software).\n\nThe processes of collecting, reporting, and distributing balanced scorecard information can be labor-intensive and prone to procedural problems (for example, getting all relevant people to return the information required by the required date). The simplest mechanism to use is to delegate these activities to an individual, and many Balanced Scorecards are reported via ad-hoc methods based around email, phone calls and office software.\n\nIn more complex organizations, where there are multiple balanced scorecards to report and/or a need for co-ordination of results between balanced scorecards (for example, if one level of reports relies on information collected and reported at a lower level) the use of individual reporters is problematic. Where these conditions apply, organizations use balanced scorecard reporting software to automate the production and distribution of these reports.\n\nRecent surveys have consistently found that roughly one third of organizations use generic office software to report their balanced scorecard, one third used software developed specifically for their own use, and one third used one of the many commercial packages available.\n\n"}
{"id": "22608006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22608006", "title": "BioFach", "text": "BioFach\n\nBioFach is the world's largest trade fair for organic food and agriculture. It is held each year in the month of February, in Nuremberg, Germany. It brings together 2774 exhibitors and approximately 46700 trade visitors from around 130 countries. \n"}
{"id": "4286716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4286716", "title": "Blanket order", "text": "Blanket order\n\nA blanket order, blanket purchase agreement or call-off order is a purchase order which a customer places with its supplier to allow multiple delivery dates over a period of time, often negotiated to take advantage of predetermined pricing. It is normally used when there is a recurring need for expendable goods. Blanket orders are often used when a customer buys large quantities and has obtained special discounts. Based on the blanket order, sales orders ('blanket releases' or 'release orders') and invoice items can be created as needed until the contract is fulfilled, the end of the order period is reached or a pre-determined maximum order value is reached.\n\nIssuing a blanket order allows a customer not to hold more stock than necessary at any time, and avoids the administrative expense of processing frequent purchase orders, while favoring discount pricing through volume commitments or price breaks. On the supplier's side, a blanket order may provide the benefit of guaranteeing ongoing business and also help suppliers better predict future cash flows and orders.\n\nA blanket order is set at a fixed priced contract for a period of time. The buyer looks for the best pricing among competing supplier bids. After the best one is chosen, the prices of goods are fixed, and also quantities of each products are given to the supplier to prepare stock for on requested delivery.\n\nForecasted quantity is provided by the buyer as full usage quantity recorded historically few years or as needed for quantitative analysis. The supplier may give a condition of quantity to supply for this [contract]. For example, 80% of the forecast quantity must be bought at the end of the contract, which may be one or two years.\n\nThe blanket order will charge the delay delivery if the supplier could not supply the products in the contract on time. Anyway, since the supplier has already kept the stock for ready delivery for the first year or agreed period, if the buyer could not fulfill the contract's conditions, such as \"must buy 80% of forecast quantity within a year,\" the contract may be extended, or the delay charge could be no more, or no other charges requested by the buyer.\n\nRealistically, at the end of the blanket order contract, the buyer would not buy at forecasted quantity as agreed in the contract say, 80% of the demand sent to the supplier. The buyer will also allow the supplier to sell the products in the contract to reduce the quantity. The supplier also has to talk and inform the buyer the quantities of goods kept in order that the buyer could know the status of the stock. Before the buyer issuing the purchase order to supplier, the buyer must ask the supplier first about stock availability to avoid the problem from no stock availability.\n\nBlanket orders or call-off orders may also be used for ordering services, for example for maintenance and repair services. In these cases the benefits associated with stock-holding do not arise but the call-off order may allow emergency repairs or on-call maintenance to be arranged easily at guaranteed rates.\n\nThe most difficult part of having a contract is determining the forecast quantity arranged by the user of the product. As the forecast quantity can be difficult to get, the supplier must be aware of the quantity to keep in stock. An easy way to do this is to discuss with the buyer what quantity to keep in stock. For example, they might keep only 20% in stock in the first 6 months, so that the supplier and the buyer are able to review the quantity and adjust it appropriately. This reduces the stock burden of the supplier during the contract period and might help the buyer at the end of the contract if the stock does not move as quickly as anticipated. The contract might be extended year after year, but it can be adjusted each time as more relevant forecasting history will predicate the need to decrease or increase stock requirements. Alternatively, some companies may utilize forecasted information via a material requirements planning system to determine appropriate stock quantities throughout the product's life cycle.\n\nThe United States' Federal Acquisition Regulation uses the term \"blanket purchase agreements\" or BPAs.\n\nAccording to the U.S. General Services Administration, BPAs:\n\n"}
{"id": "36345684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36345684", "title": "Broadband Lifecycle", "text": "Broadband Lifecycle\n\nThe Broadband Lifecycle is a model for looking at the planning, implementation, and adoption of broadband networks, providing a framework for understanding the natural progression and sound business planning to drive local economic development through broadband (high-speed Internet networks). It has been utilized by multiple North-American States since 2010.\n\nDeveloped by Strategic Networks Group in the late 2000s as an alternative means to view broadband deployments, the Broadband Lifecycle is a departure from the dominant economic model of broadband network operators’ that relies on the “supply side” assumption that if a network is built adoption will follow.\n\nThus, the Broadband Lifecycle considers broadband from a “demand side,” recognizing that adoption and utilization only comes through understanding benefits, supporting the Demand side and the benefits for communities, demonstrating to individual businesses, organizations and households the value of broadband and its transformative effects through Internet enabled applications, which include global market reach, ability to telework, use of telemedicine, etc.\n"}
{"id": "37141186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37141186", "title": "Brown &amp; Brown", "text": "Brown &amp; Brown\n\nBrown & Brown, Inc. (Brown & Brown Insurance or B&B) is a provider of insurance and reinsurance products and services to general business, corporate, governmental and quasi-governmental, institutional, professional, trade association and individual clients. Its headquarters are in Daytona Beach, Florida.\n\nThe company is currently ranked as the sixth largest independent insurance intermediary organization in the U.S. and seventh largest in the world based on the July 2014 ranking by Business Insurance magazine. Brown & Brown is also one of the selected companies that comprise S&P 400 stock market index. In September 2007, Brown & Brown was ranked #10 on Forbes's \"The 100 Best Mid-Cap Stocks in America\" list in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "14585346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14585346", "title": "Business-IT alignment", "text": "Business-IT alignment\n\nBusiness-IT alignment is a dynamic state in which a business organization is able to use information technology (IT) to achieve business objectives - typically improved financial performance or marketplace competitiveness. Some definitions focus more on outcomes (the ability of IT to produce business value) than means (the harmony between IT and business decision-makers within the organizations); for example, \"alignment is the capacity to demonstrate a positive relationship between information technologies and the accepted financial measures of performance.\"\n\nThis alignment is in contrast to what is often experienced in organizations: IT and business professionals unable to bridge the gap between themselves because of differences in objectives, culture, and incentives and a mutual ignorance for the other group's body of knowledge. This rift generally results in expensive IT systems that do not provide adequate return on investment. For this reason, the search for business-IT alignment is closely associated with attempts to improve the business value of IT investments.\n\nBusiness-IT alignment integrates the information technology to the strategy, mission, and goals of the organization. Key characteristics in order to achieve this alignment are:\n\nIt is not unusual for business and IT professionals within an organization to experience conflict and in-fighting as lack of mutual understanding and the failure to produce desired results leads to blaming and mistrust. The search for B/I alignment often includes efforts to establish trust between these two groups and a mechanism for consensus decision-making.\n\nTo achieve B/I alignment, organizations must make better decisions that take into account both business and IT disciplines. Establishing processes for decision-making and control is essentially what is meant by the term \"governance\"; so B/I alignment is closely related to information technology governance.\n\nA commonly cited definition by IT Governance Institute is:\"IT governance is the responsibility of the board of directors and executive management. It is an integral part of enterprise governance and consists of the leadership and organisational structures and processes that ensure that the organisation’s IT sustains and extends the organization’s strategies and objectives\".\n\nAlso related to the effort for better decision-making, and therefore often part of B/I alignment - is the area of IT portfolio management, which has to do with decisions about which IT projects are funded and which are not.\n\nUltimately, value must come not just from the IT tools that are selected, but also in the way that they are used in the organization. For this reason, the scope of B/I alignment also includes business transformation, in which organizations redesign how work is accomplished in order to realize efficiencies made possible by new IT. Thus, implementing IT to achieve its full potential for business value includes not only a technical component, but also an organizational change management component (see the Risk3 model below).\n\nIt is important to consider the overall value chain in technology development projects as the challenge for the value creation is increasing with the growing competitiveness between organizations that has become evident (Bird, 2010). The concept of value creation through technology is heavily dependent upon the alignment of technology and business strategies. While the value creation for an organization is a network of relationships between internal and external environments, technology plays an important role in improving the overall value chain of an organization. However, this increase requires business and technology management to work as a creative, synergistic, and collaborative team instead of a purely mechanistic span of control. Technology can help the organization recognize improved competitive advantage within the industry it resides and generate superior performance at a greater value, according to Bird ().\n\nHenderson & Venkatraman can be seen as the founding fathers of business/IT alignment and published an article called \"Strategic Alignment: Leveraging Information Technology for transforming organisations - IBM Systems Journal, vol32, NO1\".\n\nTypical EA Frameworks are used to achieve business-IT alignment, as these frameworks links business and technology layers of organization over common threads.\n\nTOGAF is a framework by Open Group which defines a very strong method of developing the enterprise architecture. The method is called ADM (architecture development method)\n\nZachman EA framework is developed by John Zachman and it defines which artifacts enterprises need to develop to be able to organize themselves better. It is also widely accepted framework in the industry.\n\nIn the Risk3 model, the objective of B/I alignment is to manage three separate risks associated with IT projects: technical risk (will the system function as it should?), organizational risk (will individuals within the organization use the system as they should?), and business risk (will the implementation and adoption of the system translate into business value?). Business value is jeopardized unless all three risks are managed successfully.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1579278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1579278", "title": "Business analyst", "text": "Business analyst\n\nA business analyst (BA) is someone who analyzes an organization or business domain (real or hypothetical) and documents its business or processes or systems, assessing the business model or its integration with technology.\n\nThe role of a systems analyst can also be defined as a bridge between the business problems and the technology solutions. Here business problems can be anything about business systems, for example the model, process, or method. The technology solutions can be the use of technology architecture, tools, or software applications. System analysts are required to analyze, transform and ultimately resolve the business problems with the help of technology.\n\nThere are at least four types of business analysis:\n\nThe business analyst, sometimes, is someone who is a part of the business operation and works with Information Technology to improve the quality of the services being delivered, sometimes assisting in Integration and Testing of new solutions. Business Analysts act as a liaison between management and technical developers.\n\nThe BA may also support the development of training material, participates in the implementation, and provides post-implementation support. This may involve the development of project plans and dataflow diagrams, flowcharts\n\nThe BA records requirements in some form of requirements management tool, whether a simple spreadsheet or a complex application.\nWithin the systems development life cycle, the business analyst typically performs a liaison function between the business side of an enterprise and the providers of IT services.\n\nBAs work in different industries such as finance, banking, insurance, telecoms, utilities, software services, government and so on. Due to working on projects at a fairly high level of abstraction, BAs can switch between any and all industries.\n\nThe business domain subject areas BAs may work in include workflow, billing, mediation, provisioning and customer relationship management. The telecom industry has mapped these functional areas in their Telecommunications Operational Map (eTOM) model, Banking in the Information Framework (IFW) and Emergency agencies in the Prevention Preparation Response and Recovery model (PPRR).\n\nFinally, business analysts do not have a predefined and fixed role, as they can take part in operations scaling, sales planning, strategy devising or the developmental process.\n\n"}
{"id": "4770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4770", "title": "Business ethics", "text": "Business ethics\n\nBusiness ethics (also known as corporate ethics) is a form of applied ethics or professional ethics, that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems that can arise in a business environment. It applies to all aspects of business conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and entire organizations. These ethics originate from individuals, organizational statements or from the legal system. These norms, values, ethical, and unethical practices are what is used to guide business. They help those businesses maintain a better connection with their stakeholders.\n\nBusiness ethics refers to contemporary organizational standards, principles, sets of values and norms that govern the actions and behavior of an individual in the business organization. Business ethics have two dimensions, normative business ethics or descriptive business ethics. As a corporate practice and a career specialization, the field is primarily normative. Academics attempting to understand business behavior employ descriptive methods. The range and quantity of business ethical issues reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic concerns.\n\nInterest in business ethics accelerated dramatically during the 1980s and 1990s, both within major corporations and within academia. For example, most major corporations today promote their commitment to non-economic values under headings such as ethics codes and social responsibility charters.\n\nAdam Smith said, \"People of the same trade seldom meet together, even for merriment and diversion, but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public, or in some contrivance to raise prices.\" Governments use laws and regulations to point business behavior in what they perceive to be beneficial directions. Ethics implicitly regulates areas and details of behavior that lie beyond governmental control. The emergence of large corporations with limited relationships and sensitivity to the communities in which they operate accelerated the development of formal ethics regimes.\nMaintaining an ethical status is the responsibility of the manager of the business. According to the Journal of Business Ethics \"Managing ethical behavior is one of the most pervasive and complex problems facing business organizations today\"\n\nBusiness ethics reflect the norms of each historical period. As time passes, norms evolve, causing accepted behaviors to become objectionable. Business ethics and the resulting behavior evolved as well. Business was involved in slavery, colonialism, and the cold war.\n\nThe term 'business ethics' came into common use in the United States in the early 1970s. By the mid-1980s at least 500 courses in business ethics reached 40,000 students, using some twenty textbooks and at least ten casebooks supported by professional societies, centers and journals of business ethics. The Society for Business Ethics was founded in 1980. European business schools adopted business ethics after 1987 commencing with the European Business Ethics Network. In 1982 the first single-authored books in the field appeared.\n\nFirms began highlighting their ethical stature in the late 1980s and early 1990s, possibly in an attempt to distance themselves from the business scandals of the day, such as the savings and loan crisis. The concept of business ethics caught the attention of academics, media and business firms by the end of the Cold War. However, criticism of business practices was attacked for infringing the freedom of entrepreneurs and critics were accused of supporting communists. This scuttled the discourse of business ethics both in media and academia. The Defense Industry Initiative on Business Ethics and Conduct(DII) was created to support corporate ethical conduct. This era began the belief and support of self-regulation and free trade, which lifted tariffs and barriers and allowed businesses to merge and divest in an increasing global atmosphere.\n\nOne of the earliest written treatments of business ethics is found in the Tirukkuṛaḷ, a Tamil book dated variously from 300 BCE to 7th century CE and attributed to Thiruvalluvar. Many verses discuss business ethics, in particular verse 113, adapting to a changing environment in verses 474, 426, and 140, learning the intricacies of different tasks in verses 462 and 677.\n\nBusiness ethics reflects the philosophy of business, of which one aim is to determine the fundamental purposes of a company. If a company's purpose is to maximize shareholder returns, then sacrificing profits for other concerns is a violation of its fiduciary responsibility. Corporate entities are legally considered as persons in the United States and in most nations. The 'corporate persons' are legally entitled to the rights and liabilities due to citizens as persons.\n\nEthics are the rules or standards that govern our decisions on a daily basis. Many consider “ethics” with conscience or a simplistic sense of “right” and “wrong.” Others would say that ethics is an internal code that governs an individual’s conduct, ingrained into each person by family, faith, tradition, community, laws, and personal mores. Corporations and professional organizations, particularly licensing boards, generally will have a written “Code of Ethics” that governs standards of professional conduct expected of all in the field.\nIt is important to note that “law” and “ethics” are not synonymous, nor are the “legal” and “ethical” courses of action in a given situation necessarily the same. Statutes and regulations passed by legislative bodies and administrative boards set forth the “law.” Slavery once was legal in the US, but one certainly wouldn’t say enslaving another was an “ethical” act.\n\nEconomist Milton Friedman writes that corporate executives' \"responsibility... generally will be to make as much money as possible while conforming to their basic rules of the society, both those embodied in law and those embodied in ethical custom\". Friedman also said, \"the only entities who can have responsibilities are individuals ... A business cannot have responsibilities. So the question is, do corporate executives, provided they stay within the law, have responsibilities in their business activities other than to make as much money for their stockholders as possible? And my answer to that is, no, they do not.\" A multi-country 2011 survey found support for this view among the \"informed public\" ranging from 30 to 80%. Ronald Duska views Friedman's argument as consequentialist rather than pragmatic, implying that unrestrained corporate freedom would benefit the most in long term. Similarly author business consultant Peter Drucker observed, \"There is neither a separate ethics of business nor is one needed\", implying that standards of personal ethics cover all business situations. However, Peter Drucker in another instance observed that the ultimate responsibility of company directors is not to harm—\"primum non nocere\".\nAnother view of business is that it must exhibit corporate social responsibility (CSR): an umbrella term indicating that an ethical business must act as a responsible citizen of the communities in which it operates even at the cost of profits or other goals. In the US and most other nations corporate entities are legally treated as persons in some respects. For example, they can hold title to property, sue and be sued and are subject to taxation, although their free speech rights are limited. This can be interpreted to imply that they have independent ethical responsibilities. Duska argues that stakeholders have the right to expect a business to be ethical; if business has no ethical obligations, other institutions could make the same claim which would be counterproductive to the corporation.\n\nEthical issues include the rights and duties between a company and its employees, suppliers, customers and neighbors, its fiduciary responsibility to its shareholders. Issues concerning relations between different companies include hostile take-overs and industrial espionage. Related issues include corporate governance; corporate social entrepreneurship; political contributions; legal issues such as the ethical debate over introducing a crime of corporate manslaughter; and the marketing of corporations' ethics policies.\nAccording to IBE/ Ipsos MORI research published in late 2012, the three major areas of public concern regarding business ethics in Britain are executive pay, corporate tax avoidance and bribery and corruption.\n\nEthical standards of an entire organization can be damaged if a corporate psychopath is in charge. This will not only affect the company and its outcome but the employees who work under a corporate psychopath. The way a corporate psychopath can rise in a company is by their manipulation, scheming, and bullying. They do this in a way that can hide their true character and intentions within a company.\n\nFundamentally, finance is a social science discipline. The discipline borders behavioral economics, sociology, economics, accounting and management. It concerns technical issues such as the mix of debt and equity, dividend policy, the evaluation of alternative investment projects, options, futures, swaps, and other derivatives, portfolio diversification and many others. Finance is often mistaken by the people to be a discipline free from ethical burdens. The 2008 financial crisis caused critics to challenge the ethics of the executives in charge of U.S. and European financial institutions and financial regulatory bodies. Finance ethics is overlooked for another reason—issues in finance are often addressed as matters of law rather than ethics.\n\nAristotle said, \"the end and purpose of the polis is the good life\". Adam Smith characterized the good life in terms of material goods and intellectual and moral excellences of character. Smith in his \"The Wealth of Nations\" commented, \"All for ourselves, and nothing for other people, seems, in every age of the world, to have been the vile maxim of the masters of mankind.\" However, a section of economists influenced by the ideology of neoliberalism, interpreted the objective of economics to be maximization of economic growth through accelerated consumption and production of goods and services. Neoliberal ideology promoted finance from its position as a component of economics to its core. Proponents of the ideology hold that unrestricted financial flows, if redeemed from the shackles of \"financial repressions\", best help impoverished nations to grow. The theory holds that open financial systems accelerate economic growth by encouraging foreign capital inflows, thereby enabling higher levels of savings, investment, employment, productivity and \"welfare\", along with containing corruption. Neoliberals recommended that governments open their financial systems to the global market with minimal regulation over capital flows. The recommendations however, met with criticisms from various schools of ethical philosophy. Some pragmatic ethicists, found these claims to be unfalsifiable and a priori, although neither of these makes the recommendations false or unethical per se. Raising economic growth to the highest value necessarily means that welfare is subordinate, although advocates dispute this saying that economic growth provides more welfare than known alternatives. Since history shows that neither regulated nor unregulated firms always behave ethically, neither regime offers an ethical panacea.\n\nNeoliberal recommendations to developing countries to unconditionally open up their economies to transnational finance corporations was fiercely contested by some ethicists. The claim that deregulation and the opening up of economies would reduce corruption was also contested.\n\nDobson observes, \"a rational agent is simply one who pursues personal material advantage ad infinitum. In essence, to be rational in finance is to be individualistic, materialistic, and competitive. Business is a game played by individuals, as with all games the object is to win, and winning is measured in terms solely of material wealth. Within the discipline this rationality concept is never questioned, and has indeed become the theory-of-the-firm's sine qua non\". Financial ethics is in this view a mathematical function of shareholder wealth. Such simplifying assumptions were once necessary for the construction of mathematically robust models. However, signalling theory and agency theory extended the paradigm to greater realism.\n\nFairness in trading practices, trading conditions, financial contracting, sales practices, consultancy services, tax payments, internal audit, external audit and executive compensation also, fall under the umbrella of finance and accounting. Particular corporate ethical/legal abuses include: creative accounting, earnings management, misleading financial analysis, insider trading, securities fraud, bribery/kickbacks and facilitation payments. Outside of corporations, bucket shops and forex scams are criminal manipulations of financial markets. Cases include accounting scandals, Enron, WorldCom and Satyam.\n\nHuman resource management occupies the sphere of activity of recruitment selection, orientation, performance appraisal, training and development, industrial relations and health and safety issues. Business Ethicists differ in their orientation towards labor ethics. Some assess human resource policies according to whether they support an egalitarian workplace and the dignity of labor.\n\nIssues including employment itself, privacy, compensation in accord with comparable worth, collective bargaining (and/or its opposite) can be seen either as inalienable rights or as negotiable.\nDiscrimination by age (preferring the young or the old), gender/sexual harassment, race, religion, disability, weight and attractiveness. A common approach to remedying discrimination is affirmative action.\n\nOnce hired, employees have the right to occasional cost of living increases, as well as raises based on merit. Promotions, however, are not a right, and there are often fewer openings than qualified applicants. It may seem unfair if an employee who has been with a company longer is passed over for a promotion, but it is not unethical. It is only unethical if the employer did not give the employee proper consideration or used improper criteria for the promotion. Each employer should know the distinction between what is unethical and what is illegal. If an action is illegal it is breaking the law but if an action seems morally incorrect that is unethical. In the workplace what is unethical does not mean illegal and should follow the guidelines put in place by OSHA, EEOC, and other law binding entities.\n\nPotential employees have ethical obligations to employers, involving intellectual property protection and whistle-blowing.\n\nEmployers must consider workplace safety, which may involve modifying the workplace, or providing appropriate training or hazard disclosure. This differentiates on the location and type of work that is taking place and can needs to comply with the standards to protect employees and non-employees under workplace safety.\n\nLarger economic issues such as immigration, trade policy, globalization and trade unionism affect workplaces and have an ethical dimension, but are often beyond the purview of individual companies.\n\nTrade Unions for example, may push employers to establish due process for workers, but may also cause job loss by demanding unsustainable compensation and work rules.\n\nUnionized workplaces may confront union busting and strike breaking and face the ethical implications of work rules that advantage some workers over others.\n\nAmong the many people management strategies that companies employ are a \"soft\" approach that regards employees as a source of creative energy and participants in workplace decision making, a \"hard\" version explicitly focused on control and Theory Z that emphasizes philosophy, culture and consensus. None ensure ethical behavior. Some studies claim that sustainable success requires a humanely treated and satisfied workforce.\n\nMarketing ethics came of age only as late as the 1990s. Marketing ethics was approached from ethical perspectives of virtue or virtue ethics, deontology, consequentialism, pragmatism and relativism.\n\nEthics in marketing deals with the principles, values and/or ideals by which marketers (and marketing institutions) ought to act. Marketing ethics is also contested terrain, beyond the previously described issue of potential conflicts between profitability and other concerns.\nEthical marketing issues include marketing redundant or dangerous products/services transparency about environmental risks, transparency about product ingredients such as genetically modified organisms possible health risks, financial risks, security risks, etc., respect for consumer privacy and autonomy, advertising truthfulness and fairness in pricing & distribution.\n\nAccording to Borgerson, and Schroeder (2008), marketing can influence individuals' perceptions of and interactions with other people, implying an ethical responsibility to avoid distorting those perceptions and interactions.\n\nMarketing ethics involves pricing practices, including illegal actions such as price fixing and legal actions including price discrimination and price skimming. Certain promotional activities have drawn fire, including greenwashing, bait and switch, shilling, viral marketing, spam (electronic), pyramid schemes and multi-level marketing. Advertising has raised objections about attack ads, subliminal messages, sex in advertising and marketing in schools.\n\nBeing the most important element of a business, stakeholders' main concern is to determine whether or not the business is behaving ethically or unethically. The business' actions and decisions should be primarily ethical before it happens to become an ethical or even legal issue. \"In the case of the government, community, and society what was merely an ethical issue can become a legal debate and eventually law.\"\nSome unethical issues are:\n\n1. Fairness\nThe three aspects that motivate people to be fair is; equality, optimization, and reciprocity. Fairness is the quality of being just, equitable, and impartial.\n\n2. Misuse of company's times & Resources\nThis particular topic may not seems to be a very common one, but it is very important, as it costs a company billions of dollars on a yearly basis. This misuse is from late arrivals, leaving early, long lunch breaks, inappropriate sick days etc. This has been observed as a major form of misconduct in businesses today. One of the greatest ways employees participate in misuse of company's time and resources is by using the company computer for personal use.\n\n3. Consumer Fraud\nThere are many different types of fraud, namely; friendly fraud, return fraud, wardrobing, price arbitrage, returning stolen goods.\nFraud is a major unethical practice within businesses which should be paid special attention. Consumer fraud is when consumers attempt to deceive businesses for their very own benefit.\n\n4. Abusive Behavior\nA common ethical issue among employees. Abusive behavior consists of inflicting intimidating acts on other employees. Such acts include harassing, using profanity, threatening someone physically and insulting them, and being annoying.\n\nThis area of business ethics usually deals with the duties of a company to ensure that products and production processes do not needlessly cause harm. Since few goods and services can be produced and consumed with zero risk, determining the ethical course can be problematic. In some case consumers demand products that harm them, such as tobacco products. Production may have environmental impacts, including pollution, habitat destruction and urban sprawl. The downstream effects of technologies nuclear power, genetically modified food and mobile phones may not be well understood. While the precautionary principle may prohibit introducing new technology whose consequences are not fully understood, that principle would have prohibited most new technology introduced since the industrial revolution. Product testing protocols have been attacked for violating the rights of both humans and animals.With technology growing there are sources and websites that provide list and information on companies and business and that are \"green\" or do not test on animals. These companies often advertise this and are growing in popularity among the younger generations.\n\nThe etymological root of property is the Latin 'proprius' which refers to 'nature', 'quality', 'one's own', 'special characteristic', 'proper', 'intrinsic', 'inherent', 'regular', 'normal', 'genuine', 'thorough, complete, perfect' etc. The word property is value loaded and associated with the personal qualities of propriety and respectability, also implies questions relating to ownership. A 'proper' person owns and is true to herself or himself, and is thus genuine, perfect and pure.\n\nModern discourse on property emerged by the turn of the 17th century within theological discussions of that time. For instance, John Locke justified property rights saying that God had made \"the earth, and all inferior creatures, [in] common to all men\".\n\nIn 1802 Utilitarian Jeremy Bentham stated, \"property and law are born together and die together\".\n\nOne argument for property ownership is that it enhances individual liberty by extending the line of non-interference by the state or others around the person. Seen from this perspective, property right is absolute and property has a special and distinctive character that precedes its legal protection. Blackstone conceptualized property as the \"sole and despotic dominion which one man claims and exercises over the external things of the world, in total exclusion of the right of any other individual in the universe\".\n\nDuring the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, slavery spread to European colonies including America, where colonial legislatures defined the legal status of slaves as a form of property. During this time settlers began the centuries-long process of dispossessing the natives of America of millions of acres of land. The natives lost about of land in the Louisiana Territory under the leadership of Thomas Jefferson, who championed property rights.\n\nCombined with theological justification, property was taken to be essentially natural ordained by God. Property, which later gained meaning as ownership and appeared natural to Locke, Jefferson and to many of the 18th and 19th century intellectuals as land, labour or idea and property right over slaves had the same theological and essentialized justification It was even held that the property in slaves was a sacred right. Wiecek noted, \"slavery was more clearly and explicitly established under the Constitution as it had been under the Articles\". Accordingly, US Supreme Court Chief Justice Roger B. Taney in his 1857 judgment stated, \"The right of property in a slave is distinctly and expressly affirmed in the Constitution\".\n\nNeoliberals hold that private property rights are a non-negotiable natural right. Davies counters with \"property is no different from other legal categories in that it is simply a consequence of the significance attached by law to the relationships between legal persons.\" Singer claims, \"Property is a form of power, and the distribution of power is a political problem of the highest order\". Rose finds, \"'Property' is only an effect, a construction, of relationships between people, meaning that its objective character is contestable. Persons and things, are 'constituted' or 'fabricated' by legal and other normative techniques.\". Singer observes, \"A private property regime is not, after all, a Hobbesian state of nature; it requires a working legal system that can define, allocate, and enforce property rights.\" Davis claims that common law theory generally favors the view that \"property is not essentially a 'right to a thing', but rather a separable bundle of rights subsisting between persons which may vary according to the context and the object which is at stake\".\n\nIn common parlance property rights involve a 'bundle of rights' including occupancy, use and enjoyment, and the right to sell, devise, give, or lease all or part of these rights. Custodians of property have obligations as well as rights. Michelman writes, \"A property regime thus depends on a great deal of cooperation, trustworthiness, and self-restraint among the people who enjoy it.\"\n\nMenon claims that the autonomous individual, responsible for his/her own existence is a cultural construct moulded by Western culture rather than the truth about the human condition. Penner views property as an \"illusion\"—a \"normative phantasm\" without substance.\n\nIn the neoliberal literature, property is part of the private side of a public/private dichotomy and acts a counterweight to state power. Davies counters that \"any space may be subject to plural meanings or appropriations which do not necessarily come into conflict\".\n\nPrivate property has never been a universal doctrine, although since the end of the Cold War is it has become nearly so. Some societies, e.g., Native American bands, held land, if not all property, in common. When groups came into conflict, the victor often appropriated the loser's property. The rights paradigm tended to stabilize the distribution of property holdings on the presumption that title had been lawfully acquired.\n\nProperty does not exist in isolation, and so property rights too. Bryan claimed that property rights describe relations among people and not just relations between people and things Singer holds that the idea that owners have no legal obligations to others wrongly supposes that property rights hardly ever conflict with other legally protected interests. Singer continues implying that legal realists \"did not take the character and structure of social relations as an important independent factor in choosing the rules that govern market life\". Ethics of property rights begins with recognizing the vacuous nature of the notion of property.\n\nIntellectual property (IP) encompasses expressions of ideas, thoughts, codes and information. \"Intellectual property rights\" (IPR) treat IP as a kind of real property, subject to analogous protections, rather than as a reproducible good or service. Boldrin and Levine argue that \"government does not ordinarily enforce monopolies for producers of other goods. This is because it is widely recognized that monopoly creates many social costs. Intellectual monopoly is no different in this respect. The question we address is whether it also, creates social benefits commensurate with these social costs.\"\n\nInternational standards relating to Intellectual Property Rights are enforced through Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. In the US, IP other than copyrights is regulated by the United States Patent and Trademark Office.\n\nThe US Constitution included the power to protect intellectual property, empowering the Federal government \"to promote the progress of science and useful arts, by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries\". Boldrin and Levine see no value in such state-enforced monopolies stating, \"we ordinarily think of innovative monopoly as an oxymoron. Further they comment, 'intellectual property' \"is not like ordinary property at all, but constitutes a government grant of a costly and dangerous private monopoly over ideas. We show through theory and example that intellectual monopoly is not necessary for innovation and as a practical matter is damaging to growth, prosperity, and liberty\". Steelman defends patent monopolies, writing, \"Consider prescription drugs, for instance. Such drugs have benefited millions of people, improving or extending their lives. Patent protection enables drug companies to recoup their development costs because for a specific period of time they have the sole right to manufacture and distribute the products they have invented.\" The court cases by 39 pharmaceutical companies against South Africa's 1997 Medicines and Related Substances Control Amendment Act, which intended to provide affordable HIV medicines has been cited as a harmful effect of patents.\n\nOne attack on IPR is moral rather than utilitarian, claiming that inventions are mostly a collective, cumulative, path dependent, social creation and therefore, no one person or firm should be able to monopolize them even for a limited period. The opposing argument is that the benefits of innovation arrive sooner when patents encourage innovators and their investors to increase their commitments. Roderick Long, a libertarian philosopher, observes, \"Ethically, property rights of any kind have to be justified as extensions of the right of individuals to control their own lives. Thus any alleged property rights that conflict with this moral basis—like the \"right\" to own slaves—are invalidated. In my judgment, intellectual property rights also fail to pass this test. To enforce copyright laws and the like is to prevent people from making peaceful use of the information they possess. If you have acquired the information legitimately (say, by buying a book), then on what grounds can you be prevented from using it, reproducing it, trading it? Is this not a violation of the freedom of speech and press? It may be objected that the person who originated the information deserves ownership rights over it. But information is not a concrete thing an individual can control; it is a universal, existing in other people's minds and other people's property, and over these the originator has no legitimate sovereignty. You cannot own information without owning other people\". Machlup concluded that patents do not have the intended effect of enhancing innovation. Self-declared anarchist Proudhon, in his 1847 seminal work noted, \"Monopoly is the natural opposite of competition,\" and continued, \"Competition is the vital force which animates the collective being: to destroy it, if such a supposition were possible, would be to kill society\"\n\nMindeli and Pipiya hold that the knowledge economy is an economy of abundance because it relies on the \"infinite potential\" of knowledge and ideas rather than on the limited resources of natural resources, labor and capital. Allison envisioned an egalitarian distribution of knowledge. Kinsella claims that IPR create artificial scarcity and reduce equality. Bouckaert wrote, \"Natural scarcity is that which follows from the relationship between man and nature. Scarcity is natural when it is possible to conceive of it before any human, institutional, contractual arrangement. Artificial scarcity, on the other hand, is the outcome of such arrangements. Artificial scarcity can hardly serve as a justification for the legal framework that causes that scarcity. Such an argument would be completely circular. On the contrary, artificial scarcity itself needs a justification\" Corporations fund much IP creation and can acquire IP they do not create, to which Menon and others object. Andersen claims that IPR has increasingly become an instrument in eroding public domain.\n\nEthical and legal issues include: Patent infringement, copyright infringement, trademark infringement, patent and copyright misuse, submarine patents, biological patents, patent, copyright and trademark trolling, Employee raiding and monopolizing talent, Bioprospecting, biopiracy and industrial espionage, digital rights management.\n\nNotable IP copyright cases include Napster, Eldred v. Ashcroft and Air Pirates.\n\nWhile business ethics emerged as a field in the 1970s, international business ethics did not emerge until the late 1990s, looking back on the international developments of that decade. Many new practical issues arose out of the international context of business. Theoretical issues such as cultural relativity of ethical values receive more emphasis in this field. Other, older issues can be grouped here as well. Issues and subfields include:\n\nThe success of any business depends on its financial performance. Financial accounting helps the management to report and also, control the business performance.\n\nThe information regarding the financial performance of the company plays an important role in enabling people to take right decision about the company. Therefore, it becomes necessary to understand how to record based on accounting conventions and concepts ensure unambling and accurate records.\n\nForeign countries often use dumping as a competitive threat, selling products at prices lower than their normal value. This can lead to problems in domestic markets. It becomes difficult for these markets to compete with the pricing set by foreign markets. In 2009, the International Trade Commission has been researching anti-dumping laws. Dumping is often seen as an ethical issue, as larger companies are taking advantage of other less economically advanced companies.\n\nEthical issues often arise in business settings, whether through business transactions or forming new business relationships. An ethical issue in a business atmosphere may refer to any situation that requires business associates as individuals, or as a group (for example, a department or firm) to evaluate the morality of specific actions, and subsequently make a decision amongst the choices. Some ethical issues of particular concern in today's evolving business market include such topics as: honesty, integrity, professional behaviors, environmental issues, harassment, and fraud to name a few. It is integral to the success of an organization that ethics issues such as these be properly addressed and resolved. Businesses should strive to educate themselves on these issues, and ethical practices in general. From a 2009 National Business Ethics survey, it was found that types of employee-observed ethical misconduct included abusive behavior (at a rate of 22 percent), discrimination (at a rate of 14 percent), improper hiring practices (at a rate of 10 percent), and company resource abuse (at a rate of percent).\n\nThe ethical issues associated with honesty are widespread and vary greatly in business, from the misuse of company time or resources to lying with malicious intent, engaging in bribery, or creating conflicts of interest within an organization. Honesty encompasses wholly the truthful speech and actions of an individual. Some cultures and belief systems even consider honesty to be an essential pillar of life, such as Confucianism and Buddhism (referred to as sacca, part of the Four Noble Truths). Many employees lie in order to reach goals, avoid assignments or negative issues; however, sacrificing honesty in order to gain status or reap rewards poses potential problems for the overall ethical culture organization, and jeopardizes organizational goals in the long run. Using company time or resources for personal use is also, commonly viewed as unethical because it boils down to stealing from the company. The misuse of resources costs companies billions of dollars each year, averaging about 4.25 hours per week of stolen time alone, and employees' abuse of Internet services is another main concern. Bribery, on the other hand, is not only considered unethical is business practices, but it is also illegal. In accordance with this, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act was established in 1977 to deter international businesses from giving or receiving unwarranted payments and gifts that were intended to influence the decisions of executives and political officials. Although, small payments known as facilitation payments will not be considered unlawful under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act if they are used towards regular public governance activities, such as permits or licenses.\n\nMany aspects in the work environment influence an individual's decision-making regarding ethics in the business world. When an individual is on the path of growing a company, many outside influences can pressure them to perform a certain way. The core of the person's performance in the workplace is rooted by their personal code of behavior. A person's personal code of ethics encompasses many different qualities such as integrity, honesty, communication, respect, compassion, and common goals. In addition, the ethical standards set forth by a person's superior(s) often translate into their own code of ethics. The company's policy is the 'umbrella' of ethics that play a major role in the personal development and decision-making processes that people make in respects to ethical behavior.\n\nThe ethics of a company and its' individuals are heavily influenced by the state of their country. If a country is heavily plagued with poverty, large corporations continuously grow, but smaller companies begin to wither, and are then forced to adapt and scavenge for any method of survival. As a result, the leadership of the company is often tempted to participate in unethical methods to obtain new business opportunities. Additionally, Social Media is arguably the most influential factor in ethics. The immediate access to so much information and the opinions of millions highly influence people's behaviors. The desire to confirm with what is portrayed as the norm often manipulates our idea of what is morally and ethically sound. Popular trends on social media and the instant gratification that is received from participating in such quickly distort people's ideas and decisions.\n\nPolitical economy and political philosophy have ethical implications, particularly regarding the distribution of economic benefits. John Rawls and Robert Nozick are both notable contributors. For example, Rawls has been interpreted as offering a critique of offshore outsourcing on social contract grounds, whereas Nozick's libertarian philosophy rejects the notion of any positive corporate social obligation.\n\n“Laws” are the written statutes, codes, and opinions of government organizations by which citizens, businesses, and persons present within a jurisdiction are expected to govern themselves or face legal sanction. Sanctions for violating the law can include (a) civil penalties, such as fines, pecuniary damages, and loss of licenses, property, rights, or privileges; (b) criminal penalties, such as fines, probation, imprisonment, or a combination thereof; or (c) both civil and criminal penalties.\n\nVery often it is held that business is not bound by any ethics other than abiding by the law. Milton Friedman is the pioneer of the view. He held that corporations have the obligation to make a profit within the framework of the legal system, nothing more. Friedman made it explicit that the duty of the business leaders is, \"to make as much money as possible while conforming to the basic rules of the society, both those embodied in the law and those embodied in ethical custom\". Ethics for Friedman is nothing more than abiding by 'customs' and 'laws'. The reduction of ethics to abidance to laws and customs however have drawn serious criticisms.\n\nCounter to Friedman's logic it is observed that legal procedures are technocratic, bureaucratic, rigid and obligatory where as ethical act is conscientious, voluntary choice beyond normativity. Law is retroactive. Crime precedes law. Law against a crime, to be passed, the crime must have happened. Laws are blind to the crimes undefined in it. Further, as per law, \"conduct is not criminal unless forbidden by law which gives advance warning that such conduct is criminal\". Also, law presumes the accused is innocent until proven guilty and that the state must establish the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt. As per liberal laws followed in most of the democracies, until the government prosecutor proves the firm guilty with the limited resources available to her, the accused is considered to be innocent. Though the liberal premises of law is necessary to protect individuals from being persecuted by Government, it is not a sufficient mechanism to make firms morally accountable.\n\nAs part of more comprehensive compliance and ethics programs, many companies have formulated internal policies pertaining to the ethical conduct of employees. These policies can be simple exhortations in broad, highly generalized language (typically called a corporate ethics statement), or they can be more detailed policies, containing specific behavioural requirements (typically called corporate ethics codes). They are generally meant to identify the company's expectations of workers and to offer guidance on handling some of the more common ethical problems that might arise in the course of doing business. It is hoped that having such a policy will lead to greater ethical awareness, consistency in application, and the avoidance of ethical disasters.\n\nAn increasing number of companies also require employees to attend seminars regarding business conduct, which often include discussion of the company's policies, specific case studies, and legal requirements. Some companies even require their employees to sign agreements stating that they will abide by the company's rules of conduct.\n\nMany companies are assessing the environmental factors that can lead employees to engage in unethical conduct. A competitive business environment may call for unethical behaviour. Lying has become expected in fields such as trading. An example of this are the issues surrounding the unethical actions of the Salomon Brothers.\n\nNot everyone supports corporate policies that govern ethical conduct. Some claim that ethical problems are better dealt with by depending upon employees to use their own judgment.\n\nOthers believe that corporate ethics policies are primarily rooted in utilitarian concerns, and that they are mainly to limit the company's legal liability, or to curry public favour by giving the appearance of being a good corporate citizen. Ideally, the company will avoid a lawsuit because its employees will follow the rules. Should a lawsuit occur, the company can claim that the problem would not have arisen if the employee had only followed the code properly.\n\nSometimes there is disconnection between the company's code of ethics and the company's actual practices. Thus, whether or not such conduct is explicitly sanctioned by management, at worst, this makes the policy duplicitous, and, at best, it is merely a marketing tool.\n\nJones and Parker write, \"Most of what we read under the name business ethics is either sentimental common sense, or a set of excuses for being unpleasant.\" Many manuals are procedural form filling exercises unconcerned about the real ethical dilemmas. For instance, US Department of Commerce ethics program treats business ethics as a set of instructions and procedures to be followed by 'ethics officers'., some others claim being ethical is just for the sake of being ethical. Business ethicists may trivialize the subject, offering standard answers that do not reflect the situation's complexity.\n\nAuthor of 'Business Ethics,' Richard DeGeorge writes in regard to the importance of maintaining a corporate code, \"Corporate codes have a certain usefulness and there are several advantages to developing them. First, the very exercise of doing so in itself is worthwhile, especially if it forces a large number of people in the firm to think through, in a fresh way, their mission and the important obligations they as a group and as individuals have to the firm, to each other, to their clients and customers, and to society as a whole. Second, once adopted a code can be used to generate continuing discussion and possible modification to the code. Third, it could help to inculcate in new employees at all levels the perspective of responsibility, the need to think in moral terms about their actions, and the importance of developing the virtues appropriate to their position.\"\n\nFollowing a series of fraud, corruption, and abuse scandals that affected the United States defense industry in the mid-1980s, the Defense Industry Initiative (DII) was created to promote ethical business practices and ethics management in multiple industries. Subsequent to these scandals, many organizations began appointing ethics officers (also referred to as \"compliance\" officers). In 1991, the Ethics & Compliance Officer Association (ECOA)—originally the Ethics Officer Association (EOA)—was founded at the Center for Business Ethics at Bentley University as a professional association for ethics and compliance officers.\n\nThe 1991 passing of the Federal Sentencing Guidelines for Organizations in 1991 was another factor in many companies appointing ethics/compliance officers. These guidelines, intended to assist judges with sentencing, set standards organizations must follow to obtain a reduction in sentence if they should be convicted of a federal offense.\n\nFollowing the high-profile corporate scandals of companies like Enron, WorldCom and Tyco between 2001 and 2004, and following the passage of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act, many small and mid-sized companies also began to appoint ethics officers.\n\nOften reporting to the Chief Executive Officer, ethics officers focus on uncovering or preventing unethical and illegal actions. This is accomplished by assessing the ethical implications of the company's activities, making recommendations on ethical policies, and disseminating information to employees.\n\nThe effectiveness of ethics officers is not clear. The establishment of an ethics officer position is likely to be insufficient in driving ethical business practices without a corporate culture that values ethical behavior. These values and behaviors should be consistently and systemically supported by those at the top of the organization. Employees with strong community involvement, loyalty to employers, superiors or owners, smart work practices, trust among the team members do inculcate a corporate culture\n\nMany corporate and business strategies now include sustainability. In addition to the traditional environmental 'green' sustainability concerns, business ethics practices have expanded to include social sustainability. Social sustainability focuses on issues related to human capital in the business supply chain, such as worker's rights, working conditions, child labor, and human trafficking. Incorporation of these considerations is increasing, as consumers and procurement officials demand documentation of a business' compliance with national and international initiatives, guidelines, and standards. Many industries have organizations dedicated to verifying ethical delivery of products from start to finish, such as the Kimberly Process, which aims to stop the flow of conflict diamonds into international markets, or the Fair Wear Foundation, dedicated to sustainability and fairness in the garment industry.\n\nAs mentioned, initiatives in sustainability encompass “green” topics, as well as social sustainability. There are however many different ways in which sustainability initiatives can be implemented in a company.\n\nImproving Operations: Perhaps the most evident manner in which an organization can implement sustainability initiatives is by improving its operations and manufacturing’s process so as to make it more aligned with environment, social, and governance issues. Johnson & Johnson incorporates policies from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, applying these principles not only for members of its supply chain but also internal operations. Walmart has made commitments to doubling its truck fleet efficiency by 2015 by replacing 2/3rds of its fleet with more fuel-efficient trucks, including hybrids. Dell has integrated alternative, recycled, and recyclable materials in its products and packaging design, improving energy efficiency and design for end-of-life and recyclability. Dell plans to reduce the energy intensity of its product portfolio by 80% by 2020.\n\nBoard Leadership: The board of a company can decide to lower executive compensation by a given percentage, and give the percentage of compensation to a specific cause. This is an effort which can only be implemented from the top, as it will affect the compensation of all executives in the company. In Alcoa, an aluminum company based in the USA, “1/5th of executive cash compensation is tied to safety, diversity, and environmental stewardship, which includes greenhouse gas emission reductions and energy efficiency” (Best Practices). This is not usually the case for most companies, where we see the board take a uniform step towards environment, social, and governance issues. This is only the case for companies that are directly linked to utilities, energy, or material industries, something which Alcoa as an aluminum company, falls in line with. Instead, formal committees focused on environment, social, and governance issues are more usually seen in governance committees and audit committees, rather than the board of directors. “According to research analysis done by Pearl Meyer in support of the NACD 2017 Director Compensation Report shows that among 1,400 public companies reviewed, only slightly more than five percent of boards have a designated committee to address ESG issues.” (How compensation can).\n\nManagement Accountability: Similar to board leadership, creating steering committees and other types of committees specialized for sustainability, senior executives are identified who are held accountable for meeting and constantly improving sustainability goals.\n\nExecutive compensation: Introducing bonus schemes that reward executives for meeting non-financial performance goals including safety targets, greenhouse gas emissions, reduction targets, and goals engaging stakeholders to help shape the companies public policy positions. Companies such as Exelon have implemented policies like this.\n\nStakeholder Engagement: Other companies will keep sustainability within its strategy and goals, presenting findings at shareholder meetings, and actively tracking metrics on sustainability. Companies such as PepsiCo, Heineken, and FIFCO take steps in this direction to implement sustainability initiatives. (Best Practices). Companies such as Coca-Cola have actively tried improve their efficiency of water usage, hiring 3rd party auditors to evaluate their water management approach. FIFCO has also led successfully led water-management initiatives.\n\nEmployee Engagement: Implementation of sustainability projects through directly appealing to employees (typically through the human resource department) is another option for companies to implement sustainability. This involves integrating sustainability into the company culture, with hiring practices and employee training. General Electric is a company that is taking the lead in implementing initiatives in this manner. Bank of America directly engaged employees by implement LEED (leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certified buildings, with a fifth of its building meeting these certifications.\n\nSupply chain management: Establishing requirements for not only internal operations but also first-tier suppliers as well as second-tier suppliers to help drive environmental and social expectations further down the supply chain. Companies such as Starbucks, FIFCO and Ford Motor Company have implemented requirements that suppliers must meet to win their business. Starbucks has led efforts in engaging suppliers and local communities where they operate to accelerate investment in sustainable farming. Starbucks set a goal of ethically sourcing 100% of its coffee beans by 2015.\n\nReleasing Studies, Insights, Best Practices and Findings: By revealing decision making data about how sustainability was reached, companies are giving away insights that can help others across the industry and beyond make more sustainable decisions. Nike launched its “making app” in 2013 which released data about the sustainability in the materials it was using. This ultimately allows other companies to make more sustainable design decisions and create lower impact products.\n\nAs an academic discipline, business ethics emerged in the 1970s. Since no academic business ethics journals or conferences existed, researchers published in general management journals, and attended general conferences. Over time, specialized peer-reviewed journals appeared, and more researchers entered the field. Corporate scandals in the earlier 2000s increased the field's popularity. As of 2009, sixteen academic journals devoted to various business ethics issues existed, with Journal of Business Ethics and Business Ethics Quarterly considered the leaders.\n\nThe International Business Development Institute is a global non-profit organization that represents 217 nations and all 50 United States. It offers a Charter in Business Development that focuses on ethical business practices and standards. The Charter is directed by Harvard, MIT, and Fulbright Scholars, and it includes graduate-level coursework in economics, politics, marketing, management, technology, and legal aspects of business development as it pertains to business ethics. IBDI also oversees the International Business Development Institute of Asia which provides individuals living in 20 Asian nations the opportunity to earn the Charter.\n\nIn Sharia law, followed by many Muslims, banking specifically prohibits charging interest on loans. Traditional Confucian thought discourages profit-seeking. Christianity offers the Golden Rule command, \"Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets.\"\nAccording to the article \"Theory of the real economy\", there is a more narrow point of view from the Christianity faith towards the relationship between ethics and religious traditions. This article stresses about how Christianity is capable of establishing reliable boundaries for financial institutions. One criticism comes from Pope Benedict by describing the \"damaging effects of the real economy of badly managed and largely speculative financial dealing.\" It is mentioned that Christianity has the potential to transform the nature of finance and investment but only if theologians and ethicist provide more evidence of what is real in the economic life. Business ethics receives an extensive treatment in Jewish thought and Rabbinic literature, both from an ethical (\"Mussar\") and a legal (\"Halakha\") perspective; see article \"Jewish business ethics\" for further discussion.\nAccording to the article \"Indian Philosophy and Business Ethics: A Review\", by Chandrani Chattopadyay, Hindus follow \"Dharma\" as Business Ethics and unethical business practices are termed \"Adharma\". Business men are supposed to maintain steady-mindedness, self-purification, non-violence, concentration, charity and control over senses. Books like Bhagavat Gita and Arthashastra contribute a lot towards conduct of ethical business.\n\nBusiness ethics is part of the philosophy of economics, the branch of philosophy that deals with the philosophical, political, and ethical underpinnings of business and economics. Business ethics operates on the premise, for example, that the ethical operation of a private business is possible—those who dispute that premise, such as libertarian socialists, (who contend that \"business ethics\" is an oxymoron) do so by definition outside of the domain of business ethics proper.\n\nThe philosophy of economics also deals with questions such as what, if any, are the social responsibilities of a business; business management theory; theories of individualism vs. collectivism; free will among participants in the marketplace; the role of self interest; invisible hand theories; the requirements of social justice; and natural rights, especially property rights, in relation to the business enterprise.\n\nBusiness ethics is also related to political economy, which is economic analysis from political and historical perspectives. Political economy deals with the distributive consequences of economic actions.\n\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tirukku%E1%B9%9Ba%E1%B8%B7\n\n"}
{"id": "3176153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3176153", "title": "Chief Happiness Officer", "text": "Chief Happiness Officer\n\nThe Chief Happiness Officer (CHO) in a company is the manager of workers' happiness. Probably originating in North America, CHO posts are being created in European and UK companies to ensure workers' welfare needs are met.\n\n"}
{"id": "4735552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4735552", "title": "Context analysis", "text": "Context analysis\n\nContext analysis is a method to analyze the environment in which a business operates. Environmental scanning mainly focuses on the macro environment of a business. But context analysis considers the entire environment of a business, its internal and external environment. This is an important aspect of business planning. One kind of context analysis, called SWOT analysis, allows the business to gain an insight into their strengths and weaknesses and also the opportunities and threats posed by the market within which they operate. The main goal of a context analysis, SWOT or otherwise, is to analyze the environment in order to develop a strategic plan of action for the business.\n\nContext analysis also refers to a method of sociological analysis associated with Scheflen (1963) which believes that 'a given act, be it a glance at [another] person, a shift in posture, or a remark about the weather, has no intrinsic meaning. Such acts can only be understood when taken in relation to one another.' (Kendon, 1990: 16). This is not discussed here; only Context Analysis in the business sense is.\n\nThe first step of the method is to define a particular market (or subject) one wishes to analyze and focus all analysis techniques on what was defined. A subject, for example, can be a newly proposed product idea.1\n\nThe next step of the method is to conduct a trend analysis. Trend analysis is an analysis of macro environmental factors in the external environment of a business, also called PEST analysis. It consists of analyzing political, economical, social, technological and demographic trends. This can be done by first determining which factors, on each level, are relevant for the chosen subject and to score each item as to specify its importance. This allows the business to identify those factors that can influence them. They can’t control these factors but they can try to cope with them by adapting themselves. The trends (factors) that are addressed in PEST analysis are Political, Economical, Social and Technological; but for context analysis Demographic trends are also of importance. Demographic trends are those factors that have to do with the population, like for example average age, religion, education etc. Demographic information is of importance if, for example during market research, a business wants to determine a particular market segment to target. The other trends are described in environmental scanning and PEST analysis. Trend analysis only covers part of the external environment. Another important aspect of the external environment that a business should consider is its competition. This is the next step of the method, competitor analysis.\n\nAs one can imagine, it is important for a business to know who its competition is, how they do their business and how powerful they are so that they can be on the defense and offense. In Competitor analysis a couple of techniques are introduced how to conduct such an analysis. Here I will introduce another technique which involves conducting four sub analyses, namely: determination of competition levels, competitive forces, competitor behavior and competitor strategy. \n\nBusinesses compete on several levels and it is important for them to analyze these levels so that they can understand the demand. Competition is identified on four levels:\nAnother important aspect of a competition analysis is to increase the consumer insight. For example: [Ducati] has, by interviewing a lot of their customers, concluded that their main competitor is not another bicycle, but sport-cars like [Porsche] or [GM]. This will of course influence the competition level within this business.\n\nThese are forces that determine the level of competition within a particular market. There are six forces that have to be taken into consideration, power of the competition, threat of new entrants, bargaining power of buyers and suppliers, threat of substitute products and the importance of complementary products. This analysis is described in Porter 5 forces analysis.\nCompetitor behaviors are the defensive and offensive actions of the competition.\n\nThese strategies refer to how an organization competes with other organizations. And these are: low price strategy and product differentiation strategy.\n\nThe next step, after the trend analysis and competitor analysis are conducted, is to determine threats and opportunities posed by the market. The trends analysis revealed a set of trends that can influence the business in either a positive or a negative manner. These can thus be classified as either opportunities or threats. Likewise, the competitor analysis revealed positive and negative competition issues that can be classified as opportunities or threats.\nThe last phase of the method is an analysis of the internal environment of the organization, thus the organization itself. The aim is to determine which skills, knowledge and technological fortes the business possesses. This entails conducting an internal analysis and a competence analysis.\n\nThe internal analysis, also called SWOT analysis, involves identifying the organizations strengths and weaknesses. The strengths refer to factors that can result in a market advantage and weaknesses to factors that give a disadvantage because the business is unable to comply with the market needs. \nCompetences are the combination of a business’ knowledge, skills and technology that can give them the edge versus the competition. Conducting such an analysis involves identifying market related competences, integrity related competences and functional related competences.\n\nThe previous sections described the major steps involved in context analysis. All these steps resulted in data that can be used for developing a strategy. These are summarized in a SWOT-i matrix. The trend and competitor analysis revealed the opportunities and threats posed by the market. The organization analysis revealed the competences of the organization and also its strengths and weaknesses. These strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats summarize the entire context analysis. A SWOT-i matrix, depicted in the table below, is used to depict these and to help visualize the strategies that are to be devised. SWOT- i stand for Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, Threats and Issues. The Issues refer to strategic issues that will be used to devise a strategic plan. \n\nThis matrix combines the strengths with the opportunities and threats, and the weaknesses with the opportunities and threats that were identified during the analysis. Thus the matrix reveals four clusters:\n\nThe ultimate goal of context analysis is to develop a strategic plan. The previous sections described all the steps that form the stepping stones to developing a strategic plan of action for the organization .The trend and competitor analysis gives insight to the opportunities and threats in the market and the internal analysis gives insight to the competences of the organization. And these were combined in the SWOT-i matrix. The SWOT-i matrix helps identify issues that need to be dealt with. These issues need to be resolved by formulating an objective and a plan to reach that objective, a strategy.\n\nJoe Arden is in the process of writing a business plan for his business idea, Arden Systems. Arden Systems will be a software business that focuses on the development of software for small businesses. Joe realizes that this is a tough market because there are many software companies that develop business software. Therefore, he conducts context analysis to gain insight into the environment of the business in order to develop a strategic plan of action to achieve competitive advantage within the market.\n\nFirst step is to define a market for analysis. Joe decides that he wants to focus on small businesses consisting of at most 20 employees.\nNext step is to conduct trend analysis. The macro environmental factors that Joe should take into consideration are as follows:\n\nFollowing trend analysis is competitor analysis. Joe analyzes the competition on four levels to gain insight into how they operate and where advantages lie.\n\nNow that Joe has analyzed the competition and the trends in the market he can define opportunities and threats. \nAfter Joe has identified the opportunities and threats of the market he can try to figure out what Arden System's strengths and weaknesses are by doing an organization analysis.\n\nAfter the previous analyses, Joe can create a SWOT-i matrix to perform SWOT analysis.\nAfter creating the SWOT-i matrix, Joe is now able to devise a strategic plan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9810095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9810095", "title": "Convention of conservatism", "text": "Convention of conservatism\n\nIn accounting, the convention of conservatism, also known as the doctrine of prudence, is a policy of anticipating possible future losses but not future gains. This policy tends to understate rather than overstate net assets and net income, and therefore lead companies to . When given a choice between several outcomes where the probabilities of occurrence are equally likely, you should recognize that transaction resulting in the lower amount of profit, or at least the deferral of a profit. .\nIn accounting, it states that when choosing between two solutions, the one that will be least likely to overstate assets and income should be selected. Essentially, \"expected losses are losses but expected gains are not gains\".\n\nThe conservatism principle is the foundation for the lower of cost or market rule, which states that you should record inventory at the lower of either its acquisition cost or its current market value.\n\nConservatism plays an important role in a number of accounting rules, including the allowance for doubtful debts and the lower of cost or market rule.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "234835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234835", "title": "Corporate development", "text": "Corporate development\n\nCorporate development refers to the planning and execution of strategies to meet organizational objectives. The kinds of activities falling under corporate development may include management team recruitment, phasing in or out of markets or products, arranging strategic alliances, identifying and acquiring companies (M&A), securing corporate financing, divesting of assets or divisions, and management of intellectual property. The activities encompassed are often the role of the CEO. \n\nCorporate strategy depends on the circumstances of a company and the area where development is desired. Corporate development is usually a process that takes place over an extended period of time and may be adjusted or refined as the project moves forward\n\nOne of the manifestations of corporate development has to do with reshaping the management arm of the corporation. This may involve a process of phasing certain management positions out of the existing structure or creating new positions in an effort to strengthen the management team. As part of this type of approach, corporate development may also demand that one or more current managers are released from the company and replaced with people who possess skills required to move the company forward. When this is the case, the corporate development team will handle the functions of recruitment and evaluation of potential hires.\n\nThe process of corporate development can also be applied to the task of growing the company through mergers and acquisitions. In this scenario, the project development will involve identifying potential target companies for acquisitions or unions resulting in a new and more aggressive corporation. The team will consider all possible outcomes from any given potential merger or acquisition and attempt to project if the action is likely to result in positive growth or could possibly impair the company permanently.\n\nJust as a management team may be revamped, corporate development may also be employed to change the current focus for clients. This may mean looking into the potential for breaking into new markets with existing products or developing complementary products that will allow this type of expansion. Corporate development strategy would monitor the trends associated with a corporation's products or services and helps the corporation establish strategies to find more customers. In addition, corporate development works to maximize the profits of a corporation by figuring out the appropriate pricing for a given good or service. A corporate development team also leads discussions with sales department heads regarding how to market corporate goods, organize marketing campaigns, analyze market research and incorporate any customer advice or complaints into marketing strategies in such cases; extensive industry specific business experience is often preferred which is why companies may hire an external firm to help them engage in such moves.\n\nDepending on the status of the base market, corporate development may also look at shifting away from a shrinking consumer market while seeking market share in a different consumer market with newer products. For example, many typewriter manufacturers during the 1980s and 1990s slowly phased out their core business and began to focus more on computer parts and accessories as a way to continue operations.\n\nParticularly in larger companies, corporate development is provided as a charter for a particular executive or team. In these cases, the opportunities and initiatives are numerous enough to justify specialists, instead of being delegated to the office of the CEO and line of business executives. When focused on product or financial issues, corporate development executives often have MBA, CFA or CPA credentials. Often the internal corporate development executives come from a legal or investment banking background, due to the complex contractual and valuation issues associated with many transactions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4844867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4844867", "title": "Custom house", "text": "Custom house\n\nA custom house or customs house was a building housing the offices for the government officials who processed the paperwork associated with importing and exporting goods into and out of a country. Customs officials also collected customs duty on imported goods.\n\nThe custom house was typically located in a seaport or in a city on a major river, with access to the ocean. These cities acted as a port of entry into a country. The government stationed officials at such locations to collect taxes and regulate commerce.\n\nDue to advances in electronic information systems, the increased volume of international trade, and the introduction of air travel, the term \"custom house\" is now often an historical anachronism. There are many examples of buildings around the world that were formerly used as custom houses but have since been converted for other uses, such as museums or civic buildings.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, since 1386, the phrase \"custom house\" has been in use over the term \"customs house\". This was after a \"Custom House\" was erected at Wool Wharf in Tower Ward, to contain just the officials of the Great Custom on Wool and Woolfells. The singular form was used even though in later years the Custom House was the location of other Customs officials as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4166591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4166591", "title": "Dashboard (business)", "text": "Dashboard (business)\n\nDashboards often provide at-a-glance views of key performance indicators (KPIs) relevant to a particular objective or business process. In the other, \"dashboard\" has another name for \"progress report\" or \"report.\"\n\nThe \"dashboard\" is often displayed on a web page which is linked to a database that allows the report to be constantly updated. For example, a manufacturing dashboard may show numbers related to productivity such as number of parts manufactured, or number of failed quality inspections per hour. Similarly, a human resources dashboard may show numbers related to staff recruitment, retention and composition, for example number of open positions, or average days or cost per recruitment.\n\nThe term dashboard originates from the automobile dashboard where drivers monitor the major functions at a glance via the instrument cluster.\n\nDigital dashboards allow managers to monitor the contribution of the various departments in their organization. To gauge exactly how well an organization is performing overall, digital dashboards allow you to capture and report specific data points from each department within the organization, thus providing a \"snapshot\" of performance.\n\nBenefits of using digital dashboards include:\n\nDashboards can be broken down according to role and are either strategic, analytical, operational, or informational. Strategic dashboards support managers at any level in an organization, and provide the quick overview that decision makers need to monitor the health and opportunities of the business. Dashboards of this type focus on high level measures of performance, and forecasts. Strategic dashboards benefit from static snapshots of data (daily, weekly, monthly, and quarterly) that are not constantly changing from one moment to the next. Dashboards for analytical purposes often include more context, comparisons, and history, along with subtler performance evaluators. Analytical dashboards typically support interactions with the data, such as drilling down into the underlying details. Dashboards for monitoring operations are often designed differently from those that support strategic decision making or data analysis and often require monitoring of activities and events that are constantly changing and might require attention and response at a moment's notice.\n\nDigital dashboards may be laid out to track the flows inherent in the business processes that they monitor. Graphically, users may see the high-level processes and then drill down into low level data. This level of detail is often buried deep within the corporate enterprise and otherwise unavailable to the senior executives.\n\nThree main types of digital dashboard dominate the market today: stand alone software applications, web-browser based applications, and desktop applications also known as desktop widgets. The last are driven by a widget engine.\n\nSpecialized dashboards may track all corporate functions. Examples include human resources, recruiting, sales, operations, security, information technology, project management, customer relationship management and many more departmental dashboards. For a smaller organization like a startup a compact startup scorecard dashboard tracks important activities across lot of domains ranging from social media to sales.\n\nDigital dashboard projects involve business units as the driver and the information technology department as the enabler. The success of digital dashboard projects often depends on the metrics that were chosen for monitoring. Key performance indicators, balanced scorecards, and sales performance figures are some of the content appropriate on business dashboards.\n\nBalanced Scoreboards and Dashboards have been linked together as if they were interchangeable. However, although both visually display critical information, the difference is in the format: Scoreboards can open the quality of an operation while dashboards provide calculated direction. \nA balanced scoreboard has what they called a \"prescriptive\" format. It should always contain these components (Active Strategy)...\nEach of these sections ensures that a Balanced Scorecard is essentially connected to the businesses critical strategic needs.\n\nThe design of a dashboard is more loosely defined. Dashboards are usually a series of graphics, charts, gauges and other visual indicators that can be monitored and interpreted. Even when there is a strategic link, on a dashboard, it may not be noticed as such since objectives are not normally present on dashboards. However, dashboards can be customized to link their graphs and charts to strategic objectives.\n\nDigital dashboard technology is available \"out-of-the-box\" from many software providers. Some companies however continue to do in-house development and maintenance of dashboard applications. For example, GE Aviation has developed a proprietary software/portal called \"Digital Cockpit\" to monitor the trends in aircraft spare parts business.\n\nGood dashboard design practices take into account and address the following:\n\n\nA good information design will clearly communicate key information to users and makes supporting information easily accessible.\n\nThere are a few key elements to a good dashboard:.\n\nThe idea of digital dashboards followed the study of decision support systems in the 1970s. Early predecessors of the modern business dashboard were first developed in the 1980s in the form of Executive Information Systems (EISs). Due to problems primarily with data refreshing and handling, it was soon realized that the approach wasn’t practical as information was often incomplete, unreliable, and spread across too many disparate sources. Thus, EISs hibernated until the 1990s when the information age quickened pace and data warehousing, and online analytical processing (OLAP) allowed dashboards to function adequately. Despite the availability of enabling technologies, the dashboard use didn't become popular until later in that decade, with the rise of key performance indicators (KPIs), and the introduction of Robert S. Kaplan and David P. Norton's Balanced Scorecard. In the late 1990s, Microsoft promoted a concept known as the Digital Nervous System and \"digital dashboards\" were described as being one leg of that concept. Today, the use of dashboards forms an important part of Business Performance Management (BPM).\n\n"}
{"id": "31302632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31302632", "title": "Della mercatura e del mercante perfetto", "text": "Della mercatura e del mercante perfetto\n\nDella mercatura e del mercante perfetto written by Benedetto Cotrugli around 1400 was the first bookkeeping manuscript and trade manual. The title has been translated in English by the alternate names of \"Of commerce and the perfect merchant\", \"On merchantry and the perfect merchant\", and \"On trade and the perfect dealer.\"\n\nSeveral historians show that, since the manuscript was written in 1458, it is the oldest known manuscript on the double-entry bookkeeping system, and, as such, predates Luca Pacioli's book by at least 36 years. It is widely thought that the reason why Luca Pacioli (1445–1517) received credit as the father of accounting is because Cotrugli's work was not officially published until 1573. An Italian version was published in Venice in 1573 by Franciscus Patricius. A French translation of this manuscript was published in Lyon in 1613 under the title \"Parfait négociant.\"\n\nAn early copy of \"Della mercatura e del mercante perfetto\" from the end of the fifteenth century is at the National Library of Malta. Another early copy is at Biblioteca Marciana in Venice.\nThe first English translation of the Libro de l'arte de la mercatura (The Book of the Art of Trade) edited by Carlo Carraro and Giovanni Favero, with a foreword by Niall Ferguson, Professor of History at Harvard University, has been published by Palgrave Mcmillan in 2017, based on the critical edition of the original manuscripts made by Vera Ribaudo, University of Venice, published on May 2016 by Edizioni Cà Foscari, Venice. \n\nThe manuscript contains four books. The first is of the origin, form, and essence of being a merchant. The second talks of a merchant's religious commitment. The third is of moral virtues and policies. The fourth is administration of his home and family, and his economic matters.\n\nAt the time of the manuscript merchandising was regarded as an art. The \"Perfect Merchant\" or \"Perfect Dealer\" was a man of culture motivated \nto good moral conduct and honest transactions to everyone he encountered. He had to be very sensitive to local interests in places where he conducted business. He had to know how to assess the political situation and the customary laws in order to successfully conduct his business. Kotruljević wrote in his bookkeeping and merchandising trade manual that not only must a merchant be a bookkeeper-accountant, but that he must also be a good writer, a rhetorician and a man of letters being diplomatic all the while.\n\nHe contrasted the \"Perfect Merchant\" to sailors and soldiers by saying that they were many times naive of these points. He said they were of such dull mind that when they would drink in a tavern and buy bread at a market they often had delusions of grandeur and were not very diplomatic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25643767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25643767", "title": "Direct store delivery", "text": "Direct store delivery\n\nDirect store delivery (DSD) is a key method of selling and distributing products for a large variety of industries, such as food, beverage, home personal care products, and wholesale and distribution, oil & gas, service industries to name industries beyond consumer products.\nDSD is a business process that manufacturers use to both sell and distribute goods directly to point of sales (PoS) or point of consumption (PoC) including additional product and market related services such as merchandising, information gathering, or equipment service and bypassing any retailer or wholesaler logistics. A company that performs DSD does not send goods to any locations using any independent third party actor – neither an independent wholesaler, nor the retailer‘s own warehouses.\n\nDSD is an alternative distribution model to centralized distribution and tends to be used extensively in the food industry for fresh products such as milk and bread where minimizing the number of days in the supply chain is a key concern. Similarly, DSD is used effectively for full truckload orders where bypassing distribution centers makes economic sense. DSD is also a favored approach when there is a strong requirement for supplier knowledge or service such as is the case with greeting cards for example. Having said this, there is pressure building up in the food supply chain to reduce the retailer's reliance on DSD and push more volume through centralized distribution channels.\n\nThe Standard Interchange Language (SIL) acts as an interface standard for transferring data between proprietary store systems like DSD and PoS.\n"}
{"id": "1794797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1794797", "title": "Dynamic enterprise modeling", "text": "Dynamic enterprise modeling\n\nDynamic enterprise modeling (DEM) is an enterprise modeling approach developed by the Baan company, and used for the Baan enterprise resource planning system which aims \"to align and implement it in the organizational architecture of the end-using company\".\n\nAccording to Koning (2008), Baan introduced dynamic enterprise modelling in 1996 as a \"means for implementing the Baan ERP product. The modelling focused on a Petri net–based technique for business process modelling to which the Baan application units were to be linked. DEM also contains a supply-chain diagram tool for the logistic network of the company and of an enterprise function modelling diagram\".\n\nTo align a specific company with dynamic enterprise modeling, the organizational structure is blueprinted top-down from high-level business processes to low-level processes. This blueprint is used as a roadmap of the organization, that is compatible with the structural roadmap of the software package. Having both roadmaps, the software package and the organizational structure are alienable. The blueprint of an organizational structure in dynamic enterprise modeling is called a reference model. A reference model is the total view of visions, functions, organizational structures and processes, which together can be defined as a representative way of doing business in a certain organizational typology.\n\nThe DEM reference model consists of a set of underlying models that depict the organizational architecture in a top-down direction. The underlying models are:\n\n\nTogether these models are capable of depicting the total organizational structure and aspects that are necessary during the implementation of the dynamic enterprise modeling. The models can have differentiations, which are based on the typology of the organization (i.e.: engineer-to-order organizations require different model structures than assemble-to-order organizations. To elaborate on the way that the reference model is used to implement software and to keep track of the scope of implementation methods, the business control model and the business process model will be explained in detail.\n\nThe business control model exists of the business functions of the organization and their internal and external links. Basic features in the model are:\n\n\nNext to interaction between two business functions, interaction can also exist between objects that are not in the scope of the reference model. These objects can be external business functions and agents.\n\nAgents on the other hand are entities similar to business functions with the exception that they are external of the business (i.e.: customers and suppliers).\nSubroutines of processes can be modeled in the Business Control Model to take care of possible exceptions that can occur during the execution of a process (i.e.: delay handling in the delivery of goods).\n\nIn addition to business functions that consist of the main processes of the organization, management functions exist.\n\nHaving this reference, the main processes of the organization can be captured in the Business Control Model. The main functions of the organization are grouped in the business functions, which consist of the processes that are part of the specific business function. Interactions between the business functions are then depicted using the request-feedback loops.\n\nA business control model is constructed according to a set path.\n\nAfter creating the main business functions within the business control model, the several business functions are detailed out.\n\nAfter high-level detail definitions, the business functions are decomposed to lower-level detail definitions to make the business control model alienable to the lower models within the reference model, for this practice, mainly the Business Process Model. In the Business Process Model the processes are elaborated until the lowest level of detail. Given this level of detail, the Baan software functionality is then projected on the processes, depicted in the Business Process Model.\n\nThe modeling of processes in DEM, modeling the business process model is done using \"Petri net building blocks\". DEM uses 4 construction elements:\n\n\nThese 4 construction elements enables the modeling of DEM models. The modeling is due to a set collection of modeling constraints, guiding the modeling process in order to have similarly created models by different modelers. Control activities exist in different structures in order to set different possible routes for process flows. The used structures for control activities are:\n\nOR means one of the two starting job tokens can be used or both, XOR means only one of the tokens can be used to create the output job token.\n\nThe example below demonstrates the modeling of the concept of marriage and divorce using Petri net building blocks. \n\nUsing an embedded method brings the power that the method is designed to implement the software product that the method comes with. This suggests a less complicated usage of the method and more support possibilities.\nThe negative aspect of an embedded method obviously is that it can only be used for specific product software. Engineers and consultants, operating with several software products, could have more use of a general method, to have just one way of working.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24150036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24150036", "title": "Economic Times Awards", "text": "Economic Times Awards\n\nThe Economic Times Awards for Corporate Excellence (also referred as ET Awards) are the awards conferred by The Economic Times in the field of business, corporate and government policies, economies in India. It is an annual awards, conferred in various categories. Since 2017, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP (Deloitte) has been the title sponsor of the awards. The 2018 leg of the awards will be held on 22 November in Mumbai.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDeloitte was the title sponsor for the event, held on 28 October 2017 in Mumbai.\nET AWARDS FOR CORPORATE EXCELLENCE\nThe Economic Times Awards for Corporate Excellence\n\n\nThe Economic Times Awards for Corporate Excellence\nThe 2018 leg of the awards will be held on 17 November 2018 in Mumbai. Deloitte continues to be the title sponsor of the event.\n\nThe jury for the awards met on 4 September 2018 in Mumbai. It comprised:\n\nThe jury members also participated in a panel discussion on the topic, “Spurring equitable growth: role of government, technology, and business”. They were joined in the panel discussion by N. Venkatram, Managing Partner and CEO, Deloitte India.\n\n2018 award winners:\n\n"}
{"id": "53681449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53681449", "title": "Ecoprenuership", "text": "Ecoprenuership\n\nEcoprenuership, also known as Green Entrepreneurship, not to be mistaken for “Sustainable Business” or “Green Business” is most simply referred to as the development of enterprise through entrepreneurship while incorporating an environmentally responsible perspective into the operations and goals of the entrepreneur. Ecopreneurship is also a term coined to represent the process of principles of entrepreneurship being applied to create businesses that solve environmental problems or operate sustainably.\n\nLiterature began being published on Ecoprenuership in the early 1990s with the introduction of \"Merging Economic and Environmental Concerns Through Ecoprenuership\" by Gwynn Schuyler (Schuyler. 1998). Schuyler offers a simple yet unprecedented definition of Ecoprenuership.\" Since Schuyler's definition in 1998 the definition of Ecopreuership has developed and concepts defining the term have changed. David Kainrath of the Umea School of Business has defined Ecoprenuership as the convergence of three main concepts, including:\nFurthermore, Kainrath states that an Ecoprenuerial Company is \"a company in which the three Ecoprenuership Concepts manifest.\"\n\nSystems Thinking is a core principle to any business concerned with sustainability and the environment. It is an approach to problem solving that studies how something interacts with its environment as a whole, whether that be social, economic or natural. This is in contrast to a linear thinking model, which would isolate a problem and study only its directly related processes to find solutions. It consists of the notion that in order to understand vertical problems (looking deeply at one particular issue), you must understand and evaluate the horizontal environment as a whole (the entire system and its interrelated functions). As it pertains to business is best illustrated in the book \"Entrepreneurship and Sustainability\" by Andrea Larsen,\"Systems thinking applied to new ventures reminds us that companies operate in complex sets of interlocking living and non-living, including markets and supply chains as well as non-living systems... Taking a systems perspective reminds us that we are accustomed to thinking of business in terms of discrete units with clear boundaries between them. We forget that these boundaries exist primarily in our minds or as legal constructs.\"\n\nProduct design incorporating sustainability can happen at any stage of the business, including material extraction, logistics, the manufacturing process, disposal, etc. Sustainable product design can be achieved using innovative technology (or Eco-innovation), cradle to cradle design, bio-mimicry, etc. In a description by the government of Canada's department on Innovation, Science and Economic Development, sustainable product design is further explained:\n\n\"Product design offers the opportunity to incorporate green and socially responsible attributes into a product. Referred to as Design for Sustainability (D4S), it is a process that addresses environmental and social considerations in the earliest stages of the product development process to minimize negative environmental and social impacts throughout the product's life cycle and to comply with the principles of economic, social and ecological sustainability.\n\nSustainable product design can encompass the selection of materials, use of resources, production requirements and planning for the final disposition (recycling, reuse, remanufacturing, or disposal) of a product. It takes into account the socio-economic circumstances of the company and the opportunity for the firm to address social problems associated with poverty, safety, inequity, health and the working environment. It is not a stand-alone methodology but one that must be integrated with a company's existing product design so that environmental and social parameters can be integrated with traditional product attributes such as quality, cost, and functionality.\"\n\nCompanies practicing ecopreneurship aim to solve environmental issues by developing new technology or innovating existing technologies. Within the past five years modern society has witnessed development of precedent setting technologies such as long range electric vehicles as well as the improvement though innovation of existing technologies such as solar panels. Examples of innovation backed by an environmentally responsible attitude has inspired a new class of entrepreneurs who identify as Ecoprenuers.\n\nThe development of innovative technologies has developed an opportunity for Ecoprenuers to apply technology to sustainable or green businesses. Cosmin Nacu and Silvia Avasilcai state that \"this trend has created a full range of opportunities for entrepreneurs: from creating green-technology, using technology to promote environmental sustainability (e.g. energy management) to simply make the existing business more environmentally friendly to take advantage of the benefits\" (Source). The development of new and innovative technologies are complimentary to the development of green enterprises and enable Ecoprenuers to continue developing enterprise that are environmentally sustainable.\n\nCradle-to-cradle design is a popular environmental approach to product design that seeks to eliminate waste by designing products that can be continuously recirculated through our economy. This is contrasted against a \"cradle to grave\" design which typically includes single use products or products made of multiple different materials that cannot be separated in order to be recycled properly.[5] Cradle to Cradle design is mimicked after processes in the natural environment which do not create waste but instead every output is an input for another organism. Cradle to Cradle design is often achieved through using environmentally friendly resources (non-toxic) that can either be recycled into other products or composted. Another important component of cradle to cradle design is the ability to easily take products apart for better reuse as well as designing with durability in mind. This idea was popularized by the 2002 book \"\" written by William McDonough and Michael Braungart.\n\nThe Sustainable Business Industry is one of the biggest opportunities in commerce in the past 20 years according to Thierry Volery, author of Ecopreneurship: Rationale, current issues and futures challenges Although, there continues to be a trend of challenges that Ecoprenuers face when developing their enterprise. \"Ecology and economy have often been seen as conflicting, because the prevailing view is that there is an inherent and fixed trade-off between the two\" and Ecoprenuers are constantly subjected to higher prices of operation that are inherit to operating in an environmentally sustainable way Rationale, current issues and futures challenges|url. The fact that Ecoprenuers aim to sustain \"public goods\" such as air, oceans, topsoil and wild species develops a challenge of measuring the use and value of these goods. Volery, author of Ecopreneurship: Rationale, current issues and futures challenges states \"it will never be profitable to produce public goods privately, because the producer who incurs the cost of production cannot prevent the consumer from using the good freely\" because public goods are non-excludable in consumption meaning that citizens cannot stop consuming certain public goods such as water or air.\n\nOpportunities to develop sustainable business through Ecoprenuership represent a huge opportunity to take advantage of business practices of the future. Companies leading the way in sustainable business practices are taking advantage of sustainable revenue opportunities: according to the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills the UK green economy to grow by 4.9 to 5.5 percent a year by 2015.[44] Since environmental concerns have become pressing many profitable opportunities have arisen. Government backed grants often lay the foundation for Ecoprenuers to take advantage of a quickly growing industry while being able to kickstart their endeavors with government money.\n\nTriple bottom line Accounting is an accounting method that combines traditional accounting methods of measuring profit with those that measure social and environmental benefits as well. The phrase was created by John Elkington in 1994 at his company SustainAbility. Some criticisms have sprung up over what methods are to be used to measure environmental and social impacts.\n\nEcopreneurs may decide to develop their company under traditional business legal forms like a sole proprietorship or an LLC or they might chose some newer forms discussed below. These business forms are popular among the environmentally conscious community for their emphasis on social benefit.\n\n"}
{"id": "1361712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1361712", "title": "Empire-building", "text": "Empire-building\n\nEmpire-building is the practice of attempting to obtain greater power and authority within an organization for the purposes of self-aggrandizement, particularly by having extra staff or subordinates.\nIn political science, empire-building refers to the tendency of countries and nations to acquire resources, land, and economic influence outside their borders in order to expand their size, power, and wealth. This expansion can be at the cost of those nations or people that have had resources taken away from them so that the conqueror can be enriched.\n\nIn business, empire-building is demonstrated when individuals or small groups attempt to gain control over key projects and initiatives to maximize job security and promotability. Project leadership hoards potential credit and prestige the project can produce. Because this approach prevents other people in the organization from contributing in a meaningful manner and alternative or competing projects to address the project's goals are destroyed regardless of their merit, the company suffers as a whole, projects fail, and the goals of the project are achieved partially, inadequately, or not at all. This sort of behavior is supposed to be stopped by upper management but is nevertheless very common.\n\nIn an organization, empire-building can also be demonstrated when an individual or small group eagerly and proactively suggests and pursues functions, activities or projects that are of questionable value to try to enhance legitimacy and future value. Pursuit of these activities is initially done at little or no marginal cost, but later the activities are used to justify increased resource allocation, being part of the organizational status quo, and thus the individual or group's overall command of resources, and influence, increases.\n"}
{"id": "58842024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58842024", "title": "Engineering economics (civil engineering)", "text": "Engineering economics (civil engineering)\n\nEngineering Economics in Civil Engineering, also known generally as engineering economics, or alternatively engineering economy, is a subset of economics, more specifically, microeconomics. It is defined as a \"guide for the economic selection among technically feasible alternatives for the purpose of a rational allocation of scarce resources.\" \nIts goal is to guide entities, private or public that are confronted with the fundamental problem of economics, it wishes to accomplish more than its resources will permit. \nThis fundamental problem of economics consists of two fundamental questions that must be answered, namely what objectives should be investigated or explored and how should these be achieved? Economics as a social science answers those questions and is defined as the knowledge used for selecting among “…technically feasible alternatives for the purpose of a rational allocation of scarce resources.” Correspondingly, all problems involving \"...profit maximizing or cost-minimizing are engineering problems with economic objectives\nand are properly described by the label \"engineering economy\".\n\nAs a subdiscipline practiced by civil engineers, engineering economics narrows the definition of the fundamental economic problem and related questions to that of problems related to the investment of capital, public or private in a broad array of infrastructure projects. Civil engineers confront more specialized forms of the fundamental problem in the form of inadequate economic evaluation of engineering projects.\n\nCivil engineers under constant pressure to deliver infrastructure effectively and efficiently confront complex problems associated with allocating scarce resources for ensuring quality, mitigating risk and controlling project delivery. Civil engineers must be educated to recognize the role played by engineering economics as part of the evaluations occurring at each phase in the project lifecycle. \n\nThus, the application of engineering economics in the practice of civil engineering focuses on the decision-making process, its context, and environment in project execution and delivery. \nIt is pragmatic by nature, integrating microeconomic theory with civil engineering practice but, it is also a simplified application of economic theory in that it avoids a number of microeconomic concepts such as price determination, competition and supply and demand. \nThis poses new, underlying economic problems of resource allocation for civil engineers in delivering infrastructure projects and specifically, resources for project management, planning and control functions. \n\nCivil engineers address these fundamental economic problems using specialized engineering economics knowledge as a framework for continuously “… probing economic feasibility…using a stage-wise approach…” throughout the project lifecycle. The application of this specialized civil engineering knowledge can be in the form of engineering analyses of life-cycle cost, cost accounting, cost of capital and the economic feasibility of engineering solutions for design, construction and project management. The civil engineer must have the ability to use engineering economy methodologies for the “formulation of objectives, specification of alternatives, prediction of outcomes” and estimation of minimum acceptability for investment and optimization. \n\nThey must also be capable of integrating these economic considerations into appropriate engineering solutions and management plans that predictably and reliably meet project stakeholder expectations in a sustainable manner. \n\nThe civil engineering profession provides a special function in our society and economy where investing substantial sums of funding in public infrastructure requires \"...some assurance that it will perform its intended function.\" \n\nThus, the civil engineer exercising their professional judgment in making decisions about fundamental problems relies upon the profession’s knowledge of engineering economics to provide \"the practical certainty\" that makes the social investment in public infrastructure feasible. \n\nHistorically, coursework and curricula in engineering economics for civil engineers has focused on Capital budgeting: \"...when to replace capital equipment, and which of several alternative investments to make.\n\n"}
{"id": "447502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=447502", "title": "Financial district", "text": "Financial district\n\nA financial district is the central area in some large cities where banks, insurance companies and other large corporations have head offices. Financial districts are often home to skyscrapers.\n\nNotable financial districts of the world include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18487118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18487118", "title": "Fleet Management System", "text": "Fleet Management System\n\nThe Fleet Management Systems Interface (FMS) is a standard interface to vehicle data of commercial vehicles. The six European manufacturers Daimler AG, MAN AG, Scania, Volvo (including Renault), DAF Trucks and IVECO developed the so-called FMS-Standard in 2002 to make manufacturer-independent applications for telematics possible.\n\nThe following data are broadcast at the FMS interface:\n\nThe data are coded according to SAE J1939. The repetition rate of the data is between 20 ms (e.g. engine speed) and 10 seconds (e.g. vehicle identification number).\n\nWith the FMS standard it is now possible to have manufacturer independent applications and evaluations of the data.\n\nThe amount of data is dependent on the manufacturer and model of the vehicle and might be different. If some data are not available at the interface they are marked as not available.\n\nAccording to a note from the truck manufacturers, the FMS standard is seen as a worldwide standard. A direct connection to the internal vehicle bus system is not permitted by the truck manufacturers and could lead to the loss of warranty.\nMeanwhile, some manufacturers are quite restrictive in their workshops and cut all unknown connections to the internal bus system.\n\nAccording to ACEA ca. 160,000 vehicles were fitted with an FMS standard interface in 2007.\nThe FMS-Standard was as well the base for the Bus-FMS-Standard for buses and coaches which was published in the year 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41669016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41669016", "title": "Fundamental Analysis Software", "text": "Fundamental Analysis Software\n\nFundamental analysis software automates analysis that supports fundamental analysts in their review of a company's financial statements and valuation.\n\nThe following are the most common features of fundamental analysis applications.\n\nEnables traders to test fundamental analysis strategies or algorithms to see what kind of return they would have achieved if they had invested based on that strategy or algorithm in the past. Backtest results will typically display total and annualized returns compared to a benchmark such as the S&P 500. In addition to returns, backtest results will also display volatility statistics such as average beta or maximum drawdown.\n\nStock scanning, or screening, is the most common feature of fundamental analysis software. Scanners enable users to 'scan' the market, be it stocks, options, currencies etc., to identify investment opportunities that meet a user's specific investment criteria. Using a fundamental analysis scanner, a user could, for example, scan the market to identify stocks with below industry average PE Ratios and above industry average sales growth.\n\nAlerts are a common feature of fundamental analysis software. Alerts will typically notify the investor to buy or sell a stock, or notify an investor when a stock enters or exits his/her saved strategy. When alert conditions are met, a notification is typically communicated via an on screen pop up or sent as an email.\n\nFundamental analysis software is typically used with end of day (EOD), delayed or real time data feeds. EOD data feeds provide the end of day close, open, high, and low price for the given equity and is typically updated once a day at market close. Delayed data is typically delayed 15 to 30 minutes depending on the exchange and is the most commonly used data feed type. Real time data feeds provide tick by tick 'real time' data.\n\nMost fundamental analysis software includes built in strategies that have been validated with backtesting to give positive returns on average. Some examples of built in strategies include: Stock Investor Pro's IBD Stable 70 or Equities Lab's Dividend Champions. Users will typically find a built in strategy that aligns with their interests and investment style then follow the strategy to keep up with stocks that pass the strategy.\n\nSome fundamental analysis software can be integrated with brokerage platforms to enable traders to place trades, or to update the users portfolio with what is actually held in the brokerage account.\n"}
{"id": "33397463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33397463", "title": "Georgia Statewide Minority Business Enterprise Center", "text": "Georgia Statewide Minority Business Enterprise Center\n\nThe Georgia Statewide Minority Business Enterprise Center is funded by the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) and operated by the Enterprise Innovation Institute (EI2). The MBDA Business Center (MBC), Atlanta, Ga., is part of a national network of centers established to increase the number of minority-owned businesses and strengthen existing ones.\n\n"}
{"id": "230405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230405", "title": "Hamburger University", "text": "Hamburger University\n\nHamburger University is a training facility of McDonald's, located in Oak Brook, Illinois, a western suburb of Chicago. This corporate university was designed to instruct personnel employed by McDonald's in the various aspects of restaurant management. More than 80,000 restaurant managers, mid-managers and owner/operators have \"graduated\" from this facility.\n\nSince its establishment, Hamburger University has been situated on an campus. Restaurant employees receive approximately 32 hours of training in their first month with McDonald's and more than 5,000 students attend Hamburger University each year. Founder Ray Kroc oversaw lessons at its beginning.\n\nIn 2016 McDonald's Corporation announced it would move its U.S. and world headquarters including Hamburger University from its long time home in Oak Brook to a newly built complex on property which formerly housed Oprah Winfrey's Harpo Studios in Chicago. Starting in 2017 McDonald's put up for sale or sold most of its Oak Brook campus.\n\nHamburger University was satirized in the 1986 comedy, \"Hamburger... The Motion Picture\". It was also spoofed by McDonald's itself in a commercial with Ronald McDonald in which several animatronic hamburgers were shown graduating from school.\n"}
{"id": "37375537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37375537", "title": "Innovation leadership", "text": "Innovation leadership\n\nInnovation leadership is a philosophy and technique that combines different leadership styles to influence employees to produce creative ideas, products, and services. The key role in the practice of innovation leadership is the innovation leader. Dr. David Gliddon (2006) developed the competency model of innovation leaders and established the concept of innovation leadership at Penn State University.\n\nAs an approach to organization development, innovation leadership can support achievement of the mission or the vision of an organization or group. With new technologies and processes, it is necessary for organizations to think innovatively to ensure continued success and stay competitive. to adapt to new changes, “The need for innovation in organizations has resulted in a new focus on the role of leaders in shaping the nature and success of creative efforts.” Without innovation leadership, organizations are likely to struggle. This new call for innovation represents the shift from the 20th century, traditional view of organizational practices, which discouraged employee innovative behaviors, to the 21st-century view of valuing innovative thinking as a “potentially powerful influence on organizational performance.”\n\nTo have a clear understanding of what innovation leadership involves, one must first understand the concept of innovation. Although there is some controversy over how it can be defined, through general consensus in the literature, it can be described as novel ideas of viable products that are put into operation. It includes three different stages, which are all dynamic and iterative (constant):\n\n\nThe two types of innovation include exploratory innovation, which involves generating brand new ideas, and value-added innovation, which involves modifying and improving ideas that already exist. Ideas generated must be useful to be considered innovative. Innovation should also not be confused with creativity, which is merely the generation of a novel idea that may not necessarily be put into operation—though these words are sometimes used interchangeably in research literature when speaking about innovation leadership. Innovation leadership is a complex concept, as there is no single explanation or formula for a leader to follow to increase innovation. As a result, innovation leadership encompasses a variety of different activities, actions, and behaviors that interact to produce an innovative outcome.\n\nExploratory and value-added innovation require different leadership styles and behaviors to succeed. Value-added innovation (PwC, 2010) involves refining and revising an existing product or service and typically requires minimal risk taking (compared to exploratory innovation, which often involves taking a large risk); in this case, it is most appropriate for a leader for innovation to adopt a transactional form of leadership. This is because a transactional leadership style does not use open leadership behaviors such as encouraging employees to experiment and take risks, but rather uses closed leadership behaviors that do not condone or reward risk-taking. Companies whose innovation leaders use transactional leadership for value-added innovation purposes include Toyota Motor Co., General Motors Corp., and Ford Motor Co.; examples of these companies’ value-added innovations such as making improvements on existing cars by making them faster, more comfortable, and getting better gas mileage. \nOccasionally a value-added innovation may require a completely new way of thinking and possibly taking new risks. An example of this scenario can be illustrated through Aspirin; this was an existing product, traditionally used as an analgesic to alleviate aches and pains, but has been introduced into a new and different market by extending its uses to help prevent heart attack and reduce blot clot formation. In this example, the usage of an existing product was re-worked and introduced into a new market. While an existing product is being changed and/or improved upon, characterizing it as a value-added innovation, outside-the-box thinking, research, and risk-taking are now required since it is being introduced into a new market. In this case, a transformational leadership style is a more appropriate style to use.\nThe innovation leader must gauge if (and how much) risk and radical thinking are involved in the value-added innovation to determine which leadership style to use in a situation. The leader must be flexible—able to switch leadership behaviors when necessary.\n\nExploratory innovation refers to the generation of novel ideas, strategies, and solutions through the use of strictly open behaviors exhibited most often by transformational leaders. The foundation of exploratory innovation is characterized by search, discovery, experimentation, and risk taking. It is the organization's focus on generating new ideas, products and strategies; in contrast to exploitative innovation, which focuses on building and extending already existing ideas. Some studies have shown that explorative and exploitative innovation require different structures, strategies, processes, capabilities, and cultures. See Innovative Organizational Climate/Culture. Exploratory innovation requires flexibility, opportunism, adaptability, and for leaders to provide intellectual stimulation to their subordinates. In this approach to innovation, the leadership style that is primarily used is transformational. The behaviors exhibited are believed to achieve the desired creative outcome from employees through the application of individualized consideration, charisma, and inspirational motivation.\n\nFor example, in one study of the innovation practices at AXA Insurance in Ireland, the CEO John O’Neil engaged in transformational leadership behaviors and introduced the “MadHouse” program that combined workers from different departments and levels of the organization to work together in a creative way. The result of this experiment after six months was 150 new business ideas for products and services. Explorative and Value-added innovation are often referenced together, but surprisingly little research shows an interaction between the two. However, there is an understanding that in some circumstances a ‘balance’ must be attained to achieve superior employee performance. For example, not all novel ideas are implemented, and may be resurrected later. The organization may need to switch gears and adopt exploitative strategies to revise and refine the idea to match present needs.\n\nInnovation leadership has roots in path-goal theory and leader-member exchange theory. Certain elements within an organization are also needed for innovation leadership to succeeded. Wolfe (1994), as cited by Sarros, Cooper, & Santora, (2008) has pointed out that one antecedent factor for innovation is organizational culture. Likewise, Isaksen, Laver, Ekvail & Britz (2001) concur that innovative endeavors fail without a supportive climate. This antecedent of a supportive organizational culture/climate encompasses encouragement of creativity, autonomy, resources, and pressures. Additional foundational elements for innovation leadership include creative work, a creative workforce, and certain leader attributes.\n\nThe basis of path-goal theory uses a similar view of leadership, in that it advocates different types of leadership (e.g., participative, supportive) behaviors, much like innovation leadership does. However, it is contingent on employee and environmental factor to be effective. The idea of a single leader using different leadership behaviors originated in path-goal theory, and has been associated with the framework underlying innovation leadership, which also allows the creation of a work environment conducive to innovative thinking—which is the cognitive process of generating novel and useful ideas.\n\nCreating this type of work environment through innovation leadership involves open leadership behaviors that resemble some leader behaviors proposed by Path-goal theory—for example, upward influence and supportive/considerate behaviors. In innovation leadership, these behaviors encourage the creative team to generate as many novel ideas as possible and lead to evaluation and implementation of these ideas.\n\nLeader-member exchange theory (LMX theory) is another one of the building blocks of innovation leadership. It follows the same idea as Path-goal theory and innovation leadership, that multiple leadership styles are necessary in managing multiple subordinates but takes it a step further. LMX involves adopting a unique leadership style for each employee. Past studies indicate that LMX theory has been shown to have an effect on innovation. Studies have also shown that leader-member exchange relationships can predict significant organizational and attitudinal variables including higher job satisfaction and higher job performance.\n\nBasu and Green (1997) found that innovative behavior is related to the quality of the leader-member exchange where high quality exchanges include contributions from both the leader and the follower. However, in a study by Jean Lee (2008), only the loyalty aspect of LMX (LMXL) was shown to be related to innovativeness. Leadership styles, transformational (positively related) and transactional (negatively related), were found to have an effect on innovativeness.\n\nSome studies have shown evidence of organizational culture as the mediator of the relationship between transformational leadership and organizational innovation and performance. In other words, for transformational leadership to affect organizational innovation, an organization must have a strong innovative culture in addition to a leader with a transformational leadership style.\n\nOrganizational culture refers to an organization's deep structure, normative beliefs, and shared behavioral expectations. This culture is fairly constant and can influence interorganizational relations. Climate refers to the way that individuals perceive the extent to which the organizational culture impacts them. The two essentially are interrelated. One proposed model for assessing a creative environment in organizations includes the following dimensions:\n\nEncouragement of creativity is the most frequently mentioned dimension in the literature. It operates at three major levels, each level containing multiple aspects.\n\nThe first level is Organizational Encouragement. This involves encouragement of risk-taking and idea generation from all levels of management, fair and supportive evaluation of new ideas, recognition and reward of creativity, and collaborative idea flow across an organization. Each of these are equally important aspects of organizational encouragement but the third aspect, recognition and reward of creativity, may have adverse effects if the sole purpose for engaging in an activity is to gain reward.\n\nThe second level, Supervisory Encouragement, highlights the roles of supervisors and project managers in goal clarity, open interaction between supervisors and subordinates, and supervisory support of a team's work and ideas. This level of encouragement points to the concepts of transformational leadership and LMX that emphasise the importance of the interactions of supervisors and subordinates in innovative performance.\n\nThe third level of encouragement is Work Group Encouragement. Diversity in team members’ backgrounds and openness to ideas affects creativity because individuals are exposed to a variety of novel and unusual ideas and such exposure had been demonstrated to have a positive effect on creative thinking \n\nAutonomy is believed to foster creativity since studies have revealed that individuals produce more creative work and experience increased intrinsic motivation when they have a sense of control and ownership over their work and ideas and they perceive themselves as having a choice in how their goals are accomplished, whether those goals are given to them by their supervisor or chosen by themselves.\n\nResources have been suggested to be directly related to creativity in organizations. Individuals’ perceptions of the availability of resources may lead to increased beliefs of the likelihood that the ideas they generate have a possibility of reaching the implementation stage.\n\nThe little evidence that exists on the dimension of pressure suggests somewhat paradoxical influences. Some degree of pressure could have a positive effect if the pressure originates from the challenging and intellectual nature of the task itself, increasing intrinsic motivation. However, if the pressure experienced is perceived extreme it could counteract creativity. Amabile et al. (1996) identify two forms of pressure: excessive workload pressure and challenge. They suggest that the first should have a negative influence on creativity while the second should have a positive one.\n\nAlthough there has been little research on the work of environment factors that undermine creativity, some research suggests that these impediments include internal strife, conservatism, and rigid, formal management structures within organizations. This dimension is seen as working against autonomy and tends to have an inverse effect as individuals may perceive a more controlling environment.\n\nCreative work can occur at any job but more specifically it can occur in jobs where there are complicated, ill-defined problems requiring innovative solutions. The fact that the creative problems are ill-defined makes the creative work uncertain, and it may involve risky efforts. It is also resource intensive, demanding, and time consuming work requiring high levels of motivation and often requires collaboration. This type of work must also involve both novel idea generation and novel idea implementation and requires expertise on the part of the workforce.\n\nA creative workforce is needed for innovation leadership to be successful. Creative people have expertise on the subject requiring innovation and tend to use work as a source of identity. Because of this, they are powerfully intrinsically motivated by professional achievement opportunities and recognition. Creative workers are also commonly characterized as highly valuing their autonomy; additional dispositional attributes include openness, flexibility, cognitive complexity, self-confidence, dominance, and introversion. The patterns of characteristics creative workers exhibit typically allow them to confidently explore alternative ideas under ambiguous conditions.\n\nSuccessful innovation leadership requires a leader with certain characteristics. These include expertise in the domain, creativity, ability to carry out transformational leadership behaviors, planning and sense-making, and social skills. Innovative leaders can be recruited and hired through professional networks and referrals or alternatively found through succession planning, which involves identifying innovative leaders who are already working within the organization.\n\nIn addition to these foundations, various styles play an important role in innovation leadership, each of which are used at different stages of the innovation process or for different types of innovation (value-added vs. exploratory). Frequently associated leadership styles include transformational leadership, transactional leadership, and Ambidextrous leadership. The type of leadership most strongly associated with innovation is transformational leadership.\n\nAs mentioned above, different leadership styles and behaviors may be more appropriate at different stages of the innovation process. Current research supports the notion that in the idea generation process, innovation leadership requires a leader to use a more transformational style of leadership. During this stage, a leader needs to promote a safe environment for employees/team members to voice novel ideas and original thinking as well as provide workers with the resources to do so effectively. Research has also found that leaders who engage in unconventional behaviors, associated with transformational leadership, were seen as stronger role models and, as a result, increase creative performance in their subordinates. For example, the founders of Google have been known to wear capes and jump-shoes around the office, thus inspiring more outside-the-box thinking in their employees. These open leadership behaviors convey that unorthodox and unconventional ideas and behaviors are not only accepted but also encouraged.\n\nIn addition to providing a climate for idea generation, innovation leadership also requires leaders to ensure that the process of idea generation does not overshadow the evaluation and implementation processes. During these phases of leadership, leaders must support some ideas while discarding other ideas and put the supported ideas into production. The role of the leader must shift away from a transformational style to a more transactional style of leadership, which involves being more direct and critical toward the ideas generated. A leader now needs to ensure that constructive discussions of innovative ideas are taking place among their subordinates. This serves to evaluate the usefulness of each idea, eliminate those that do not appear viable to the organization or goal, and push the ones that do appear viable into the production phase. The leader must adopt what are known as closed leadership behaviors to achieve this. Instead of stimulating idea generation, the leader must shift focus from generating new ideas toward fine-tuning existing ideas to achieve progress toward the goal, and ultimately implement the idea. This challenge of balancing differing leadership styles when appropriate is called the \"generator evaluator paradox\". It is important to consider the role of ambidextrous leadership, since a leader must be able to switch between leadership roles and styles when necessary to successfully lead for innovation. Paradoxes of innovation leadership are discussed below.\n\nDepending on the type of leadership style that is adopted by the innovation leader, the leader may have either a direct or indirect influence on your employees.\n\nDirect forms of influence in leading innovation include:\n\nIndirect influences get the same results without providing explicit guidance to employees. These types of influences include:\n\nA proposed model for innovation leadership has been a multilevel process model of innovation, which uses the direct and indirect leadership on the processes of innovation mentioned in the above section to promote the innovation process. In the model, indirect leadership influences affect the individual creativity (generation phase) and team creativity (evaluation phase) process. Direct leadership influences affect the team creativity (evaluation phase) process and the organizational innovation process (implementation phase). The individual creativity (generation phase) box in the model represents the process of the individual generating the initial idea or ideas and proposing them to their team. The team creativity (evaluation phase) box represents the process of the team taking that idea, making alterations and fine-tuning it to the point of making prototypes, formalized sketches, or simulations. The organizational innovation (implementation) box represents taking those prototypes, sketches, or simulations and testing, evaluating, and possibly mass-producing them.\n\nTwo very important key features of this model should be mentioned:\n\nInnovation leadership is complex, as can be seen from the Hunter & Cushenbery (2011) model, and often paradoxes emerge that require leaders to strike a delicate balance between two conflicting roles (e.g. encouraging innovative ideas vs. limiting innovative ideas to include only those that are most viable and useful to the organization). A balance must be struck, not only within the leader and their behaviors, but between conflicting interests of involved parties as well. These include conflicting interests between the leader and the employees/teams, between leaders and situational/contextual factors, and between the employees/teams and the organization. Critical potential paradoxes that are often faced by leaders of innovation have been provided by Hunter, Thoroughgood, Meyer, & Ligon (2011).\n\nInternal/Localized paradoxes entail conflicting roles experienced within the leader.\n\nThe Dual Expertise Paradox postulates that a leader must have or acquire domain expertise while at the same time obtaining the necessary leadership skills to manage his/her employees and resources.\n\nThe Generation Evaluation Paradox stipulates that a leader must encourage a supportive climate for the generation of new ideas and thinking outside-the-box while evaluating these ideas and realizing that not all creative ideas are useful and many may even fail (while not being too critical and negative of those ideas).\n\nTeam-level paradoxes entail conflicting interests between the leader and the employees/teams\n\nCreative Personality Cohesion Paradox is based on the research finding that creative workers generally highly value autonomy and, as a result, often prefer to work alone. This paradox illustrates the difficulty leaders have in providing their employees with the autonomy they must be creative, while fostering team cohesion (or closeness) to facilitate idea sharing. A leader must also be careful not to encourage too much cohesion, as it may discourage group members from disagreeing (even constructively disagreeing) with fellow group members in an effort not to offend them or “rock the boat.”\n\nThe Vision Autonomy Paradox highlights the dilemma a leader faces between providing structure and guidance to a team with respect to the vision of the goal, while at the same time stepping back and providing the team with enough autonomy, especially considering the fact that creative workers highly value autonomy. When leading for innovation, providing an overabundance of structure may result in a backlash from employees who feel their autonomy is being taken away from them.\n\nThe Restriction Freedom Paradox underscores that innovation leaders need to allow employees enough time to develop creative endeavors and provide the resources to do so. At the same time the leader must take care to provide enough pressure that they are still motivated to complete the task and not provide too many resources that it has a “deadening effect” on creativity.\n\nSituational Paradoxes entail conflicting interests between leaders and the situations they face.\n\nThe Intrinsic Extrinsic Paradox holds that instead of providing more readily available extrinsic motivation tools such as bonuses and salary increases, leaders must provide intrinsic motivation, which generally comes from within the employee, to their employees. This paradox is based on findings that intrinsic motivation is a key factor in facilitating creativity and extrinsic motivators may either hinder creativity or have an unclear relationship with creativity.\n\nThe Local Long-Term Paradox posits that leaders of innovation must maintain their innovative edge by keeping an eye out for and capitalizing on potential opportunities, even at the risk of placing those ideas above or even eliminating ideas that he or she had previously inspired in their teams. The leader must also be capable of developing teams that are flexible enough to be passionate about ideas that may have replaced their own idea that was facilitated, inspired, and supported by their leader. This is where the paradox is most clearly visible.\n\nThe competition collaboration paradox involves a leader developing open external relationships with other organizations to discover potential innovation opportunities, while ensuring the organization's emerging ideas are protected in a competitive environment.\n\nThe feedback rigidity paradox involves leaders seeking out and using customer and client advice and feedback towards innovative endeavors to a certain extent, while maintaining control of the vision and not letting the feedback dictate to them—as clients and customers often criticize innovations early on.\n\nThe Failure Success Paradox is the idea that innovation leaders must ensure a safe organizational culture that is willing to embrace risk and failure, while at the same time making sure that the organization is also producing successful products and services despite embracing risk and errors.\n\nAdditional paradoxes identified by Hunter et al. (2011) that do not directly involve the leader but are worth mentioning are the paradoxes that occur between teams and the organization. These include the Insularity Cohesion paradox, the Champion Evaluator paradox, and the Creativity Cost paradox.\n\nOutcomes of innovation leadership include inspiring employees to the create and implement novel ideas for products, services, and technologies. In addition, these novel ideas can also be used to solve problems within an organization. What this illustrates is that innovation spurred by innovation leadership can be translated across various industries and can be used for a multitude of purposes. Ultimately, inspiring and initiating organizational innovation through innovation leadership can serve to advance the organization it to the next level.\n\nCompanies that use innovative leadership include 3M, which lets employees work on a project of their choosing for 15% of their time.\n\nSimilarly, Google allows employees one day a week to work on their own project.\n\nZappos employees are allowed to “radically” decorate their cubicle and are encouraged to laugh and have fun at work impromptu in-office parades.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1010393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1010393", "title": "Macromanagement", "text": "Macromanagement\n\nMacromanagement is a management theory with two different approaches to the definition that both share a common idea; management from afar. \n\nContrary to micromanagement where managers closely observe and control the works of their employees, macromanagement is a more independent style of organizational management. Managers step back and give employees the freedom to do their job how they think it is best done, so long as the desired result is reached. This is the most commonly applied understanding of macromanagement. \n\nBoth styles of management are viewed as a negative when taken to an extreme, so it is important for organizations to develop a balance of micro- and macromanagement practices and understand when to apply which. \n\nThe second interpretation of macromanagement is when an organization views itself as a social institution, orienting its goals and purpose toward serving society. To do this, they align the organization’s values, norms, ethics with those of the society they are immersed in. In 1971, Alan Wells defined a social institution as “patterns of rules, customs, norms, beliefs and roles that are instrumentally related to the needs and purposes of society.” Other examples of social institutions in this respect include government and religious organizations, some more in-line with serving society that others. \n\nThis interpretation of macromanagement is less about managing employees, but rather managing the organization from a broader perspective that is oriented toward the future. An organization that practices macromanagement greatly considers the future of the organization, the future of society, and their impact on one another.\n\n\n1. McFarland, Dalton E.(1977). \"Management, Humanism, and Society: The Case for Macromanagement Theory.\" Academy of Management. Retrieved 20 October 2017.\n"}
{"id": "25077295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25077295", "title": "Market intelligence", "text": "Market intelligence\n\nMarket intelligence is the information relevant to a company’s markets, gathered and analyzed specifically for the purpose of accurate and confident decision-making in determining strategy in areas such as market opportunity, market penetration strategy, and market development.\n\nMarket intelligence includes the process of gathering data from the company’s external environment, whereas the Business intelligence process primarily is based on internal recorded events – such as sales, shipments and purchases. The purpose of incorporating Market Information or intelligence into the Business Intelligence process is to provide decision makers with a more “complete picture” of ongoing corporate performance in a set of given market conditions.\n\nEffective market intelligence needs accurate market information that is gathered with right tools and methods. To gather information companies can conduct surveys, interviews, visit and monitor competitors outlets or gather and buy data from different sources.\n\nTraditional interviews and surveys can be done either in-house or by using specialists agencies. As more and more markets are digitalized the market intelligence space has seen a lot of new digital tools that companies can use. There are tools such as Google Consumer Survey that enables companies to ask web users a question through Google network of online publishers. There are also specialist sites companies can buy market intelligence information and market intelligence software that companies can use to collect and monitor data from the internet.\n"}
{"id": "19688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19688", "title": "Mind map", "text": "Mind map\n\nA mind map is a diagram used to visually organize information. A mind map is hierarchical and shows relationships among pieces of the whole. It is often created around a single concept, drawn as an image in the center of a blank page, to which associated representations of ideas such as images, words and parts of words are added. Major ideas are connected directly to the central concept, and other ideas branch out from those major ideas.\n\nMind maps can also be drawn by hand, either as \"rough notes\" during a lecture, meeting or planning session, for example, or as higher quality pictures when more time is available. Mind maps are considered to be a type of spider diagram. A similar concept in the 1970s was \"idea sun bursting\".\n\nAlthough the term \"mind map\" was first popularized by British popular psychology author and television personality Tony Buzan, the use of diagrams that visually \"map\" information using branching and radial maps traces back centuries. These pictorial methods record knowledge and model systems, and have a long history in learning, brainstorming, memory, visual thinking, and problem solving by educators, engineers, psychologists, and others. Some of the earliest examples of such graphical records were developed by Porphyry of Tyros, a noted thinker of the 3rd century, as he graphically visualized the concept categories of Aristotle. Philosopher Ramon Llull (1235–1315) also used such techniques.\n\nThe semantic network was developed in the late 1950s as a theory to understand human learning and developed further by Allan M. Collins and M. Ross Quillian during the early 1960s. Mind maps are similar in radial structure to concept maps, developed by learning experts in the 1970s, but differ in that the former are simplified by focusing around a single central key concept.\n\nBuzan's specific approach, and the introduction of the term \"mind map\", arose during a 1974 BBC TV series he hosted, called \"Use Your Head\". In this show, and companion book series, Buzan promoted his conception of radial tree, diagramming key words in a colorful, radiant, tree-like structure.\n\nBuzan says the idea was inspired by Alfred Korzybski's general semantics as popularized in science fiction novels, such as those of Robert A. Heinlein and A. E. van Vogt. He argues that while \"traditional\" outlines force readers to scan left to right and top to bottom, readers actually tend to scan the entire page in a non-linear fashion. Buzan's treatment also uses then-popular assumptions about the functions of cerebral hemispheres in order to explain the claimed increased effectiveness of mind mapping over other forms of note making.\n\nBuzan suggests the following guidelines for creating mind maps:\n\n\nAs with other diagramming tools, mind maps can be used to generate, visualize, structure, and classify ideas, and as an aid to studying and organizing information, solving problems, making decisions, and writing.\n\nMind maps have many applications in personal, family, educational, and business situations, including notetaking, brainstorming (wherein ideas are inserted into the map radially around the center node, without the implicit prioritization that comes from hierarchy or sequential arrangements, and wherein grouping and organizing is reserved for later stages), summarizing, as a mnemonic technique, or to sort out a complicated idea. Mind maps are also promoted as a way to collaborate in color pen creativity sessions.\n\nIn addition to these direct use cases, data retrieved from mind maps can be used to enhance several other applications; for instance expert search systems, search engines and search and tag query recommender. To do so, mind maps can be analysed with classic methods of information retrieval to classify a mind map's author or documents that are linked from within the mind map.\n\n\nCunningham (2005) conducted a user study in which 80% of the students thought \"mindmapping helped them understand concepts and ideas in science\". Other studies also report some subjective positive effects on the use of mind maps. Positive opinions on their effectiveness, however, were much more prominent among students of art and design than in students of computer and information technology, with 62.5% vs 34% (respectively) agreeing that they were able to understand concepts better with mind mapping software. Farrand, Hussain, and Hennessy (2002) found that spider diagrams (similar to concept maps) had limited, but significant, impact on memory recall in undergraduate students (a 10% increase over baseline for a 600-word text only) as compared to preferred study methods (a 6% increase over baseline). This improvement was only robust after a week for those in the diagram group and there was a significant decrease in motivation compared to the subjects' preferred methods of note taking. A meta study about concept mapping concluded that concept mapping is more effective than \"reading text passages, attending lectures, and participating in class discussions\". The same study also concluded that concept mapping is slightly more effective \"than other constructive activities such as writing summaries and outlines\". However, results were inconsistent, with the authors noting \"significant heterogeneity was found in most subsets\". In addition, they concluded that low-ability students may benefit more from mind mapping than high-ability students.\n\nJoeran Beel and Stefan Langer conducted a comprehensive analysis of the content of mind maps. They analysed 19,379 mind maps from 11,179 users of the mind mapping applications SciPlore MindMapping (now Docear) and MindMeister. Results include that average users create only a few mind maps (mean=2.7), average mind maps are rather small (31 nodes) with each node containing about three words (median). However, there were exceptions. One user created more than 200 mind maps, the largest mind map consisted of more than 50,000 nodes and the largest node contained ~7,500 words. The study also showed that between different mind mapping applications (Docear vs MindMeister) significant differences exist related to how users create mind maps.\n\nThere have been some attempts to create mind maps automatically. Brucks & Schommer created mind maps automatically from full-text streams. Rothenberger et al. extracted the main story of a text and presented it as mind map. And there is a patent about automatically creating sub-topics in mind maps.\n\nMind-mapping software can be used to organize large amounts of information, combining spatial organization, dynamic hierarchical structuring and node folding. Software packages can extend the concept of mind-mapping by allowing individuals to map more than thoughts and ideas with information on their computers and the Internet, like spreadsheets, documents, Internet sites and images. It has been suggested that mind-mapping can improve learning/study efficiency up to 15% over conventional note-taking.\n"}
{"id": "31012916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31012916", "title": "Morton Margolin Prize for Distinguished Business Reporting", "text": "Morton Margolin Prize for Distinguished Business Reporting\n\nThe Morton Margolin Prize for Distinguished Business Reporting is an award for reporting in business journalism published in a Colorado newspaper or magazine. It is awarded by the University of Denver Daniels College of Business and the School of Communication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48505252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48505252", "title": "One Globe Conference", "text": "One Globe Conference\n\nOne Globe Forum is an annual thought leadership forum, which focuses on exploring the intersection of technology, education, science, innovation, entrepreneurship, urbanization, smart cities, skills development, security, health, and regional collaboration, and their role in enabling economic growth to build a 21st-century knowledge economy.\n\nSince its inception in 2012, One Globe has brought over 250 global thought leaders from business, government, civil society, media and multilateral institutions, representing over 25 countries each year to debate, discuss, and share global and local perspectives on important issues influencing India and South Asia’s development.\n\nThe annual One Globe Forum is produced and programmed by the events arm of Salwan Media Ventures. The forum was conceptualized by Harjiv Singh, Founder & CEO, Salwan Media Ventures.\n\nPrevious speakers have included Piyush Goyal, Minister of State for Power, Coal and New and Renewable Energy, Rajiv Pratap Rudy, Minister of State for Skill Development & Entrepreneurship and Parliamentary Affairs, Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, former Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting, and now the Minister of State for Youth Affairs and Sports, Amitabh Kant Secretary, Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP), Onno Ruhl India Country Director, World Bank, Babul Supriyo, Minister of State for Urban Development, Kapil Sibal Union Minister for HRD & Communications and Information Technology, Pallam Raju Minister of Human Resource Development, Shashi Tharoor Minister of State for Human Resource Development, PP Choudhary, Union Minister of State, Ministry of Law and Justice; and Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Rao Inderjit Singh, Union Minister of State, Ministry for Housing & Urban Poverty Alleviation, Sam Pitroda Advisor to the Prime Minister, Public Information Infrastructure & Innovations, Lord Loomba Founder Chairman- The Loomba Foundation, Jeffrey Sachs President, NYU - Polytechnic, Neeraj Bhargava, Founder Zodius Capital Advisory, Ashok Trivedi, Co-Chairman IGATE Corporation, Frederick M. Lawrence, President Brandeis University, Lakshmi Pratury, General JJ Singh, Governor of Arunachal Pradesh, Meenakshi Lekhi Member of Parliament, BJP National Spokesperson, Advocate and Social Activist, Shereen Bhan Managing Editor CNBC-TV18, Sheila Dikshit Former Chief Minister, Delhi and Former Governor, Kerala, Vikas Bajaj, Correspondent New York Times, Heather Timmons, Reporter New York Times, Nisid Hajari, Editor Bloomberg View (Asia), Dr. Arun Sundararajan, Professor NYU Stern School of Business, Shantanu Prakash, Chairman and Managing Director, Dr. Mukesh Aghi, Chairman & CEO Steria India, Arun Kapur, Director Vasant Valley School, New Delhi, Dr. Hitendra Wadhwa Professor of Professional Practice Columbia Business School, Francisco Marmolejo, Lead, Global Solutions Group on Tertiary Education; Lead Education Specialist for India, World Bank, Dr. A. Didar Singh, Advisor Ministry of Overseas Indian Affairs, Sandeep Aneja, Founder and Managing Director Kaizen Private Equity, Gopal Jain, Founding and Managing Partner Gaja Capital Partners, Loftus Harris, Special Trade Representative to the Middle East and India The Queensland Government, M. Damodaran Former Chairman SEBI and IAS (Retd.), Montek Singh Ahluwalia Former Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission of the Republic of India, Dr. Karan Singh President – Indian Council for Cultural Relations, Dr. Fumio Isoda, Executive Vice President, The University of Tokyo, Dr. Anil Sinha, Regional Head, Advisory Services South Asia, International Finance Corporation (IFC), Dr. Surjit Bhalla, Chairman, Oxus Investments & Senior Advisor Bluefin, Sethuraman Panchanathan Senior Vice President Knowledge Enterprise Development, Arizona State University, Som Mittal Former President NASSCOM, Umang Bedi, Managing Director Adobe Systems, Suneet Singh Tuli, Founder and CEO Datawind Ltd.\n\nOne Globe's current advisory board includes Harjiv Singh, Founder & CEO, Salwan Media Ventures, Anurag Thakur, Member of Parliament & National President Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, Jerry MacArthur Hultin, Senior Presidential Fellow, New York University, and Chairman, Global Advisory Board, at Smart City Expo World Congress, Dr. Siddharth Saxena, Chairperson, Cambridge Central Asia Forum, Dr. Shailaja Fennel, Lecturer in Development Studies, Department of Land Economy, University of Cambridge, Dalbir Singh, Senior Advisor, Forum of Federations Canada, Mahendra Bapna Former Chief Executive Officer, Tata Motor Enterprises and Yatish Rajawat, Founder, Livable Habitats.\n\nOne Globe Forum provides an ideal annual platform for companies, universities, organizations, governments and civil society to build their brand, thought leadership. The annual event also provides an excellent opportunity to network with key decision makers and thought leaders.\nOne Globe’s curated digital content of videos, email, photographs, and editorial coverage of the forum through the year helps to engage a diverse global audience. Organizations like Cisco, Adobe, Yes Bank, NYU Wagner, Wagner, and WISE have been partners with the forum in its previous editions.\n\nOne Globe’s knowledge partners have included - Knowledge@Wharton\n, PwC, Brookings Institution, US India Business Council, UK India Business Council, TiE, Swedish Chamber, MAIT, The Chamber of Commerce and Industry France India (CCIFI).\nMedia Partners have included – \"BrainGain\" Magazine, \"The International New York Times\", \"The International Herald Tribune\", \"The Sunday Guardian\", \"The Telegraph\" and Asia Briefing.\n\nThe sixth edition of One Globe Forum was held in February 2017 at The Imperial Hotel, New Delhi, India. The Forum commenced with an inaugural session which was attended by Shri PP Choudhary, Union Minister of State, Ministry of Law and Justice; and Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Shri Rao Inderjit Singh, Union Minister of State, Ministry for Housing & Urban Poverty Alleviation, Government of India, Anurag Thakur, Member of Parliament (LS); Chairman of India’s Parliamentary Committee on IT, Shalabh Kumar, Founder & President, Republican Hindu Coalition, Dr. Mukesh Aghi, President, U.S.-India Business Council and Lord Raj Loomba, Founder & Chairman Trustee, The Loomba Foundation, Dalbir Singh, Chairman Organizing Committee; Senior Advisor, Forum of Federations, Canada and Harjiv Singh, Convener, One Globe Forum. & \n\nThe major themes deliberated upon included smart cities, Make in India, defense security, women’s empowerment, science, innovation, higher education, and transforming the public health sector. The One Globe Forum also gave away awards in categories for Social Impact, Entrepreneurship, Smart Cities, Research & Development, and Enabling a Digital Economy.\n\nOne Globe Forum hosted several keynote sessions and panel discussions along with a breakout session on Design Thinking. The speakers included eminent policy makers, thought leaders, and entrepreneurs. From discussing the critical role of women’s empowerment towards engendering economic empowerment, to deliberating on how robotics will affect the future of employment, the forum enabled breakthrough insights and knowledge networks.\n\nCISCO, USIBC, Knowledge@Wharton, BrainGain Magazine, Swedish Chamber of Commerce India, ANZIBA, European Business Group, WION, and Kodak were key partners who ensured the event’s scale and success. Distinguished speakers at the forum included Raghav Chandra, Former Chairman, NHAI; Secretary, National Commission for Scheduled Tribes, Khurshed Gandhi, Managing Director, Cushman & Wakefield, Masayoshi Tamura, General Manager, Hitachi India, Mahendra Bapna, Senior Advisor, IIT-Jodhpur, Dr. Makarand Chipalkatti, Managing Director, Dr. Chips Consulting LLC, Gaurav Agarwal, Director-Public Sector, Cisco Systems India and SAARC, Manish Tewari, Former Union Minister of State for Information & Broadcasting, General Deepak Kapoor, Former Chief of Army Staff, Indian Army, Air Marshal Sumit Mukerji, Former Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Vice Admiral Shekhar Sinha, Former Western Naval Command Chief, Manoj Kothari, MD & Principal Strategist, Turian Labs, Vikram Chachra, CEO & Managing Partner, Eight Capital LLC, Dhruv Agarwala, CEO, PropTiger, Aashish Kalra, Chairman, Cambridge Technology Inc, Rohan Malhotra, CEO & Founder, RoadZen Inc., Vaishali Nigam Sinha, CEO, iCharity, Sutapa Sanyal, Director General Police, UP Police Mahila Samman Prakoshth; State Human Rights Commission and Civil Defence, Kunal Nandwani, CEO, uTrade Solutions, Prasad Vanga, Founder & Speed Scaler, Anthill Ventures, Pallav Sinha, Founder & CEO, MeraJob India, C.V.R. Murty, Director, IIT-Jodhpur, Francisco Marmolejo, Lead, Global Solutions Group on Tertiary Education; Lead Education Specialist for India, World Bank, Ajit Kumar, Vice Chancellor, NIFTEM, Mr. Sandeep Sancheti, President, Manipal University, Jaipur, K. Nagaraj Naidu, Joint Secretary (ED), Ministry of External Affairs, Patrick Santillo, Minister – Counselor for Commercial Affairs, U.S. Embassy in New Delhi, Alan Freedman, MOORE Capital, H.E. Daniel Carmon, Ambassador of Israel to India , Louis Skyner, Senior Associate, Clifford, Chance, Ajai Malhotra, Former Ambassador of India to Russia, Dr. C. Raja Mohan, Director, Carneigie India, Ravi Pandit, Co-Founder, Chairman & Group CEO, KPIT Technologies, Som Mittal, Former President, NASSCOM, Jagdish Mitra, Chief Strategy and Marketing Officer, Tech Mahindra, Manit Jain, Founder & Director, Heritage School, Shweta Sastri, Executive Director, Canadian International School, Bengaluru, Sudhir Wadhwa, CTO, Viridis Learning, Sandy Hooda, Founder, Vega Schools, Shoma Chaudhury, Former Managing Editor, Tehelka, Dr. J.N. Misra, Former Ambassador of India to Portugal & Laos, Harendra Singh, Chief Coach, Indian Junior Men’s Hockey Team & Dronacharya Award Winner; Deputy General Manager, Air India, CK Mishra, Union Health Secretary, Vidur Mahajan, Associate Director, Mahajan Imaging, Harpal Singh, Mentor & Chairman Emeritus, Fortis Healthcare, Shri J.S. Deepak, Department of Telecommunications, Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Technology, Government of India, Debasish Mitter, Country Director – India, Michael & Susan Dell Foundation, Vishal Mehta, Co-founder, Lok Capital, and Ranjna Khanna, Director, Impact Investors Council.\n\nThe fifth edition of the One Globe Forum was organized in February 2016, at The Imperial Hotel, New Delhi, India. It was inaugurated by Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, former Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting and currently Minister of State with independent charge of Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports.\nThe forum hosted sessions on key topics like smart cities, defense manufacturing, entrepreneurship, Digital India, skills, investment in science & innovation, social ventures, and higher education in the 21st century., & \n\nPreviously known as the One Globe Conference the event also rebranded as the One Globe Forum. During the two-day event, leaders from various fields met to discuss and deliberate on themes which are critical to the growth of India and South Asia. They identified challenges and suggested pathways for transforming India and South Asia into knowledge hubs with vibrant economies. The sixth edition also saw the institution of the One Globe Awards. & \n\nCISCO, Anthros Inc, USIBC, Knowledge@Wharton, India Briefing, VCCircle, Business World Smart Cities, Swedish Chamber of Commerce India, and BrainGain Magazine were key partners for the event and played a significant role towards ensuring its success. One Globe Forum consolidated its reputation as a platform for uniting knowledge communities by bringing together thought-leaders, policy makers, and leaders like Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, former Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting – Government of India, Babul Supriyo, Minister of State for Urban Development, Bibek Debroy, Economist and Member of Niti Aayog, Anurag Thakur, Member of Parliament and Chairman – Parliamentary Standing Committee on IT, Shinichi Yamanaka, Senior Advisor – Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology – Japan, Montek Singh Ahluwalia, Former Deputy Chairman – Planning Commission of India, Sofia Eriksson, Head of Communications – Ericsson, India, Jerry MacArthur Hultin, Chairman, The Global Futures Group, LLC & President Emeritus, Polytechnic Institute of NYU, Dr. Shailaja Fennell, Centre of Development Studies – University of Cambridge, Lord Loomba C.B.E., Founder & Chairman Trustee – The Loomba Foundation, Purushottam Kaushik, MD-Sales, CISCO India and SAARC, Ashok Atluri, Chairman & MD – Zen Technologies, Ravi Pandit, Co-founder, Chairman & Group CEO – KPIT Technologies, Bharat R. Joshi, CEO – J Curve Ventures Pvt. Ltd., Nandita Agarwal Parker, MD – Karma Capital Management LLC, Amit Srivastav, President – Infinite Computer Solutions, Chokan Laumulin – Research Fellow – Central Asian Forum, Jesus College, University of Cambridge, Felix Ortiz III, Founder, Chairman & CEO – Viridis Learning, William Kooser, Associate Dean – Global Outreach, University of Chicago School of Business, Moitreyee Sinha, Associate Director – Global Development Incubator, Siddharth Zarabi, Executive Editor – Bloomberg TV, Sanjeev Mohanty, CEO & Managing Director – JABONG, General Deepak Kapoor, Ex-Chief of the Army Staff, Debashish Mitter, Country Director – India – Michael & Susan Dell Foundation. Speaking at the Inaugural Session, Colonel Rathore underlined the importance of a forum like One Globe. He said, “I call it the world community, as borders are no longer relevant. Lessons learnt in one part of the world can be shared with another.”\n\nIn its fourth edition, the \"One Globe Forum\" was held in March 2015 at The Imperial, New Delhi, inaugurated by Hon'ble Shree Piyush Goyal, Minister of State (independent charge) for Power, Coal and New and Renewable energy, Govt. of India.\n\nThe topics of discussions were mobility, connectivity and ubiquity – described by Harjiv Singh as \"shaping the 21st century landscape\" by being the key drivers of economic development. They are also widely seen as key enablers of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Government of India's initiatives such as Smart Cities, Digital India and Make in India.\nThrough a mixture of keynote speeches, panel discussions and interactive sessions, a number of ideas were mooted by educators, policy makers, C-suite executives, and Government officials. From deliberating the importance of making India a global knowledge destination, to including citizen participation in policy making, allowing better IT integration & even deliberating the urgent need to addressing current skill deficit in India, One Globe 2015 made a breakthrough by bringing the key stakeholders to deliberate the real enablers of socio-economic development in India and the South Asian region.\n\nCisco, U.S.-India Business Council, Brookings India, The College Board, Knowledge@Wharton, The Telegraph, MAIT, Asia Briefings, BrainGainMag & Gutenberg Communications were some of the key partners that were instrumental in driving the event’s success in producing the two-day showcase event.\nBuilding on its reputation from previous years, One Globe 2015 saw some renowned speakers such as Piyush Goyal, Minister of State (I/C) for Power, Coal and New and Renewable Energy, Government of India, Rajiv Pratap Rudy, Minister of State for Skill Development & Entrepreneurship (I/C) and Parliamentary Affairs, Government of India,\nIn the lunch keynote, Rajiv Pratap Rudy, minister of state for skill development and entrepreneurship (independent charge), and parliamentary affairs, Govt. of India discussed skill development in India with a balance of critique and optimism. At one point he stated “We have an unorganized workforce, but it is nothing to be disappointed about. We have started now what we should have 60 years ago. The government has planned it out. We are talking about many out-of-the-box ideas to create a skilling ecosystem in the country, for which we need support from all of you”.\n\nThe third edition of the “One Globe: Uniting Knowledge Communities” Conference was organized in February, 2013, at The Imperial Hotel, New Delhi, India, & inaugurated by Salman Khurshid, Honorable Union Minister of External Affairs, Government of India.\n\nThe conference continued to build on its theme of discussing and (in the process) discovering, the real enablers’ that would drive economic growth in India and the South Asian region.\n\nThrough series of keynote addresses, expert panels and interactive sessions held over the two day event, the conference served as a platform wherein dignitaries enthusiastically participated in identifying the significant challenges for India, and South Asia, on the journey towards becoming a 21st-century knowledge hub –such as, highest rates of adult illiteracy, lack of quality education, shortage of teachers, low internet penetration, a low gross enrollment ratio across the education spectrum, and most importantly, limited exchanges within the South Asian region.\n\nCollege Board, Adobe, BFU Blossoms, International New York Times, BrainGainmag.com, U.S. India Business Council, Knowledge@Wharton, Media Value Works, WISE, The Indus Entrepreneurs, Gutenberg Communications, PHD Chamber, & The Sunday Guardian were some of the key partners that were instrumental in driving the event's success.\nKey speakers included Salman Khurshid, Minister of External Affairs, Government of India, Smt. Preneet Kaur, Minister of State for External Affairs, Government of India, Manish Tewari, Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting, Government of India, Onno Ruhl, India Country Director, World Bank, Anurag Thakur, National President, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), Umang Bedi, Managing Director - South Asia, Adobe Systems, Dr. Subir Gokarn, Director, Research, Brookings India, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution USA, Som Mittal, Former President, NASSCOM, Mr. Kotaro Tamura, Adjunct Professor, Lee Kwan Yew School of Public Policy, National University of Singapore and Chairman, Strategic Initiative of Japan, Suneet Singh Tuli, Founder and CEO, DataWind Ltd, Varun Sood, CIO, Fortis Healthcare Limited, Sukumar Ranganathan, Editor, Mint, among others.\nIn his keynote address, Hon’ble Minister Manish Tewari, Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting, Government of India discussed the role of internet and digitization of knowledge repositories as key contributors in uniting knowledge communities across the world. Tewari said “The internet was the most audacious experiment in anarchy and has succeeded. In the past two decades there has been a fundamental transformation in the information architecture of the world –the emergence of the Internet has broken the geographic and physical barriers to the way knowledge is disseminated.”\n\nThe second annual “One Globe: Uniting Knowledge Communities” (#OG 13) Conference was organized in February, 2013, at The Imperial Hotel, New Delhi, India. It was inaugurated by Dr. Pallam Raju, Honorable Union Minister of Human Resources Development, Government of India.\nThe conference served as an engaging forum with leaders from government, academia, business, non-profit and multilateral institutions debating and discussing the elements of creating a 21st-century knowledge based economy.\n\nTopics explored the linkages across the knowledge spectrum, from K-12 to higher education, to innovation to technology. Weaving a holistic thread across discussions, from the four pillars of learning to the creation of world class universities, from India's demographic dividend, to the use of technologies, like tablets and mobile video in delivering education, from rapid urbanization and designing sustainable innovative cities, building capacity in skills development by looking at community colleges and encouraging entrepreneurship, to the imperative of educating women.\nThe International Herald Tribune, BrainGainmag.com, U.S. India Business Council, Knowledge@Wharton, The Indus Entrepreneurs, WISE, Gutenberg Communications, PHD Chamber, & The Sunday Guardian were some of the key partners that were instrumental in driving the event’s success.\n\nKey speakers included, Dr. Karan Singh, Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha); President of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), and India’s Ambassador to UNESCO, Hon’ble Minister Preneet Kaur, Minister of State for External Affairs, Government of India, Montek Singh Ahluwalia, Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission of India, Mr. Stavros N. Yiannouka, CEO, World Innovation Summit for Education (WISE), R.K. Pachauri, Director General of The Energy and Resources Institute(TERI), Madhav Chavan, CEO, Pratham & WISE Prize for Education Laureate and many more.\n\nIn a special keynote, Hon’ble Minister Shashi Tharoor, Minister of State for Human Resource Development, Government of India, expressed the need to focus on socio-economic development along with technology driven education initiatives. Tharoor said “If I had to pick the one thing that we must do above all else, I now offer a two-word mantra: educate girls” –answering the perennial question: What is the single-most important thing that can be done to improve the world?\n\nThe first conference featured moderated open discussions with leading scholars and expert panelists, and provided participants with an in-depth view of how innovative solutions can help solve real world challenges in education. In two days of sessions and round-table discussions, the conference focused on exploring the multiple opportunities in India and South Asia’s education sector.\n\nSome of the corporate sponsors included YES Bank, the Institute of International Education (IIE), USA Community College Consortium and the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI).\n\nThe International Herald Tribune, BrainGainmag.com, U.S. India Business Council, Knowledge@Wharton, The Indus Entrepreneurs, UK India Business Council, Gutenberg Communications, Ecole Hoteliere Lausanne, Habiart Foundation, Global Partnerships Forum and Centre of Community Initiative were some of the key partners that were instrumental in driving the event’s success in producing the two-day showcase event.\n\nKapil Sibal, Union Minister for HRD & Communications and Information Technology, Government of India, announcing the need of an open platform, where students will be able to access courses from other universities, interact with international faculty members, and, in the process, generate knowledge, said, “We have to move forward as One Globe, reuniting knowledge communities”. Sibal also urged for the private sector to increase their participation to give a boost to the Gross Enrolment Ratio to 42 million by 2020.\n\nSome of the key speakers and dignitaries included Sam Pitroda, Advisor to the Prime Minister, Public Information Infrastructure & Innovations, Ron Somers, President, U.S.-India, Business Council, Lord Loomba CBE, Founder Chairman, The Loomba Foundation, Shantanu Prakash, Chairman and Managing Director, Educomp Solutions Limited, Jacques Steinberg, Senior Editor, The Choice and The Learning Network, The New York Times, Dr. Mukesh Aghi, Chairman & CEO, Steria India, and many more.\n\nOne Globe Forum also publishes content such as videos and articles on its website and social media channels.\n\nMake in India\nDigital India\nSmart Cities\nStartup India\n"}
{"id": "16451827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16451827", "title": "Oracle Discoverer", "text": "Oracle Discoverer\n\nOracle Discoverer is a tool-set for \"ad hoc\" querying, reporting, data analysis, and Web-publishing for the Oracle Database environment. Oracle Corporation markets it as a business intelligence product. It was originally a stand-alone product, however it has become a component of the Oracle Fusion Middleware suite, and renamed Oracle Business Intelligence Discoverer.\n\nThe Discoverer product comprises:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21932654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21932654", "title": "Perth Institute of Business and Technology", "text": "Perth Institute of Business and Technology\n\nEdith Cowan College (ECC) was previously known as Perth Institute of Business and Technology (PIBT) is an Australian tertiary education provider.\nEdith Cowan College (ECC) is located in Perth, Western Australia and is accredited by Government under the Higher Education Act 2004 to provide a range of higher education courses. Edith Cowan College has been in partnership with Edith Cowan University (ECU) since 1994. Since then over 9,000 students have successfully transitioned into Edith Cowan University (ECU).\n\nECC is the founding college of Navitas, a public company listed on the Australian Stock Exchange and the largest group of Higher Education colleges in Australia. Navitas has colleges in most state capitals plus sister colleges in London, Africa and Canada. Since 1994 ECC and Edith Cowan University have worked together to provide pathway programs to university in Australia.\n\nChief Executive Officer – Mr Rod Jones Appointed 18 June 2004\nMr Jones has 30 years experience in educational administration and has held a number of senior administrative positions within the Government and the private education sectors. His background covers both secondary and university education including being Deputy Director of the Tertiary Institutions Service Centre and the Secondary Education Authority. Mr Jones has been involved in international education since 1987 and is recognized as one of the leaders in the successful establishment of the sector in Australia. He is one of the co-founders of Navitas and has been instrumental in the expansion and development of the Navitas model into the various markets which it now operates. In April 2007 Mr Jones received an Honorary Doctor of Education from Edith Cowan University in recognition of his contributions to increasing student participation in education.\n\nCampus Location\nECC is located on ECU’s Mt Lawley and Joondalup campuses. The Mt Lawley campus is 10 minutes from Perth central business district. The Joondalup campus is 25km from Perth.\n\nEnrolments\nECC has approximately 900 students from over 90 countries and 9,000 graduates of both Australian and International students. It provides an alternative entry to university studies and a guaranteed pathway into the second year of a Bachelor degree at Edith Cowan University.\n\nECC provides (Diploma) pathway programs in the areas of Commerce, Hotel Management, Communications and Creative Industries, Science (Computer / IT), Science (Engineering Studies), and Science (Health Studies) including Nursing, which lead into the 2nd Year of the respective Degree courses at Edith Cowan University (ECU). A three-semester system allows students to complete most courses in 8 months.\n\nECC also offers English Language courses for people from non-English speaking countries and direct entry pathways for International students wishing to undertake university study. ECC offers the Academic English program at all levels from beginner to advanced.\n\nThe Student Support Program has been established to link new students with senior ECC and University students to assist with everyday matters relating to living and studying in Australia. All new students are assigned a Student Leader who assists them over the first few weeks of their arrival. A Student Counsellor is available to assist with welfare and pastoral care and all discussions are kept confidential. The Student Counsellor is available to meet with students.\n\n"}
{"id": "29473303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29473303", "title": "Peter H. Appel", "text": "Peter H. Appel\n\nPeter H. Appel (born 1964) was the administrator of the Research and Innovative Technology Administration (RITA). From 2009 to 2011 Appel was the Obama Administration point person on transportation technology issues and research. He left RITA in late 2011 for the private sector to work on emerging technologies in the transportation industry.\n\nMr. Appel has a Bachelor of Science degree in economics and computer science from Brandeis University and a Master of Science degree in transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.\n\nHe worked for the global management consulting firm of A.T. Kearney, Inc., where he led business improvement initiatives for clients in the private and public sectors, with a focus on Transportation and Infrastructure. Mr. Appel has worked in the transportation field since the late 1980s, and has supported organizations in the railroad, trucking, airline, and ocean shipping industries with growth strategy, supply chain improvement, post-merger integration, public-private partnerships, and other key business and policy issues. Previously, he served as the Special Assistant to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, and as Assistant Director for Pricing and Yield Management at Amtrak.\n\nHe was confirmed by the U.S. Senate as Administrator of the Research and Innovative Technology Administration (RITA) on April 29, 2009. During his tenure at RITA, Appel worked with Secretary Ray LaHood to advance key U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) initiatives by leveraging effective research and cross-modal coordination. These initiatives have included the Distracted Driving Summit, which brought key transportation researchers, advocates, decision makers and other leaders together to address this growing safety issue; the bolstering of USDOT Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Program to best improve safety, efficiency, and environmental sustainability across all modes of surface transportation; and the establishment of the Department's Safety Council. Appel coordinated DOT's research programs associated with railroads, aviation, maritime transportation and vehicles. As administrator of RITA, he also coordinated DOT efforts on distracted driving and research gathering statistical data about the various transportation modes.\n"}
{"id": "4746766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4746766", "title": "Process", "text": "Process\n\nA process is a set of activities that interact to produce a result.\n\nThings called a process include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42113520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42113520", "title": "Procurify", "text": "Procurify\n\nProcurify is a cloud-based procurement software company located in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Procurify's main product offering is a cloud-based procurement solution which can be used to manage company spending. Companies that offer procurement solutions will typically focus on automation and of company spending in real-time. The current Procurify platform is considered horizontal, rather than industry specific.\n\nProcurify is headquartered in Vancouver, British Columbia and was founded in 2013 by CEO Aman Mann, CTO Eugene Dong, and COO Kenneth Loi.\n\nProcurify's cloud based procurement software solution is used by companies to manage organizational purchasing and procurement. Like most e-procurement solutions available, Procurify focuses on providing users features including digital purchase order submission and accounts payable automation. Procurify is hosted on the Amazon Web Services and is built using Django. The solution is available as a SaaS. Procurify is offered as a browser-based and mobile procurement software.\n\nThe company founders are BCIT School of Business alumni who graduated together in Operations Management in 2011.\n\nThe idea for Procurify came from a BCIT class project where the founders Aman Mann - CEO, Eugene Dong - CTO, and Kenneth Loi - COO were randomly placed together to consult a Vancouver-based business on their internal processes.\n\nIn November 2012, they joined the Growlab Accelerator program.\nIn February 2013, Procurify graduated from Vancouver-based incubator program GrowLab.\nIn April 2014, Procurify raised a total of 1.2 Million seed round from venture capitalists Nexus Ventures, BDC and Mark Cuban.\nIn July 2015, Procurify raised another seed round totaling $4 Million from Point Nine Capital, Nexus Venture Partners and the Business Development Bank of Canada (BDC). Hootsuite’s CEO Ryan Holmes and its chief revenue officer Steve Johnson also participated in this round.\n"}
{"id": "37040021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37040021", "title": "Single customer view", "text": "Single customer view\n\nA single customer view is an aggregated, consistent and holistic representation of the data held by an organisation about its customers that can be viewed in one place, such as a single page. The advantage to an organisation of attaining this unified view comes from the ability it gives to analyse past behaviour in order to better target and personalise future customer interactions. A single customer view is also considered especially relevant where organisations engage with customers through multichannel marketing, since customers expect those interactions to reflect a consistent understanding of their history and preferences. However, some commentators have challenged the idea that a single view of customers across an entire organisation is either natural or meaningful, proposing that the priority should instead be consistency between the multiple views that arise in different contexts.\n\nWhere representations of a customer are held in more than one data set, achieving a single customer view can be difficult: firstly because customer identity must be traceable between the records held in those systems, and secondly because anomalies or discrepancies in the customer data must be data cleansed. As such, the acquisition by an organisation of a single customer view is one potential outcome of successful master data management. Since 31 December, 2010, maintaining a single customer view, and submitting it within 72 hours, has become mandatory for financial institutions in the United Kingdom due to new rules introduced by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.\n\n"}
{"id": "18011930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18011930", "title": "Site prospecting", "text": "Site prospecting\n\nSite prospecting is the process of evaluating demographic data surrounding potential locations for a business, based on a user-defined trade area or areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875574", "title": "Software industry", "text": "Software industry\n\nThe software industry includes businesses for development, maintenance and publication of software that are using different business models, mainly either \"license/maintenance based\" (on-premises) or \"Cloud based\" (such as SaaS, PaaS, IaaS, MaaS, AaaS, etc.). The industry also includes software services, such as training, documentation, consulting and data recovery.\n\nThe word \"software\" was coined as a prank as early as 1953, but did not appear in print until the 1960s. Before this time, computers were programmed either by customers, or the few commercial computer vendors of the time, such as UNIVAC and IBM. The first company founded to provide software products and services was Computer Usage Company in 1955.\n\nThe software industry expanded in the early 1960s, almost immediately after computers were first sold in mass-produced quantities. Universities, government, and business customers created a demand for software. Many of these programs were written in-house by full-time staff programmers. Some were distributed freely between users of a particular machine for no charge. Others were done on a commercial basis, and other firms such as Computer Sciences Corporation (founded in 1959) started to grow. Other influential or typical software companies begun in the early 1960s included Advanced Computer Techniques, Automatic Data Processing, Applied Data Research, and Informatics General. The computer/hardware makers started bundling operating systems, systems software and programming environments with their machines.\n\nWhen Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) brought a relatively low-priced microcomputer to market, it brought computing within the reach of many more companies and universities worldwide, and it spawned great innovation in terms of new, powerful programming languages and methodologies. New software was built for microcomputers, so other manufacturers including IBM, followed DEC's example quickly, resulting in the IBM AS/400 amongst others.\n\nThe industry expanded greatly with the rise of the personal computer (\"PC\") in the mid-1970s, which brought desktop computing to the office worker for the first time. In the following years, it also created a growing market for games, applications, and utilities. DOS, Microsoft's first operating system product, was the dominant operating system at the time.\n\nIn the early years of the 21st century, another successful business model has arisen for hosted software, called software-as-a-service, or SaaS; this was at least the third time this model had been attempted. From the point of view of producers of some proprietary software, SaaS reduces the concerns about unauthorized copying, since it can only be accessed through the Web, and by definition no client software is loaded onto the end user's PC.\n\nAccording to industry analyst Gartner, the size of the worldwide software industry in 2013 was US$407.3 billion, an increase of 4.8% over 2012. As in past years, the largest four software vendors were Microsoft, Oracle Corporation, IBM, and SAP respectively.\nThe software industry has been subject to a high degree of consolidation over the past couple of decades. Between 1995 and 2018 around 37,039 mergers and acquisitions have been announced with a total known value of US$ 1,166 bil. USD. The highest number and value of deals was set in 2000 during the high times of the dot-com bubble with 2,674 transactions valued at 105. bil. USD. In 2017, 2,547 deals were announced valued at $111 billion. Approaches to successfully acquire and integrate software companies are available. \n\nBusiness models of software companies have been widely discussed. Network effects in software ecosystems, networks of companies, and their customers are an important element in the strategy of software companies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21022706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21022706", "title": "Stock market education", "text": "Stock market education\n\nTo become a professional securities broker in the United States, an individual must take and pass the General Securities Representative Exam (Series 7) and in most states, the Uniform Securities Agent State Law Examination (Series 63). To take the test, you must be sponsored by \"a member firm, a self-regulatory organization (SRO), or an exchange.\" This requirement, as well as the administration of the test, is under the jurisdiction of FINRA, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.\n\nFor individuals who are interested only in managing their own investments, several options exist to obtain a stock market education:\n\n\nMany colleges and universities offer courses of study in business, economics, and finance. However, the coursework is aimed at preparing the student for the professional world. They are not designed or intended to teach a student how to trade in the stock market, although the introductory/basic courses would provide a good basic foundation of knowledge. Those intending to follow the professional stockbroker career path usually begin their education by obtaining a degree in business, economics, or finance.\n\nSome of the core subjects covered by an undergraduate education during the course of a financial/business college education are:\n\nNon-traditional classroom settings are offered by:\n\n\nFor-profit financial education companies exist that offer programs of study (also referred to as \"systems\" or \"courses\" – the terminology varies) on stock market education. Unlike colleges that prepare students for working in the financial arena, these companies educate students with a more narrow focus – how to trade derivatives for the purpose of personal investing. Examples of such companies are thinkorswim (formerly Investools), Invested Central, Trading Advantage, Global Finance School, and Rich Dad's Education (based on the \"Rich Dad, Poor Dad\" book by Robert Kiyosaki). These types of companies offer both classroom settings for learning and distance education programs.\n\nAnother aspect that differentiates for-profit stock market education companies from traditional colleges is the commercialization factor. For-profit stock market education companies frequently develop other products – such as software and newsletters – that they market to their students. Colleges and universities, frequently founded for the purpose of providing education and established as non-profit organizations, do not follow this business model.\n\nAlso referred to as \"personal coaches,\" mentors work one-on-one with a student, In this situation, the student receives more personal attention from the instructor than from a classroom or distance learning education. Some mentors offer their services for a fee.\n\nThe following resources exist in libraries and on the Internet for an individual to learn about investing in the stock market:\n\n\nWhether an individual chooses a traditional or non-traditional education to learn how the stock market works, the following basic subjects are covered:\n\n\nMore advanced topics would include:\n\n"}
{"id": "41772890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41772890", "title": "Veritrade", "text": "Veritrade\n\nVeritrade is a privately owned commercial intelligence company founded in 1999, dedicated to providing information about International trade from multiple countries, in the form of digital publications.\n\nThrough the use of its database, Veritrade incorporates different products for varied sectors and industries in Peru and worldwide.\n\nVeritrade has developed several products that allow reading and analyzing data on foreign trade for each country, with different specifications catering to different types of industries, businesses and individual clients: Veritrade Business, Veritrade Analytic, Veritrade Motors and Verinews.\n\nThese products are based on the use of information technology and help clients to analize production, costs, etc.\n\nVeritrade collaborates with different online and printed media outlets providing foreign trade data and analysis. The most notable examples are articles in newspapers El Comercio, Perú21 and Gestión.\n\nIn May 2014, Veritrade provided foreign trade information relevant to an ongoing murder investigation, featured in a local news coverage.\n"}
{"id": "39443872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39443872", "title": "Young Achievers Award", "text": "Young Achievers Award\n\nThe Young Achievers Awards is a national competition held annually in Uganda which selects and promotes the best practice and excellence in youth creativity. By demonstrating a young person’s potential to create an outstanding nation built on entrepreneurship, YAA aims at recognizing Uganda’s leaders of tomorrow today. It provides an opportunity for people from all walks of life to work together to address national developmental challenges in ICT, the Arts, Health, Education, Gender and access to better lives.\n\nFounded in 2009 by two young entreprenuers, Awel Uwihanganye and Ivan Serwano Kyambadde, the Award was created as a platform to showcase Africa’s best talent as an encouragement in their quest to create economic opportunity, attain financial independence and improve their leadership abilities to ultimately play meaningful roles in managing the affairs of society.\n\n\n"}
