{"id": "59551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59551", "title": "Art Nouveau", "text": "Art Nouveau\n\nArt Nouveau (; ) is an international style of art, architecture and applied art, especially the decorative arts, that was most popular between 1890 and 1910. A reaction to the academic art of the 19th century, it was inspired by natural forms and structures, particularly the curved lines of plants and flowers.\n\nEnglish uses the French name Art Nouveau (new art). The style is related to, but not identical with, styles that emerged in many countries in Europe at about the same time: in Austria it is known as \"Secessionsstil\" after \"Wiener Secession\"; in Spanish \"Modernismo\"; in Catalan \"Modernisme\"; in Czech \"Secese\"; in Danish \"Skønvirke\" or \"Jugendstil\"; in German \"Jugendstil\", Art Nouveau or \"Reformstil\"; in Hungarian \"Szecesszió\"; in Italian Art Nouveau, \"Stile Liberty\" or \"Stile floreale\"; in Lithuanian \"Modernas\"; in Norwegian \"Jugendstil\"; in Polish \"Secesja\"; in Slovak \"Secesia\"; in Ukrainian and Russian \"Модерн\" (Modern); in Swedish and Finnish \"Jugend\".\n\nArt Nouveau is a total art style: It embraces a wide range of fine and decorative arts, including architecture, painting, graphic art, interior design, jewelry, furniture, textiles, ceramics, glass art, and metal work. \n\nBy 1910, Art Nouveau was already out of style. It was replaced as the dominant European architectural and decorative style first by Art Deco and then by Modernism.\n\nArt Nouveau took its name from the \"Maison de l'Art Nouveau\" (\"House of the New Art\"), an art gallery opened in 1895 by the Franco-German art dealer Siegfried Bing that featured the new style. In France, Art Nouveau was also sometimes called by the British term \"Modern Style\" due to its roots in the Arts and Crafts movement, \"Style moderne\", or \"Style 1900.\" It was also sometimes called \"Style Jules Verne\", \"Le Style Métro\" (after Hector Guimard's iron and glass subway entrances), \"Art Belle Époque\", and \"Art fin de siècle\".\n\nIn Belgium, where the architectural movement began, it was sometimes termed \"Style nouille\" (noodle style) or \"Style coup de fouet\" (whiplash style).\n\nIn Britain, it was known as the \"Modern Style\", or, because of the Arts and Crafts movement led by Charles Rennie Mackintosh in Glasgow, as the \"Glasgow\" style.\n\nIn Italy, because of the popularity of designs from London's Liberty & Co department store (mostly designed by Archibald Knox), it was sometimes called the \"Stile Liberty\" (\"Liberty style\"), \"Stile floral\", or \"Arte nova\" (New Art).\n\nIn the United States, due to its association with Louis Comfort Tiffany, it was often called the \"Tiffany style\".\n\nIn Germany and Scandinavia, a related style emerged at about the same time; it was called \"Jugendstil\", after the popular German art magazine of that name. In Austria and the neighboring countries then part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, a similar style emerged, called \"Secessionsstil\" in German, (, ) or \"Wiener Jugendstil\", after the artists of the Vienna Secession.\n\nThe style was called \"Modern\" (Модерн) in Russia and \"Nieuwe Kunst\" (new art) in the Netherlands. In Spain the related style was known as \"Modernismo\", \"Modernisme\" (in Catalan), \"Arte joven\" (\"young art\"); and in Portugal \"Arte nova\" (new art). \n\nSome names refer specifically to the organic forms that were popular with the Art Nouveau artists: \"Stile Floreal\" (\"floral style\") in France; \"Paling Stijl\" (\"eel style\") in the Netherlands; and \"Wellenstil\" (\"wave style\") and \"Lilienstil\" (\"lily style\") in Germany.\n\nThe new art movement had its roots in Britain, in the floral designs of William Morris, and in the Arts and Crafts movement founded by the pupils of Morris. Early prototypes of the style include the Red House of Morris (1859), and the lavish Peacock Room by James Abbott McNeill Whistler. The new movement was also strongly influenced by the Pre-Raphaelite painters, including Dante Gabriel Rossetti and Edward Burne-Jones, and especially by British graphic artists of the 1880s, including Selwyn Image, Heywood Sumner, Walter Crane, Alfred Gilbert, and especially Aubrey Beardsley.\n\nIn France, the style combined several different tendencies. In architecture, it was influenced by the architectural theorist and historian Eugène Viollet-le-Duc, a declared enemy of the historical Beaux-Arts architectural style. In his 1872 book \"Entretiens sur l'architecture\", he wrote, \"use the means and knowledge given to us by our times, without the intervening traditions which are no longer viable today, and in that way we can inaugurate a new architecture. For each function its material; for each material its form and its ornament.\" This book influenced a generation of architects, including Louis Sullivan, Victor Horta, Hector Guimard, and Antoni Gaudí.\n\nThe French painters Maurice Denis, Pierre Bonnard and Édouard Vuillard played an important part in integrating fine arts painting with decoration. \"I believe that before everything a painting must decorate\", Denis wrote in 1891. \"The choice of subjects or scenes is nothing. It is by the value of tones, the colored surface and the harmony of lines that I can reach the spirit and wake up the emotions.\" These painters all did both traditional painting and decorative painting on screens, in glass, and in other media.\n\nAnother important influence on the new style was Japonism: the wave of enthusiasm for Japanese woodblock printing, particularly the works of Hiroshige, Hokusai, and Utagawa Kunisada which were imported into Europe beginning in the 1870s. The enterprising Siegfried Bing founded a monthly journal, \"Le Japon artistique\" in 1888, and published thirty-six issues before it ended in 1891. It influenced both collectors and artists, including Gustav Klimt. The stylized features of Japanese prints appeared in Art Nouveau graphics, porcelain, jewelry, and furniture.\n\nNew technologies in printing and publishing allowed Art Nouveau to quickly reach a global audience. Art magazines, illustrated with photographs and color lithographs, played an essential role in popularizing the new style. \"The Studio\" in England, \"Arts et idèes\" and \"Art et décoration\" in France, and \"Jugend\" in Germany allowed the style to spread rapidly to all corners of Europe. Aubrey Beardsley in England, and Eugène Grasset, Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, and Félix Vallotton achieved international recognition as illustrators.\n\nWith the posters by Jules Cheret for dancer Loie Fuller in 1893, and by Alphonse Mucha for actress Sarah Bernhardt in 1895, the poster became not just advertising, but an art form. Toulouse-Lautrec and other artists achieved international celebrity status.\n\nThe Franco-German art dealer and publisher Siegfried Bing played a key role in publicizing the style. In 1891, he founded a magazine devoted to the art of Japan, which helped publicize Japonism in Europe. In 1892, he organized an exhibit of seven artists, among them Pierre Bonnard, Félix Vallotton, Édouard Vuillard, Toulouse-Lautrec and Eugène Grasset, which included both modern painting and decorative work. This exhibition was shown at the Société nationale des beaux-arts in 1895. In the same year, Bing opened a new gallery at 22 rue de Provence in Paris, the \"Maison de l'Art Nouveau\", devoted to new works in both the fine and decorative arts. The interior and furniture of the gallery were designed by the Belgian architect Henry Van de Velde, one of the pioneers of Art Nouveau architecture. The \"Maison de l'Art Nouveau\" showed paintings by Georges Seurat, Paul Signac and Toulouse-Lautrec, glass from Louis Comfort Tiffany and Emile Gallé, jewelry by René Lalique, and posters by Aubrey Beardsley. The works shown there were not at all uniform in style. Bing wrote in 1902, \"Art Nouveau, at the time of its creation, did not aspire in any way to have the honor of becoming a generic term. It was simply the name of a house opened as a rallying point for all the young and ardent artists impatient to show the modernity of their tendencies.\"\n\nThe first Art Nouveau houses, the Hôtel Tassel by Victor Horta and the Bloemenwerf house by Henry Van de Velde, were built in Brussels in 1893–1895. Both Horta and Van de Velde designed not only the houses, but also all of the interior decoration, furniture, carpets, and architectural details.\n\nHorta, an architect with classical training, designed the residence of a prominent Belgian chemist, Émile Tassel, on a very narrow and deep site. The central element became the stairway, beneath a high skylight. The floors were supported by slender iron columns like the trunks of trees. The mosaic floors and walls were decorated with delicate arabesques in floral and vegetal forms, which became the most popular signature of Art Nouveau.\n\nVan de Velde was by training a designer, not an architect, and collaborated with an architect on the plan of the Bloemenwerf, the house that he built for himself. He was inspired by the British Arts and Crafts Movement, particularly William Morris's Red House, and like them he designed all aspects of the building, including the furniture, wallpaper and carpets.\n\nAfter visiting Horta's Hôtel Tassel, Hector Guimard built the Castel Béranger, the first Paris building in the new style, between 1895 and 1898. Parisians had been complaining of the monotony of the architecture of the boulevards built under Napoleon III by Georges-Eugène Haussmann. They welcomed Guimard's colorful and picturesque style; the Castel Béranger was chosen as one of the best new façades in Paris, launching Guimard's career. Guimard was given the commission to design the entrances for the new Paris Métro system, which brought the style to the attention of the millions of visitors to the city's 1900 \"Exposition Universelle\".\n\nThe Paris 1900 \"Exposition universelle\" marked the high point of Art Nouveau. Between April and November 1900, it attracted nearly fifty million visitors from around the world, and showcased the architecture, design, glassware, furniture and decorative objects of the style. The architecture of the Exposition was often a mixture of Art Nouveau and Beaux-Arts architecture: the main exhibit hall, the Grand Palais had a Beaux-Arts façade completely unrelated to the spectacular Art Nouveau stairway and exhibit hall in the interior.\n\nThe Exposition particularly highlighted French designers, who all made special works for the Exhibition: Lalique crystal and jewelry; jewelry by Henri Vever and Georges Fouquet; Daum glass; the Manufacture nationale de Sèvres in porcelain; ceramics by Alexandre Bigot; sculpted glass lamps and vases by Emile Gallé and Louis Comfort Tiffany, and Company from the United States; furniture by Édouard Colonna and Louis Majorelle; and many other prominent arts and crafts firms from around Europe and the world. At the 1900 Paris Exposition, Siegfried Bing presented a pavilion called \" Art Nouveau Bing\", which featured six different interiors entirely decorated in the Style.\n\nWhile the Paris Exposition was by far the largest, other expositions did much to popularize the style. The 1888 Barcelona Universal Exposition marked the beginning of the Modernisme style in Spain, with some buildings of Lluís Domènech i Montaner. The \"Esposizione internazionale d'arte decorativa moderna\" of 1902 in Turin, Italy, showcased designers from across Europe.\n\nFollowing the 1900 Exposition, the capital of Art Nouveau was Paris. The most extravagant residences in the style were built by Jules Lavirotte, who entirely covered the façades with ceramic sculptural decoration. The most flamboyant example is the Lavirotte Building, at 29 avenue Rapp (1901). Office buildings and department stores featured high courtyards covered with stained glass cupolas and ceramic decoration. The style was particularly popular in restaurants and cafés, including \"Maxim's\" at 3 rue Royale, and \"Le Train bleu\" at the Gare de Lyon (1900).\n\nThe city of Nancy in Lorraine became the other French capital of the new style. In 1901, the \"Alliance provinciale des industries d'art\", also known as the \"École de Nancy\", was founded, dedicated to upsetting the hierarchy that put painting and sculpture above the decorative arts. The major artists working there included the glass vase and lamp creators Emile Gallé, the Daum brothers in glass design, and the designer Louis Majorelle, who created furniture with graceful floral and vegetal forms. The architect Henri Sauvage brought the new architectural style to Nancy with his Villa Majorelle in 1898.\n\nThe French style was widely propagated by new magazines, including \"The Studio\", \"Arts et Idées\" and \"Art et Décoration\", whose photographs and color lithographs made the style known to designers and wealthy clients around the world.\n\nIn France, the style reached its summit in 1900, and thereafter slipped rapidly out of fashion, virtually disappearing from France by 1905. Art Nouveau was a luxury style, which required expert and highly-paid craftsmen, and could not be easily or cheaply mass-produced. One of the few Art Nouveau products that could be mass-produced was the perfume bottle, and these continue to be manufactured in the style today.\n\nBelgium was an early center of the Art Nouveau, thanks largely to the architecture of Victor Horta, who designed the first Art Nouveau houses, the Hôtel Tassel in 1893, and the Hôtel Solvay in 1894. Horta met and had a strong influence on the work of the young Hector Guimard. Other important designers included architect Paul Hankar, who built an Art Nouveau house in 1893; the architect and furniture designer Henry van de Velde, the decorator Gustave Serrurier-Bovy, and the graphic artist Fernand Khnopff. Belgian designers took advantage of an abundant supply of ivory imported from the Belgian Congo; mixed sculptures, combining stone, metal and ivory, by such artists as Philippe Wolfers, was popular.\n\nIn the Netherlands, the style was known as the \"Nieuwe Kunst\", the New Art. Architects included Hendrik Petrus Berlage, who designed a more functional, rational variant, while Carel Adolph Lion Cachet, Theo Nieuwenhuis and Gerrit Willem Dijsselhof designed a more picturesque and decorative style. Furniture design was influenced by the importation of exotic woods from the Dutch East Indies (modern Indonesia), while textiles were influenced by the designs and techniques of batik.\n\nProminent Swiss artists of the period included painter and graphic artist Théophile Steinlen, creator of the famous poster for the Paris cabaret \"Le Chat noir\", and the artist, sculptor and decorator Eugène Grasset, who moved from Switzerland to Paris where he designed graphics, furniture, tapestries, ceramics and posters. In Paris, he taught at the Guérin school of art (\"École normale d'enseignement du dessin\"), where his students included Augusto Giacometti and Paul Berthon.\n\nArt Nouveau had its roots in Britain, in the arts and crafts movement of the 1880s, which called for a closer union between the fine arts and decorative arts, and a break away from historical styles to designs inspired by function and nature. One notable early example Arthur Mackmurdo's design for the cover of his essay on the city churches of Sir Christopher Wren, published in 1883.\n\nOther important innovators in Britain included the graphic designers Aubrey Beardsley whose drawings featured the curved lines which became the most recognizable feature of the style. free-flowing wrought iron from the 1880s could also be adduced, or some flat floral textile designs, most of which owed some impetus to patterns of 19th century design. Other British graphic artists who had an important place in the style included Walter Crane and Charles Ashbee.\n\nThe Liberty department store in London played an important role, through its colorful stylized floral designs for textiles, and the silver, pewter, and jewelry designs of Manxman (of Scottish descent) Archibald Knox. His jewelry designs in materials and forms broke away entirely from the historical traditions of jewelry design.\n\nFor Art Nouveau architecture and furniture design, the most important center in Britain was Glasgow, with the creations of Charles Rennie Mackintosh and the Glasgow School, whose work was inspired by the French Art Nouveau, Japanese art, symbolism and Gothic revival. Beginning in 1895, Mackintosh displayed his designs at international expositions in London, Vienna, and Turin; his designs particularly influenced the Secession Style in Vienna. His architectural creations included the Glasgow Herald Building (1894) and the library of the Glasgow School of Art (1897). He also established a major reputation as a furniture designer and decorator, working closely with his wife, Margaret Macdonald Mackintosh, a prominent painter and designer. Together they created striking designs which combined geometric straight lines with gently curving floral decoration, particularly a famous symbol of the style, the \"Glasgow Rose\".\n\nLéon-Victor Solon, made an important contribution to Art Nouveau ceramics as art director at Mintons. He specialised in plaques and in tube-lined vases marketed as \"secessionist ware\" (usually described as named after the Viennese art movement). Apart from ceramics, he designed textiles for the Leek silk industry and doublures for a bookbinder (G.T.Bagguley of Newcastle under Lyme), who patented the \"Sutherland\" binding in 1895.\n\nThe Edward Everard building in Bristol, built during 1900–01 to house the printing works of Edward Everard, features an Art Nouveau façade. The figures depicted are of Johannes Gutenberg and William Morris, both eminent in the field of printing. A winged figure symbolises the \"Spirit of Light\", while a figure holding a lamp and mirror symbolises light and truth.\n\nGerman Art Nouveau is commonly known by its German name, \"Jugendstil\". The name is taken from the artistic journal, \"Die Jugend\", which was published in Munich and which espoused the new artistic movement. It was founded in 1896 by Georg Hirth (Hirth remained editor until his death in 1916, and the magazine continued to be published until 1940). The magazine was instrumental in promoting the style in Germany. As a result, its name was adopted as the most common German-language term for the style: \"Jugendstil\" (\"youth style\"). Although, during the early 20th century, the word was applied to only two-dimensional examples of the graphic arts, especially the forms of organic typography and graphic design found in and influenced by German magazines like \"Jugend\", \"Pan\", and \"Simplicissimus\", it is now applied to more general manifestations of Art Nouveau visual arts in Germany, the Netherlands, the Baltic states, and Nordic countries. The two main centres for Jugendstil art in Germany were Munich and Darmstadt (Mathildenhöhe).\n\nTwo other journals, \"Simplicissimus\", published in Munich, and \"Pan\", published in Berlin, proved to be important proponents of the Jugendstil. The magazines were important for spreading the visual idiom of \"Jugendstil\", especially the graphical qualities. Jugendstil art includes a variety of different methods, applied by the various individual artists and features the use of hard lines as well as sinuous curves. Methods range from classic to romantic. One feature of Jugendstil is the typography used, the letter and image combination of which is unmistakable. The combination was used for covers of novels, advertisements, and exhibition posters. Designers often used unique display typefaces that worked harmoniously with the image.\n\nOne of the most famous German artists associated with both \"Die Jugend\" and \"Pan\" was Otto Eckmann. His favourite animal was the swan, and such was his influence in the German movement that the swan came to serve as the leitmotif for the Jugendstil.\n\nOne of the most prominent German designers in the style was Richard Riemerschmid, who made furniture, pottery, and other decorative objects in a sober, geometric style that pointed forward toward Art Deco.\n\nVienna became the center of a distinct variant of Art Nouveau, which became known as the Vienna Secession, an art movement that was founded in April 1897 by a group of artists which included Gustav Klimt, Koloman Moser, Josef Hoffmann, Joseph Maria Olbrich, Max Kurzweil, and Otto Wagner. The painter Klimt became the president of the group. They objected to the conservative orientation toward historicism expressed by Vienna Künstlerhaus, the official union of artists. The Secession founded a magazine, \"Ver Sacrum\", to promote their works in all media. The Secession style was notably more feminine, less heavy and less nationalist than the \"Jugendstil\" in neighboring Germany. The architect Joseph Olbrich designed the domed Secession building in the new style, which became a showcase for the paintings of Gustav Klimt and other Secession artists. The architectural style of the Vienna Secession had an influence well beyond the city. Buildings in the style appeared in the other major cities of the Empire and beyond; one of the most famous examples is the Stoclet Palace built by Josef Hoffmann in Brussels in 1905–11. The interior is entirely decorated in Secession style, including notable paintings by Gustav Klimt.\n\nKlimt became the best-known of the Secession painters, often erasing the border between fine art painting and decorative painting. Koloman Moser was an extremely versatile artist in the style; his work including magazine illustrations, architecture, silverware, ceramics, porcelain, textiles, stained glass windows, furniture, and more. He often worked in collaboration with Hoffmann and Klimt; the three together created the interiors, furnishing and even clothing to be worn in the Stoclet Palace in Brussels. In 1903, he and Hoffmann founded the Wiener Werkstätte, a training school and workshop for designers and craftsmen of furniture, carpets, textiles and decorative objects.\n\nIn the capitals of Central Europe, then ruled by the Austro-Hungarian Empire in Vienna, national forms of Art Nouveau are quick to appear, and often took on historical or folkloric elements. The furniture designs of Ödön Faragó in Budapest (Hungary) combined traditional popular architecture, oriental architecture and international Art Nouveau in a highly picturesque style. Pál Horti, another Hungarian designer, had a much more sober and functional style, made of oak with delicate traceries of ebony and brass.\n\nPrague, in the Czech Republic, has a notable collection of Art Nouveau architecture, including the \"Hotel Central\" and the Jubilee Synagogue, built in 1908.\n\nThe style of combining Art Nouveau and national architectural elements was typical also for a Slovak architect Dušan Jurkovič who was under the influence of Hungarian Art Nouveau. His most original works are the Cultural House in Skalica in Slovakia (1905), buildings of spa in Luhačovice in the Czech Republic (1901–1903) and 35 war cemeteries near Nowy Żmigród in Galicia (now Poland), most of them heavily influenced by local Lemko (Rusyn) folk art and carpentry (1915–1917). Another example of Secession architecture in Slovakia is the Church of St. Elisabeth (The Little Blue Church) in Bratislava.\n\nItaly's \"Stile Liberty\" took its name from the British department store Liberty, the colorful textiles of which were particularly popular in Italy. Notable Italian designers included Galileo Chini, whose ceramics were inspired both by majolica patterns and by Art Nouveau. He was later known as a painter and a scenic designer; he designed the sets for two Puccini operas \"Gianni Schicchi\" and \"Turandot\".\n\nThe Teatro Massimo in Palermo, by the architect Ernesto Basile, is an example of the Italian variant of the style, architectural style, which combined Art Nouveau and classical elements.\n\nThe most important figure in Italian Art Nouveau furniture design was Carlo Bugatti, the son of an architect and sculptor, and brother of the famous automobile designer. He studied at the Milanese Academy of Brera, and later the Académie des Beaux-Arts in Paris. His work was distinguished by its exoticism and eccentricity, included silverware, textiles, ceramics, and musical instruments, but he is best remembered for his innovative furniture designs, shown first in the 1888 Milan Fine Arts Fair. His furniture often featured a keyhole design, and had unusual coverings, including parchment and silk, and inlays of bone and ivory. It also sometimes had surprising organic shapes, copied after snails and cobras.\n\nIn Spain, a highly original variant of the style, Catalan \"Modernisme\", appeared in Barcelona. Its most famous creator was Antoni Gaudí, who used Art Nouveau's floral and organic forms in a very novel way in \"Palau Güell\" (1886). His designs from about 1903, the \"Casa Batlló\" (1904–1906) and \"Casa Milà\" (1906–1908), are most closely related to the stylistic elements of Art Nouveau. However, famous structures such as the \"Sagrada Família\" characteristically contrast the modernising Art Nouveau tendencies with revivalist Neo-Gothic. Besides the dominating presence of Gaudí, Lluís Domènech i Montaner also used Art Nouveau in Barcelona in buildings such as the Castell dels Tres Dragons (1888), Palau de la Música Catalana and Casa Lleó Morera (1905). Another major modernista was Josep Puig i Cadafalch, who designed the Casa Martí and its Quatre Gats café, the Casimir Casaramona textile factory (now the CaixaFòrum art museum), Casa Macaya, Casa Amatller, the Palau del Baró de Quadras (housing Casa Àsia for 10 years until 2013) and the Casa de les Punxes (\"House of Spikes\"). Also well-known is Josep Maria Jujol, with houses in Sant Joan Despí (1913–1926), several churches near Tarragona (1918 and 1926) and the sinuous Casa Planells (1924) in Barcelona. A few other major architects working outside of Barcelona were Lluís Muncunill i Parellada, with a magnificent textile factory in Terrassa (Vapor Aymerich, Amat i Jover, now the Science and Technology Museum of Catalonia – Museu de la Ciència i de la Tècnica de Catalunya) and a \"farmhouse\"/small manor house called Masia Freixa in the same city; and Cèsar Martinell i Brunet, with his spectacular \"wine cathedrals\", housing town cooperative wineries throughout southern and central Catalonia. A Valencian architect who worked in Catalonia before emigrating to the States was Rafael Guastavino. Attributed to him is the Asland Cement Factory in Castellar de n'Hug, among other buildings.\n\nThe Catalan furniture designer Gaspar Homar (1870–1953), influenced by Antoni Gaudí, often combining marquetry and mosaics with his furnishings. Examples of Art Nouveau (\"Arte nova\"), based largely on the French model, appeared in Portugal in Porto and Aveiro. A notable example is the 'Livraria Lello' bookstore in Porto, designed by Xavier Esteves (1906).\n\nArt Nouveau was popular in the Nordic countries, where it was usually known as Jugendstil, and was often combined with the National Romantic Style of each country. In Norway the Art Nouveau was connected with a revival inspired by Viking folk art and crafts. Notable designers included Lars Kisarvik, who designed chairs with traditional Viking and Celtic patterns, and Gerhard Munthe, who designed a chair with a stylized dragon-head emblem from ancient Viking ships, as well as a wide variety of posters, paintings and graphics. Other examples include the Skien Church (1887–1894) and Fagerborg Church in Kristiania (Oslo) (1900–1903).\n\nIn Finland, good examples are the Helsinki Central railway station, designed by Eliel Saarinen, father of the famous American modernist architect Eero Saarinen. Examples of the style include the Finnish National Theatre, Kallio Church, the Finnish National Museum, and Tampere Cathedral. In contrast to the very elaborate furniture of the Norwegian Art Nouveau, Finnish Art Deco was extremely simple and functional, as in the chairs designed by Eliel Saarinen (1907-1908).\n\nA very colorful Russian variation of Art Nouveau appeared in Moscow and Saint Petersburg in 1898 with the publication of a new art journal, \"Мир искусства\" (transliteration: \"Mir Iskusstva\") (\"The World of Art\"), by Russian artists Alexandre Benois and Léon Bakst, and chief editor Sergei Diaghilev. The magazine organized exhibitions of leading Russian artists, including Mikhail Vrubel, Konstantin Somov, Isaac Levitan, and the book illustrator Ivan Bilibin. The World of Art style made less use of the vegetal and floral forms of French Art Nouveau; it drew heavily upon the bright colors and exotic designs of Russian folklore and fairy tales. The most influential contribution of the \"World of Art\" was the creation by Diaghilev of a new ballet company, the \"Ballets Russes\", headed by Diaghilev, with costumes and sets designed by Bakst and Benois. The new ballet company premiered in Paris in 1909, and performed there every year through 1913. The exotic and colorful sets designed by Benois and Bakst had a major impact on French art and design. The costume and set designs were reproduced in the leading Paris magazines, \"L'Illustration\", \"La Vie parisienne\" and \"Gazette du bon ton\", and the Russian style became known in Paris as \"à la Bakst\". The company was stranded in Paris first by the outbreak of World War I, and then by the Russian Revolution in 1917, and ironically never performed in Russia.\n\nMoscow and Saint Petersburg have several prominent Art Nouveau buildings constructed in the last years before the Revolution; notably the Hotel Metropol in Moscow, which features a ceramic mural on the façade, \"The Princess of Dreams\", by scenic designer Mikhail Vrubel; and the Vitebsk Railway Station in Saint Petersburg (1904)\n\nIn the United States, the firm of Louis Comfort Tiffany played a central role in American Art Nouveau. Born in 1848, he studied at the National Academy of Design in New York, began working with glass at the age of 24, entered the family business started by his father, and 1885 set up his own enterprise devoted to fine glass, and developed new techniques for its coloring. In 1893, he began making glass vases and bowls, again developing new techniques that allowed more original shapes and coloring, and began experimenting with decorative window glass. Layers of glass were printed, marbled and superimposed, giving an exceptional richness and variety of color In 1895 his new works were featured in the Art Nouveau gallery of Siegfried Bing, giving him a new European clientele. After the death of his father in 1902, he took over the entire Tiffany enterprise, but still devoted much of his time to designing and manufacturing glass art objects. At the urging of Thomas Edison, he began to manufacture electric lamps with multicolored glass shades in structures of bronze and iron, or decorated with mosaics, produced in numerous series and editions, each made with the care of a piece of jewelry. A team of designers and craftsmen worked on each product. The Tiffany lamp in particular became one of the icons of the Art Nouveau, but Tiffany's craftsmen (and craftswomen) designed and made extraordinary windows, vases, and other glass art. Tiffany's glass also had great success at the \"1900 Exposition Universelle\" in Paris; his stained glass window called the \"Flight of Souls\" won a gold medal.\n\nAnother important figure in American Art Nouveau was the architect Louis Sullivan, best known as the architect of some of the first American iron-framed skyscrapers. At the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago, most famous for the neoclassical architecture of its renowned \"White City\", he designed a spectacular Art Nouveau entrance to the Transportation Building. The Columbian Exposition was also an important venue for Tiffany; a chapel he designed was shown at the Pavilion of Art and Industry. The Tiffany Chapel, along with one of the windows of Tiffany's home in New York, are now on display at the Charles Hosmer Morse Museum of American Art in Winter Park, Florida.\n\nAlthough Art Nouveau acquired distinctly localised tendencies as its geographic spread increased, some general characteristics are indicative of the form. A description published in \"Pan\" magazine of Hermann Obrist's wall hanging \"Cyclamen\" (1894) described it as \"sudden violent curves generated by the crack of a whip\", which became well known during the early spread of Art Nouveau. Subsequently, not only did the work itself become better known as \"The Whiplash\" but the term \"whiplash\" is frequently applied to the characteristic curves employed by Art Nouveau artists. Such decorative \"whiplash\" motifs, formed by dynamic, undulating, and flowing lines in a syncopated rhythm and asymmetrical shape, are found throughout the architecture, painting, sculpture, and other forms of Art Nouveau design.\n\nThe origins of Art Nouveau are sometimes attributed in the resistance of the artist William Morris to the cluttered compositions and the revival tendencies of the 19th century and his theories that helped initiate the Arts and crafts movement. Arthur Mackmurdo's book-cover for \"Wren's City Churches\" (1883), with its rhythmic floral patterns, is also sometimes described as the first realisation of Art Nouveau. About the same time, the flat perspective and strong colors of Japanese wood block prints, especially those of Katsushika Hokusai, had a strong effect on the formulation of Art Nouveau. The \"Japonisme\" that was popular in Europe during the 1880s and 1890s was particularly influential on many artists with its organic forms and references to the natural world. Besides being adopted by artists like Emile Gallé and James Abbott McNeill Whistler, Japanese-inspired art and design was championed by the businessmen Siegfried Bing and Arthur Lasenby Liberty at their stores in Paris and London, respectively. \nIn architecture, hyperbolas and parabolas in windows, arches, and doors are common, and decorative mouldings 'grow' into plant-derived forms. Like most design styles, Art Nouveau sought to harmonise its forms. The text above the Paris Metro entrance uses the qualities of the rest of the iron work in the structure.\n\nArt Nouveau in architecture and interior design eschewed the eclectic revival styles of the 19th century. Though Art Nouveau, designers selected and 'modernised' some of the more abstract elements of Rococo style, such as flame and shell textures, they also advocated the use of very stylised organic forms as a source of inspiration, expanding the 'natural' repertoire to use seaweed, grasses, and insects. The softly-melding forms of 17th-century auricular style, best exemplified in Dutch silverware, was another influence.\n\nAs an art style, Art Nouveau has affinities with the Pre-Raphaelites and the Symbolist styles, and artists like Aubrey Beardsley, Alphonse Mucha, Edward Burne-Jones, Gustav Klimt and Jan Toorop could be classed in more than one of these styles. Unlike Symbolist painting, however, Art Nouveau has a distinctive appearance; and, unlike the artisan-oriented Arts and Crafts Movement, Art Nouveau artists readily used new materials, machined surfaces, and abstraction in the service of pure design.\n\nArt Nouveau did not eschew the use of machines, as the Arts and Crafts Movement did. For sculpture, the principal materials employed were glass and wrought iron, resulting in sculptural qualities even in architecture. Ceramics were also employed in creating editions of sculptures by artists such as Auguste Rodin.\n\nArt Nouveau architecture made use of many technological innovations of the late 19th century, especially the use of exposed iron and large, irregularly shaped pieces of glass for architecture.\nArt Nouveau tendencies were also absorbed into local styles. In Denmark, for example, it was one aspect of \"Skønvirke\" (\"aesthetic work\"), which itself more closely relates to the Arts and Crafts style. Likewise, artists adopted many of the floral and organic motifs of Art Nouveau into the \"Młoda Polska\" (\"Young Poland\") style in Poland. \"Młoda Polska\", however, was also inclusive of other artistic styles and encompassed a broader approach to art, literature, and lifestyle.\n\nThe graphic arts flourished in the Art Nouveau period, thanks to new technologies of printing, particularly color lithography which allowed the mass production of color posters. Art was no longer confined to galleries, museums and salons; it could be found on Paris walls, and in illustrated art magazines, which circulated throughout Europe and to the United States. The most popular theme of Art Nouveau posters was women; women symbolizing glamour, modernity and beauty, often surrounded by flowers.\n\nIn Britain, the leading graphic artist in the Art Nouveau style was Aubrey Beardsley (1872-1898). He began with engraved book illustrations for \"Le Morte d'Arthur\", then black and white illustrations for Salome by Oscar Wilde (1893), which brought him fame. In the same year, he began engraving illustrations and posters for the art magazine \"The Studio\", which helped publicize European artists such as Fernand Khnopff in Britain. The curving lines and intricate floral patterns attracted as much attention as the text. \n\nThe Swiss-French artist Eugène Grasset (1845-1917) was one of the first creators of French Art Nouveau posters. He helped decorate the famous cabaret Le Chat noir in 1885 and made his first posters for the \"Fêtes de Paris\". He made a celebrated posters of Sarah Bernhardt in 1890, and a wide variety of book illustrations. The artist-designers Jules Chéret, Georges de Feure and the painter Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec all made posters for Paris theaters, cafés, dance halls cabarets. The Czech artist Alphonse Mucha (1860–1939) arrived in Paris in 1888, and in 1895 made a poster for actress Sarah Bernhardt in the play \"Gismonda\" by Victorien Sardou. The success of this poster led to a contract to produce posters for six more plays by Bernhardt. Over the next four years, he also designed sets, costumes, and even jewelry for the actress. Based on the success of his theater posters, Mucha made posters for a variety of products, ranging from cigarettes and soap to beer biscuits, all featuring an idealized female figure with an hourglass figure. He went on to design products, from jewelry to biscuit boxes, in his distinctive style. \n\nIn Vienna, the most prolific designer of graphics and posters was Koloman Moser (1868-1918), who actively participated in the Secession movement with Gustav Klimt and Josef Hoffmann, and made illustrations and covers for the magazine of the movement, \"Ver Sacrum\", as well as paintings, furniture and decoration.\n\nPainting was another important domain of Art Nouveau, though most Art Nouveau painters were also associated with other art movements, particularly the Nabis in France and the Symbolists in France and Austria. In 1892, Siegfried Bing organized an exhibition in Paris featuring seven painters, including Pierre Bonnard, Édouard Vuillard, Félix Vallotton, and Maurice Denis; and his \"Maison de l'Art Nouveau\" exhibited paintings by Georges Seurat, Paul Signac, and Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec. Eugène Grasset, Koloman Moser and Gustav Klimt moved comfortably in the avant-garde and Art Nouveau. In Belgium, Fernand Khnopff worked in both painting and graphic design. Paintings by Gustav Klimt were an integral part of he decorative scheme of Josef Hoffmann for the Palais Stoclet. One common theme of both symbolist and Art Nouveau painters of the period was the stylized depiction of women. One popular subject was the American dancer Loie Fuller, portrayed by French and Austrian painters and poster artists.\n\nGlass art was a medium in which Art Nouveau found new and varied ways of expression. Intense amount of experimentation went on, particularly in France, to find new effects of transparency and opacity: in engraving win cameo, double layers, and acid engraving, a technique which permitted production in series. The city of Nancy became an important center for the French glass industry, and the workshops of Emile Gallé and the Daum studio, led by Auguste and Antonin Daum, were located there. They worked with many notable designers, including Ernest Bussière, Henri Bergé, and Amalric Walter. They developed a new method of incrusting glass by pressing fragments of different color glass into the unfinished piece. They often collaborated with the furniture designer Louis Majorelle, whose home and workshops were in Nancy. Another feature of Art Nouveau was the use of stained glass windows with that style of floral themes in residential salons, particularly in the Art Nouveau houses in Nancy. Many were the work of Jacques Gruber, who made windows for the Villa Majorelle and other houses.\n\nIn Belgium, the leading firm was the glass factory of Val Saint Lambert, which created vases in organic and floral forms, many of them designed by Philippe Wolfers. Wolfers was noted particularly for creating works of symbolist glass, often with metal decoration attached. In Bohemia, then a region of the Austro-Hungarian Empire noted for crystal manufacture, the companies Lobmeyr and Loetz-Witwe also experimented with new coloring techniques, producing more vivid and richer colors. In Germany, experimentation was led by Karl Köpping, who used blown glass to create extremely delicate glasses in the form of flowers; so delicate that few survive today.\n\nIn Vienna, the glass designs of the Secession movement were much more geometrical than those of France or Belgium; Otto Prutscher was the most rigorous glass designer of the movement.\n\nIn Britain, a number of floral stained glass designs were created by Margaret Macdonald Mackintosh for the architectural display called \"The House of an Art Lover.\"\n\nIn the United States, Louis Comfort Tiffany and his designers became particularly famous for their lamps, whose glass shades used common floral themes intricately pieced together. Tiffany lamps gained popularity after the World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago in 1893, where Tiffany displayed his lamps in a Byzantine-like chapel. Tiffany experimented extensively with the processes of coloring glass, patenting in 1894 the process Favrile glass, which used metallic oxides to color the interior of the molten glass, giving it an iridescent effect. His workshops produced several different series of the Tiffany lamp in different floral designs, along with stained glass windows, screens, vases and a range of decorative objects. His works were first imported to Germany, then to France by Siegfried Bing, and then became one of the decorative sensations of the 1900 Exposition. An American rival to Tiffany, Steuben Glass, was founded in 1903 in Corning, NY, by Frederick Carder, who, like Tiffany, used the Fevrile process to create surfaces with iridescent colors. Another notable American glass artist was John La Farge, who created intricate and colorful stained glass windows on both religious and purely decorative themes.\n\nThe 19th-century architectural theorist Viollet-le-Duc had advocated showing, rather than concealing the iron frameworks of modern buildings, but Art Nouveau architects Victor Horta and Hector Guimard went a step further: they added iron decoration in curves inspired by floral and vegetal forms both in the interiors and exteriors of their buildings. They took the form of stairway railings in the interior, light fixtures, and other details in the interior, and balconies and other ornaments on the exterior. These became some of the most distinctive features of Art Nouveau architecture. The use of metal decoration in vegetal forms soon also appeared in silverware, lamps, and other decorative items.\n\nIn the United States, the designer George Grant Elmslie made extremely intricate cast iron designs for the balustrades and other interior decoration of the buildings of Chicago architect Louis Sullivan.\n\nWhile French and American designers used floral and vegetal forms, Joseph Maria Olbrich and the other Secession artists designed teapots and other metal objects in a more geometric and sober style.\n\nArt Nouveau is characterized done by soft, curved shapes and lines, and usually features natural designs such as flowers, birds and other animals. The female body is a popular theme and is featured on a variety of jewelry pieces, especially cameos. It frequently included long necklaces made of pearls or sterling-silver chains punctuated by glass beads or ending in a silver or gold pendant, itself often designed as an ornament to hold a single, faceted jewel of amethyst, peridot, or citrine.\n\nThe Art Nouveau period brought a notable stylistic revolution to the jewelry industry, led largely by the major firms in Paris. For the previous two centuries, the emphasis in fine jewelry had been creating dramatic settings for diamonds. During the reign of Art Nouveau, diamonds usually played a supporting role. Jewelers experimented with a wide variety of other stones, including agate, garnet opal, moonstone, aquamarine and other semi-precious stones, and with a wide variety of new techniques, among others enameling, and new materials, including horn, molded glass, and ivory.\n\nEarly notable Paris jewelers in the Art Nouveau style included Louis Aucoc, whose family jewelry firm dated to 1821. The most famous designer of the Art Nouveau period, René Lalique, served his apprenticeship in the Aucoc studio from 1874 to 1876. Lalique became a central figure of Art Nouveau jewelry and glass, using nature, from dragonflies to grasses, as his model. Artists from outside of the traditional world of jewellery, such as Paul Follot, best known as a furniture designer, experimented with jewellery designs. Other notable French Art Nouveau jewellery designers included Jules Brateau and Georges Henry. In the United States, the most famous designer was Louis Comfort Tiffany, whose work was shown at the shop of Siegfried Bing and also at the 1900 Paris Exposition.\n\nIn Britain, the most prominent figure was the Liberty & Co. designer Archibald Knox, who made a variety of Art Nouveau pieces, including silver belt buckles. C. R. Ashbee designed pendants in the shapes of peacocks. The versatile Glasgow designer Charles Rennie Mackintosh also made jewellery, using traditional Celtic symbols. In Germany, the center for \"Jugendstil\" jewelry was the city of Pforzheim, where most of the German firms, including Theodor Fahrner, were located. They quickly produced works to meet the demand for the new style.\n\nArt Nouveau architecture was a reaction against the eclectic styles which dominated European architecture in the second half of the 19th century. It was expressed through decoration. The buildings were covered with ornament in curving forms, based on flowers, plants or animals: butterflies, peacocks, swans, irises, cyclamens, orchids and water lilies. Façades were asymmetrical, and often decorated with polychrome ceramic tiles. The decoration usually suggested movement; there was no distinction between the structure and the ornament.\n\nThe style first appeared in Brussels' Hôtel Tassel (1894) and Hôtel Solvay (1900) of Victor Horta. The Hôtel Tassel was visited by Hector Guimard, who used the same style in his first major work, the Castel Béranger (1897–98). In all of these houses, the architects also designed the furniture and the interior decoration, down to the doorknobs and carpeting. In 1899, based on the fame of the Castel Béranger, Guimard received a commission to design the entrances of the stations of the new Paris Métro, which opened in 1900. Though few of the originals survived, These became the symbol of the Art Nouveau movement in Paris.\n\nIn Paris, the architectural style was also a reaction to the strict regulations imposed on building facades by Georges-Eugène Haussmann, the prefect of Paris under Napoleon III. Bow windows were finally allowed in 1903, and Art Nouveau architects went to the opposite extreme, most notably in the houses of Jules Lavirotte, which were essentially large works of sculpture, completely covered with decoration. An important neighborhood of Art Nouveau houses appeared in the French city of Nancy, around the Villa Majorelle (1901–02), the residence of furniture designer Louis Majorelle. It was designed by Henri Sauvage as a showcase for Majorelle's furniture designs.\n\nFurniture design in the Art Nouveau period was closely associated with the architecture of the buildings; the architects often designed the furniture, carpets, light fixtures, doorknobs, and other decorative details. The furniture was often complex and expensive; a fine finish, usually polished or varnished, was regarded as essential, and continental designs were usually very complex, with curving shapes that were expensive to make. It also had the drawback that the owner of the home could not change the furniture or add pieces in a different style without disrupting the entire effect of the room. For this reason, when Art Nouveau architecture went out of style, the style of furniture also largely disappeared.\n\nIn France, the center for furniture design and manufacture was in Nancy, where two major designers, Émile Gallé and Louis Majorelle had their studios and workshops, and where the \"Alliance des industries d'art\" (later called the School of Nancy) had been founded in 1901. Both designers based on their structure and ornamentation on forms taken from nature, including flowers and insects, such as the dragonfly, a popular motif in Art Nouveau design. Gallé was particularly known for his use of marquetry in relief, in the form of landscapes or poetic themes. Majorelle was known for his use of exotic and expensive woods, and for attaching bronze sculpted in vegetal themes to his pieces of furniture. Both designers used machines for the first phases of manufacture, but all the pieces were finished by hand. Other notable furniture designers of the Nancy School included Eugène Vallin and Émile André; both were architects by training, and both designed furniture that resembled the furniture from Belgian designers such as Horta and Van de Velde, which had less decoration and followed more closely the curving plants and flowers. Other notable French designers included Henri Bellery-Desfontaines, who took his inspiration from the neo-Gothic styles of Viollet-le-Duc; and Georges de Feure, Eugène Gaillard, and Édouard Colonna, who worked together with art dealer Siegfried Bing to revitalize the French furniture industry with new themes. Their work was known for \"abstract naturalism\", its unity of straight and curved lines, and its rococo influence. The furniture of de Feure at the Bing pavilion won a gold medal at the 1900 Paris Exposition. The most unusual and picturesque French designer was François-Rupert Carabin, a sculptor by training, whose furniture featured sculpted nude female forms and symbolic animals, particularly cats, who combined Art Nouveau elements with Symbolism. Other influential Paris furniture designers were Charles Plumet, and Alexandre Charpentier. In many ways the old vocabulary and techniques of classic French 18th-century Rococo furniture were re-interpreted in a new style.\n\nIn Belgium, the pioneer architects of the \"Art Nouveau movement\", Victor Horta and Henry van de Velde, designed furniture for their houses, using vigorous curving lines and a minimum of decoration. The Belgian designer Gustave Serrurier-Bovy added more decoration, applying brass strips in curving forms. In the Netherlands, where the style was called \"Nieuwe Kunst\" or New Art, H.P. Berlag, Lion Cachet and Theodor Nieuwenhuis followed a different course, that of the English Arts and Crafts movement, with more geometric rational forms.\n\nIn Britain, the furniture of Charles Rennie Mackintosh was purely Arts and Crafts, austere and geometrical, with long straight lines and right angles and a minimum of decoration. Continental designs were much more elaborate, often using curved shapes both in the basic shapes of the piece, and in applied decorative motifs. In Germany, the furniture of Peter Behrens and the Jugendstil was largely rationalist, with geometric straight lines and some decoration attached to the surface. Their goal was exactly the opposite of French Art Nouveau; simplicity of structure and simplicity of materials, for furniture that could be inexpensive and easily mass-manufactured. The same was true for the furniture of designers of the Wiener Werkstätte in Vienna, led by Otto Wagner, Josef Hoffmann, Josef Maria Olbrich and Koloman Moser. The furniture was geometric and had a minimum of decoration, though in style it often followed national historic precedent, particularly the Biedemeier style.\nItalian and Spanish furniture design went off in their own direction. Carlo Bugatti in Italy designed the extraordinary Snail Chair, wood covered with painted parchment and copper, for the Turin International Exposition of 1902. In Spain, following the lead of Antoni Gaudi and the \"Modernismo\" movement, the furniture designer Gaspar Homar designed works that were inspired by natural forms with touches of Catalan historic styles.\n\nIn the United States, furniture design was more often inspired by the Arts and Crafts movement, or by historic American models, than by the Art Nouveau. One designer who did introduce Art Nouveau themes was Charles Rohlfs in Buffalo, New York, whose designs for American white oak furniture were influenced by motifs of Celtic Art and Gothic art, with touches of Art Nouveau in the metal trim applied to the pieces.\n\nThe last part of the 19th century saw many technological innovation in the manufacture of ceramics, particularly the development of high temperature (\"grand feu\") porcelain with crystallised and matte glazes. At the same time, several lost techniques, such as oxblood glaze, were rediscovered. Art Nouveau ceramics were also influenced by traditional and modern Japanese and Chinese ceramics, whose vegetal and floral motifs fitted well with the Art Nouveau style. In France, artists also rediscovered the traditional \"grés\" methods and reinvented them with new motifs. Ceramics also found an important new use in architecture: Art Nouveau architects, Jules Lavirotte and Hector Guimard among them, began to decorate the façades of buildings with ceramic tiles, many of them made by the firm of Alexandre Bigot, giving them a distinct Art Nouveau sculptural look. In the Art Nouveau ceramics quickly moved into the domain of sculpture and architecture.\n\nOne of the pioneer French Art Nouveau ceramists was Ernest Chaplet, whose career in ceramics spanned thirty years. He began producing stoneware influenced by Japanese and Chinese prototypes. Beginning in 1886, he worked with painter Paul Gauguin on stoneware designs with applied figures, multiple handles, painted and partially glazed, and collaborated with sculptors Félix Bracquemond, Jules Dalou and Auguste Rodin. His works were acclaimed at the 1900 Exposition.\n\nThe major national ceramics firms had an important place at the 1900 Paris Exposition: the Manufacture nationale de Sèvres outside Paris; Nymphenburg, Meissen, Villeroy & Boch in Germany, and Doulton in Britain. Other leading French ceramists included Taxile Doat, , Edmond Lachenal, and Auguste Delaherche.\n\nIn France, Art Nouveau ceramics sometimes crossed the line into sculpture. The porcelain figurine \"Dancer with a Scarf\" by Agathon Léonard, made for the Manufacture nationale de Sèvres, won recognition in both categories at the 1900 Paris Exposition.\n\nThe Zsolnay factory in Pécs, Hungary, was led by Miklós Zsolnay (1800–1880) and his son, Vilmos Zsolnay (1828–1900,) with Tádé Sikorski (1852–1940) chief designer, to produce stoneware and other ceramics in 1853. In 1893, Zsolnay introduced porcelain pieces made of eosin. He led the factory to worldwide recognition by demonstrating its innovative products at world fairs and international exhibitions, including the 1873 World Fair in Vienna, then at the 1878 World Fair in Paris, where Zsolnay received a \"Grand Prix\". Frost-resisting Zsolnay building decorations were used in numerous buildings, specifically during the Art Nouveau movement.\n\nTextiles and wallpapers were an important vehicle of Art Nouveau from the beginning of the style, and an essential element of Art Nouveau interior design. In Britain, the textile designs oWilliam Morris had helped launch the Arts and Crafts Movement and then Art Nouveau. Many designs were created for the Liberty department store in London, which popularized the style throughout Europe. One such designer was the Silver Studio, which provided colorful stylized floral patterns. Other distinctive designs came from Glasgow School, and Margaret Macdonald Mackintosh. The Glasgow school introduced several distinctive motifs, including stylized eggs, geometric forms and the \"Rose of Glasgow\".\n\nIn France, a major contribution was made by designer Eugène Grasset who in 1896 published \"La Plante et ses applications ornamentales\", suggesting Art Nouveau designs based on different flowers and plants. Many patterns were designed for and produced by for the major French textile manufacturers in Mulhouse, Lille and Lyon, by German and Belgian workshops. The German designer Hermann Obrist specialized in floral patterns, particularly the cyclamen and the \"whiplash\" style based on flower stems, which became a major motif of the style. The Belgian Henry van de Velde presented a textile work, \"La Veillée d'Anges\", at the Salon \"La Libre Esthéthique\" in Brussels, inspired by the symbolism of Paul Gauguin and of the Nabis. In the Netherlands, textiles were often inspired by batik patterns from the Dutch colonies in the East Indies. Folk art also inspired the creation of tapestries, carpets, embroidery and textiles in Central Europe and Scandinavia, in the work of Gerhard Munthe and Frida Hansen in Norway. The \"Five Swans\" design of Otto Eckmann appeared in more than one hundred different versions. The Hungarian designer János Vaszary combined Art Nouveau elements with folkloric themes.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13420107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13420107", "title": "Barcelona International Erotic Film Festival", "text": "Barcelona International Erotic Film Festival\n\nThe Barcelona International Erotic Film Festival or FICEB (\"Festival Internacional de Cinema Eròtic de Barcelona\" in Catalan) is an annual Spanish pornographic film festival and awards ceremony. It is the oldest adult film festival in Europe.\n\nThe event dates from 1992. Since 1997, it has been held in the La Farga convention center in L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, a suburb of the Barcelona. In 2005, the event was recognized by the regional government of Catalonia, but, in 2006, the L'Hospitalet municipal government controversially voted not to renew the festival's contract, requiring it to seek a new location (Madrid) for 2007-08. The FICEB moved to Madrid in 2008 and was held at the Room Fabrik.\n\nCompared to the analogous Hot d'Or film festival in Cannes, the Barcelona festival has been called less exclusive and more comprehensive. Besides film awards and star appearances, the five days of FICEB include hundreds of strip-tease and live sex shows, as well as a lingerie show and a sex product fair with adult toys. The event exists, in part, to promote the sex industry in Spain by promoting the domestic production of adult films and organizing discussion forums. At or above 50,000 people attended the festival in 2005, 2006, and 2007. The FICEB has served as launching pad for actresses, actors, and directors such as: Sophie Evans, Celia Blanco, Nacho Vidal, Max Cortés, Sara Bernat, and Toni Ribas.\n\nThe Mexico Erotic Festival is backed by the same group responsible for the Barcelona International Erotic Film Festival.\n\nThe FICEB has three awards for different categories of pornographic films, the Ninfa (Nymph - where there are some twenty-eight categories) for heterosexual pornography, the HeatGay for gay pornography films and the Tacón de Aguja (High heel or Stiletto heel) for BDSM and sexual fetish films. The year 2002 was the first year with a \"Short Film Competition X\" at the FICEB, where the winner of that contest was endowed with 2,400 Euros and second place was awarded 1,200 Euros.\n\nThe following is a list of the winners in the major categories for the Ninfa awards \"only\". A more complete list of winners can be found through the External Links listed below.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57125728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57125728", "title": "Black Horror on the Rhine", "text": "Black Horror on the Rhine\n\nThe Black Horror on the Rhine refers to a moral panic which was aroused in Germany concerning allegations of widespread war crimes, especially sexual war crimes, said to be committed by Senegalese and other African soldiers serving in the French Army during the French occupation of the Rhineland between 1918-1930.\n\nFollowing the Kiel Mutiny on 3 November 1918, revolutionary sailors visited numerous cities across Germany announcing the German Revolution. The German Army had already been experiencing a series of mutinies, particularly since the failure of the German Spring offensive which was brought to a halt in July 1918. Soldiers from the French Colonial army played a significant role in defending the city of Reims which was under siege during the German attack. As one German writer put it \"It is not the French fighting at Reims. France has entrusted the protection of the ancient city of coronation to black and brown soldiers. It is true that the defence of Reims does not cost a drop of French blood, it is Negroes who are sacrificed.\"\n\nBy the evening of 6 November 200 revolutionary soldiers had reached the city of Cologne, where they joined local workers and soldiers to establish a Workers and Soldiers' Council, along the lines of the Russian soviets. When reports of this reached Wilhelm Groener, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Imperial German Army he no longer supported the Wilhelm II's plan to instigate a civil war, but rather joined the call of Friedrich Ebert, leader of the Majority Social Democratic Party of Germany (MSPD) for the Kaiser to abdicate. This the Kaiser did on 9 November, and Ebert became Chancellor of Germany the same day. The MSPD became active in opposing the revolution and worked with the army to establish a liberal republic.\n\nThus the Rhineland had played a significant role in toppling the Kaiser and obliging the German state to accept the armistice. Likewise, the African soldiers of the French Army played a significant role in the defeat of the Imperial German Army in the Second Battle of the Marne. This battle which was a decisive victory for the allies, saw the French Army using a massed tank attack alongside forces of its colonial army. Field Marshal Paul von Hindenburg wrote in his 1920 memoirs \"Mein Leben\": \"Where there were no tanks our enemy sent black waves against us. Waves of black Africans! Woe to us when these waves reached our lines and massacred or worse, tortured our defenseless men!\" Notwithstanding this somewhat odd remark by the Chief of the German General Staff, the highly armed German Army used poison gas in attacks on French Colonial Troops in the battle of Reims. The American historian Keith Nelson considers Hindenburg's view of the Senegalese as typical of German views of the Senegalese, and claims there is evidence to suggest that many German soldiers were reluctant to surrender to the Senegalese out of the belief that they would be eaten as racist propaganda that the Senegalese were cannibals from \"darkest Africa\" was widely believed.\n\nFollowing the defeat of the Second French Empire by the Prussians in the Franco-Prussian War of 1870/1, a current of revanchism developed in France which sought to regain the lost territory of Alsace-Lorraine which had been ceded to the newly formed German Empire. Thus politicians such as Georges Clemenceau, of the Radical Republicans, opposed participation in the scramble for Africa as they were concern it would divert the Republic from objectives related regaining Alsace-Lorraine. Nevertheless, French officers repeatedly ignored orders, as they lead the French Army on various campaigns in Africa. Charles Mangin, a career officer in the French Army with campaign experience in Africa set out to resolve these conflicting imperialist strategies in his book his 1910 book \"La force noire\" (\"The Black Force\") He argued that as Germany had a greater population and a higher birth rate than France in the early 20th century this meant that the German Army was potentially going to be larger than the French Army. He proposed that the French had recruited extensively from their African colonies to provide an almost limitless source of manpower that could counter Germany's numerical superiority. Thus the expansion of the French colonial empire could be seen as complementing rather than competing with the desire to oblige Germany to return the lost territory.\n\nOne of the products of the French revolution was a concept of the nation linked to citizenship and military service. The levée en masse or forced mass military conscription was introduced in 1793 during the French Revolutionary Wars. This gave rise to the demand that by serving in the French Army, colonial subjects should gain full French citizenship. However whilst military service provided a very clear expression of political allegiance to the state, French society had developed the idea of the statut personnel by which particularly French Muslims would have a distinct status, being governed by Koranic law administered by local religious authorities. As the norms of Islam permitted polygamy, this created what were considered insurmountable problems by those who defended an assimilationist viewpoint. Many of the assimilationists saw the culture and civilisation of France as something far superior to what they regarded as the barbaric customs of their non-European subjects. Another political current, the associationists advocated something along the lines of indirect rule as practised by the British Empire. They saw the colonised subjects as having to find their own path to civilisation and relied on local elites to manage the colonial system on the ground. Both, however, viewed the subject peoples as being in debt to their conquerors, who by dominating them offered the allegedly profound benefits of French culture. Thus, despite the egalitarian ideology of the French Third Republic – which would theoretically exclude any color line – the development of French colonies created a quite different reality.\n\nHowever the election of Blaise Diagne in February 1914 provided a champion for the demand of citizenship rights for colonial soldiers. Diagne represented the Four Communes, the four oldest colonial towns in French West Africa which had won the right to send deputies to the Chamber of Deputies following the 1848 revolution.\nWithin the ideology of the republic, having Africans and Asians fighting in the French Army was proof of the universalism of French civilization which was open to all. Unlike the British who sent an Indian Army corps to the Western Front in October 1914, which was pulled out in 1916 once there were enough white divisions to replace the Indians, the French kept their Algerian, Tunisian, Moroccan, Senegalese, Malagasy and Vietnamese divisions on the front-line right to the end of war. Through in practice, there was a color line in France, within the context of the times France was a nation that was relatively open to non-white people with for example the African-American singer Josephine Baker finding a degree of acceptance in France that she never found in her own country. The French called anyone from French West Africa \"Senegalese\" regardless if they actually came from Senegal or not; many of the \"Senegalese\" were not from Senegal.\n\nThrough Germany had also recruited soldiers in its African colonies both before and during World War I, the British blockade prevented any \"Askaris\" from fighting in Europe for Germany. During the war, German propaganda had often attacked the French for deploying African soldiers to fight in Europe, claiming that black men were innately savage and barbaric and it was unacceptable for the French to use Senegalese soldiers in Europe as it \"endangered\" European civilization.\n\nUnder the terms of the armistice which ended the fighting on the Western Front on 11 November 1918, the Allies had the right to occupy the Rhineland, and during the negotiations the Germans had specifically demanded that no Senegalese be included in the French occupation force. However, as the terms of the armistice were dictated to the Germans, this was of little import. Under the terms of the Treaty of Versailles, which was signed on 28 June 1919, the Allies had the right to occupy the Rhineland until 1935, through in fact the last Allied forces were pulled out of the Rhineland in June 1930. The German fears of the Senegalese were widely shared amongst white people in the English-speaking world, and both the U.S. President Woodrow Wilson and the British Prime Minister David Lloyd George asked the French Premier Georges Clemenceau that no Senegalese being used as occupation troops in the Rhineland.\n\nThe first non-European troops to arrive in Germany were soldiers from the Siamese Expeditionary Forces who arrived in Neustadt, in the Palatinate in December 1918. However, their presence which lasted until July 1919 did not cause great upset. Concerns were raised about the subsequent arrival of African troops in the Rhineland, first a regiment from Madagascar, and then the first Senegalese unit in May 1919. General Mangin had gone out of his way to ensure that African units were stationed as part of the Rhineland occupation force. The French deployed African soldiers to the Rhineland in part as not to ensure that build-up of black troops in France, and partly because the Germans had asked them not to be deployed. Mangin had insisted since the French were the victors, they were not going to be dictated to by the vanquished.For Diagne it was important that his fellow Senegalese be deployed to the Rhineland as a way of showing that they were equal and enjoyed the same respect as white French citizens. In a meeting with Clemenceau, Diagne had insisted that if French civilization was truly universal, then the Senegalese should allowed to march into the Rhineland alongside the rest of the French Army and not be excluded simply because the Germans found them offensive. The Francophile Diagne, who believed in the ideal of France's \"civilizing mission\" in Africa, had played a key role in the recruitment soldiers in Senegal to fight for France, and thus had more influence than what his position as a mere Deputy might suggest. The \"colored\" troops in the Rhineland were conscripts from Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, Senegal, Madagascar and Vietnam. At their peak, the \"colored\" soldiers were 14% of the French occupation force in the Rhineland. On 1 August 1919, an ultra-nationalist group called the \"Rheinische Volkspflege\" (Protectors of the Rhenish People) was founded with the purpose of seeking to turn public opinion against French support for the Rhenish separatism, and who hit upon the idea of using alleged crimes committed by blacks serving in the French Army as the best way to do so. Closely allied to the \"Rheinische Volkspflege\" was the woman's group, the \"Rheinische Frauenliga\" which was founded in early 1920. The articles published by the \"Rheinische Frauenliga\" articulated \"fantastical visions of imperialism and cultural decline\" as the mass rapes alleged to be committed by the Senegalese became a metaphor for Franco-German relations.\n\nOn 1 August 1919, an ultra-nationalist group called the \"Rheinische Volkspflege\" (Protectors of the Rhenish People) was founded with the purpose of seeking to turn public opinion against French support for the Rhenish separatism, and who hit upon the idea of using alleged crimes committed by blacks serving in the French Army as the best way to do so. Closely allied to the \"Rheinische Volkspflege\" was the woman's group, the \"Rheinische Frauenliga\" which was founded in early 1920. The articles published by the \"Rheinische Frauenliga\" articulated \"fantastical visions of imperialism and cultural decline\" as the mass rapes alleged to be committed by the Senegalese became a metaphor for Franco-German relations.\nThe \"Rheinische Frauenliga\" was in very close contact with E. D. Morel–a leading British radical liberal and an advocate of the viewpoint that the Treaty of Versailles was too harsh on Germany–and much of Morel's writings on the issue was based on reports provided to him by the \"Rheinische Frauenliga\". Morel, a white supremacist who was obsessed with a fear of the sexuality of black men, genuinely believed that black men had an uncontrolled sexuality that made them want to rape white women with abandon, and throughout his writings on the subject he accused the Senegalese of raping German women on an industrial scale, claiming that thousands upon thousands of German women and girls were raped by the Senegalese on a daily basis. The African-American historian Clarence Lusance accused Morel of leading \"one of the most racist political campaigns to be launched in the first half of the 20th century\".\n\nThere was political turmoil in Germany when it came to signing the Versailles Treaty. In June 1919 Philipp Scheidemann, the first democratically elected Chancellor of Germany resigned when faced with allied ultimatum that it should be signed with none of the changes the German government had requested. His was succeeded as Chancellor by Gustav Bauer. The terms of the treaty meant that the counter-revolutionary Freikorps which the Weimar government had created to crush the revolutionary movement faced being disbanded. Rather than submit to this, Wolfgang Kapp gathered significant Army officers around him and launched the Kapp Putsch. The success of the Putsch would open up a possibility of a recommencement of the First World War, a fact not lost on Marshal Foch.\n\nInitially, there were only a few complaints from the German side about the presence of the Senegalese in the Rhineland, and not until April 1920 when the French used Moroccan soldiers to occupy Frankfurt that a hysterical campaign against the French use of \"colored\" soldiers began in Germany. The issue of the deployment of \"colored\" troops was first discussed in the \"Reichstag\" in January 1920. Ray Beveridge, a German-American woman living in Germany had given a series of speeches in Hamburg and Munich in February–March 1920 warning of the dangers of miscegenation to \"the purity of the German race\" caused by the presence of the Senegalese in the Rhineland. E.D. Morel had written in a letter to the editor of \"The Nation\" on 27 March 1920 about the French who \"thrust barbarians–barbarians belonging to a race inspired by Nature with tremendous sexual instincts into the heart of Europe\".\n\nIn early April 1920, Germany violated the terms of the Treaty of Versailles by sending the \"Reichswehr\" into the demilitarized zone of the Rhineland, which led the French to occupy Frankfurt on 6 April 1920 as a reprisal, saying that they would not leave Germany's business capital until the \"Reichswehr\" left the demilitarized zone. One of the French Army units involved in occupying Frankfurt was a Moroccan company that fired into a crowd of demonstrators. Under the front-page of \"The Daily Herald\" on 9 April 1920, there was a cover story reporting on the occupation of Frankfort by Morel whose title read: \"Frankfurt runs red with blood French Blood Troops Use Machine-guns on Civilians\". The next day another front-page article by Morel had the title: \"Black Scourge In Europe Sexual Horror Let Loose by France On Rhine Disappearance of Young German Girls\". Morel wrote France is \"thrusting her black savages into the heart of Germany\", saying these \"primitive African savages, the carriers of syphilis, have become a horror and a terror\". As Morel was a man whose left-wing \"credentials were unimpeachable\" as he had gone to prison for opposing British involvement in the First World, his articles attracted much attention both in Britain and abroad. Like many other British leftists, Morel was bitterly opposed to the Treaty of Versailles which denounced as an unjust treaty which he blamed on a revanchist France.\n\nIn his 1919 book \"The Black's Man Burden\", Morel had denounced mandate system of the Treaty of Versailles for the former German colonies Africa, writing that black people could not survive \"modern capitalist exploitation\". Morel wrote that \"French militarists, whose schemes are a menace to the entire world\" would use these \"Negroes, Malagasies, Berbers and Arabs...in the interest of a capitalist and militant Order\". Specifically, Morel believed the French would use their African troops to put down strikes by the white working classes in Europe, and the theme of the French Army's Senegalese soldiers are as a brutal force upholding capitalism was a recurring one in Morel's articles in \"The Daily Herald\" in 1919 and 1920. Given Morel's views about the Senegalese and his opposition to the Treaty of Versailles, he was predisposed to believe any horror story that might come out of the Rhineland.\n\nThe \"Auswärtige Amt\" saw a chance to turn international opinion against France over this issue, and in April 1920 began a sustained propaganda campaign against the French use of \"colored\" troops. The \"Auswärtige Amt\" issued \"talking points\" to German newspapers, which all through the spring of 1920 ran front-page stories accusing the Senegalese of sorts of atrocities against German civilians. The stories about the \"Die schwarze Schand\" (\"the black shame\") appeared frequently in the German press in the spring of 1920, running what Nelson called hysterical stories with \"astonishing\" frequency. The German MSPD chancellor Hermann Müller in a speech complained that \"Senegalese Negroes occupy the University of Frankfort and guard the Goethe House!\" The Foreign Minister, Dr. Adolf Köster, in a note to the Allied governments wrote: \"if we should suffer from the occupation, we will accept the inferior discipline...among your white troops if only you we will rid us of this black plague!\" \n\nMorel had published in the left-wing newspaper \"The Daily Herald\" on 10 April his \"indictment of the colored outrages\" in the Rhineland, which attracted much attention. Morel wrote about the Senegalese soldiers that during the First World War \"primitive African barbarians...stuffed their haversacks with eye-balls, ears and heads of the foe\". Morel went on to write about \"barely restrainable bestiality of the black troops\" and depicted the Senegalese in the Rhineland as engaging in a reign of terror against German civilians, raping and killing without mercy. In an appeal to his female readers, Morel asked the question: \"is there no obligation laid upon womenhood as such, in a matter of this kind which goes to the very root of any decent instinct the war may have left alive among the white peoples of the earth?\" Morel wrote that \"black savages\" have uncontrolled sexual impulses that \"must be satisfied upon the bodies of white women!\" (emphasis in the original). Despite his claim not to hate black people, Morel wrote: \"There they [the African soldiers] have become a terror and a horror unimaginable to the countryside, raping girls and women-for well known physiological reasons, the raping of a white woman by a negro is nearly always accompanied by serious injuries and not infrequently has fatal results; spreading syphilis, murdering inoffensive civilians, often getting completely out of control; the terrible barbaric incarnation of a barbarous policy, embodied in a so-called peace treaty which puts the clock back 2, 000 years\".\n\nIn a leader (editorial) written by the editor of \"The Daily Herald\", George Lansbury, approved of Morel's article and asked that France pull all African troops out of the Rhineland at once. On 12 April 1920, Lansbury wrote again on the subject, saying if the French did not sent the Senegalese back to Africa at once, \"we shall have savages used to blackleg, and to coerce, the workers of all European countries\". On the same day, \"The Daily Herald\"'s headlines read: \"Brutes in French Uniforms Danger to German women from 30, 000 Blacks Brothels not enough\". The Central Committee of Women's Co-operative Guild in a statement expressed its \"horror and indignation\" at the use of Senegalese troops in the Rhineland, asked the British government pressure the French government to send all African troops back to Africa and called for an international agreement to ban \"the use of any native African troops by any European power\". On 27 April 1920, a mass protest meeting was held in London that was organised jointly by all of the main British feminist groups, namely the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom, the National Federation of Women Workers, the Federation of Women Teachers, the Women's Co-operative Guild, the Association of Women Clerks and Secretaries and the Fabian Women's Group to condemn France for the alleged war crimes committed by the Senegalese. At the meeting, Morel asked: that in the interests of good feeling between all the races of the world and the security of all women, this\nmeeting calls upon the League of Nations to prohibit the importation into Europe for warlike purposes of troops belonging to primitive peoples.\"\n\nClaude McKay, the Jamaican writer and industrial unionist who had arrived in London several months earlier, wrote a letter to \"The Daily Herald\", which was not published, asking:\"Why this obscene maniacal outburst about the sex vitality of black men in a proletarian paper?\" Rape is rape; the colour of the skin doesn't make it different. Negroes are no more over-sexed than Caucasians; mulatto children in the West Indies and America were not the result of parthenogenesis. If Negro troops had syphilis, they contracted it from the white and yellow races. As for German women, in their economic plight they were selling themselves to anyone. I do not protest because I happen to be a Negro...I write because I feel that the ultimate result of your propaganda will be further strife and blood-spilling between whites and the many members of my race...who have been dumped down on the English docks since the ending of the European war...Bourbons of the United States will thank you, and the proletarian underworld of London will certainly gloat over the scoop of the Christian-Socialist pacifist \"Daily Herald\". Another letter to the editor of \"The Daily Herald\" which was published on 17 April 1920 came from the africanist Norman Leys and criticized Morel for \"his so-called physiological facts\", which are \"one of the great sources for racial hatred and should never be given currency\".'\n\nMorel's article received much attention and 50, 000 Swedish women signed a petition which was presented at the French Embassy in Stockholm asking the French to withdraw their \"savage\" Senegalese soldiers from the Rhineland. In an article in \"The Labour Leader\" on 22 April 1920, Morel wrote the African soldiers were the \"passively obedient instrument of capitalist society\" and a threat to the working classes of the nations of Europe. Reflecting his opposition to the Treaty of Versailles, Morel blamed the \"black horror\" on the French who deliberately committed this \"supreme outrage\" of sending these \"tens of thousands of savage men\" to the Rhineland. Morel predicated the \"black horror\" would cause another world war, writing that the average German boy was thinking: \"Boys these men raped your mothers and sisters\" (emphasis in the original) . General C.B. Thomson of the British Army published an article in \"The Daily Herald\", which stated that based on his extensive service in Africa, that he knew about the \"sexual proclivities\" of Africans \"who in default of their own race must have intercourse with European women\". General Thomson denounced France for training \"these savages\" who are \"being taught to despise the European races\". On 14 April 1920, a Labour MP, Josiah Wedgwood, stated in the House of Commons that his party \"did not consider Senegalese proper troops to garrison German towns\" and asked the government to apply pressure on France to pull out the Senegalese. In the spring and summer of 1920, Labour MPs repeatedly raised the issue of the \"black horror\" in the Rhineland and demanded the government do something to force the French to pull out their African soldiers. In September 1920 at a meeting of the Trade Union Congress, free copies of Morel's pamphlet \"The Horror on the Rhine\" were handed to the delegates so that they learn about the \"injustices\" of Versailles and the \"horrors\" faced by the working class of the Rhineland.\n\nOn 30 April 1920, the left-wing Vancouver newspaper, the \"British Columbia Federationist\" ran a front-paper cover story \"The Black Scourge Is Now Ravaging Europe\". The article began that the following story \"was a revelation so horrible that only the strongest sense that it is our duty to let the public know what is being done would induce use to publish it\". On 10 May 1920, the Prime Minister of Sweden, Hjalmar Branting, declared in a speech his belief in the truth of Morel's claims, saying that as a white man he was outraged that the French would deploy Senegalese troops in the Rhineland. In August 1920, Morel first used the phrase \"the black horror on the Rhine\" in one of his pamphlets to describe the alleged atrocities. In the United States, so many letters had been received by outraged citizens that President Wilson in June 1920 asked Secretary of State Bainbridge Colby, to have the American ambassador in Paris, Hugh Campbell Wallace, to investigate these stories. General Henry T. Allen, the commander of the American occupation force in Coblenz together with the diplomat E.L. Dresel carried out an investigation and reported on 25 June 1920 that almost all of the stories about the \"black horror on the Rhine\" were baseless. Dresel wrote nearly all of the stories about atrocities were untrue and General Allen praised the \"good discipline\" of the Senegalese. Both men concluded that the stories about the \"black horror on the Rhine\" were being made to influence U.S. public opinion. After the Red Summer of 1919, which had seen widespread race riots across the United States causing hundreds of deaths, most of them African-American, white American public opinion was very sensitive to stories about \"uppity\" blacks getting out of hand, and was inclined to sympathize with those who claimed to be threatened by blacks. The U.S. government did not chose to make these reports public at the time.\n\nA reporter for \"The Nation\", Lewis Gannett, who went to the Rhineland to investigate the allegations found them to be mostly false. Gannett found that there had been cases of rape of German women and girls by the Senegalese, but the total number was far smaller than what had been alleged by Morel; that white French troops had also raped German women, a matter that did not interest Morel very much; and that in rape cases \"the French have inflicted severe punishment upon all soldiers guilty of transgressing against the civil population\". A study done by the British journalist J. Ellis Baker in published in July 1921 edition of \"Current History\" found that between 1918-1921 that there had been a total of 72 creditable allegations of criminal conduct made against \"colored troops\" in the Rhineland, and of which only 9 concerned allegations of rape. Baker's study also listed 96 allegations of criminal conduct which had been judged \"doubtful\" and 59 which were found to be \"unjustified\". The German journalist Maximilian Harden wrote that the sex between \"colored\" soldiers in the French Army and German women in the Rhineland was mostly consensual, writing: \"German women were chiefly responsible for the mingling of colored and white blood which has taken place by the Rhine\".\n\nThe German historian Christian Koller in an exhaustive study of complaints made by the Rhinelanders against \"colored\" French occupation forces found that most of the complaints were of a petty nature, such as playing unauthorized football games in parks. Most of the complaints about violence by \"colored\" soldiers in Worms involved Moroccans, usually brawls in the streets, and Koller found that complaints about sexual violence from the Senegelese were \"rare\" with the mayor of Worms actually wanting the \"well disciplined\" Senegalese to stay rather than be replaced by the more combative Moroccans. In Wiesbaden, relations between the Rhinelanders and the French occupation forces were more tense with references to brawls, property damage and \"four cases of death caused by the colored troops\", which was less than those that white French troops were accused of. Koller also noted the vague nature of the \"black horror\" claims and that when it came to specifics, many of the claims of rape by the Senegalese have a \"sameness\" to not only the accounts of the alleged rapes, but even the same words and phrasing, which led Koller to conclude that the accounts were almost certainly fabricated. On the whole, Koller found that there were isolated cases of rape by \"colored\" soldiers, but there was nothing to support the claim of a reign of terror in the Rhineland by \"colored\" forces. The historian Raffael Scheck wrote most German newspapers outside of the Rhineland ran the \"Black Horror\" stories, but in fact it seems that relations between the \"colored\" troops and the Rhinelanders were \"mostly friendly, sometimes \"too\" friendly for the critics\" as some Rhenish women gave birth to illegitimate children with African, Berber, Arab and Asian features known by the disparaging term, the Rhineland Bastards.\n\nIn the summer of 1920, Morel visited the Rhineland to investigate the matter himself, and in August 1920, he published his pamphlet \"The Horror on the Rhine\". Within a month, all 5, 000 copies of \"The Horror on the Rhine\" had sold out and by April 1921 there had been 8 editions of \"The Horror on the Rhine\". The third edition of \"The Horror on the Rhine\" featured endorsed by the former German chancellor Prince Max of Baden; Jean Longuet of the French Socialist Party; four Socialist members of the Italian parliament; and General C. B. Thomson. In \"The Horror on the Rhine\", Morel wrote about black men having an uncontrolled, fierce sexuality that made them want to rape white women. Morel wrote: \"In ones or twos, sometimes in parties, big, stewart men from the warmer climes, armed with sword-bayonets or knives, sometimes with revolvers, living unnatural lives of restraint, their fierce passions hot within them, roam the countryside\". The African-American philosopher Alain LeRoy Locke visited the Rhineland to investigate Morel's claims and found them mostly baseless. Locke also interviewed the soldiers of the French Army, which he praised as a multi-racial force when skin color did not matter, and stated the morale of the Senegalese was holding up well.\n\nThe claims made by the German government did influence American public opinion. Dudley Field Malone, the leader of the Farmer–Labor Party, wrote to President Wilson that: \"thoughtful persons in America and throughout the world are horrified by the victimization of German women and girls by half-savage African troops\". The French writer Romain Rolland issued a statement approving of Morel's articles and declared: \"The incredible blindness of statesmen who without realizing it are turning Europe over to the black and yellow continents, which they are armed with their own hands, is itself the unconscious instrument of Destiny\". Lothrop Stoddard, a professor at Harvard, an avowed white supremacist and eugenist, had just published his best-selling book \"The Rising Tide of Color Against World-wide White Supremacy\", warning of a black-Asian threat to the \"white races\". Upon reading Morel's \"The Horror on the Rhine\", Stoddard promptly issued his approval, warning of the \"extreme fecundity\" of blacks and that \"black blood, once entering a human stock, seems never to really bred out again\". In October 1920, a debate took place at a conference of Protestant clergymen at the World Ecumenical Conference in Geneva, when a Lutheran pastor from Germany asked the conference to condemn the \"black horror\". The African-American Reverend John R. Hawkins, representing the African Methodist Episcopal church from Washington D.C. said in response: \"\"It was most unfortunate...he should take occasion to drag into this place for high and lofty sentiments the slime and venom of the monster, colour prejudice...Crimes committed by soldiers drunk with the feeling of resentment and the passions of bloody battles have followed all wars; there is no reason for making this invidious distinction and holding up the coloured troops alone to be guilty of such atrocities...The dusky sons of Ham, whether from Africa or America, have come to Europe are among the bravest of the brave and the noblest of the noble, and I will not be silent while their record is attacked.\"\n\nThe \"Christian Science Monitor\" in an editorial on 28 October 1920 wrote: \"France has gone even further than an eye-for-eye and has outplayed Germany at its worse, in a way so terrible that it is impossible to indulge in details\". Two weeks later, the \"Christian Science Monitor\" (CSM) retracted the editorial after receiving a letter from the French consul in Koblenz who showed that the total number of Senegalese in the Rhineland were 5 000, not the 50, 000 alleged by the \"Christian Science Monitor\"; that there had been a total of 13 reported cases of rape of German women by the Senegalese, not the thousands alleged by the CSM; and that in all 13 cases, the rapists had been sentenced to death after being convicted with the consul noting sharply that the French Army did not tolerate rapists in its ranks. The \"Auswärtige Amt\" seeing that the stories about the \"black horror on the Rhine\" were effective in gaining international sympathy for the \"Reich\" greatly increased its propaganda with pamphlets detailing the alleged war crimes committed by the Senegalese being published in English, Dutch, French, Italian, Spanish and Portuguese. The \"Auswärtige Amt\" attached so importance to the promoting the \"Black Horror on the Rhine\" stories that the German embassies in Lima and Santiago were ordered to make publicizing \"Die schwarze Schand\" their main priority. Nelson described the pamphlets handed out by the German diplomats-some of which were written by \"cranks\" and which verged on the pornographic in their depiction of fair German girls being raped by brutish Africans-as presenting a long list of rapes said to be committed by the Senegalese against German women and girls on the orders of their French officers. In 1921, a film was produced in Munich about the \"black horror on the Rhine\" that played all over Germany and in the Netherlands. In June 1921, Beveridge gave a speech at the Sagebiel Hall in Hamburg attended by some 50, 000 people during she accused the Senegalese of raping thousands of German women and girls since they had arrived in the Rhineland.\n\nMuch of the fury that the \"colored\" troops generated in Germany was due to the way that they inverted the normal racial hierarchy with black, brown and Asian men holding power over white Germans. A recurring theme of German complaints against the Senegalese was that Germany had now been \"colonized\" by Africans. A German writer, Alfred von Wrochem, in his best-selling book \"The Colonization of the Rhineland by France\" had attacked the French for undermining belief in worldwide white supremacy by using Senegalese troops. During World War I, the presence of Africans fighting in the French Army had in the word of the British historian Barbara Bush had made \"trans-racial sex between white women and black men of all classes an obsession with white men\". The stationing of Senegalese troops in the Rhineland had tapped into these fears. The British ambassador to Germany, Lord D'Abederon wrote: \"The war increased the German's respect for, and his dislike of the English, but has done nothing to diminish his belief in his own superior sturdiness compared with the French. This will continue subconsciously and subcutaneously whatever happens-even though France possesses an overpowering army and the Germans have no organised means of resistance\". A theme of much the \"black horror\" propaganda was that of a massive contempt for the French who had to use \"colored\" troops to fight their wars. One of the leading \"black horror\" propagandists, August Ritter von Eberlein, wrote: \"Without her colored troops, France is not in a position in the present tense situation to maintain her militarism and imperialism\".\n\nThe fear of sexuality of black men was especially felt very strongly by white feminists and throughout the 1920s, feminist publications in the United States and the United Kingdom presented the \"black horror on the Rhine\" stories as true. An interesting exception was when \"The British Columbia Federationist\" ran an article in October 1920 titled \"France Creates Hell West of the Rhine\", accusing the Senegalese soldiers of committing \"numberless outrages against women and girls\". The Canadian historian Peter Campbell noted that the \"fascinating aspect\" was that there were no letters to the editor of the \"British Columbia Federationist\" expressing either approval or disapproval; which he noted was odd given the way in which the article appealed to the prejudices in the most base way, suggesting that the largely white, working-class readers of \"British Columbia Federationist\" did not approve of the anti-black message. In France, a French Socialist Charles Gide wrote on 16 March 1921 edition of the newspaper \"Foi et Vie\" that Morel claimed that he wanted to protect the Africans, but: \"\"le genre de protection de M. Morel rappelle un peu le precepte que fait afficher la Society protectrice des animaux: 'Soyez bons pour les betes\"'\" (Mr. Morel's kind of protection is a little reminiscent of the precepts of the Society for the Protection of Animals: 'Be good to the animals').\n\nOne group founded in Munich in September 1921 to campaign against the \"black horror\" was the \"Notbund\" led by Heinrich Distler. Known for its enthusiastic hyperbole and its usually false claims, the \"Notbund\"'s pamphlets claimed the Senegalese were raping 100 women/per day in the Rhineland and the Malagasy had caused epidemics of tuberculosis, dysentery, syphilis, malaria, Malta fever, leprosy, Phagedänismus and parasitic worms in the Rhineland. Appealing to the medical ignorance of its readers, the \"Notbund\" maintained that it was possible to contract leprosy solely by being in the presence of a black man without even touching him. In Britain, Norman Angell in his 1921 book \"The Fruits of Victory\" wrote the worse aspect of the Treaty of Versailles was the stationing of the Senegalese in the Rhineland. Angell accused the French of putting \"cannibals from the African forests\" into the \"cultured\" university towns of the Rhineland.\n\nThe motivations of the \"black horror\" writers differed greatly. The German sociologist Iris Wigger divided the writers into two types; a \"liberal racism\" that embraced writers such as E.D Morel and the former Italian Prime Minister Francesco Saverio Nitti who used the \"black horror\" stories primarily as a weapon for attacking the Treaty of Versailles, and a \"conservative racism\" that embraced figures such as the German writer Guido Kreutzer and the American actress Ray Beveridge mainly found within in Germany that used the \"black horror\" stories primarily as a weapon for attacking the Weimar Republic.\n\nIn Morel's own mind, he was an anti-racist who was fighting for the Africans. Morel believed that Africans were far closer to nature than Europeans and as such, the Africans had “the uneducated soul of the savage” and were not up to the demands of modern industrial society. As such, Morel believed that blacks being creatures of \"strong emotions\" needed to be protected from \"modern civilization\" which they were allegedly not capable of handling, which explained his campaigning against the Congo Free State which tried to bring modern work discipline to the Congo in the early 20th century. At the same time, Morel believed that Africans, lacking the self-discipline of whites, had an uncontrolled sexuality. In a 1911 essay after visiting Nigeria, Morel had written the \"reproduction\" of the black race was the main \"obsession\" of all black people, writing about the \"instinctive and mysterious\" call of racial need which supposedly made all black people obsessed with sex all the time to the exclusion of everything else, declaring that \"sexual obsession\" was the \"elementary racial desire\" of black people. In this viewpoint, as long as Africans were left in their \"natural savage state\", all would be well as Africans were not capable of meeting the sexual self-discipline of Europeans, which is why Morel condemned the efforts of missionaries in Africa. Through Morel had been very forceful in condemning the cruel exploitation of the Congo Free State, Morel believed in imperialism, just not the cruel exploitative imperialism of the Congo Company, writing it was the duty of whites to serve as the \"trustees\" for blacks and the \"great white father\" who would protect the \"basic human rights\" of Africans while at the same time accepting the \"infantile\" nature of black people who not the equal in any way of whites. \nMorel was very anti-French not only because of his opposition to the Treaty of Versailles, but because of the nature of France's \"mission civilisatrice\" (\"civilizing mission\") in Africa whereby any African who was willing to embrace the French language and culture would become French and theoretically the equal of whites threatened to upend Morel's beliefs in the essential biological inferiority of blacks. Morel believed that the Africans were committing outrageous crimes against Germans in the Rhineland because the French had empowered them by least theoretically making them into black Frenchmen who were just as much citizens of the republic as anyone else. Precisely because Morel believed in the uncontrolled sexuality of blacks, it was self-evident to him that the \"sexually uncontrolled and uncontrollable\" Senegalese would run amok in the Rhineland, raping every German female in sight. As part of his call for international solidarity with a Germany alleged to be victimized by the Treaty of Versailles, Morel wrote: ‘For the working classes the importation of Negro mercenaries by the hundred thousand from the heart of Africa, to fight the battles and execute the lusts of capitalist governments in the heart of Europe is...a terrifc portent. The workers, alike in Britain, France, and Italy will be ill-advised if they allow it to pass in silence because today the victims happen to be German.” Morel used the alleged massive sexual violence committed against women in the Rhineland as a call for racial togetherness, writing it was in the interests of all white peoples to assist Germany with revising the terms of Versailles which permitted the \"black horror on the Rhine\". In the same way, Morel used the \"black horror\" as a way of attacking France which had caused a “sexual horror on the Rhine” and whose “reign of terror” was a “giant evil” that should inspire “shame into all four corners of the world” and ultimately should “a revision of the Versailles Treaty and the relief for Germany.”\n\nNitti, a liberal Italian politician was known for his calls for an \"United States of Europe\", believing that only when all of the nations of Europe become one would all of the problems of modern Europe be solved. In this regard, Nitti was strongly opposed to the Treaty of Versailles, which he called the \"instrument of oppression\" against Germany, the \"most cultured nation\" in the world. As part of his critique of Versailles, Nitti wrote that the French had put the most \"backward nations\" in the Rhineland, declaring some of the \"most cultured cities in Europe\" that been subjected to \"Negro violence\" and to \"physical and moral trials unknown for centuries in civilized countries\". Nitti wrote the occupation of the Rhineland \"had no military aim\" but rather was an \"attempt to force Germany to the point of moral exhaustion\". At the same time, Nitti, who was very well worried about the prospect of a Communist revolution in Germany, used the \"black horror\" stories as a way of creating unity in Germany, urging that all Germans regardless of class should unite in the common struggle against France. As part of his call for European unity, Nitti went out of his way to portray France's African soldiers as an alien body that did not belong in Europe at all, which allowed him to condemn France as the nation responsible for this state of affairs. Nitti wrote the Senegalese were guilty of \"any form of violence and crime\" as their \"yesterday the representatives of cannibalistic races\" whom were now occupying the \"country of the greatest thinkers in Europe\". Throughout his speeches and essays, Nitti drew a contrast between Europeans who constituted civilization vs Africans who represented barbarism. Nitti even so far as to say he was shocked to see and hear \"music gangs of Negroes and Berbers of Africa\" play \"African music programmes\" on the \"squares of the occupied cities\". Nitti wrote for him it \"seemed unbearable\" that Germans whose nation was a \"cradle of musical genius\" to listen to \"Negro music\". As part of his call to revise Versailles, Nitti urged that the other European nations together with the United States were under the obligation to \"save culture...from the flood of barbarism\" as \"Germany's fall\" would mean \"the downfall of one the largest driving forces of humanity\". As part of his demand for a pan-Western effort to save Germany, Nitti wrote he could hear the “cry of pain of the German woman\", which he wrote was a “most terrible accusation against Christian peoples,” who called themselves “civilized and democratic.”\n\nWigger stated that writers on both sides were equally racist, but there was a difference between those as Morel and Nitti whose main interest was in revising the terms of Versailles in Germany's favor, and those like Kreutzer and Beveridge whose main interest was in proving the Weimar Republic was too \"weak\" to stand up to France. The same conclusion was reached by the British historian Peter Collar who wrote: \"...there existed in Germany a fundamental disagreement over the value of propaganda and the use to which it might be put. To the idealists of the new Republic it offered a way for Germany to advance her cause abroad in the widest sense and to get away from the excesses of the Wilhelmine era...The Right saw things quite differently. In the far Right, exemplified in party political terms by the DNVP and by some within the Bavarian BVP, there existed a deep desire to return to past authoritarian certainty, a past that was idealised in the imaginaton. The concepts behind the new Republic were totally alien and were to be opposed at every opportunity.\" The campaign against the \"black horror\" was not one campaign coordinated by the \"Reich\" government, but several different campaigns launched by the \"Reich\", Bavarian, and Prussian governments together with a number of private groups. With the notable exceptions of the Communists and Independent Social Democrats, every political group in Germany endorsed the \"black horror\" campaign thought Collar described the Majority Social Democratic Party of Germany more as \"fellow travelers in the propaganda war rather than a driving force\". Racism was so pervasive in Europe at the time that the \"black or colored man was generally considered by the white European to be his inferior\".\n\nRay Beveridge, a conservative Germanophile American actress and an ardent racist who was of the leading speakers on the subject, used the \"black horror\" as a call for a right-wing \"Volksgemeinschaft\" (\"people's community\"), urging the German people to reject the Weimar republic and rally around the \"völkisch\" right, which she claimed were the only men capable of \"standing up\" to France. Beveridge was well known for her exaggerated claims and a speaking style that sought to appeal to the worse prejudices in her audience, often spoke about the \"mindless blacks\" with \"enormous sex drives and unrestrained passion\" who allegedly would attack \"white women, white girls, white youth, often old people and even children\". Beveridge usually began her speeches with the remark:\"Why do I come here, an American, to speak to you about the \"Schwarze Schmach\"? Because I come from a nation that ever since it came into being has been threatened by black and yellow problems and the black and yellow peril!...I appeal to women in the world! I appeal to all men worthy of the name. Help! White women, white boys are in danger everyday, every hour of the day as long as a black is allowed to have power over a white women!\" An avowed white supremacist, Beveridge sought to impute the worse about black men, saying in one speech:\"Victims of the promiscuous passions of the blacks are found half dead in meadows and ditches, their clothes in tatters, their delicate young bodies torn by the brutality of the attacks. Many have bite wounds which show clearly how wildly the black beast has fallen on his victim. I could quote innumerable examples with names and dates; and it must not be forgotten that almost all these men are infected with venereal diseases\".\"\n\nBeveridge's speeches were well attended and are described in contemporary newspaper reports as being greeted with huge applause, but others involved in the \"black horror\" campaign like Margarete Gärtner, the chairwoman of the \"Rheinische Frauenliga\", regarded Beveridge as a liability as she was prone to making exaggerated and false claims in her speeches that were easily rebutted by the French. The \"Auswärtige Amt\" in a report stated that Beveridge was harming the German side as she \"outdoes the \"Notbund\" in her hysterical extremes\". Collar called Beveridge the most extreme of all the speakers on the theme of the \"black horror\", describing her as the preferred spokeswoman of the \"extreme right\" in Germany with her speeches being \"nothing less than an incitement to racial hatred\". In one of her speeches, Beveridge said: \"Your weapons have been taken from you, but there still remains a rope and a tree. Take up the natural arms which our men from the South resort: lynch! Hang every black who assaults a white person!\" However, Collar wrote that Beveridge who was fluent in German was a \"charismatic orator...able to whip up her audience into a frenzy\". Linking all this together was Bevridge's call for the \"Volksgemeinschaft\", saying that the \"German spirit, the German science, the German culture, and the German work\" were more than enough to defeat France, provided that all Germans stand \"faithfully together\" and put the nation ahead of \"party politics\". In a speech in a Munich beerhall, Beveridge declared: \"Germans unite-unity is power-only with power can you shake the chains of Versailles!\".\n\nAs part of her appeal, Beveridge spoke the need to keep the \"Volkskörper\" (the collective \"racial body\" of the German people) pure, and as such German women as the bearers of the next generation of Germans had the most important part of the \"Volkskörper\". In Beveridge's mind, the alleged sexual crimes against German women were bad enough, but even worse by threatening the \"Volkskörper\" threatened the very existence of the German \"race\". For Beveridge, the purity of the \"Volkskörper\" was so important that any man who did not fight against the \"black horror\" was not only a “slacker” and “traitor of his country”, but also a “traitor against the white race.” Beveridge often spoke of her \"shame\" for the “German race” who was not willing “to protect” the “honour” of his women from the \"Fremdkörper\" (alien body) that was now threatening the \"Volkskörper\" in the Rhineland. At the time of the Munich Beerhall \"putsch\", Beveridge came out in support for the National Socialists, declaring it “an enormous honor” to mobilise, together with her German husband, “the \"Chiemgau\" for Adolf Hitler”. At the time, Beveridge had said in a speech that Hitler together with General Erich Ludendorff were her “German heroes”. Beveridge later on in the 1930s renounced her U.S. citizenship to become a German citizen, joined the NSDAP, and was a well known \"admirer of Hitler\".\"\n\nLikewise, the \"völkisch\" German writer Guido Kreutzer used the \"black horror on the Rhine\" as a way of attacking both what he saw as the \"unjust\" Treaty of Versailles and even more so the Weimar Republic, which was too \"weak\" to stand up to France. In his very popular 1921 novel \"Die Schwarze Schmach: Der Roman des geschändeten Deutschlands\" (\"The Black Shame A Novel of Disgraced Germany\"), Kreutzer portrayed the Senegalese and Moroccan soldiers as thuggish rapists who violate thousands upon thousands of innocent German girls in the Rhineland, who have all the stereotypical \"Aryan\" look with fair skin, blonde hair and blue eyes; the hero of the novel repeatedly calls the Senegalese \"nigger scum\". The preface to \"Die Schwarze Schmach\" was written by the \"völkisch\" activist Count Ernst zu Reventlow whom praised the novel as a much needed call for the \"Volksgemeinschaft\". Reventlow wrote that Jesus Christ had taught all Christians to love their neighbor, which he took to mean all Germans should love the Rhinelanders and hate the French, writing: \"It is this national hatred that we need! It must pulsate evenly throughout the German people, uniting them and driving them forward. This hatred of an entire people, despite a lack of weapons, will build an insuperable force and, from a certain moment in time, an irresistible one. It must act everywhere and at every moment against the French interloper. In the long term, no conqueror has ever been able to withstand such hatred and at this time in Germany the conqueror is not even there by virtue of his own power.\" In this regard, Reventlow complained that the German people were far too disunited at present, and needed to become united by hating the French, which was why he recommended reading the novel.\n\nKreutzer used \"Die Schwarze Schmach\" as a way of attacking the Weimar Republic which is portrayed as a weak and ineffective in face of the \"black horror on the Rhine\", and called for Germans to embrace a \"strongman\" leader who would rule as a dictator. The cover of \"Die Schwarze Schmach\" featured an ape-like black man wearing the uniform of a French Army private holding a half-naked white woman with a lascivious expression on his face. The hero of the novel is Baron von Yrsch, an aristocrat, former Prussian Army general, war hero and a friend of the former Emperor Wilhelm II who lives on his estate outside of an unnamed town in the Rhineland together with his beautiful daughter, whom the Senegalese naturally want to rape. Yrsch complains about the weak Emperor who abdicated and left into exile while leaving his 70 million loyal subjects \"in the abyss\". Reflecting his nationalistic views, Kreutzer has a French officer say: \"The German Army was the moral victor. Only numerical superiority and hunger had finally forced it to its knees. France by itself would have been overrun by Germany in less than four weeks without being able to offer any serious resistance\". To humiliate Yrsch, the French demand they be allowed to open a brothel on the grounds of his estate to be operated by his daughter Marlene. The Moroccans serving in the French Army are described as having \"a rough-hewn black-brown face; bulging yellowish eyes buried deep under the forehead beneath the steel helmet; the predator teeth dazzlingly bright between the burning red lips\".\n\nAnother supporting character is Lampré, the son of a Rhineland industrialist and a Rhenish separatist whom initially collaborates with the French, but sees the error of his ways when confronted with the \"black horror\" and in the climax of the novel saves Yrsch's daughter from being raped by a \"mulatto\" French Army officer by killing him. When the collaborating mayor orders Yrsch out of the town, thousands of the \"Burschenschaften\" (student fraternities) join forces with the town's workers in a demonstration to persuade him to stay. The villain of the novel is the \"mulatto\" Captain Mustapha Hassan of the French Army; the fact that \"half-Arabian\" Hassan is a Muslim, the self-proclaimed \"black raven of Allah\", who is a descendant of Muslim warriors who fought against the Crusades was meant by Kreutzer to show that France is not longer a \"civilized\" European Christian nation, but has rather become a \"mulatto\" nation that has rejected the values of the European family of nations. In an important symbolic moment, when Captain Hassan tries to rape Yrsch's daughter and Lampré comes to her defense, Hassan's white chauffeur fires a shot at him with his revolver that instead shoots off a finger of a statue of Christ in front of a church, thereby showing the French have turned their backs on Christian Europe. In another important scene, Lampré confronts his Rhenish separatist father to tell him that he \"wants to be German again\" rather than associate with the \"niggers\" of France. Lampré's industrialist father is portrayed as blinded by greed and he has to decided to support Rhenish separatism out of the potential to make millions from working with the French. Ultimately, Lampré's father sees the error of his ways and he too rediscovers his pride in being German again. The Lamprés \"pere\" and \"fils\" represent the elegantly cosmopolitan and Francophile Catholic middle classes of the Rhineland who often resented Prussian militarism as crude and overbearing, seeing themselves as a more civilized type of German.\n\nKreutzer also used \"Die Schwarze Schmach\" as a way of reinforcing traditional gender roles as German women are portrayed as a weak and passive, unable to protect themselves from the rampaging Senegalese and Moroccans, needing the \"manly\" German men to protect them. Using \"völkisch\" language, Kreutzer called for all Germans to feel for their \"tormented \"volksgenossen\"\" (national comrades) in the Rhineland, rediscover their \"national source of strength\" by uniting against the common foe, and allow \"the \"völkisch\" spark to spread\". In the novel, the bodies of German women represent both literally and symbolically the tormented German nation attacked by African \"savages\" with the female body serving as a symbol of German racial purity. Significantly, the children born to German mothers and Senegalese fathers are all born \"physically and morally degenerate\" and are not considered to be German. Furthermore, all of the women raped are by the Senegalese cease to be German the moment they are raped, and it is made clear that there is no place in the \"Volksgemeinschaft\" for them. Kreutzer accuses France of seeking to \"undermine the nation's health\" by allowing African soldiers to \"rape and defile\" German women, who are portrayed as virtuous, wholesome and chaste symbols of German racial purity, blessed with the sacred task of bearing the next generation of Germans.\n\nLampré rejects his French lover, a licentious dancer and a \"worldly little animal\" whose \"soulless chirping voices\" and overt sexuality he finds repulsive for the more wholesome and German figure of Marlene von Yrsch. Marlene von Yrsch is blessed with all the beauty of her \"race\", having a \"girly pristine charm\", blonde hair worn in a \"Greek node\", \"wise eyes\", an \"elegantly narrow face\" with beautiful \"curved brows\" and a \"slim shape\" to her body. Marlene von Yrsch is a symbol of not only Germany, but also of the white race in general, marking out the all that was beautiful in the world vs. the hideously deformed bodies of the Senegalese, Moroccan and Vietnamese soldiers serving in the French Army. The mere sight of her causes Lampré to desert from the French Foreign Legion as he sees in her a \"woe reminder of the fatherland lost forever\" as his mind is flooded with images of his lost \"Heimat\", filling him with \"shame\" for having fought for France. By contrast, Captain Mustapha Hassan is portrayed as a sexual predator with \"primitively carved features\" and a \"brutal\" sexuality, an ugly man with beady lips who \"bites like an animal\" at the sight of Marlene. When Marlene rejects his advances, calling him a \"half-civilized savage\" with \"all the arrogance of her race\", he becomes obsessed with raping her in revenge. Lampré vows to protect Marlene, saying she will not be \"fair game for this nigger\", saying his \"conscience as a human being and a man\" will not let do otherwise and thereby redeems himself for his \"treason\" for having fought for France in the Foreign Legion.\n\nFinally, Kreutzer used \"Die Schwarze Schmach\" as a way of attacking the Social Democrats as group of working class characters in the Rhineland in the novel ultimately abandoned the SPD as they find it is only right-wing leaders like Yrsch who can create the \"Volksgemeinschaft\" that will allow Germany to stand up to France. Reflecting Kreutzer's conservative politics, in \"Die Schwarze Schmach\", the working class characters finally learn the SPD is a divisive force that weakens the German people by dividing the working class from the rest of the German people, and it is when the Rhenish working class learn to accept leadership from traditional elites such as the aristocracy and the industrialists that the German people can finally be united as one in the form of the \"Volksgemeinschaft\" to stand up to France, Germany's ancient archenemy which was responsible for the \"black horror on the Rhine\". In the novel, the working class march under the \"old black-white-red flags\" to protest the \"black horror\" and the expulsion order against the \"national hero\" Yrsch; in Germany the colors red, white and black symbolize the right while the colors red, black and gold symbolize the left. In one scene, a delegation of workers led by a huge union official respectfully pay a visit to Yrsch's estate to ask him to lead them on a struggle against the French, which was Kreutzer's way of showing that Germans needed to defer to their traditional elites to become great again. In paternal relationship, aristocrats like Yrsch understand the problems of the working class, and argue for fair treatment of the workers by their employers, which was Kreutzer's way of saying that in the \"Volksgemeinschaft\" the German people would all be united together as a one big happy family. The novel repeatedly hammers home the point that only if the German people are united as one in the form of the \"Volksgemeinschaft\" can Germany recover from the defeat of 1918, and throughout the novel Germans are of all classes are seen as victimized by the French and their \"colored\" troops. Wigger suggested that Kreutzer was using his racism as a way of uniting all Germans together as the working class characters find the question of racial purity more important than their wages, working conditions and standards of living, and at one point a union official says that every working-class family must be opposed to \"mad strikes and Communist agitations\" that weaken the unity of the German nation. In this regard, when the union leaders rebuke Lampré's father for his treasonous activities, he ceases to be an \"exploitative\" capitalist and turns into a \"good German capitalist\", having a very paternal relationship with his workers whom he takes care of and in their return defer to him.\n\nAt the end of the novel, Lampré marries Marlene and becomes a killing machine, saying no-one will ever threaten his \"German sanctuary again\", and his \"soul is finally at peace\" as he takes up the task of killing Senegalese and Moroccans with gusto. He and his bride enjoy a brief moment of happiness as they \"raved and kissed\" by the banks of the river Rhine and sing the song \"Lovers by the Rhine\"; subsequently an attempt to escape the Rhineland ends with Marlene being killed while Lampré who once rejected German nationalism sees it is too late for him and that his \"treason\" for having served France can never be fully redeemed. Collar wrote that in Kreutzer's novel, the \"Black Horror\" was \"...almost subsidiary in his eyes to a bigger issue-the simple fact that Germany had lost the war. The book was simply the expression of his resentment and fury...The tenor of the book leaves little doubt that it reflected the views of the extreme right-wing \"völkisch\" circles, for whom defeat had come as a crushing blow and for whom the new Republic was an abomination. For them the \"Schwarze Schmach\" was clearly but one element in the array of grievances against France. Incitement of public hatred leading to a war of revenge in the indefinite future was much in evidence\".\n\nIn response to stories about the \"black horror on the Rhine\", the French government published pamphlets settling to rebut the \"calumnies\" while several French newspapers in editorials accused the Germans of engaging in racism. In 1921 the French government published a pamphlet \"La campagne contre les troupes noires\", defending the Senegalese and pointing out inaccuracies in the articles by Morel and Beveridge's speeches, for instance, stating that 50, 000 Senegalese had not been stationed in the Rhineland with the total number of \"colored\" troops in the Rhineland numbering 25, 000, of which 4, 00 were Senegalese. The pamphlet also quoted from German newspapers such as \"Sozialistische Republik\", \"Der Christliche Pilger\" and \"Deutsche pazifistische Monatsschrift\", which all ran stories testifying to the good behavior of the \"colored\" troops. In Paris, the \"Comité d'Assistance aux Troupes Noires\" was founded to defend the reputation of the Senegalese. French Army doctors published statistics showing that there was not an abnormally high rate of sybills among the Senegalese and the German claim that the Africans had brought sleeping sickness to the Rhineland could not be true as none of the Senegalese stationed in the Rhineland had sleeping sickness. Love letters between German women and their Senegalese boyfriends were published in French newspapers in attempt to show that the Senegalese were not the mindless brutes intent upon raping white women as claimed by the German government. The American historian Julia Roos wrote the debate about the \"Black Horror\" stories cut across ideological lines with for instance in France it was chiefly left-wing groups that felt the Treaty of Versailles was too harsh on Germany who were the most receptive towards promoting \"black horror\" stories while it was conservatives believed in the justice of Versailles who defended the Senegalese against the \"black horror\" claims.\n\nHowever, the French efforts were in vain. On the night of 28 February 1921, a protest rally attended by 12, 000 was held in Madison Square Garden in New York City where France was condemned for the \"black horror on the Rhine\". A Republican Representative, Frederick A. Britten, issued resolution condemning France for the \"black horror on the Rhine\", and which called the Senegalese \"semi-civilized, useless and oft-times brutal defamers of women\". The American feminist Harriet Connor Brown in a letter to the State Department written in early 1921 accused Senegalese soldiers of rape, attempted rape, \"immoral crimes against boys\" and of forcing German officials in the Rhineland to open brothels for their benefit. The Women's International League for Peace and Freedom issued a statement condemning the \"black horror on the Rhine\" that was signed by all 25 of its white members of its central committee, and the only one who refused to sign was the lone African-American on the central committee, Mary Terrell, who refused to sign a statement that was a \"direct appeal to race prejudice\".\n\nThe Francophile Republican Senator Henry Cabot Lodge had received leaked copies of the reports by Allen and Dresel, which he read out on the Senate floor \"as act of justice and comity to a friendly nation [France]\". Liberal American journals like \"The Nation\" and \"The New Republic\" ran several articles debunking the claims of \"the black horror on the Rhine\", showing that there were relatively few cases of rape by the Senegalese soldiers. \"The New York Times\" in an article on 25 June 1921 wrote about \"a horrid lack of horrors on the Rhine\". By 1921, many mayors in the Rhineland were complaining in letters to the \"Reich\" government in Berlin that the \"black horror\" propaganda had been too successful, charging that the picture of the Rhineland overrun by Senegalese soldiers looting, raping and killing with impunity, had destroyed the tourist trade. For this reason, the Rhenish mayors asked the \"Reich\" government stop the \"black horror\" propaganda which had ruined the tourism trade in the Rhineland.\n\nWhen Raymond Poincaré, a French conservative well known for his views about upholding the Treaty of Versailles, became the French premier in 1922, there was a much revival of the \"black horror on the Rhineland\" stories both in Germany and abroad. In Washington, Democratic Senator Gilbert Hitchcock in a speech on the Senate floor asked the administration of President Warren G. Harding \"suggest to France the substitution of white troops for black on the Rhine\". When the former French premier Georges Clemenceau visited the United States in November 1922, Senator Hitchcock confronted Clemenceau over the alleged \"black outrages\" in the Rhineland. In a speech, Senator Hitchcock declared about the Senegalese: \"They are men of an inferior, half-civilized race. They are brutes when stationed among white people, as the evidence shows\". Otto Wiefeldt, the German ambassador in Washington asked that his superiors supply him with \"current information preferably with sensational details\" as he noted that the stories about the \"black horror on the Rhine\" were winning over American public opinion to a pro-German position.\n\nHowever, the French occupation of the Ruhr on 11 January 1923 caused the \"Auswärtige Amt\" to lose interest in the \"black horror on the Rhine\" story. Poincaré deliberately used only white troops in occupying the Ruhr to avoid more \"black horror\" stories, through the claim that a Senegalese regiment had been stationed in Essen was widely believed in both Germany and abroad. For most Germans, the French occupation of the Ruhr was a sufficiently \"heinous crime against the peace\" that there was no need to embellish it with \"black horror\" stories. At the same time, the last American occupation troops had been withdrawn from the Rhineland in January 1923, which meant that American public opinion was less important in courting. In a speech given in Darmstadt on 13 February 1923, the Social Democratic German president Friedrich Ebert said: \"daß die Verwendung farbiger Truppen niederster Kultur als Aufseher über eine Bevölkerung von der hohen geistigen und wirtschaftlichen Bedeutung der Rheinländer eine herausfordernde Verletzung der Gesetze europäischer Zivilisation ist\" (\"the use of troops of the lowest culture over the population of the highest spiritual and economic importance in the Rhineland is a challenging violation of the laws of European civilization\").\n\nAfter 1921, the \"Reich\" government started to downplay the \"Black Horror\" propaganda, which had ruined tourism in the Rhineland, causing much resentment in a largely Catholic region that at very least wanted to break away from Protestant majority Prussia. Furthermore, many of those on the \"völkisch\" right made much of the fact there were consensual sexual relationships between mostly lower-class women in the Rhineland and \"colored\" French Army soldiers, attacking these women for bringing the so-called \"Rhineland Bastards\" into world and threatening German racial purity. In the viewpoint of the Rhinelanders the obsession with relationships between German women and non-white French soldiers was highlighting an aspect of the French occupation that was not to their best advantage, and many of the groups like the \"Rheinische Frauenliga\" that at first promoted the story chose to downplay it as the 1920s went on. Finally the \"Reich\" government saw its own \"Black Horror\" propaganda boomerang. Since Germany had been more or less disarmed by the Treaty of Versailles, it was not possible for the \"Reich\" to go to war with France, and the \"völkisch\" groups opposed to the Weimar Republic used the \"black horror\" stories as a way of attacking the Weimar Republic as an \"emasculated\" state incapable of standing up to France; such attacks especially resonated with right-wing men. The end of the Ruhr crisis in September 1923 together with the Dawes Plan in 1924 led to an improvement in Franco-German relations, and Berlin had less interest in pursuing \"black horror\" stories. In January 1925, the French pulled out of the northern Rhineland and by this time there were hardly any \"colored\" troops by the Rhine. Despite this, the Canadian feminist Rose Henderson in a 1925 article in \"The British Columbia Federationist\" wrote \"the power of France rests upon a black basis\", which she called \"one of the most menacing and sinister facts in history\", going to condemn the French for training the Senegalese \"to subdue and enslave white people\".\n\nHowever, the \"black horror on the Rhine\" did much to shape German views of both the French and Africans. In \"Mein Kampf\", Adolf Hitler wrote: \"7, 000, 000 people languish under alien rule and the main artery of the German people flows through the playground of black African hordes...It was and is the Jews who bring the Negro to the Rhineland, always with the same concealed thought and with the clear goal of destroying by the bastardization of the white race they hate\". In a 1928 speech, Hitler ranted against the \"de-Germanization, Negrification and Judaization of our people\". In his 1930 book \"The Myth of the 20th Century\", Alfred Rosenberg denounced France for \"contributing to the dehumanization of Europe by the means of blacks, just as had done by introducing Jewish emancipation 140 years ago\". The \"black horror on the Rhine\" story featured prominently in Nazi anti-French propaganda and throughout the Third Reich with a recurring image in posters showing French Army soldiers as \"a hideous African molesting blonde Aryan women\". On 29 May 1940 in part of the preparations for an offensive scheduled for 5 June, the Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels ordered a major media campaign to bring back memories of the \"Black Horror on the Rhine\" as a reason to hate France, saying at a conference that he wanted journalists to run stories that it had been \"a cultural and racial disgrace...to bring Negroes to the Rhineland\" and to remind German people that the French once again had \"colored\" soldiers fighting for the republic. During the offensive in June 1940 along the river Somme and during the pursuit into central France, the Wehrmacht massacred thousands of Senegalese taken prisoner to avenge the \"black horror on the Rhine\". In the spring of 1920, the conscience of the world had been stirred by mostly imaginary crimes said to have been committed by the Senegalese against the Germans. Twenty years later in the spring of 1940, nobody cared about the massacres of the Senegalese soldiers by the Germans with the French authorities making little effort after 1945 to prosecute the man responsible. Unlike the alleged \"black horror on the Rhine\" which received much media coverage, the massacres of Senegalese POWs in June 1940 received little attention either at the time or afterwards with most history books not even mentioning the massacres.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36500737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36500737", "title": "Boun Khun Khao", "text": "Boun Khun Khao\n\nBoun Khun Khao is an agricultural festival held in rural parts of Laos at the end of January and beginning of February. The festival celebrates the new harvest. Rice farmers often store the unhusked rice in local temples as part of the celebrations.\n"}
{"id": "2139191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139191", "title": "Breast pain", "text": "Breast pain\n\nBreast pain is the symptom of discomfort in the breast. Pain that involves both breasts and which occurs repeatedly before the menstrual period is generally not serious. Pain that involves only one part of a breast is more concerning. It is particular concerning if a hard mass or nipple discharge is also present.\nCauses may be related to the menstrual cycle, birth control pills, hormone therapy, or psychiatric medication. Pain may also occur in those with large breasts, during menopause, and in early pregnancy. In about 2% of cases breast pain is related to breast cancer. Diagnosis involves examination, with medical imaging if only a specific part of the breast hurts.\nIn more than 75% of people the pain resolves without any specific treatment. Otherwise treatments may include paracetamol or NSAIDs. A well fitting bra may also help. In those with severe pain tamoxifen or danazol may be used. About 70% of women have breast pain at some point in time. Breast pain is one of the most common breast symptom, along with breast masses and nipple discharge.\n\nCyclical breast pain is often associated with fibrocystic breast changes or duct ectasia and thought to be caused by changes of prolactin response to thyrotropin. Some degree of cyclical breast tenderness is normal in the menstrual cycle, and is usually associated with menstruation and/or premenstrual syndrome (PMS).\n\nNoncyclical breast pain has various causes and is harder to diagnose. Noncyclical pain has frequently its root cause outside the breast. Some degree of non-cyclical breast tenderness can normally be present due to hormonal changes in puberty (both in girls and boys), in menopause and during pregnancy. After pregnancy, breast pain can be caused by breastfeeding. Other causes of non-cyclical breast pain include alcoholism with liver damage (likely due to abnormal steroid metabolism), mastitis and medications such as digitalis, methyldopa (an antihypertensive), spironolactone, certain diuretics, oxymetholone (an anabolic steroid), and chlorpromazine (a typical antipsychotic). Also, shingles can cause a painful blistering rash on the skin of the breasts.\n\nSome women who have pain in one or both breasts may fear breast cancer. However, breast pain is not a common symptom of cancer. The great majority of breast cancer cases do not present with symptoms of pain, though breast pain in older women is more likely to be associated with cancer.\n\nDiagnosis involves breast examination, with medical imaging if only a specific part of the breast hurts. Medical imaging by ultrasound is recommended for all ages, well in those over 30 it is recommended together with mammography.\n\nRuling out the other possible causes of the pain is one way to differentiate the source of the pain. Breast pain can be due to:\nMedications can be associated with breast pain and include:\n\nDiagnostic testing can be useful. Typical tests used are mammogram, excisional biopsy for solid lumps, fine-needle aspiration and biopsy, pregnancy test, ultrasonography, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).\n\nIn more than 75% of people the pain resolves without any specific treatment. Otherwise treatments may include paracetamol or NSAIDs. A well fitting bra may also help. In those with severe pain tamoxifen or danazol may be used.\n\nBromocriptine may be used aswell.\n\nSpironolactone, low dose oral contraceptives, and low-dose estrogen have helped to relieve pain. Topical anti-inflammatory medications can be used for localized pain. Vitamin E is not effective in relieving pain nor is evening primrose oil. Vitamin B and vitamin A have not been consistently found to be beneficial. Flaxseed has shown some activity in the treatment of cyclic mastalgia.\n\nPain may be relieved by the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or, for more severe localized pain, by local anaesthetic. Pain may be relieved by reassurance that it does not signal a serious underlying problem, and an active life style can also effect an improvement.\n\nInformation regarding how the pain is real but not necessarily caused by disease can help to understand the problem. Learning breast self-examination helps to orient the woman to normal and expected texture and structure of the breast and nipple. Yearly breast exams may be suggested. Counseling can also be to describe changes that vary during the monthly cycle. Women on hormone replacement therapy may benefit from a dose adjustment. Another non-pharmacological measure to help relieve symptoms of pain may be to use good bra support. Breasts change during adolescence and menopause and refitting may be beneficial. Applying heat and/or ice can bring relief. Dietary changes may also help with the pain. Methylxanthines can be eliminated from the diet to see if a sensitivity is present. Some clinicians recommending a reduction in salt, though no evidence supports this practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "44470836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44470836", "title": "British Ladies' Football Club", "text": "British Ladies' Football Club\n\nThe British Ladies' Football Club was an all-woman football team formed in the United Kingdom in 1885. The team had as its patron Lady Florence Dixie, an aristocrat from Dumfries, and its first captain was Nettie Honeyball (real name likely Mary Hutson).\n\nThe club's first public match took place at Crouch End, London on 23 March 1895, between teams representing 'The North' and 'The South'. The North won 7–1 in front of an estimated 11,000 spectators.\n\nUntil the 19th century, women's participation in football was limited to folk rituals linked with marriage customs. In Inverness, for example, single women would annually play a match with married women, whilst prospective husbands watched from the sidelines. The first record of a woman's team coming together to play football occurred on 9 May 1881, at Edinburgh's Easter Road Stadium. The match was billed as a Scotland v England international and featured Mrs Graham's XI.\n\nJust over a week later, on 20 May 1881, the teams played in Glasgow in front of a crowd of 5,000. This match had to be abandoned following a violent pitch invasion during which the women were \"roughly \", and chased by a mob as they left the grounds. Further games resulted in similar pitch invasions, which soon resulting in ending this early attempt to introduce women's football.\n\nIt is uncertain, from the coverage of the time, what the pitch invasions were in protest against. However, the press tone, which would dominate coverage of women's football for the next century, was clearly established in 1881: barely disguised contempt regarding player appearance, including costume, and the standard of play, overlaid with a certainty that football was a rough man's game unsuitable for women.\n\nAn attempt to form a new club was made by Alfred Hewitt Smith with Nettie Honeyball as the figurehead for the British Ladies Football Club founded on 1 January 1895. Lady Florence Dixie, the youngest daughter of the Marquess of Queensbury, acted as chairman and sponsor. In 1894, an advertisement was placed in the Daily Graphic seeking those interested in forming a football club for women which attracted around 30 women, who trained twice weekly under the tutelage of Tottenham Hotspur wing-half Bill Julian.\n\nThe club divided into a north and south team and on 23 March 1895, 10,000 spectators watched the inaugural game at Crouch End, London. Unlike in the matches of 1881, players no longer had to wear corsets and high-heeled boots, but acquired standard man's boots in suitable sizes. They still had to wear bonnets, with the game being stopped if any woman headed the ball and it dislodged either bonnet or hairpin which had to be replaced before the game could resume.\n\nThe reaction was generally one of being heckled by the crowd, and press censure, bordering on derision.\n\nDespite this, the club went on tour, sponsored by Lady Dixie, and in the following two years played some 100 exhibition matches. The tour attracted great publicity from the press, though not entirely restricted to the sport as, at the time, women playing football was intricately linked to the 'Rights question'.\n\nThe strain of playing so often took its toll, and by September 1896 the ladies could only field a few players. They were also broke, and arriving in Exeter found they had insufficient funds to either leave or pay their hotel bill. Appeals to the mayor of Exeter fell on deaf ears and he refused to pay. The ladies had to be rescued by friends, and the activities of the club came to an end.\n\nWomen's football once again fell into obscurity until the First World War, when Lloyd George required women to work in factories whilst the men were at the front. On Christmas Day, 1916, the first recorded match between factory organised women's teams, occurred in Ulverston, Cumbria.\n\nIn a year when the cultural, social and public concern over what was decent and what was unnatural were already focused, football for women raised important issues within Victorian society, including dress reform, the feminine ideal, women's sexuality, and the rigid British class structure in a way that no other sport could.\n\nLady Dixie, a keen advocate of women's rights, believed that football was excellent for women's physiques, and predicted a day when it would be as popular with girls as with boys. Moreover, she was a supporter of the rational dress movement, which sought to liberate women from the corsets and petticoats of Victorian society. She, therefore, saw football as a weapon of subversion and a means of \"pushing the boundaries\", since the members of the club played openly in knickers and blouses.\n\nNettie Honeyball was well aware of the political ramifications, telling an interviewer that:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27240454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27240454", "title": "Citizen sourcing", "text": "Citizen sourcing\n\nCitizen sourcing is the government adoption of crowdsourcing techniques for the purposes of (1) enlisting citizens in the design and execution of government services and (2) tapping into the citizenry’s collective intelligence for solutions and situational awareness. \nApplications of citizen sourcing include:\nCitizen sourcing has gained prominence as part of the Obama administration’s Open Government Initiative and is seen, in the words of Vivek Kundra, as a way of driving “innovation by tapping into the ingenuity of the American people” to solve those problems that are too big for government to solve on its own. Similarly, David Cameron of the British Conservatives believes that citizen sourcing mechanisms and the advent of Web 2.0 technologies will help usher in “the next age of government” by truly enabling citizens to act on John Kennedy’s historic call to “ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country.” \n\nCitizen sourcing is a derivative of the term crowdsourcing. “Citizen” is used instead of “crowd” to emphasis its governmental application and civic purpose. Citizen sourcing is a new take on the concept of the coproduction of public services by service users and communities enabled by the maturation of Web 2.0 participatory technologies.\n\nGranicus is an example of a solution that has been implemented in a number of cities like The City of Austin that allows the public to submit ideas for government services, improve upon these ideas with the help of government employees that moderate the discussions online, and ultimately design solutions in a crowdsourcing fashion that can be implemented by the city. HunchBuzz is another example which has been implemented by New Zealand's central government and is being rolled out to local city councils. CitizenLab is a more European-oriented ideation platform on which the citizens co-create their city through ideation and citizensourcing challenges. Their approach to civic engagement is through gamification, in order to incentivise citizens to share their input.\n\nThe City of Boston provides a Citizens Connect iPhone App that allows constituents to report various services requests, including for removing graffiti, filling potholes, and fixing traffic lights. A similar system, SeeClickFix, has been adopted in a number of cities across the United States.\n\nOnline communities of citizens such as the Crisis Commons (see Crisis camp) and the International Network of Crisis Mappers provide assistance to professional responders on the ground by performing data-driven tasks, such as locating missing persons (see, for instance, Person finder), converting satellite imagery into street maps (see, for instance, OpenStreetMap), and reporting and processing actionable citizen reports of needs and damage (see, for instance, the Ushahidi platform).\n\nThe Peer-to-Patent system enables citizens to assist the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) in evaluating the validity of patent applications. Following the implementation of Peer-to-Patent, the USPTO started exploring how to further integrate citizens into the patent application review process. They invited experts to present at two roundtables on using citizen submissions in prior art. Presenters at the roundtables included experienced representatives from Peer-to-Patent, Ask Patents, Patexia, and Article One Partners. The USPTO also opened the process up to citizens by requesting public comments and suggestions on how to proceed following each of the two roundtables.\n\nThe City of Medellin, Colombia uses the power of the citizens' collective intelligence to identify potential solutions for important problems the city faces. The platform structures problems as open challenges; citizens can ideate, propose, identify, filter and vote on solutions, and the Mayor´s office reviews and implements solutions of its choosing.\n"}
{"id": "49692832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49692832", "title": "Coloniality of gender", "text": "Coloniality of gender\n\nThe coloniality of gender is a concept developed by feminist philosopher María Lugones, which she defines as \"the analysis of racialized, capitalist, gender oppression\", while the process of potentially overcoming this practice can be defined as \"decolonial feminism\". Central to these terms is the definition and recognition of indigenous social structures and their relation to land, and the articulation of how these epistemologies occupy an oppositional consciousness to colonial systems of social, sexual, ecological, spatial, and temporal hierarchy. María Lugones describes this difference as the 'oppressing ←→ resisting' relationship.\n\nColonialism of gender has altered the indigenous sense of self, identity and to the larger extent their cosmology and gender relationships. With the colonization of indigenous groups, it allowed European to implement their idea of gender and sex. This covered up the preexisting conception of sex and gender in the indigenous group during the pre-colonialism times. This is evident with the lack of representation or awareness in Western society for the indigenous concept of being \"Two Spirited\" The idea of gender itself was believed to be introduced by Western colonizers as a way to distinct two dualistic social categories which are men and women. The colonizers had introduced the idea of gender itself into Indigenous groups as this was originally a colonial concept which was made to organize production, territory and behavior. The desire for the colonizer to put forth the idea of gender onto an Indigenous group was to have control over their labor, authority, influence their subjectivity and ideas of sexuality.\n\nAccording to Glen Sean Coulthard in his essay \"For the Land: the Dene Nation's Struggle for Self-Determination\", Indigenous resistances against \"capitalist imperialism\" can be understood as struggles surrounding the question of land and knowledge-based practices encompassing the \"relation to one another and our surroundings in a respectful, nondominating and nonexploitative way\". Coulthard defines this system of relationality as \"grounded normativity\" stating, \"the late Lakota philosopher Vine Deloria Jr. argues that one of the most significant differences that exist between Indigenous and Western metaphysics revolves around the central importance of land to Indigenous modes of being, thought, and ethics\". Further to this, Coulthard argues that Indigenous \"philosophies of nonoppression\" are defined through spatial as well as temporal relationships. Lugones refers to these Western-versus-Indigenous epistemologies as 'cosmologies' in her essay \"Toward a Decolonial Feminism\", where she analyzes these structures in relation to the colonial imposition of gender binaries on Indigenous communities.\n\nAccording to Lugones, colonial modernity is positioned as \"the dichotomous hierarchy between the human and the non-human\", summarized by Lugones' use of the term \"colonial difference\". Lugones states that within the context of colonization in the Americas and the Caribbean, this hierarchy was employed as a tactic of subordination of the colonized to \"Western man\". Lugones argues that related hierarchies were constructed by colonizers to create a binary division between men and women, describing this distinction as \"a mark of the human and a mark of civilization. Only the civilized are men or women,\" which excluded Indigenous peoples and Africans as being non-human animals, while upholding the status of \"bourgeois European women\" as passive reproductive servants of \"white bourgeois\" male colonizers. According to Lugones, colonial relations of power constructed through such binaries constitute the \"colonial difference\", a term with open-ended origins that Lugones attributes to Walter Mignolo's book \"Local Histories/Global Designs\".\n\nLogones has stated that colonial notions of femininity as inversions of masculinity did not grant human status, but rather established a gender dimorphism of hypersexuality and sexual passivity that rendered colonized \"men\" and \"women\" as non-human gendered entities. Through the performance of colonial anthropocentrism and the disruption of Indigenous cosmologies of grounded normativity, extreme acts of sexualized violence could be justified towards gendered and dehumanized colonized subjects, as stated by Lugones. Lugones writes that through murder and rape, control of colonized bodies institutionalized the internalization of colonial systems. Religious indoctrination, with divisions between good and evil equating colonized females with Satan, arguably established not only a colonization of bodies, but of memory. Systematic replications of these ideologies, according to Lugones, facilitated the erasure of Indigenous cosmologies of reciprocal relations to place, psychologically clearing the way for the re-appropriation of land toward the implementation of capitalist projects.\n\nWithin Lugones' analysis of Mignolo's usage of the colonial difference is her assertion that the colonial difference (and the coloniality of gender) is \"not an affair of the past\"; as such, as a contemporary phenomenon, Lugones argues that seeking parity with the colonizer by erasing colonial difference does not eliminate oppression. Rey Chow terms the act of seeking parity with the colonizer as \"the ascendancy of whiteness\", which Arvin, Tuck and Morrill further elaborate as taking part in the colonial \"settling process\" to dispossess \"'other-ed' peoples globally\". Instead, Lugones proposes a \"feminist border thinking\" that positions learning from subalternity at the colonial difference as central to a decolonial feminism. This concept embraces movements toward coalitional social relations between feminists of color, which Lugones describes as \"the oppositional consciousness of a social erotics.\"\n\nIn this context, according to Arvin, Tuck, and Morrill, \"Indigenous communities' concerns are often not about achieving formal equality or civil rights within a nation-state, but instead achieving substantial independence from a Western nation-state—independence decided on their own terms.\"\n\nSome researchers believe that contact with patriarchal, European colonial contact reduced the value of Indigenous women in Canadian society. According to them, colonialism greatly shifted the role of women in Indigenous communities through patriarchal laws and regulations placed on marriage and other sexual relations between Indigenous women and European men, to whom the Indigenous people were viewed as inferior. Legal impositions on sexual relations between Indigenous women and European men resulted in such relations to have underlying monetary agendas, a commodification of women that caused many Indigenous women to involve themselves in prostitution. During this Indigenous people as a whole were encouraged to adopt what European Canadians and the Canadian government considered to be \"Canadian culture\", eschewing their native culture and traditions in favor of assimilation.\n\nThe emergence of the Canadian Indian residential school system in 1847 contributed to the systemic racism, violence, and sexual mistreatment of Indigenous people, which led to the normalization and repeated occurrence of this abuse. Cindy Hanson feels that this has contributed to a lingering sense of trauma among Indigenous women and girls that has caused them to become further victimized and disenfranchised, as well as impact how they interact with their families and communities. The issue of Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls has been cited by researchers such as Robyn Bourgeois as an example of how colonial exploitation has led to systemic racism, causing Indigenous women to be stereotyped or discriminated against as dirty, sexually indiscriminate bodies that can be violated and thrown away.\n\nThe impact of colonialism of gender is evidently seen in Canada with Indigenous women as they often migrate to urban areas due to a lack of education and opportunities in general. While there is a lack of survey regarding the migration of indigenous people from rural to urban the 1991 Aboriginal People's Survey suggests that 61% of Aboriginal people have moved at some point in their life indicating their strong desire to seek out better career and livelihood. In 1970 and 1980, the \"Indian Act\" created by Canadian government dictating Indigenous women as the act controlled their status, land, resources...etc. This act made it so if an indigenous women marries an individual without the same status, the women will lose their status. Since making this act obsolete. the number of registered Indians doubled as many were reinstated. This is seen in 1985 there were approximately 360,000 registered and 778.000 in 2007. Indigenous women are seen to be most affected by Colonialism of Gender as there are many missing reports or homicides among Aboriginal females. A study shows that between 1980 and 2012, a total of 1,017 Aboriginal female were homicide victims and 164 women currently missing with additional 225 unsolved cases. As of November 4, 2013, 11.3% (1,455 total) female were considered missing.\n\nNot only has the idea of gender and sexuality changed due to colonialism, but power distribution and family structure as well. In the pre-colonial times, Indigenous families were not organized through an authoritative figure but rather it was more communal. Some pre-colonial Indigenous communities were matrilineal and gave women very powerful roles within the society.\n\nThis drastically changed once they became colonized, European values and structures were enforced onto this community thus covering their pre-existing idea of gender and family. European societies were placed power onto the men and families were patrilinal rather than matrilineal. In colonized societies, men often are the head of the family which allows them to make important decisions while the women are often seen more submissive and plays a supportive role for the men. This contrasted with the Indigenous way of life as Cree women were believed to be the center of life and Iroquois women were given spiritual roles and control over food for the community. A German philosopher Immanuel Kant comments on the different gender power the Indigenous communities has compared to those who are colonized, as he says \"'Among all savages there are none by whom the feminine sex is held in greater actual regard than by those of Canada. They assemble and deliberate upon the most important regulations of the nation'\".(Kant, 1997)\n\nPrior to the 1945 independence, the role of women only revolved around the household. To be a good woman is to be a good wife that provide support for the family. It was not until 1941 that women were allowed access to education as it would increase the possibility for Indonesia to gain independence. After the independence in 1945, the role of women in society has expanded beyond the domestic sphere and the National Women’s Congress keep in touch with women’s organizations abroad. For example, the government allowed women to be involved in activities such as police work training and other national defense related institutions, which would be considered out of the ordinary before. \n\nAccording to the 2014 World Development Indicators, labour participation rate of Indonesian women from the age of fifteen is 51.4%, which is considered low by international standards. Although the gender pay gap is 5.3 %, Indonesian women are relatively paid more than men. It is because gender pay gap also included underemployment rate. For instance, the number of women working in higher position are lacking compared to male.\n\nMegawati Soekarnopoetri, the daughter of the first president of Republic of Indonesia, was elected as the first female ruler of the country in 2001 after her predecessor was impeached. She served as president until 2004 . Currently, Indonesia has eight female ministers that are in office, in which seven of them has received international recognition such as Best Minister in the World Award at the World Government Summit 2018 that was given to Minister of Finance Sri Mulyani.\n\nAccording to the data collected by the World Economic Forum in 2013, women in Indonesia has equal or nearly equal education participation rate to men. The female-to-male ratio in secondary education is one, meaning that the number enrolled is equal. A figure that started the fight for women’s right to education is Kartini. During the colonial period, she opened up the first school for native girls in Indonesia with the help of her sisters. At that time, girls do not have the opportunity to get education. Her legacy continued with the founding of Kartini School in Batavia, three years after she passed away.\n\nWomen’s participation in entrepreneurship is still low, with ‘only 23% of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises are owned by women’. Although 45% of manufacturing business owners are women, they mostly relied on unpaid female workers while businesses owned by male have more paid workers.\n\nThere are many women’s organizations in Indonesia that are based on various interest of its members. One of the well-known organizations is Dharma Wanita Persatuan (DWP), composed of the wives of government employees. The younger generation are more focused on gender equality, preventing sexual assault and empowerment. A few organisations include National Commission on Violence Against Women, Hollaback! Jakarta, Community Legal Aid Institute. The organisations mentioned, along with several others, participate in the ‘Women’s March’ in 2018, a rally to voice out their opinion regarding gender-based violence in Indonesia.\n\nIn the year 1893-1907, the French had colonized Laos along with Vietnam and Cambodia incorporating into French Cochin China. During the colonisation, the country is popular among French colonials by the interest of accommodating by Lao women or Annamite mistresses. The French did not want to live in traditional Lao way and look at Lao women as temporary wives, they expect Lao women to adapted to European style and European architectural. In addition, most women and girls are serve as servant or mistress. \n\nLao colonisation last for several years until the World War II, Japanese had occupy Laos. ( Japanese occupation of Laos) . Since the 1957, women are formally equal in the eye of state however, gender is how the social practices are organised besides age. But in 1975 Lao women’s concerns were first formally addressed by national government. The Lao People Revolutionary Party, the new communist establishment had guarantee on equality between women and men in all fields, economic, cultural, social and political, also the neglect toward women.\n\nDespite women contribution in the developing of Lao, the gender data on health education and political show that women still absence to political power and basis services. However, Lao women still related to national level through the Lao Women Union (LWU) and the only female minister is the president of the LWU.\n\nEducation status of women in Laos has improve significantly since 1975, the percentage of female students in school increase from 37,6% to 45,3% in 1980. In regards of salary, educated women tend to face inequalities5. However, the overall average education level of Lao women still lower than men. \n\nWomen and men are equal in regards of legal right. Many families take part in agriculture, farming. Also, work is divide by gender role, women are often take care of their child, cooking maintaining the household and household finance.women who live in urbanised area work in companies and civil service position. Men mostly is the head of family and decision maker.\n\nThe gender inequality and gender issues tend to conflict with urban areas and rural areas, but overall women are still mainly seen as a home maker or care taker. However, they are still opportunities for women to hold positions in many industries and work area. \n\nUnder the traditional chinese patriarchy structure, China is a male-dominated society while women had a relatively subordinate familial role which they were assumed to be taking care of housework and children. While for Hong Kong, due to the emergence of western culture during the british colonial period, westernization leads to a mix of traditional chinese thoughts and western culture and a significant different women roles in Hong Kong were found. \n\nThe labour force participation rate for women increased gradually from 48.7% in 2004 to 50.7% in 2014. On the other hand, the labour force participation rate of men decreased from 71.6% in 2004 to 68.7% in 2014. 2 In 2017, there are 45.8% female and 54.2% males recorded in the employment rate, this indicated the equal and fair workplaces between male and female. There are different rights for the employed women including maternity protection and sick leave, however, there are different difficulties women facing for example some companies required a male supervisor instead of a female one.\n\nAccording to the Women and Men Hong Kong Key Statistics 2018 Edition, there is 331 thousand female employed person, excluding foreign domestic helper, earned more than 30,000per month. 542.4 thousand male employed person earned more than 30,000 per month. contribution towards economic development by women is relatively lower than male these days. Although more Hong Kong women than men are attaining tertiary education, but are earning less than men across all professions. \n\nAccording to data collected in the Hong Kong Women in Figures 2015, the ratio of male and female in the Executive council is 23:6. Although the number of women who participated in the executive council is low, the Chief Executive of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (CE) 2017 is known as Carrie Lam who is the first female CE in the history. This allocated the rise of women participation in politics.\n\nIn the past, under the traditional chinese patriarchy structure, for those family who are not affordable to send all children to school, they are prioritising their son to attend school. However, after the british control, people realise the education system should have changed and discovered the importance of being educated. The education opportunities in Hong Kong are comparatively fair since the Hong Kong government is providing a 12-year free education including 6 years primary school and 6 year secondary school education. Parents are compulsory to send their children to school or stay-home study for special needs, thus all teenagers in Hong Kong can be well-educated.\n\nFor both gender in Hong Kong, they are getting married later in their life since women are getting more independent and bare a higher responsibility in their work forces. Traditional marriage values are less important and women are less relying on men in nowadays society. People agreed that the household income should be contributed from both husband and wife, thus, women are getting their own job as well instead of being a housewife only.\n\nThere are several common communities protecting Hong Kong women’s rights. The Hong Kong Federation of women founded by 11 prominent ladies was established on 28 June 1993. Members of the federation came from various levels, occupations, races, and districts in Hong Kong. Amongst members are business women, professionals, workers and housewives as well as those who are fervent in women development and advancement.Their goal is to unite women from all walks of life, to encourage them taking an active interest in Hong Kong affairs, to improve and protect the lawful rights of women and to liaise with women organizations all over the world.\n\nThrough modernisation and western influence, women status and role are changed. In the past, women were very much seen as second class citizens. They had no rights or possessions and were subservient to their husbands. Women are expected to marry, produce heirs, and take care of the household. Marriage was often arranged and it is a contract between families. However, after western influence, women are making strides toward equality in Japan. Equality benefits men as much as it does women for example becoming more acceptable to want a career. \n\nThe government takes credit for adding about 1m women to the workforce since 2012. At 66%, the female participation rate is now among the highest in the world. That is largely the result, say critics, of Japan’s drum-tight labour market rather than of innovative policies. Mindful that most of these jobs are far down the corporate totem pole, the government has also revived a decade-old target of having women occupy 30% of “leadership positions” by 2020. But it admits that this goal is nowhere near being met. In 2016, the female employment rate reach 48.9%, being one of the leading countries regarding economic key factors, showing a very low unemployment rate compared to other major industrial and emerging countries. In order to encourage women get their job, there is in-house babysitting service for the employee essential for helping working mothers make an easier transition back into the workforce. \n\nWomen participation in the labour force in the early development process indicates that they had a much larger role to play in the development process of Japan, which brought about such high economic growth in a short period of time. In the context of the broader debate over whether economic development expands or restricts women's economic opportunities and status, Japan illustrates that the employment patterns of married women and the degree of gender equality is not similar to that of the industrialised west. The association between women's higher education attainment and labour market participation after marriage, which can be observed in the US and most other industrialised societies, is weak for Japan largely due to the cultural and institutional factors. The export-oriented economic growth of Japan, which depended largely on the female reserve labour available at a low cost and used as a buffer to cyclical fluctuations, actually discouraged a large proportion of female workers from job seeking and they retired from the labour market.\n\nJapanese women have been participants in a long history of social activism. But their participation in politics and political parties, is a more recent phenomenon. NGOs and other grassroots organisations have provided training, information and assisted with fund-raising to equip women to participate in the leadership positions in politics, especially at the local government levels. However, most political parties still continue to provide only limited leadership opportunities for women. Tokyo’s first female governor Koike Yuriko’s political background is in national politics. Before working the office of Tokyo governor, she was a member of the long-ruling government party, the Liberal Democratic Party, and had a seat in the national legislative assembly. She was influential in the preparation of policies to better utilise women’s labour largely as a strategy of improving the economy, so her commitment to “women’s empowerment” is unquestionable. She is interested in encouraging women to participate more in the workforce and take an active part in the capitalist economy.\n\nIn the past, during the early stage of building modern education system, educational opportunities for girls were considerably disadvantaged. The attendance rate of girls were particularly low in the compulsory elementary school. Limited opportunities for girls to access secondary school was provided while higher education for women was not even supposed. Japanese government has developed policies and efforts for promoting education for girls and young females and encourage them to study with males. Conditions for women’s education have been gradually improved. As a result, in elementary education, gender gap in schooling was dissolved until the first decade of the 20th century. There is no gender gap in the opportunity for education in Japan recently, difference of enrollment ratios between male and female students in the upper secondary education and higher education levels is scarcely present. Enrollment of female students in the secondary vocational schools had been increasing gradually.\n\nIn the past, the head of the household was responsible for finding a marriage partner for the family’s heir. Married women were expected to produce an heir. Traditionally, women are expected to submit to male authority in three ways. When young, she submits to her father; When married, she submits to her husband; When old, she submits to her sons. Motherhood is considered the defining characteristic of a woman. Besides, housework, child care, and elder care each day are daily household taken up by women at home\nThus, a lot of young Japanese women struggle to form their own sense of identity apart from this cultural expectation.\n\nThere are differenet association founded in Japan. For Empowering Women (FEW), Founded in 1981 as an organization for “Foreign Executive Women”, has long been a stable source of support and learning for international women in both the Tokyo and Kansai areas. It is an exceptionally active and ever-growing Tokyo-based nonprofit business and social networking organization whose mission is to “enable internationally-minded women in Japan to achieve their full professional and personal potential.” FEW organise exciting line-up of personal and professional development workshops and opportunities to support women’s empowerment annually. \n\n"}
{"id": "32492747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32492747", "title": "Cyberbullying", "text": "Cyberbullying\n\nCyberbullying or cyberharassment is a form of bullying or harassment using electronic means. Cyberbullying and Cyberharassment are also known as online bullying. It has become increasingly common, especially among teenagers. Cyberbullying is when someone, typically teens, bully or harass others on social media sites. Harmful bullying behavior can include posting rumors, threats, sexual remarks, a victims' personal information, or pejorative labels (i.e., hate speech). Bullying or harassment can be identified by repeated behavior and an intent to harm. Victims may have lower self-esteem, increased suicidal ideation, and a variety of emotional responses, including being scared, frustrated, angry, and depressed.\n\nAwareness in the United States has risen in the 2010s, due in part to high-profile cases. Several US states and other countries have laws specific to cyberbullying. Some are designed to specifically target teen cyberbullying, while others use laws extending from the scope of physical harassment. In cases of adult cyberharassment, these reports are usually filed beginning with local police.\n\nResearch has demonstrated a number of serious consequences of cyberbullying victimization.\n\nInternet trolling is a common form of bullying over the Internet in an online community (such as in online gaming or social media) in order to elicit a reaction, disruption, or for someone's own personal amusement. Cyberstalking is another form of bullying or harassment that uses electronic communications to stalk a victim; this may pose a credible threat to the victim.\n\nNot all negative interaction online or on social media can be attributed to cyberbullying. Research suggests that there are also interactions online that result in peer pressure, which can have a negative, positive, or neutral impact on those involved.\n\nA frequently used definition of cyberbullying is \"an aggressive, intentional act or behavior that is carried out by a group or an individual, using electronic forms of contact, repeatedly and over time against a victim who cannot easily defend him or herself.\" There are many variations of the definition, such as the National Crime Prevention Council's more specific definition: \"the process of using the Internet, cell phones or other devices to send or post text or images intended to hurt or embarrass another person.\"\n\nCyberbullying is often similar to traditional bullying, with some notable distinctions. Victims of cyberbullying may not know the identity of their bully, or why the bully is targeting them. The harassment can have wide-reaching effects on the victim, as the content used to harass the victim can be spread and shared easily among many people and often remains accessible long after the initial incident.\n\nThe terms \"cyberharassment\" and \"cyberbullying\" are sometimes used synonymously, though some people use the latter to refer specifically to harassment among minors or in a school setting.\n\nCyberstalking is a form of online harassment in which the perpetrator uses electronic communications to stalk a victim. This is considered more dangerous than other forms of cyberbullying because it generally involves a credible threat to the victim's safety. Cyberstalkers may send repeated messages intended to threaten or harass. They may encourage others to do the same, either explicitly or by impersonating their victim and asking others to contact them.\n\nInternet trolls intentionally try to provoke or offend others in order to elicit a reaction. Trolls and cyberbullies do not always have the same goals: while some trolls engage in cyberbullying, others may be engaged in comparatively harmless mischief. A troll may be disruptive either for their own amusement or because they are genuinely a combative person.\n\nManuals to educate the public, teachers and parents summarize, \"Cyberbullying is being cruel to others by sending or posting harmful material using a cell phone or the internet.\" Research, legislation and education in the field are ongoing. Research has identified basic definitions and guidelines to help recognize and cope with what is regarded as abuse of electronic communications.\n\nCyberbullying can be as simple as continuing to send emails or text messages harassing someone who has said they want no further contact with the sender. It may also include public actions such as repeated threats, sexual remarks, pejorative labels (i.e. hate speech) or defamatory false accusations, ganging up on a victim by making the person the subject of ridicule in online forums, hacking into or vandalizing sites about a person, and posting false statements as fact aimed a discrediting or humiliating a targeted person. Cyberbullying could be limited to posting rumors about a person on the internet with the intention of bringing about hatred in others' minds or convincing others to dislike or participate in online denigration of a target. It may go to the extent of personally identifying victims of crime and publishing materials defaming or humiliating them.\n\nCyberbullies may disclose victims' personal data (e.g. real name, home address, or workplace/schools) on websites or forums—called doxing, or may use impersonation, creating fake accounts, comments or sites posing as their target for the purpose of publishing material in their name that defames, discredits or ridicules them. This can leave the cyberbully anonymous, which can make it difficult for them to be caught or punished for their behavior, although not all cyberbullies maintain their anonymity. Text or instant messages and emails between friends can also constitute cyberbullying if what is said is hurtful.\nThe recent rise of smartphones and mobile apps have yielded a more accessible form of cyberbullying. It is expected that cyberbullying via these platforms will occur more often than through more stationary internet platforms. In addition, the combination of cameras and Internet access and the instant availability of these modern smartphone technologies yield specific types of cyberbullying not found in other platforms. It is likely that those cyberbullied via mobile devices will experience a wider range of types cyberbullying than those who are exclusively bullied elsewhere.\n\nSome teens argue that some events categorized as cyberbullying are simply drama. Danah Boyd writes, \"teens regularly used that word [drama] to describe various forms of interpersonal conflict that ranged from insignificant joking around to serious jealousy-driven relational aggression. Whereas adults might have labeled many of these practices as bullying, teens saw them as drama.\"\n\nCyberbullying can take place on social media sites such as Facebook, Myspace, and Twitter. \"By 2008, 93% of young people between the ages of 12 and 17 were online. In fact, youth spend more time with media than any single other activity besides sleeping.\" The last decade has witnessed a surge of cyberbullying, bullying that occurs through the use of electronic communication technologies, such as e-mail, instant messaging, social media, online gaming, or through digital messages or images sent to a cellular phone.\n\nThere are many risks attached to social media sites, and cyberbullying is one of the larger risks. One million children were harassed, threatened or subjected to other forms of cyberbullying on Facebook during the past year, while 90 percent of social-media-using teens who have witnessed online cruelty say they have ignored mean behavior on social media, and 35 percent have done so frequently. 95 percent of social-media-using teens who have witnessed cruel behavior on social networking sites say they have seen others ignoring the mean behavior, and 55 percent have witnessed this frequently.\n\nAccording to a 2013 Pew Research study, eight out of ten teens who use social media now share more information about themselves than they have in the past. This includes their location, images, and contact information. In order to protect children, it is important that personal information such as age, birthday, school/church, phone number, etc. be kept confidential.\n\nTwo studies from 2014 found that 80% of body-shaming tweets are sent by women, while they also accounted for 50% of misogynistic tweets.\n\nCyberbullying can also take place through the use of websites belonging to certain groups to effectively request the targeting of another individual or group. An example of this is the bullying of climate scientists and activists.\n\nOf those who reported having experienced online harassment in a Pew Research poll, 16% said the most recent incident had occurred in an online game. A study from National Sun Yat-sen University observed that children who enjoyed violent video games were significantly more likely to both experience and perpetrate cyberbullying.\n\nAnother study that discusses the direct correlation between exposure to violent video games and cyber bullying also took into account personal factors such as \"duration of playing online games, alcohol consumption in the last 3 months, parents drunk in the last 3 months, anger, hostility, ADHD, and a sense of belonging\" as potential contributing factors of cyberbullying.\n\nGaming was a more common venue for men in which to experience harassment, whereas women's harassment tended to occur via social media. Most respondents considered gaming culture to be equally welcoming to both genders, though 44% thought it favored men. Keza MacDonald writes in \"The Guardian\" that sexism exists in gaming culture, but is not mainstream within it. Sexual harassment in gaming generally involves slurs directed towards women, sex role stereotyping, and overaggressive language. U.S. President Barack Obama made reference to the harassment of women gamers during his remarks in honor of Women's History Month.\n\nCompetitive gaming scenes have been less welcoming of women than has broader gaming culture. In an internet-streamed fighting game competition, one female gamer forfeited a match after the coach of her team, Aris Bakhtanians, stated, \"The sexual harassment is part of the culture. If you remove that from the fighting game community, it's not the fighting game community.\" The comments were widely condemned by gamers, with comments in support of sexual harassment \"drowned out by a vocal majority of people expressing outrage, disappointment and sympathy.\" The incident built momentum for action to counter sexual harassment in gaming.\n\nSome game developers have been subjected to harassment and death threats by players upset by changes to a game or by a developer's online policies. Harassment also occurs in reaction to critics such as Jack Thompson or Anita Sarkeesian, whom some fans see as threats to the medium. Various people have been harassed in connection with the Gamergate controversy. Harassment related to gaming is not of a notably different severity or tenor compared to online harassment motivated by other subcultures or advocacy issues.\n\nSabotage among rival crowdfunding campaigns is a recurring problem for projects related to gaming.\n\nSome instances of swatting in games such as \"Call of Duty\" and \"League of Legends\" have resulted in law enforcement SWAT units called on individuals' homes as a prank. On December 28, 2017, Wichita, Kansas police officers killed Andrew Finch at his Kansas home in a reported swatting prank.\n\nInformation cascades happen when users start passing along information they assume to be true, but cannot know to be true, based on information on what other users are doing. This can be accelerated by search engines' ranking technologies and their tendency to return results relevant to a user's previous interests. This type of information spreading is hard to stop. Information cascades over social media and the Internet may also be harmless, and may contain truthful information.\n\nBullies use Google bombs (a term applicable to any search engine) to increase the prominence of favored posts sorted by the most popular searches, done by linking to those posts from as many other web pages as possible. Examples include the campaign for the neologism \"santorum\" organized by the LGBT lobby. Google bombs can manipulate the Internet's search engines regardless of how authentic the pages are, but there is a way to counteract this type of manipulation as well.\n\nA majority of states have laws that explicitly include electronic forms of communication within stalking or harassment laws. Most law enforcement agencies have cyber-crime units, and Internet stalking is often treated with more seriousness than reports of physical stalking. Help and resources can be searched by state or area.\n\nThe safety of schools is increasingly becoming a focus of state legislative action. There was an increase in cyberbullying enacted legislation between 2006 and 2010. Initiatives and curriclulum requirements also exist in the UK (the Ofsted eSafety guidance) and Australia (Overarching Learning Outcome 13).\n\nIn 2012, a group of teenagers in a design class New Haven, Connecticut developed an application to help fight bullying, \"Back Off Bully\" (BOB). This is an anonymous resource for computer, smart phone or iPad. When someone witnesses or is the victim of bullying, they can immediately report the incident. The app asks questions about time, location and how the bullying is happening, as well as providing positive action and empowerment regarding the incident. The reported information goes to a database, where it may be studied by administrators. Common threads are spotted so others can intervene and break the bully's pattern. \"Back Off Bully\" is being considered as standard operating procedure at schools across Connecticut, while recent studies carried out among 66 high school teachers have concluded that prevention programs have proved ineffective to date.\n\nTeachers can also be cyberbullied by pupils, as well as by parents and other school staff.\n\nThere are laws that only address online harassment of children or focus on child predators, as well as laws that protect adult cyberstalking victims, or victims of any age. Currently, there are 45 cyberstalking (and related) laws on the books. While some sites specialize in laws that protect victims age 18 and under, Working to Halt Online Abuse is a help resource containing a list of current and pending cyberstalking-related United States federal and state laws. It also lists those states that do not yet have laws, and related laws from other countries. The Global Cyber Law Database (GCLD) aims to become the most comprehensive and authoritative source of cyber laws for all countries. Some states such as Florida, California, and Missouri have developed state laws against Cyberbullying. California has the Safe Place to Learn Act and also has a law that states \"the use of an electronic device to cause someone to fear for their life\" can be charged with a misdemeanor which can be punishable to up to one year in prison. In Florida, the \"Jeffrey Johnson Stand Up for All Students Act\" prohibits any type of bullying and does speak on cyberbullying. In Missouri, anyone who violently threatens someone over social media can be convicted with a Class A misdemeanor, but if the victim is seventeen years or younger,they can be convicted with a Class D felony.\n\nChildren report negative online behaviors occurring from the second grade. According to research, boys initiate negative online activity earlier than girls. However, by middle school, girls are more likely to engage in cyberbullying than boys. Whether the bully is male or female, the purpose is to intentionally embarrass, harass, intimidate, or make threats online.\n\nStudies on the psycho-social effects of cyberspace have begun to monitor the effects cyberbullying may have on the victims. Consequences of cyberbullying are multi-faceted, and affect online and offline behavior. Research on adolescents reported that changes in the victims' behavior as a result of cyberbullying could potentially be positive. Victims \"created a cognitive pattern of bullies, which consequently helped them to recognize aggressive people.\"\n\nHowever, the \"Journal of Psychosocial Research on Cyberspace\" abstract reports critical impacts in almost all of the respondents, taking the form of lower self-esteem, loneliness, disillusionment, and distrust of people. The more extreme effects included self-harm. Children have killed each other and committed suicide after cyberbullying incidents. Some cases of digital self-harm have been reported, in which an individual engages in cyberbullying against themselves, or purposefully and knowingly exposes themselves to cyberbullying.\n\nCyberstalking may be an extension of physical stalking, and may have criminal consequences. A target's understanding of why cyberstalking is happening is helpful to remedy and take protective action. Among factors that motivate stalkers are envy, pathological obsession (professional or sexual), unemployment or failure with own job or life, or the desire to intimidate and cause others to feel inferior. The stalker may be delusional and believe he/she \"knows\" the target. The stalker wants to instill fear in a person to justify his/her status, or may believe they can get away with these actions (anonymity).\n\nThe US federal cyberstalking law is designed to prosecute people for using electronic means to repeatedly harass or threaten someone online. There are resources dedicated to helping adult victims deal with cyberbullies legally and effectively. One of the steps recommended is to record everything and contact police.\n\nTeachers can be cyberbullied by pupils, as well as by parents and other school staff.\n\nThe nationwide Australian Covert Bullying Prevalence Survey (Cross et al., 2009) assessed cyberbullying experiences among 7,418 students. Rates of cyberbullying increased with age, with 4.9% of students in Year 4 reporting cyberbullying compared to 7.9% in year nine. Cross et al., (2009) reported that rates of bullying and harassing others were lower, but also increased with age. Only 1.2% of Year 4 students reported cyberbullying others compared to 5.6% of Year 9 students.\n\nIn mainland China, cyberbullying has yet to receive adequate scholarly attention. A study investigating the risk factors of cyberbullying sampled 1438 high school students from central China. Data showed that 34.84% had participated in bullying and 56.88% had been bullied online.\n\nA study on cyberbullying in Hong Kong chose 48 out of 7654 students from elementary school to high school who were classified as potential aggressors related to cyberbullying. 31 out of 48 students declared they barely participated in cyber-attacks. It is common among high school students (28 out of 36 students) to participate in social media platforms. 58% admitted to changing a nickname for others, 56.3% to humiliation, 54.2% to making fun of someone, and 54.2% to spreading rumors. The Hong Kong Federation of Youth Groups interviewed 1820 teenagers, 17.5% of whom indicated having experienced cyberbullying. This included insults, abuse, and the publishing of personal private pictures on social media without permission.\n\nIn a study published in 2011, across 25 EU member states studied, an average 6% of children (9–16 years old) had been bullied and only 3% of them confessed to having been a bully. However, in an earlier publication by Hasenbrink et al. (2009), reporting on the results from a meta analysis from European Union countries, the authors estimated (via median results) that approximately 18% of European young people had been \"bullied/harassed/stalked\" via the internet and mobile phones. Cyberharassment rates for young people across the EU member states ranged from 10% to 52%. \n\nSourander et al. (2010) conducted a population-based cross-sectional study that took place in Finland. The authors of this study took the self-reports of 2215 Finish adolescents between the ages of 13 and 16 about cyberbullying and cybervictimization during the previous six months. It was found that, amongst the total sample, 4.8% were victims only, 7.4% were cyberbullies only, and 5.4% were cyberbully-victims.\n\nThe authors of this study were able to conclude that cyberbullying as well as cybervictimization is associated not only with psychiatric issues, but psychosomatic issues. Many adolescents in the study reported headaches or difficulty sleeping. The authors believe that their results indicate a greater need for new ideas on how to prevent cyberbullying and what to do when it occurs. It is clearly a worldwide problem that needs to be taken seriously.\n\nThe Health Behaviour in School-aged Children (HBSC) pilot survey was carried out in eight post-primary schools across Ireland, including 318 students aged 15–18. 59% were boys and 41% were girls. Participation in this survey was voluntary for students, and consent had to be obtained from parents, students and the school itself. This survey was anonymous and confidential, and took 40 minutes to complete. It asked questions on traditional forms of bullying as well as cyberbullying, risk behaviours and self-reported health and life satisfaction.\n\n66% of the students said that they had never been bullied. 14% had been victims of traditional forms of bullying. 10% had been victims of cyberbullying, and the remaining 10% had been victims of both traditional forms of bullying and cyberbullying. Boys mostly said they were victims of traditional forms of bullying, and girls mostly were victims of both traditional forms of bullying and cyberbullying. 20% of the students in this survey said that they had been cyberbullied, showing that cyberbullying is on the rise.\n\nArrow DIT claims that 23 percent of 9–16 year olds in Ireland have been bullied online or offline, compared to 19 percent in Europe. Although online bullying in Ireland stands at 4% according to Arrow DIT, this lower than the European average which stands at 6%, and half that of the UK where 8% reported being cyberbullied. Traditional forms of bullying in Ireland occur more often than in Europe.\n\nA 2018 study by Dublin City University (DCU)'s National Anti-Bullying Research and Resource Centre (ABC) found that almost 10% of post-primary teachers were victims of cyberbullying, and 15% knew of a colleague who had experienced it in the previous 12 months. 59% of the bullying was by pupils, mainly on social media, with the rest perpetrated by parents and other school staff. Various effects on bullied teachers included increased stress and anxiety, \"negative impacts on their working environment, and a reluctance to report the issue and seek help from management\".\n\nAccording to recent research, in Japan, 17 percent (compared with a 25-country average of 37 percent) of youth between the ages of 8 and 17 have been victims of online bullying. The number shows that online bullying is a serious concern in Japan. Teenagers who spend more than 10 hours a week on the Internet are more likely to become the targets of online bullying. Only 28 percent of the survey participants understood what cyberbullying is. However, they do know the severity of the issue; 63 percent of the surveyed students worried about being targeted as victims of cyberbullying.\n\nSince teenagers find themselves congregating socially on the internet via social media, they become easy targets for cyberbullying. Cyberbullying may occur via email, text, chat rooms, and social media websites. Some cyberbullies set up websites or blogs to post the target's images, publicize their personal information, gossip about the target, express why they hate the target, request people to agree with the bully's view, and send links to the target to make sure they are watching the activity.\n\nMuch cyberbullying is an act of relational aggression, which involves alienating the victim from peers through gossip or ostracism. This kind of attack can be easily launched via texting or other online activities. One 19-year-old Japanese student was targeted by classmates who posted his photo online, insulted him constantly, and asked him to die. Because of the constant harassment, he did attempt suicide twice. Even when he quit school, the attacks did not stop.\n\nCyberbullying can cause serious psychological impact to the victims. They often feel anxious, nervous, tired, and depressed. Other examples of negative psychological trauma include losing confidence as a result being socially isolated from their schoolmates or friends. Psychological problems can also show up in the form of headaches, skin problems, abdominal pain, sleep problems, bed-wetting, and crying. It may also lead victims to commit suicide to end the bullying.\n\nA survey by the Crimes Against Children Research Center at the University of New Hampshire in 2000 found that 6% of the young people in the survey had experienced some form of harassment, including threats and negative rumors, and 2% had suffered distressing harassment.\n\nThe 2004 I-Safe.org survey of 1,500 students between grades 4 and 8 found:\n\nThe Youth Internet Safety Survey-2, conducted by the Crimes Against Children Research Center at the University of New Hampshire in 2005, found that 9% of the young people in the survey had experienced some form of harassment. The survey was a nationally representative telephone survey of 1,500 youth 10–17 years old. One-third reported feeling distressed by the incident, with distress being more likely for younger respondents and those who were the victims of aggressive harassment (including being telephoned, sent gifts, or visited at home by the harasser). Compared to youth not harassed online, victims are more likely to have social problems. On the other hand, youth who harass others are more likely to have problems with rule breaking and aggression.\n\nHinduja and Patchin completed a study in the summer of 2005 of approximately 1,500 Internet-using adolescents and found that over one-third of youth reported being victimized online, and over 16% of respondents admitted to cyberbullying others. While most of the instances of cyberbullying involved relatively minor behavior (41% were disrespected, 19% were called names), over 12% were physically threatened and about 5% were scared for their safety. Notably, fewer than 15% of victims told an adult about the incident. Additional research by Hinduja and Patchin in 2007 found that youth who report being victims of cyberbullying also experience stress or strain that is related to offline problem behaviors such as running away from home, cheating on a test, skipping school, or using alcohol or marijuana. The authors acknowledge that both of these studies provide only preliminary information about the nature and consequences of online bullying, due to the methodological challenges associated with an online survey.\n\nAccording to a 2005 survey by the National Children's Home charity and Tesco Mobile, of 770 youth between the ages of 11 and 19, 20% of respondents revealed that they had been bullied via electronic means. Almost three-quarters (73%) stated that they knew the bully, while 26% stated that the offender was a stranger. 10% of responders indicated that another person had taken a picture and/or video of them via a cellular phone camera, consequently making them feel uncomfortable, embarrassed, or threatened. Many youths are not comfortable telling an authority figure about their cyberbullying victimization for fear their access to technology will be taken from them; while 24% and 14% told a parent or teacher respectively, 28% did not tell anyone, and 41% told a friend.\n\nAccording to the 2006 \"Harris Interactive Cyberbullying Research Report\", commissioned by the National Crime Prevention Council, cyberbullying is a problem that \"affects almost half of all American teens\".\n\nStudies published in 2007 in the \"Journal of Adolescent Health\" indicated young people reporting being victims of electronic aggression in a range of 9% to 35%.\n\nIn 2007, Debbie Heimowitz, a Stanford University master's student, created \"Adina's Deck\", a film based on Stanford-accredited research. She worked in focus groups for ten weeks in three schools to learn about the problem of cyberbullying in northern California. The findings determined that over 60% of students had been cyberbullied and were victims of cyberbullying. The film is now being used in classrooms nationwide as it was designed around learning goals pertaining to problems that students had understanding the topic. The middle school of Megan Meier is reportedly using the film as a solution to the crisis in their town.\n\nIn 2008, researchers Sameer Hinduja (Florida Atlantic University) and Justin Patchin (University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire) published a book on cyberbullying that summarized the current state of cyberbullying research (\"Bullying Beyond the Schoolyard: Preventing and Responding to Cyberbullying\"). Their research documented that cyberbullying instances had been increasing over the preceding several years. They also reported findings from a then-recent study of cyberbullying. In a random sample of approximately 2000 middle-school students from a large school district in the southern United States, about 10% of respondents reported being cyberbullied in the previous 30 days while over 17% reported having been cyberbullied at least once in their lifetime. While these rates are slightly lower than some of the findings from their previous research, Hinduja and Patchin pointed out that the earlier studies were predominantly conducted among older adolescents and Internet samples. That is, older youth use the Internet more frequently and are more likely to experience cybe-bullying than younger children.\n\nAccording to the 2011 National Crime Victimization Survey, conducted by the U.S. Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Statistics, School Crime Supplement (SCS), 9% of students of ages 12–18 admitted to having experienced cyberbullying during that school year (with a coefficient of variation between 30% and 50%).\n\nIn the Youth Risk Behavior Survey 2013, the Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Laboratory Services of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention published results of its survey as part of the Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System (YRBSS) in June 2014, indicating the percentage of school children being bullied through e-mail, chat rooms, instant messaging, websites, or texting (\"electronically bullied\") during the course of 2013.\n\nIn 2014, Mehari, Farrell, and Le published a study that focused on the literature on cyberbullying among adolescents. They found that researchers have generally assumed that cyberbullying is distinct from aggression perpetrated in person. Mehari et al. suggest that the media through which aggression is perpetrated may be best conceptualized as a new classification of aggression, rather than considering cyberbullying as a distinct counterpart to existing forms of aggression. They suggest that future research on cyberbullying should be considered within the context of theoretical and empirical knowledge of aggression in adolescence.\n\nMary Howlett-Brandon's doctoral dissertation analyzed the National Crime Victimization Survey: Student Crime Supplement, 2009, to focus on the cyberbullying victimization of Black and White students in specific conditions.\n\nWalletHub's 2015's \"Best & Worst States at Controlling Bullying\" report measured the relative levels of bullying in 42 states. According to the report, North Dakota, Illinois, Louisiana, Rhode Island, and Washington D.C. have the most attempted suicides by high school students. The five states with highest percentage of students being bullied on campus are Missouri, Michigan, Idaho, North Dakota, and Montana.\n\nCyberbullying on social media has usually been student-to-student, but recently, students have been cyberbullying their teachers. High school students in Colorado created a Twitter site that bullies teachers. This ranges from obscenities to false accusations of inappropriate actions with students.\n\nResearch conducted to try and determine differences in cyber bullying patterns comparing male to female and ages of each are relatively inconclusive. There are some factors that lean towards males being more involved in cyber bullying behaviors due to males tending to have more aggressive behaviors than females. This is not proven but speculated based on literature reviews of research indicating that significant data is self-reported. Comparatively, the review of articles indicates that age differences have some indicators of cyber bullying; increasing age indicates increasing bullying behaviors. Gender differences have mixed results but one finding indicated that younger females(10 or 11) and older males(13+) tend to engage in cyber bullying behaviors.\n\nLegislation geared at penalizing cyberbullying has been introduced in a number of U.S. states including New York, Missouri, Rhode Island and Maryland. At least 45 states have passed laws against digital harassment. Dardenne Prairie of Springfield, Missouri, passed a city ordinance making online harassment a misdemeanor. The city of St. Charles, Missouri passed a similar ordinance. Missouri is among the states where lawmakers are pursuing state legislation, with task forces expected to have cyberbullying laws drafted and implemented. In June 2008, Rep. Linda Sanchez (D-Calif.) and Rep. Kenny Hulshof (R-Mo.) proposed a federal law that would criminalize acts of cyberbullying.\n\nLawmakers are seeking to address cyberbullying with new legislation because there is currently no specific law on the books that deals with it. A fairly new federal cyberstalking law might address such acts, according to Parry Aftab, but no one has been prosecuted under it yet. The proposed federal law would make it illegal to use electronic means to \"coerce, intimidate, harass or cause other substantial emotional distress.\"\n\nIn August 2008, the California state legislature passed one of the first laws in the country to deal directly with cyberbullying. Assembly Bill 86 2008 gives school administrators the authority to discipline students for bullying, offline or online. This law took effect on January 1, 2009.\n\nA law in New York's Albany County that criminalized cyberbullying was struck down as unconstitutional by the New York Court of Appeals in \"People v. Marquan M.\"\n\nA recent ruling first seen in the UK determined that it is possible for an Internet service provider (ISP) to be liable for the content of the sites it hosts, setting a precedent that any ISP should treat a notice of complaint seriously and investigate it immediately.\n\nWhile some states have laws that require schools to mediate cyberbullying conflicts, several states have been sued on First Amendment grounds for doing so. By examining the decisions of three such lawsuits heard in lower courts, Alvin J. Primack and Kevin A. Johnson argued that current First Amendment doctrine, particularly the case of \"Morse v. Frederick\" (2007), may offer interpretive resources for justifying administrative reach to some online digital speech. They concluded, \"[w]ithout clearer standards, school administrators are likely to feel constrained and err on the side of inaction.\"\n\nSince the 1990s, the United Kingdom and other European countries have been working to solve workplace bullying since there is no legislation regulating cyberbullying. The pervasive nature of technology has made the act of bullying online much easier. A 24-hour internet connection gives bullies a neverending opportunity to find and bully victims. Employers in the European Union have more legal responsibility to their employees than do those in other countries. Since employers do not have the ability to fire or hire an employee at will like in the United States, employers in Europe are held to a high standard in how their employees are treated.\n\nIn 2007, the European Union developed the Framework Agreement on Harassment and Violence at Work, a law that prevents bullying occurring in the workplace and holds employers accountable for providing fair working conditions. The law defines the responsibilities of an employer such as protecting his or her employees from bullies in a work environment and the psychological pain a victim faces from bullies during business hours. Lawyers pursuing cyberbullying cases use the Ordinance on Victimization at Work law, since there are not any laws specifically condemning cyberbullying.\n\nIn 1993, Sweden was the first European Union country to have a law against cyberbullying. The Ordinance on Victimization at Work protected victims from \"recurrent reprehensible or distinctly negative actions which are directed which are directed against individual employees in an offensive manner and can result in those employees being placed outside the workplace community\".\n\nIn 2002, France passed the Social Modernization Law, which added consequences to the French Labor Code for cyberbullying such as holding employers accountable for their involvement in harassment. The legislation defines \"moral harassment\" as \"repeated acts leading to a\ndeterioration of the working conditions and that are likely to harm the dignity, the physical or\npsychological heath of the victim or his professional career.\"\n\nThe United Kingdom does not have anti-bullying legislation. However, it does have the Protection From Harassment Act, an anti-stalking law. U.K. courts have used this legislation in bullying cases.\nThe United States and some other countries have more extensive legislation on cyberbullying than the European Union. Cyberbullying incidents on social media are widespread and have increased drastically in number. However, the process of getting a claim against a bully is not an easy one because of the victim's need to provide sufficient evidence to prove the existence of bullying.\n\nAs of mid-2015, countries in the European Union like the United Kingdom are in the process of creating laws specially related to cyberbullying. Since the process takes time, the government is supporting school programs to promote internet safety with the help of teachers and parents. This will allow the government to take the time it needs to create the cyberbullying laws while helping safeguard students from cyberbullying as much as possible.\n\nResearchers suggest that programs be put in place for prevention of cyberbullying. These programs would be incorporated into school curricula and would include online safety and instruction on how to use the Internet properly. This could teach the victim proper methods of potentially avoiding the cyberbully, such as blocking messages or increasing the security of their computer.\n\nEven in a perfect world, no crime can be stopped fully. That is why it is suggested that within this prevention method, effective coping strategies should be introduced and adopted. As with any crime, people learn to cope with what has happened. People can adopt coping strategies to combat future cyberbullying. Coping strategies may include social support groups composed of victims of cyberbullying, which could allow students to share their stories, and remove the feeling of being alone.\n\nTeachers should be involved in all prevention educational models, as they are essentially the \"police\" of the classroom. Most cyberbullying often goes unreported as the victim feels nothing can be done to help in their current situation. However, if given the proper tools with preventative measures and more power in the classroom, teachers can be of assistance. If the parent, teacher, and victim can work together, solutions may be found.\n\nThere have been many legislative attempts to facilitate the control of bullying and cyberbullying. Some existing legislation is incorrectly thought to be tied to bullying and cyberbullying (including terms such as \"libel\" and \"slander\"). The problem is that the existing legislation does not directly apply to bullying, nor define it as its own criminal behavior. Anti-cyberbullying advocates have even expressed concern about the broad scope of some of the bills attempted to be passed.\n\nIn the United States, attempts have been made to pass legislation against cyberbullying. Few states attempted to pass broad sanctions in an effort to prohibit cyberbullying. Problems include how to define cyberbullying and cyberstalking, and, if charges are pressed, whether this violates the bully's freedom of speech. B. Walther said that \"Illinois is the only state to criminalize 'electronic communication(s) sent for the purpose of harassing another person' when the activity takes place outside a public school setting.\" This was criticized for infringement on freedom of speech.\n\n'Cyberbullying' is the use of technology to bully a person, or threatening an individual online. Cyberbullying has become more common nowadays because of all the technology that children have access to. The most common apps that teenagers use to cyberbully are Instagram, Twitter, and Snapchat. Cyberbullying has become harder to stop because parents and teachers are unaware of when and where it is happening. Online bullying has become a bigger problem and 33% of all youth has been a victim of cyberbullying. Teens will say awful things to one another online and what they do not realize is that once it is said and published online it will not go away. Home used to be a safe place for teens but now a child is still within reach of becoming a victim of cyberbullying- whether it is through YouTube, Ask.fm, or a text message.\n\nPreventing a child from being cyberbullied is hard, but now they are working to form laws to help stop the issue from getting worse than it already is. They have created movies such as 'Cyberbully' by Charles Biname and 'The Duff' by Ari Sandel for teenagers to watch and see how cyberbullying can affect an individual. Parents can become more involved in their children's lives when it comes to social media to help prevent their child from being bullied. Children that are victims of this problem feel they can not go to an adult for help because they may feel embarrassed by the situation. Bullying online will not only hurt the teenager emotionally but there is also a risk of the child hurting themselves physically as well. Suicide has become the 3rd leading cause of death among persons from 10 to 24 years of age and online bullying takes a big part in that.\n\nBeing able to tell if a child is being hurt from this issue can be tough, but there are certain things that a child will do that should give a red flag that they are being bullied. Such as if they post a video or a picture on Instagram with comments like \"Am I ugly? Someone said I was but is it true?\" or \"Am I cute?\". A cyberbully could have said nasty words to that child and the victim could be looking for compliments. If the victim is always online wondering when the bully will strike next that could also be a sign. Being an active parent in their children's lives will make a difference on whether your child is experiencing online bullying or not. Also bringing police involved in the case will be a problem solver too.\n\nResearch has demonstrated a number of serious consequences of cyberbullying victimization. Victims may have lower self-esteem, increased suicidal ideation, and a variety of emotional responses, including being scared, frustrated, angry, and depressed. Cyberbullying may be more harmful than traditional bullying, because there is no escaping it. One of the most damaging effects is that a victim begins to avoid friends and activities, which is often the very intention of the bully.\n\nCyberbullying campaigns are sometimes so damaging that victims have committed suicide. There are at least four examples in the United States in which cyberbullying has been linked to the suicide of a teenager. The suicide of Megan Meier is a recent example that led to the conviction of the adult perpetrator of the attacks. Holly Grogan committed suicide by jumping off a 30-foot bridge near Gloucester in the UK. It was reported that a number of her schoolmates had posted a number of hateful messages on her Facebook page.\n\nAccording to Lucie Russell, director of campaigns, policy and participation at youth mental health charity Young Minds, young people who suffer from mental disorders are vulnerable to cyberbullying as they are sometimes unable to shrug it off:\n\nWhen someone says nasty things healthy people can filter that out, they're able to put a block between that and their self-esteem. But mentally unwell people don't have the strength and the self-esteem to do that, to separate it, and so it gets compiled with everything else. To them, it becomes the absolute truth – there's no filter, there's no block. That person will take that on, take it as fact.\n\nSocial media has allowed bullies to disconnect from the impact they may be having on others.\n\nAccording to the Cyberbullying Research Center, \"there have been several high‐profile cases involving teenagers taking their own lives in part because of being harassed and mistreated over the Internet, a phenomenon we have termed cyberbullicide – suicide indirectly or directly influenced by experiences with online aggression.\"\n\nCyberbullying is an intense form of psychological abuse, whose victims are more than twice as likely to suffer from mental disorders compared to traditional bullying.\n\nThe reluctance youth have in telling an authority figure about instances of cyberbullying has led to fatal outcomes. At least three children between the ages of 12 and 13 have committed suicide due to depression brought on by cyberbullying, according to reports by \"USA Today\" and the \"Baltimore Examiner\". These include the suicide of Ryan Halligan and the suicide of Megan Meier, the latter of which resulted in \"United States v. Lori Drew\". Teen suicides tied to cyberbullying have recently become more prevalent. Rebecca Ann Sedwick committed suicide after being terrorized through mobile applications such as Ask.fm, Kik Messenger and Voxer.\n\nThe effects of cyberbullying vary, but research illustrates that cyberbullying adversely affects youth to a higher degree than adolescents and adults. Youth are more likely to suffer since they are still growing mentally and physically. Jennifer N. Caudle, a certified family physician, says, \"Kids that are bullied are likely to experience anxiety, depression, loneliness, unhappiness and poor sleep\".\n\nMost of the time cyberbullying goes unnoticed; the younger generation hides their bullying from anyone that can help to prevent the bullying from occurring and from getting worse. Between 20% and 40% of adolescents are victims of cyberbullying worldwide. The youth slowly change their behaviors and actions so they become more withdrawn and quiet, but this may go unnoticed since the change is subtle. Metin Deniz believes cyberbullying will \"become a serious problem in the future with an increase in the Internet and mobile phone usage among young people\".\n\nIf preventive actions are not taken against cyberbullying, younger children in addition to teenagers will feel more lonely and depressed along with having significant changes in their eating and sleeping patterns as well as loss of interest in their normal activities. These changes will affect their growth and development into adulthood. Younger children and teenagers are 76.2% less likely to display suicidal behaviors and thoughts, but are still at risk depending on other factors such as mental health status, home care, and relationships with others. The risk of suicide increases by 35% to 45% when victims do not have any support from anyone in their life, and cyberbullying amplifies the situation.\n\nYoung people seem particularly vulnerable to the effects of cyberbullying through anonymous social media, perhaps because adolescents are attracted to these platforms as a means of seeking validation from their peers. Abuse on these platforms, such as ASKfm, Yik Yak and Sarahah, can be particularly keenly felt by young people, leading to issues of loss of confidence. There have been a number of suicides related to bullying on these platforms in the US and Britain.\n\nThe Cybersmile Foundation is a cyberbullying charity committed to tackling all forms of online bullying, abuse, and hate campaigns. It was founded in 2010 in response to the increasing number of cyberbullying related incidents of depression, eating disorders, social isolation, self-harm and suicides devastating lives around the world. Cybersmile provides support to victims and their friends and families through social media interaction, email and helpline support. They also run an annual event, Stop Cyberbullying Day, to draw attention to the issue.\n\nMultiple non-profit organizations fight cyberbullying and cyberstalking. They advise victims, provide awareness campaigns, and report offenses to the police. These NGOs include the \"Protégeles\", \"PantallasAmigas\", \"Foundation Alia2\", the non-profit initiative \"Actúa Contra el Ciberacoso\", the National Communications Technology Institute (INTECO), the Agency of Internet quality, the \"Agencia Española de Protección de Datos\", the \"Oficina de Seguridad del Internauta\", the Spanish Internet users' Association, the Internauts' Association, and the Spanish Association of Mothers and Parents Internauts. The government of Castile and León has also created a \"Plan de Prevención del Ciberacoso y Promoción de la Navegación Segura en Centro Escolares\", and the government of the Canary Islands has created a portal on the phenomenon called \"Viveinternet\".\n\nIn March 2007, the Advertising Council in the United States, in partnership with the National Crime Prevention Council, U.S. Department of Justice, and Crime Prevention Coalition of America, joined to announce the launch of a new public service advertising campaign designed to educate preteens and teens about how they can play a role in ending cyberbullying.\n\nAs of 2008, the Boy Scouts of America's 2008 edition of \"The Boy Scout Handbook\" addresses how to deal with online bullying. A new First Class rank requirements adds: \"Describe the three things you should avoid doing related to use of the Internet. Describe a cyberbully and how you should respond to one.\"\n\nIn 2008, KTTV Fox 11 News in Los Angeles put out a report about organized cyberbullying on sites like Stickam by people who call themselves \"/b/rothas\". The site had put out a report on July 26, 2007, about a subject that partly featured cyberbullying, titled \"Hackers on Steroids\".\n\nOn June 2, 2008, parents, teens, teachers, and Internet executives came together at Wired Safety's International Stop Cyberbullying Conference, a two-day gathering in White Plains, New York and New York City. Executives from Facebook, Verizon, MySpace, Microsoft, and many others talked with hundreds about how to better protect themselves and their personal reputations, children and businesses from online harassment. Sponsors of the conference included McAfee, AOL, Disney, Procter & Gamble, Girl Scouts of the USA, WiredTrust, Children's Safety Research and Innovation Centre, and KidZui.com. Cyberharassment versus cyberbullying was a forefront topic, where age makes a difference; abusive internet behavior by adults with the repeated clear intent to harm, ridicule or damage a person or business was classified as stalking harassment, versus bullying by teens and young adults.\n\nAn organized movement to make revenge porn illegal began in August 2012: End Revenge Porn. Currently revenge porn is only illegal in two states, but the demand for its criminalization is on the rise as digital technology has increased in the past few generations. The organization seeks to provide support for victims, educate the public, and gain activist support to bring new legislation before the United States Government.\n\nIn 2006, PACER.org created a week-long event that was held once a year in October. Today, the campaign is a month-long event and is now known as the National Bullying Prevention Awareness Month.\n\nOriginating in Canada, Anti-Bullying Day is a day of celebration for those who choose to participate wearing a symbol of colours (pink, blue or purple) as a stance against bullying. A British Columbia teacher founded the Stop A Bully movement, which uses pink wristbands to represent the wearer's stance to stop bullying.\n\nPink Shirt Day was inspired by David Shepherd and Travis Price. Their high school friends organized a protest in sympathy for a Grade 9 boy who was bullied for wearing a pink shirt. Their stance from wearing pink has been a huge inspiration in the Great Vancouver Mainland. \"We know that victims of bullying, witnesses of bullying and bullies themselves all experience the very real and long term negative impacts of bullying regardless of its forms – physical, verbal, written, or on-line (cyberbullying)\".\n\nERASE (Expect Respect and A Safe Education) is an initiative started by the province of British Columbia to foster safe schools and prevent bullying. It builds on already-effective programs set up by the provincial government to ensure consistent policies and practices regarding the prevention of bullying.\n\nA number of organizations are in coalition to provide awareness, protection and recourse for this escalating problem. Some aim to inform and provide measures to avoid as well as effectively terminate cyberbullying and cyberharassment. Anti-bullying charity Act Against Bullying launched the CyberKind campaign in August 2009 to promote positive internet usage.\n\nIn 2007, YouTube introduced the first Anti-Bullying Channel for youth (BeatBullying), using the assistance of celebrities to tackle the problem.\n\nIn March 2010, a 17-year-old girl named Alexis Skye Pilkington was found dead in her room by her parents. Her parents claimed that after repeated cyberbullying, she was driven to suicide. Shortly after her death, attacks resumed. Members of eBaums World began to troll teens' memorial pages on Facebook, with the comments including expressions of pleasure over the death, with pictures of what seemed to be a banana as their profile pictures. Family and friends of the deceased teen responded by creating Facebook groups denouncing cyberbullying and trolling, with logos of bananas behind a red circle with a diagonal line through it.\n\nIn response and partnership to the 2011 film \"Bully\", a grassroots effort to stop cyberbullying called the Bully Project was created. Their goal is to start \"a national movement to stop bullying that is transforming children's lives and changing a culture of bullying into one of empathy and action.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "881233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=881233", "title": "Demarcation problem", "text": "Demarcation problem\n\nThe demarcation problem in the philosophy of science is about how to distinguish between science and non-science, including between science, pseudoscience, and other products of human activity, like art and literature, and beliefs. The debate continues after over two millennia of dialogue among philosophers of science and scientists in various fields, and despite broad agreement on the basics of scientific method.\n\nAn early attempt at demarcation can be seen in the efforts of Greek natural philosophers and medical practitioners to distinguish their methods and their accounts of nature from the mythological or mystical accounts of their predecessors and contemporaries.\nIn Charmides Plato discusses a \"science of science\". Although the subject in the dialogue is epistemological, it is an early version of the demarcation problem.\n\nG. E. R. Lloyd notes that there was a sense in which the groups engaged in various forms of inquiry into nature set out to \"legitimate their own positions,\" laying \"claim to a new kind of wisdom ... that purported to yield superior enlightenment, even superior practical effectiveness.\" Medical writers in the Hippocratic tradition maintained that their discussions were based on necessary demonstrations, a theme developed by Aristotle in his Posterior Analytics. One element of this polemic for science was an insistence on a clear and unequivocal presentation of arguments, rejecting the imagery, analogy, and myth of the old wisdom. Some of their claimed naturalistic explanations of phenomena have been found to be quite fanciful, with little reliance on actual observations.\n\nLogical positivism, formulated in the 1920s, held that only statements about matters of fact or logical relations between concepts are meaningful. All other statements lack sense and are labelled \"metaphysics\" (see the verifiability theory of meaning also known as verificationism). This distinction between science, which in the view of the Vienna Circle possessed empirically verifiable statements, and what they pejoratively called \"metaphysics\", which lacked such statements, can be seen as representing another aspect of the demarcation problem. Logical positivism is often discussed in the context of the demarcation between science and non-science or pseudoscience. However, \"The verificationist proposals had the aim of solving a distinctly different demarcation problem, namely that between science and metaphysics.\"\n\nFalsifiability is the demarcation criterion proposed by Karl Popper as opposed to verificationism: \"statements or systems of statements, in order to be ranked as scientific, must be capable of conflicting with possible, or conceivable observations\". Popper saw demarcation as a central problem in the philosophy of science. Unlike the Vienna Circle, Popper stated that his proposal was not a criterion of \"meaningfulness\".\n\nIn Popper's later work, he stated that falsifiability is both a necessary and a sufficient criterion for demarcation. He described falsifiability as a property of \"the logical structure of sentences and classes of sentences,\" so that a statement's scientific or non-scientific status does not change over time. This has been summarized as a statement being falsifiable \"if and only if it logically contradicts some (empirical) sentence that describes a logically possible event that it would be logically possible to observe.\"\n\nNicholas Maxwell has argued that physics only accepts theories that are sufficiently unified, this persistent preference for unity committing physics to accepting an implicit metaphysical (i.e. non-falsifiable) thesis concerning the unity of nature. For good Popperian reasons, this implicit metaphysical thesis needs to be made explicit within physics so that it can be critically assessed and, we may hope, improved. Popper's demarcation criterion is refuted: an unfalsifiable, metaphysical thesis is a basic tenet of scientific knowledge within physics, whether this is recognized or not.\n\nThomas Kuhn, an American historian and philosopher of science, is often connected with what has been called postpositivism or postempiricism. In his 1962 book \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\", Kuhn divided the process of doing science into two different endeavors, which he called normal science and extraordinary science (which he sometimes also called \"revolutionary science\"). \"In Kuhn's view, 'it is normal science, in which Sir Karl's sort of testing does not occur, rather than extraordinary science which most nearly distinguishes science from other enterprises'…\" That is, the utility of a scientific paradigm for puzzle-solving lies in its suggesting solutions to new problems while continuing to satisfy all of the problems solved by the paradigm that it replaces.\n\nPopper criticized Kuhn's demarcation criterion, saying that astrologers are engaged in puzzle solving, and that therefore Kuhn's criterion recognized astrology as a science. He stated that Kuhn's criterion leads to a \"major disaster…[the] replacement of a rational criterion of science by a sociological one\".\n\nKuhn's work largely called into question Popper's demarcation, and emphasized the human, subjective quality of scientific change. Paul Feyerabend was concerned that the very question of demarcation was insidious: science itself had no need of a demarcation criterion, but instead some philosophers were seeking to justify a special position of authority from which science could dominate public discourse. Feyerabend argued that science does not in fact occupy a special place in terms of either its logic or method, and no claim to special authority made by scientists can be upheld. He argued that, within the history of scientific practice, no rule or method can be found that has not been violated or circumvented at some point in order to advance scientific knowledge. Both Imre Lakatos and Feyerabend suggest that science is not an autonomous form of reasoning, but is inseparable from the larger body of human thought and inquiry.\n\nPaul R. Thagard has proposed another set of principles to try to overcome these difficulties, and believes it is important for society to find a way of doing so. According to Thagard's method, a theory is not scientific if it satisfies two conditions:\n\nThagard specifies that sometimes theories will spend some time as merely \"unpromising\" before they truly deserve the title of pseudoscience. He cites astrology as an example: it was stagnant compared to advances in physics during the 17th century, and only later became \"pseudoscience\" in the advent of alternative explanations provided by psychology during the 19th century.\n\nThagard also states that his criteria should not be interpreted so narrowly as to allow willful ignorance of alternative explanations, or so broadly as to discount our modern science compared to science of the future. His definition is a practical one, which generally seeks to distinguish pseudoscience as areas of inquiry which are stagnant and without active scientific investigation.\n\nMany historians of science are concerned with the development of science from its primitive origins; consequently they define science in sufficiently broad terms to include early forms of natural knowledge. In the article on science in the eleventh edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", the scientist and historian William Cecil Dampier Whetham defined science as \"ordered knowledge of natural phenomena and of the relations between them.\" In his study of Greek science, Marshall Clagett defined science as \"first, the orderly and systematic comprehension, description and/or explanation of natural phenomena and, secondly, the [mathematical and logical] tools necessary for the undertaking.\" A similar definition appeared more recently in David Pingree's study of early science: \"Science is a systematic explanation of perceived or imaginary phenomena, or else is based on such an explanation. Mathematics finds a place in science only as one of the symbolical languages in which scientific explanations may be expressed.\" These definitions tend to focus more on the subject matter of science than on its method and from these perspectives, the philosophical concern to establish a line of demarcation between science and non-science becomes \"problematic, if not futile.\"\n\nLarry Laudan concluded, after examining various historical attempts to establish a demarcation criterion, that \"philosophy has failed to deliver the goods\" in its attempts to distinguish science from non-science—to distinguish science from pseudoscience. None of the past attempts would be accepted by a majority of philosophers nor, in his view, should they be accepted by them or by anyone else. He stated that many well-founded beliefs are not scientific and, conversely, many scientific conjectures are not well-founded. He also stated that demarcation criteria were historically used as in polemical disputes between \"scientists\" and \"pseudo-scientists.\" Advancing a number of examples from everyday practice of football and carpentry and non-scientific scholarship such as literary criticism and philosophy, he saw the question of whether a belief is well-founded or not to be more practically and philosophically significant than whether it is scientific or not. In his judgment, the demarcation between science and non-science was a pseudo-problem that would best be replaced by focusing on the distinction between reliable and unreliable knowledge, without bothering to ask whether that knowledge is scientific or not. He would consign phrases like \"pseudo-science\" or \"unscientific\" to the rhetoric of politicians or sociologists.\n\nOthers have disagreed with Laudan. Sebastian Lutz, for example, argues that demarcation does not have to be a single necessary and sufficient condition as Laudan implied. Rather, Laudan's reasoning at the most establishes that there has to be one necessary criterion and one possibly different sufficient criterion. Other critics have argued for multiple demarcation criteria suggesting that there should be one set of criteria for the natural sciences; another set of criteria for the social sciences, and claims involving the supernatural could have a set of pseudoscientific criteria. Massimo Pigliucci wrote that science generally conforms to Ludwig Wittgenstein's concept of family resemblances.\n\nConcerning science education, Michael D. Gordin wrote:\nDiscussions of the demarcation problem highlight the rhetoric of science and promote critical thinking. Citizens thinking critically, and expressing themselves with reasoned argument in policy discussion, contribute to enlightened democracy. For example, Gordin stated\nThe demarcation problem has been compared to the problem of differentiating fake news from real news, which rose to prominence in the 2016 United States presidential election.\n\n"}
{"id": "43689550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43689550", "title": "Digital phobic", "text": "Digital phobic\n\nDigital phobic is an informal phrase used to describe a reluctance to become fully immersed in the digital age for being fearful of how it might negatively change or alter everyday life.\nThe fast-paced development of the digital world in the twenty-first century has contributed to the digital divide becoming a very real problem for a segment of the population for whom a lack of education of, interest in, or access to digital devices has left them excluded from the technological world and fearful of its growing omnipresence.\n\nDigital phobic is part of a growing dictionary of digital vocabulary exploring the social impact of the technological age. The phrase considers the fears associated with technological evolution and change, and acknowledges the possibility of exclusion as a result of a rising reliance on technology in day-to-day life.\n\nEveryday use of technology has increased dramatically since the turn of the century, significantly impacting both those embracing technological change as well as those reluctant to be a part of it.\n\nA sharp rise in technological innovations during the 21st century has been responsible for changing much of the way we work, socialize, and learn – all of which can be at the foundation of distrust in the technological age. Psychologists, academics and researchers have begun to consider the base of these fears and consider the social, cultural and environmental circumstances which might catalyze someone to becoming 'digital phobic'.\n\nTechnophobia is used to discuss a fear of advanced technology in a formal capacity and can stem from a number, and combination of, concerns. With the oncoming of the digital age, worries have broadened from the very earliest fears that technology would eradicate artisanship to concerns over data protection, financial security, identity theft, technical inability and invasion of privacy.\n\nThere is no exhaustible list of reasons cited for fearing the digital world and, whilst research into both the cause and consequence of developing a digital phobia remains in its infancy, the presence of digital phobia regardless contributes towards an increasingly comprehensive picture of a series of profiles among digital users.\nRecent research from Foresters, an international financial services organization, found 2% of the UK population to fall into this category of internet user. A further breakdown of this statistic, sees the percentage of users in development of a digital phobia increase, with 4% fearful of online shopping for worrying that someone will steal their card details, and 12% fearful that using social media will make it easier for people to find their personal details.\n\nWhen asked to reason their attitude towards technology as part of this survey, a larger percentage of the UK population were revealed to be fearful of the impact it could be having on more traditional means of doing things. 31% believed technology was preventing us from communicating properly, while 32% thought advances in technology will result in long-held traditions being lost.\n\nThis fear has only been exacerbated over time as more and more data-holding, services and opportunities are transferred to the digital realm, and both the perceived and real nature of security and vulnerability risks increases. Worrying levels of time spent on devices, the invasion of privacy or the possible misuse or abuse of personal data entrusted to online sources are all contributing towards the development of a digital phobia among a proportion of the population.\n\nConcerns about the negative, exclusionary or divisive consequences of living within a digital society are being voiced from various global platforms. April 2014 research conducted by Pew Research Center, in association with Smithsonian Magazine, revealed concerns about anticipated technological developments over the next half-century. 30% of Americans surveyed feared that technological changes would lead to a future in which people are worse off than they are at the time of being surveyed. Considered amid reports of dis-interest in the internet among Japan's residents despite its reputation as a high-tech nation, these reports contribute towards a growing understanding that high-tech advancements are not universally celebrated. Moreover, the May 2014 \"right to be forgotten\" ruling put in place in the European Union which allows internet users to request for their internet history to be un-searchable if deemed incorrect, outdated or irrelevant, and the thousands of requests received in the first few days following its announcement documents a, perhaps previously hidden, widespread fear of leaving a digital footprint and/or being falsely represented online.\n\nDigital phobia is part of a wider societal conversation on how we relate to, trust in, and interact with technology and considers the potentially negative implications of what otherwise appears to be a positive advancement of the modern world. \nThis phrase has been developed by Foresters, the international financial services organisation, for the purpose of describing attitudes to technology among the UK population.\n\nDeveloped within a digital vocabulary consisting of four other phrases (digital addict, digital omnivore, digital agnostic, digital denier), digital phobic is part of a scale of social description for online behavior within the digital age.\n\nThe phrase has been used as part of discussion on the more general use of technology within the 21st century and the importance of striking a balance between time spent on and offline. Research conducted by Foresters in association with Tech Timeout, a social communications initiative considering the role of technology in contemporary society, formed the basis of the descriptor and identified the key traits of each type of digital user based on answers from over 1,000 UK respondents. \nBoth anecdotal and research-based evidence suggests categories of internet use, whilst they cannot be linearly divided, are able to loosely describe attitudes to technology in society. The developed phrases are able to be used to greater understand and contextualize how new and existing technology is viewed and have been cited in international online newspapers and blog posts.\n\nWhilst this phrase and definition were developed specifically from research on UK technology-users, the phrase is not UK-specific and is designed to be indicative of a global community of technology users who share in these characteristics.\n\nDigital phobia presents a real and pressing problem in the modern world where technology has become a central and essential resource. Internet culture has developed to become a part of the fabric of everyday life and is now even considered part of the make-up of national identity with a country's internet use and digital footprint an important modern index for international comparison, often associated with development and modernity.\n\nThe consequences of non-participation in the digital world are far reaching, and can affect the economic, cultural, social, occupational and educational life of a non-user. For example, in 2009 Price Waterhouse Coopers estimated that UK households offline are missing out on savings of £560 a year which could be saved if shopping or paying for bills online. Furthermore, in the United States older people without internet access or the skills to make the most of it are considered a disadvantaged proportion of the population as, amongst other important resources, vital healthcare information and initiatives conducted online are unavailable to those not a part of the digital world.\n\nHeightened fears of how technology may be affecting the human population stems from a, for some very logical, fear of how technology is adapting the world we live in and at the pace and price with which it is doing so. With such a significance placed on online participation, concerns about the role of the internet in everyday life are not unfounded and not exclusive to those who prefer to stay away from the internet, avoid certain activities online, or use the internet without enthusiasm and only as necessitated.\n\nA survey conducted by security firm Avira identified 84% of people fear social networking sites will steal or misuse their personal information, demonstrating the net majority of internet users share, at least partially, in distrusting the digital world. Whilst many will, despite this fear, adopt cautious optimism and still use social networking as part of their everyday lives this high percentage serves to demonstrate that a fear significant enough for some to avoid readily using online and digital services is a fear shared by a large number of internet users.\n\nWhilst some digital phobics have preferred to remain distanced from technology due to hypothetical concerns others have attempted to join in societal interest but find themselves unable to stay caught up with new technology or would like to see its progression halted as evolution of the digital world has reached new speeds. The 2013 Oxford Internet Survey recognizes this concern among UK users, identifying distinct categories of both non-users and ex-users of internet-based technology who, for a variety of reasons, have discontinued or refuse to access the online world. This is further supported by results from a 2013 survey of internet use in America which found 32% of non-internet users avoiding the online world because of finding the internet difficult or frustrating to use, being physically unable or worried about other issues such as viruses, threat of hacking or spam – a figure considerably higher than in earlier years.\n\nConcern over the presence of a digital divide, whether locally or globally, is only exacerbated by the knowledge that access to many government and council services, job applications, and social and cultural resources are now largely internet based. Internet access has become a hurdle in contemporary society which, for those without the necessary desire to learn or knowledge of internet-based systems, can be difficult to navigate around, often resulting in key services and vital resources being less easily accessible, leaving non-users feeling isolated. Private and government campaigns to tackle this issue further demonstrate the severity and long-lasting impact of having a proportion of the population disinclined or disinterested in going online.\n\nAs the online world becomes saturated, device options for connecting to the internet vary and news of technological inventions goes viral the exponential growth of the technological world is only contributing towards a growing number of 'digital phobic' tech-users amongst the global population.\n\nDigital phobia has had a negative impact on the field of education. Some teachers have expressed a fear that new and advanced technology is supplanting them as the masters of their fields of study and a study of teachers in Wilmington, Delaware has shown that educators in this area are acclimating to the new technology in their classrooms at a slower pace. The local researchers believe that there are many factors why that is the case and some of the things they have found are things such as a lack of technological education by the teachers, and also the lack of time, or incentive to adjust to the new technology. University Larry Cuban has stated that \"The introduction of computers into school was supposed to improve academic achievement , and alter how teachers taught. Neither has occurred.\"\n\nThe constant infusion of new technology has many teachers fearing that they are losing their classroom. This new technology is essentially diminishing the role of a teacher in the classroom.\n\nResearchers believe that educators are slow to adapt to technology because they aren't given time to acclimate to the new technology, causing them to hesitate to use it in the classroom and express fear that these technologies may interfere with genuine learning particularly in humanities and creative subjects. In an article for the \"New Media Reader,\" Theodor H. Nelson wrote that people are opposed to the computer because they believe it is \"cold\" and \"inhuman\", but a human can be just as inhuman and maybe even more so than the actual machine itself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42696460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42696460", "title": "Doug Speck", "text": "Doug Speck\n\nDouglas Gary Speck (October 16, 1947 - March 4, 2010) was a high school teacher and track and field enthusiast. He carried his love of the sport into becoming a major promoter and source of information. Starting in 1968, he joined Doug Smith in the creation of the Arcadia Invitational. Speck oversaw the growth of the meet, from a local spectacle to the premiere in-season nationwide invitational now called the \"Home of national records.\"\n\nFrom his office at Arcadia High School, Speck became the ultimate researcher of the best track athletes around the United States. In order to attract the best athletes to the Invitational, he had to know who they were, so Speck tracked performances and statistics, writing columns for running publications like California Track and Running News. In the infancy of the internet, he joined Gonzalez in starting a website providing the most in depth coverage of high school track and field athletes in California. Merging with John Dye's similar site in North Carolina, they created the nationwide Dyestat site self-described as \"The Internet Home of High School Track & Field.\" The California version was known as Dyestatcal.\n\nSpeck's fountain of information was not limited to print. He was the P.A. announcer at many of the top high school track and field meets including the Sunkist Invitational, the National Scholastic Indoor Championships, the Foot Locker Cross Country Championships, the Junior National Championships and the series of championship meets that led to the CIF California State Meet. He worked on the advisory committees for the State Championships for both track and field and cross country. It has been suggested the enthusiasm he instilled in the crowd encouraged many national records to happen.\n\nFollowing his untimely death to brain cancer, the National Scholastic Athletics Foundation created an annual award \"The Doug Speck Award for Excellence & Innovation.\"\n"}
{"id": "524762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=524762", "title": "European cuisine", "text": "European cuisine\n\nEuropean cuisine, or alternatively Western cuisine, is a generalised term collectively referring to the cuisines of Europe and other Western countries, including (depending on the definition) that of Russia, as well as non-indigenous cuisines of Australasia, the Americas, Southern Africa, and Oceania, which derive substantial influence from European settlers in those regions. The term is used by East Asians to contrast with Asian styles of cooking. (This is analogous to Westerners' referring collectively to the cuisines of East Asian countries as Asian cuisine.) When used by Westerners, the term may sometimes refer more specifically to cuisine \"in\" Europe; in this context, a synonym is Continental cuisine, especially in British English.\n\nThe cuisines of Western countries are diverse by themselves, although there are common characteristics that distinguish Western cooking from cuisines of Asian countries and others. Compared with traditional cooking of Asian countries, for example, meat is more prominent and substantial in serving-size. Steak and cutlet in particular are common dishes across the West. Western cuisines also put substantial emphasis on grape wine and on sauces as condiments, seasonings, or accompaniments (in part due to the difficulty of seasonings penetrating the often larger pieces of meat used in Western cooking). Many dairy products are utilised in the cooking process, except in nouvelle cuisine. Cheeses are produced in hundreds of different varieties, and fermented milk products are also available in a wide selection. Wheat-flour bread has long been the most common source of starch in this cuisine, along with pasta, dumplings and pastries, although the potato has become a major starch plant in the diet of Europeans and their diaspora since the European colonisation of the Americas, particularly in Northern Europe. Maize is much less common in most European diets than it is in the Americas; however corn meal (polenta or mămăligă), is a major part of the cuisine of Italy and the Balkans. Although flatbreads (especially with toppings such as pizza or tarte flambée), and rice are eaten in Europe, they do not constitute an ever-present staple. Salads (cold dishes with uncooked or cooked vegetables with sauce) are an integral part of European cuisine.\n\nFormal European dinners are served in distinct courses. European presentation evolved from service à la française, or bringing multiple dishes to the table at once, into service à la russe, where dishes are presented sequentially. Usually, cold, hot and savoury, and sweet dishes are served strictly separately in this order, as hors d'oeuvre (appetizer) or soup, as entrée and main course, and as dessert. Dishes that are both sweet and savoury were common earlier in ancient Roman cuisine, but are today uncommon, with sweet dishes being served only as dessert. A service where the guests are free to take food by themselves is termed a buffet, and is usually restricted to parties or holidays. Nevertheless, guests are expected to follow the same pattern.\n\nHistorically, European cuisine has been developed in the European royal and noble courts. European nobility was usually arms-bearing and lived in separate manors in the countryside. The knife was the primary eating implement (cutlery), and eating steaks and other foods that require cutting followed. In contrast in the Sinosphere, the ruling class were the court officials, who had their food cut ready to eat in the kitchen, to be eaten with chopsticks. The knife was supplanted by the spoon for soups, while the fork was introduced later in the early modern period, ca. 16th century. Today, most dishes are intended to be eaten with cutlery and only a few finger foods can be eaten with the hands in polite company.\n\nAll of these countries have their specialities. Austria is famous for their Wiener Schnitzel - a breaded veal cutlet served with a slice of lemon, the Czech Republic for their world renowned beers. Germany for their world-famous wursts, Hungary for their goulash. Slovakia is famous for their gnocchi-like Halusky pasta. Slovenia for their German and Italian influenced cuisine, Poland for their world-famous Pierogis which are a cross between a Ravioli and an Empanada. Liechtenstein and German speaking Switzerland are famous for their Rösti and French speaking Switzerland for their Raclettes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9902218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9902218", "title": "Exploring Reality", "text": "Exploring Reality\n\nExploring Reality: The Intertwining of Science & Religion is a book by John Polkinghorne which offers a \"progress report\" on his \"search for truth. All my life I have been trying to explore reality. That exploration includes science, but it also necessarily takes me beyond it. The process of investigation has a spiral character, as tackling the issues draws the explorer inwards towards a deeper engagement with the multidimensional character of reality\"\n\nThe book is published by SPCK in the UK and by Yale University Press in the USA, in 2005. \n\nIn 1. Reality Polkinghorne explains \"how natural the task of exploring reality is for someone whose intellectual formation has been in the sciences\"(p xi) and asserts his belief in Critical realism against Postmodernism.\n\n2. The Causal Nexus of the World suggests that \"scientifically our knowledge is still pretty patchy, excellent within certain well-defined domains but often unable to make satisfactory connections between different domains. The problematic of the relationship of Quantum physics to Classical physics provides an instructive example\" and also that \"matters of causality ... are not finally settled by science alone. Ultimate conclusions have to rest on the foundation of a metaphysical decision.\"(p xii)\n\nIn 3. Human Nature he notes that Charles Kingsley and Frederick Temple welcomed Charles Darwin's insights, which also implied a level of continuity between humans and other animals. However he notes that humans abilities in language, science and rationality are very different from those of animals. He says \"the fact that we share 98.4% of our DNA with chimpanzees shows the fallacy of genetic reductionism, rather than proving that we are only apes who are slightly different. After all I share 99.9% of my DNA with J. S. Bach, but that fact carries no implication of a close correspondence between our musical abilities\"(p45). He suggests that \"while natural selection has been an important factor in the development of life on Earth, it is by no means obvious that it is the only type of process involved\" and that \"the attempt to force classical Darwinian thinking into the role of an explanatory principle of almost universal scope has proved singularly unconvincing as it seeks to inflate an assembly of half-truths into a theory of everything\". He believes that Evolutionary epistemology is also based on a half-truth. Being able to make sense of everyday experience is a vital asset, yet when Newton discovered universal gravity, something happened that went far beyond anything needed for survival and that rational feats like proving Fermat's Last Theorem go far beyond anything susceptible to Darwinian explanation.\n"}
{"id": "55174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55174", "title": "Falun Gong", "text": "Falun Gong\n\nFalun Gong (, ) or Falun Dafa (; Standard Mandarin Chinese: ; literally, \"Dharma Wheel Practice\" or \"Law Wheel Practice\") is a Chinese spiritual practice that combines meditation and qigong exercises with a moral philosophy centered on the tenets of truthfulness, compassion, and (). The practice emphasizes morality and the cultivation of virtue, and identifies as a qigong practice of the Buddhist school, though its teachings also incorporate elements drawn from Taoist traditions. Through moral rectitude and the practice of meditation, practitioners of Falun Gong aspire to eliminate attachments, and ultimately to achieve spiritual enlightenment.\n\nFalun Gong was first taught publicly in Northeast China in 1992 by Li Hongzhi. It emerged toward the end of China's \"\"qigong\" boom\"—a period that saw a proliferation of similar practices of meditation, slow-moving energy exercises and regulated breathing. It differs from other \"qigong\" schools in its absence of fees or formal membership, lack of daily rituals of worship, its greater emphasis on morality, and the theological nature of its teachings. Western academics have described Falun Gong as a qigong discipline, a \"spiritual movement\", a \"cultivation system\" in the tradition of Chinese antiquity, or as a form of Chinese religion.\n\nThe practice initially enjoyed support from Chinese officialdom, but by the mid to late 1990s, the Communist Party and public security organizations increasingly viewed Falun Gong as a potential threat due to its size, independence from the state, and spiritual teachings. By 1999, government estimates placed the number of Falun Gong practitioners at 70 million. During that time, negative coverage of Falun Gong began to appear in the state-run press, and practitioners usually responded by picketing the source involved. Most of the time, the practitioners succeeded, but controversy and tension continued to build. The scale of protests grew until April 1999, when over 10,000 Falun Gong practitioners gathered near the central government compound in Beijing to request legal recognition and freedom from state interference. This demonstration is widely seen as catalyzing the persecution that followed.\n\nOn 20 July 1999, the Communist Party leadership initiated a nationwide crackdown and multifaceted propaganda campaign intended to eradicate the practice. It blocked Internet access to websites that mention Falun Gong, and in October 1999 it declared Falun Gong a \"heretical organization\" that threatened social stability. Falun Gong practitioners in China are reportedly subject to a wide range of human rights abuses: hundreds of thousands are estimated to have been imprisoned extrajudicially, and practitioners in detention are subject to forced labor, psychiatric abuse, torture, and other coercive methods of thought reform at the hands of Chinese authorities. As of 2009, human rights groups estimated that at least 2,000 Falun Gong practitioners had died as a result of abuse in custody. One observer reported that tens of thousands may have been killed to supply China's organ transplant industry (see Organ harvesting from Falun Gong practitioners in China). In the years since the persecution began, Falun Gong practitioners have become active in advocating for greater human rights in China.\n\nFalun Gong founder Li Hongzhi has lived in the United States since 1996, and Falun Gong has a sizable global constituency. Inside China, estimates suggest that tens of millions continued to practice Falun Gong in spite of the persecution. Hundreds of thousands are estimated to practice Falun Gong outside China in over 70 countries worldwide.\n\nFalun Gong is most frequently identified with the qigong movement in China. \"Qigong\" is a modern term that refers to a variety of practices involving slow movement, meditation, and regulated breathing. Qigong-like exercises have historically been practiced by Buddhist monks, Daoist martial artists, and Confucian scholars as a means of spiritual, moral, and physical refinement. \nThe modern qigong movement emerged in the early 1950s, when Communist cadres embraced the techniques as a way to improve health. The new term was constructed to avoid association with religious practices, which were prone to being labeled as \"feudal superstition\" and persecuted during the Maoist era. Early adopters of qigong eschewed its religious overtones and regarded qigong principally as a branch of Chinese medicine. In the late 1970s, Chinese scientists purported to have discovered the material existence of the qi energy that qigong seeks to harness. In the spiritual vacuum of the post-Mao era, tens of millions of mostly urban and elderly Chinese citizens took up the practice of qigong, and a variety of charismatic qigong masters established practices. At one time, over 2,000 disciplines of qigong were being taught. The state-run China Qigong Science Research Society (CQRS) was established in 1985 to oversee and administer the movement.\n\nOn 13 May 1992, Li Hongzhi gave his first public seminar on Falun Gong (alternatively called Falun Dafa) in the northeastern city of Changchun. In his hagiographic spiritual biography, Li Hongzhi is said to have been taught ways of \"cultivation practice\" by several masters of the Buddhist and Daoist traditions, including Quan Jue, the 10th Heir to the Great Law of the Buddha School, and a master of the Great Way School with the Taoist alias of \"True Taoist\" from the Changbai Mountains. Falun Dafa is said to be the result of his reorganizing and writing down the teachings that were passed to him.\n\nLi presented Falun Gong as part of a \"centuries-old tradition of cultivation\", and in effect sought to revive the religious and spiritual elements of qigong practice that had been discarded in the earlier Communist era. David Palmer writes that Li \"redefined his method as having entirely different objectives from qigong: the purpose of practice should neither be physical health nor the development of extraordinary powers, but to purify one's heart and attain spiritual salvation.\"\n\nFalun Gong is distinct from other qigong schools in that its teachings cover a wide range of spiritual and metaphysical topics, placing emphasis on morality and virtue and elaborating a complete cosmology. The practice identifies with the Buddhist School (\"Fojia\") but also draws on concepts and language found in Taoism and Confucianism. This has led some scholars to label the practice as a syncretic faith.\n\nFalun Gong aspires to enable the practitioner to ascend spiritually through moral rectitude and the practice of a set of exercises and meditation. The three central tenets of the belief are Truthfulness (真, Zhēn), Compassion (善, Shàn), and Forbearance (忍, Rěn). Together these principles are regarded as the fundamental nature of the cosmos, the criteria for differentiating right from wrong, and are held to be the highest manifestations of the Tao, or Buddhist Dharma. Adherence to and cultivation of these virtues is regarded as a fundamental part of Falun Gong practice. In Zhuan Falun (转法轮), the foundational text published in 1995, Li Hongzhi writes \"It doesn't matter how mankind's moral standard changes ... The nature of the cosmos doesn't change, and it is the only standard for determining who's good and who's bad. So to be a cultivator you have to take the nature of the cosmos as your guide for improving yourself.\"\n\nPractice of Falun Gong consists of two features: performance of the exercises, and the refinement of one's \"xinxing\" (moral character, temperament). In Falun Gong's central text, Li states that xinxing \"includes virtue (which is a type of matter), it includes forbearance, it includes awakening to things, it includes giving up things—giving up all the desires and all the attachments that are found in an ordinary person—and you also have to endure hardship, to name just a few things.\" The elevation of one's moral character is achieved, on the one hand, by aligning one's life with truth, compassion, and tolerance; and on the other, by abandoning desires and \"negative thoughts and behaviors, such as greed, profit, lust, desire, killing, fighting, theft, robbery, deception, jealousy, etc.\"\n\nAmong the central concepts found in the teachings of Falun Gong is the existence of 'Virtue' ('德, \"Dé\") and 'Karma' ('業, \"Yè\"). The former is generated through doing good deeds and suffering, while the latter is accumulated through doing wrong deeds. A person's ratio of karma to virtue is said to determine his or her fortunes in this life or the next. While virtue engenders good fortune and enables spiritual transformation, an accumulation of karma results in suffering, illness, and alienation from the nature of the universe. Spiritual elevation is achieved through the elimination of negative karma and the accumulation of virtue. Practitioners believe that through a process of moral cultivation, one can achieve Tao and obtain special powers and a level of divinity.\n\nFalun Gong's teachings posit that human beings are originally and innately good—even divine—but that they descended into a realm of delusion and suffering after developing selfishness and accruing karma. The practice holds that reincarnation exists and that different people's reincarnation processes are overseen by different gods. To re-ascend and return to the \"original, true self,\" Falun Gong practitioners are supposed to assimilate themselves to the qualities of truthfulness, compassion and tolerance, let go of \"attachments and desires\" and suffer to repay karma. The ultimate goal of the practice is enlightenment or spiritual perfection (\"yuanman\"), and release from the cycle of reincarnation, known in Buddhist tradition as \"samsara\".\n\nTraditional Chinese cultural thought and modernity are two focuses of Li Hongzhi's teachings. Falun Gong echoes traditional Chinese beliefs that humans are connected to the universe through mind and body, and Li seeks to challenge \"conventional mentalities\", concerning the nature and genesis of the universe, time-space, and the human body. The practice draws on East Asian mysticism and traditional Chinese medicine, criticizes the purportedly self-imposed limits of modern science, especially evolution, and views traditional Chinese science as an entirely different, yet equally valid ontological system.\n\nIn addition to its moral philosophy, Falun Gong consists of four standing exercises and one sitting meditation. The exercises are regarded as secondary to moral elevation, though is still an essential component of Falun Gong cultivation practice.\n\nThe first exercises, called \"Buddha Stretching a Thousand Arms\", are intended to facilitate the free flow of energy through the body and open up the meridians. The second exercise, \"Falun Standing Stance\", involves holding four static poses—each of which resembles holding a wheel—for an extended period. The objective of this exercise is to \"enhances wisdom, increases strength, raises a person's level, and strengthens divine powers\". The third, \"Penetrating the Cosmic Extremes\", involves three sets of movements, which aim to enable the expulsion of bad energy (e.g., pathogenic or black qi) and the absorption of good energy into the body. Through practice of this exercise, the practitioner aspires to cleanse and purify the body. The fourth exercise, \"Falun Cosmic Orbit\", seeks to circulate energy freely throughout the body. Unlike the first through fourth exercises, the fifth exercise is performed in the seated lotus position. Called \"Reinforcing Supernatural Powers\", it is a meditation intended to be maintained as long as possible.\n\nFalun Gong exercises can be practiced individually or in group settings, and can be performed for varying lengths of time in accordance with the needs and abilities of the individual practitioner. Porter writes that practitioners of Falun Gong are encouraged to read Falun Gong books and practice its exercises on a regular basis, preferably daily. Falun Gong exercises are practiced in group settings in parks, university campuses, and other public spaces in over 70 countries worldwide, and are taught for free by volunteers. In addition to five exercises, in 2001 another meditation activity was introduced called \"sending righteous thoughts,\" which is intended to reduce persecution on the spiritual plane.\n\nA pilot study involving genomic profiling of six Falun Dafa practitioners indicated that, \"changes in gene expression of [Falun Gong] practitioners in contrast to normal healthy controls were characterized by enhanced immunity, downregulation of cellular metabolism, and alteration of apoptotic genes in favor of a rapid resolution of inflammation.\"\n\nIn addition to the attainment of physical health, many Buddhist and Daoist meditation systems aspire to transform the physical body and cultivate a variety of supernatural capabilities (\"shentong\"), such as telepathy and divine sight. Discussions of supernatural skills also feature prominently within the qigong movement, and the existence of these skills gained a level mainstream acceptance in China’s scientific community in the 1980s. Falun Gong’s teachings hold that practitioners can acquire supernatural skills through a combination of moral cultivation, meditation and exercises. These include—but are not limited to—precognition, clairaudience, telepathy, and divine sight (via the opening of the third eye or celestial eye). However, Falun Gong stresses that these powers can be developed only as a result of moral practice, and should not be pursued or casually displayed. According to David Ownby, Falun Gong teaches that “Pride in one's abilities, or the desire to show off, are marks of dangerous attachments,” and Li warns his followers not to be distracted by the pursuit of such powers.\n\nFalun Gong differentiates itself from Buddhist monastic traditions in that it places great importance on participation in the secular world. Falun Gong practitioners are required to maintain regular jobs and family lives, to observe the laws of their respective governments, and are instructed not to distance themselves from society. An exception is made for Buddhist monks and nuns, who are permitted to continue a monastic lifestyle while practicing Falun Gong.\n\nAs part of its emphasis on ethical behavior, Falun Gong's teachings prescribe a strict personal morality for practitioners. They are expected to act truthfully, do good deeds, and conduct themselves with patience and forbearance when encountering difficulties. For instance, Li stipulates that a practitioner of Falun Gong must \"not hit back when attacked, not talk back when insulted.\" In addition, they must \"abandon negative thoughts and behaviors,\" such as greed, deception, jealousy, etc. The teachings contain injunctions against smoking and the consumption of alcohol, as these are considered addictions that are detrimental to health and mental clarity. Practitioners of Falun Gong are forbidden to kill living things—including animals for the purpose of obtaining food—though they are not required to adopt a vegetarian diet.\n\nIn addition to these things, practitioners of Falun Gong must abandon a variety of worldly attachments and desires. In the course of cultivation practice, the student of Falun Gong aims to relinquish the pursuit of fame, monetary gain, sentimentality, and other entanglements. Li's teachings repeatedly emphasize the emptiness of material pursuits; although practitioners of Falun Gong are not encouraged to leave their jobs or eschew money, they are expected to give up the psychological attachments to these things. Similarly, sexual desire and lust are treated as attachments to be discarded, but Falun Gong students are still generally expected to marry and have families. All sexual relations outside the confines of monogamous, heterosexual marriage are regarded as immoral. Although gays and lesbians may practice Falun Gong, homosexual conduct is said to generate karma, and is therefore viewed as incompatible with the goals of the practice.\n\nFalun Gong's cosmology includes the belief that different ethnicities each have a correspondence to their own heavens, and that individuals of mixed race lose some aspect of this connection. Nonetheless, Li maintains that being of mixed race does not affect a person's soul, nor hinder their ability to practice cultivation. The practice does not have any formal stance against interracial marriage, and many Falun Gong practitioners have interracial children.\n\nFalun Gong doctrine counsels against participation in political or social issues. Excessive interest in politics is viewed as an attachment to worldly power and influence, and Falun Gong aims for transcendence of such pursuits. According to Hu Ping, \"Falun Gong deals only with purifying the individual through exercise, and does not touch on social or national concerns. It has not suggested or even intimated a model for social change. Many religions ... pursue social reform to some extent ... but there is no such tendency evident in Falun Gong.\"\n\nThe first book of Falun Gong teachings was published in April 1993. Called \"China Falun Gong\", or simply \"Falun Gong\", it is an introductory text that discusses \"qigong\", Falun Gong's relationship to Buddhism, the principles of cultivation practice and the improvement of moral character (xinxing). The book also provides illustrations and explanations of the exercises and meditation.\n\nThe main body of teachings is articulated in the book \"Zhuan Falun\", published in Chinese in January 1995. The book is divided into nine \"lectures\", and was based on edited transcriptions of the talks Li gave throughout China in the preceding three years. Falun Gong texts have since been translated into an additional 40 languages. In addition to these central texts, Li has published several books, lectures, articles, books of poetry, which are made available on Falun Gong websites.\n\nThe Falun Gong teachings use numerous untranslated Chinese religious and philosophical terms, and make frequent allusion to characters and incidents in Chinese folk literature and concepts drawn from Chinese popular religion. This, coupled with the literal translation style of the texts, which imitate the colloquial style of Li's speeches, can make Falun Gong scriptures difficult to approach for Westerners.\n\nThe main symbol of the practice is the \"Falun\" (Dharma wheel, or \"Dharmacakra\" in Sanskrit). In Buddhism, the Dharmacakra represents the completeness of the doctrine. To \"turn the wheel of dharma\" (\"Zhuan Falun\") means to preach the Buddhist doctrine, and is the title of Falun Gong's main text. Despite the invocation of Buddhist language and symbols, the law wheel as understood in Falun Gong has distinct connotations, and is held to represent the universe. It is conceptualized by an emblem consisting of one large and four small (counter-clockwise) Swastika symbols, representing the Buddha, and four small Taiji (yin-yang) symbols of the Daoist tradition.\n\nLi situates his teaching of Falun Gong amidst the \"Dharma-ending period\" (\"Mo Fa\", 末法), described in Buddhist scriptures as an age of moral decline when the teachings of Buddhism would need to be rectified. The current era is described in Falun Gong's teachings as the \"Fa rectification\" period (\"zhengfa\", which might also be translated as \"to correct the dharma\"), a time of cosmic transition and renewal. The process of Fa rectification is necessitated by the moral decline and degeneration of life in the universe, and in the post-1999 context, the persecution of Falun Gong by the Chinese government has come to be viewed as a tangible symptom of this moral decay. Through the process of the Fa rectification, life will be reordered according to the moral and spiritual quality of each, with good people being saved and ascending to higher spiritual planes, and bad ones being eliminated or cast down. In this paradigm, Li assumes the role of rectifying the Dharma by disseminating through his moral teachings.\n\nSome scholars, such as Maria Hsia Chang and Susan Palmer, have described Li's rhetoric about the \"Fa rectification\" and providing salvation \"in the final period of the Last Havoc\", as apocalyptic. However, Benjamin Penny argues that Li's teachings are better understood in the context of a \"Buddhist notion of the cycle of the Dharma or the Buddhist law\". Richard Gunde notes that unlike apocalyptic groups in the West, Falun Gong does not fixate on death or the end of the world, and instead \"has a simple, innocuous ethical message\". Li Hongzhi does not discuss a \"time of reckoning\", and has rejected predictions of an impending apocalypse in his teachings.\n\nFalun Gong is a multifaceted discipline that means different things to different people, ranging from a set of physical exercises for the attainment of better health and a praxis of self-transformation, to a moral philosophy and a new knowledge system. Scholars and journalists have adopted a variety of terms and classifications in describing Falun Gong, some of them more precise than others.\n\nIn the cultural context of China, Falun Gong is generally described either as a system of qigong, or a type of \"cultivation practice\" (\"xiulian\"). Cultivation is a Chinese term that describes the process by which an individual seeks spiritual perfection, often through both physical and moral conditioning. Varieties of cultivation practice are found throughout Chinese history, spanning Buddhist, Daoist and Confucian traditions. Benjamin Penny, a professor of Chinese history at the Australian National University, writes \"the best way to describe Falun Gong is as a cultivation system. Cultivation systems have been a feature of Chinese life for at least 2,500 years.\" Qigong practices can also be understood as a part of a broader tradition of \"cultivation practice\".\n\nIn the West, Falun Gong is frequently classified as a religion on the basis of its theological and moral teachings, its concerns with spiritual cultivation and transformation, and its extensive body of scripture. Human rights groups report on the persecution of Falun Gong as a violation of religious freedom, and in 2001, Falun Gong was given an International Religious Freedom Award from Freedom House. Falun Gong practitioners themselves have sometimes disavowed this classification, however. This rejection reflects the relatively narrow definition of \"religion\" (\"zongjiao\") in contemporary China. According to David Ownby, religion in China has been defined since 1912 to refer to \"world-historical faiths\" that have \"well-developed institutions, clergy, and textual traditions\"—namely, Buddhism, Daoism, Islam, Protestantism and Catholicism. Falun Gong lacks these features, having no temples, rituals of worship, clergy or formal hierarchy. Moreover, if Falun Gong had described itself as a religion in China, it likely would have invited immediate suppression. These historical and cultural circumstances notwithstanding, the practice has often been described as a form of Chinese religion.\n\nAlthough it is often referred to as such in journalistic literature, Falun Gong does not satisfy the definition of a \"sect\" or \"cult.\" A sect is generally defined as a branch or denomination of an established belief system or mainstream church. Although Falun Gong draws on both Buddhist and Daoist ideas and terminology, it claims no direct relationship or lineage connection to these religions. Sociologists regard sects as exclusive groups that exist within clearly defined boundaries, with rigorous standards for admission and strict allegiances. However, as noted by Noah Porter, Falun Gong does not share these qualities: it does not have clearly defined boundaries, and anyone may practice it. Cheris Shun-ching Chan likewise writes that Falun Gong is \"categorically not a sect\": its practitioners do not sever ties with secular society, it is \"loosely structured with a ﬂuctuating membership and tolerant of other organizations and faiths,\" and it is more concerned with personal, rather than collective worship.\n\nAs a matter of doctrinal significance, Falun Gong is intended to be \"formless\", having little to no material or formal organization. Practitioners of Falun Gong cannot collect money or charge fees, conduct healings, or teach or interpret doctrine for others. There are no administrators or officials within the practice, no system of membership, and no churches or physical places of worship. In the absence of membership or initiation rituals, Falun Gong practitioners can be anyone who chooses to identify themselves as such. Students are free to participate in the practice and follow its teachings as much or as little as they like, and practitioners do not instruct others on what to believe or how to behave.\n\nSpiritual authority is vested exclusively in the teachings of founder Li Hongzhi. But organizationally Falun Gong is decentralized, and local branches and assistants are afforded no special privileges, authority, or titles. Volunteer \"assistants\" or \"contact persons\" do not hold authority over other practitioners, regardless of how long they have practiced Falun Gong. Li's spiritual authority within the practice is absolute, yet the organization of Falun Gong works against totalistic control, and Li does not intervene in the personal lives of practitioners. Falun Gong practitioners have little to no contact with Li, except through the study of his teachings. There is no hierarchy in Falun Gong to enforce orthodoxy, and little or no emphasis is given on dogmatic discipline; the only thing emphasized is the need for strict moral behavior, according to Craig Burgdoff, a professor of religious studies.\n\nTo the extent that organization is achieved in Falun Gong, it is accomplished through a global, networked, and largely virtual online community. In particular, electronic communications, email lists and a collection of websites are the primary means of coordinating activities and disseminating Li Hongzhi's teachings.\n\nOutside Mainland China, a network of volunteer 'contact persons', regional Falun Dafa Associations and university clubs exist in approximately 80 countries. Li Hongzhi's teachings are principally spread through the Internet. In most mid- to large-sized cities, Falun Gong practitioners organize regular group meditation or study sessions in which they practice Falun Gong exercises and read Li Hongzhi's writings. The exercise and meditation sessions are described as informal groups of practitioners who gather in public parks—usually in the morning—for one to two hours. Group study sessions typically take place in the evenings in private residences or university or high school classrooms, and are described by David Ownby as \"the closest thing to a regular 'congregational experience'\" that Falun Gong offers. Individuals who are too busy, isolated, or who simply prefer solitude may elect to practice privately. When there are expenses to be covered (such as for the rental of facilities for large-scale conferences), costs are borne by self-nominated and relatively affluent individual members of the community.\n\nIn 1993, the Beijing-based Falun Dafa Research Society was accepted as a branch of the state-run China Qigong Research Society (CQRS), which oversaw the administration of the country's various qigong schools, and sponsored activities and seminars. As per the requirements of the CQRS, Falun Gong was organized into a nationwide network of assistance centers, \"main stations\", \"branches\", \"guidance stations\", and local practice sites, mirroring the structure of the qigong society or even of the Communist Party itself. Falun Gong assistants were self-selecting volunteers who taught the exercises, organized events, and disseminated new writings from Li Hongzhi. The Falun Dafa Research Society provided advice to students on meditation techniques, translation services, and coordination for the practice nationwide.\n\nFollowing its departure from the CQRS in 1996, Falun Gong came under increased scrutiny from authorities and responded by adopting a more decentralized and loose organizational structure. In 1997, the Falun Dafa Research Society was formally dissolved, along with the regional \"main stations.\" Yet practitioners continued to organize themselves at local levels, being connected through electronic communications, interpersonal networks and group exercise sites. Both Falun Gong sources and Chinese government sources claimed that there were some 1,900 \"guidance stations\" and 28,263 local Falun Gong exercise sites nationwide by 1999, though they disagree over the extent of vertical coordination among these organizational units. In response to the persecution that began in 1999, Falun Gong was driven underground, the organizational structure grew yet more informal within China, and the internet took precedence as a means of connecting practitioners.\n\nFollowing the persecution of Falun Gong in 1999, Chinese authorities sought to portray Falun Gong as a hierarchical and well-funded organization. James Tong writes that it was in the government's interest to portray Falun Gong as highly organized in order to justify its repression of the group: \"The more organized the Falun Gong could be shown to be, then the more justified the regime's repression in the name of social order was.\" He concluded that Party's claims lacked \"both internal and external substantiating evidence\", and that despite the arrests and scrutiny, the authorities never \"credibly countered Falun Gong rebuttals\".\n\nPrior to July 1999, official estimates placed the number of Falun Gong practitioners at 70 million nationwide, rivaling membership in the Communist Party. By the time of the persecution on 22 July 1999, most Chinese government numbers said the population of Falun Gong was between 2 and 3 million, though some publications maintained an estimate of 40 million. Most Falun Gong estimates in the same period placed the total number of practitioners in China at 70 to 80 million. Other sources have estimated the Falun Gong population in China to have peaked between 10 and 70 million practitioners. The number of Falun Gong practitioners still practicing in China today is difficult to confirm, though some sources estimate that tens of millions continue to practice privately.\n\nDemographic surveys conducted in China in 1998 found a population that was mostly female and elderly. Of 34,351 Falun Gong practitioners surveyed, 27% were male and 73% female. Only 38% were under 50 years old. Falun Gong attracted a range of other individuals, from young college students to bureaucrats, intellectuals and Party officials. Surveys in China from the 1990s found that between 23–40% of practitioners held university degrees at the college or graduate level—several times higher than the general population.\n\nFalun Gong is practiced by tens, and possibly hundreds of thousands outside China, with the largest communities found in Taiwan and North American cities with large Chinese populations, such as New York and Toronto. Demographic surveys by Palmer and Ownby in these communities found that 90% of practitioners are ethnic Chinese. The average age was approximately 40. Among survey respondents, 56% were female and 44% male; 80% were married. The surveys found the respondents to be highly educated: 9% held PhDs, 34% had master's degrees, and 24% had a bachelor's degree.\n\nThe most commonly reported reasons for being attracted to Falun Gong were intellectual content, cultivation exercises, and health benefits. Non-Chinese Falun Gong practitioners tend to fit the profile of \"spiritual seekers\"—people who had tried a variety of qigong, yoga, or religious practices before finding Falun Gong. According to Richard Madsen, Chinese scientists with doctorates from prestigious American universities who practice Falun Gong claim that modern physics (for example, superstring theory) and biology (specifically the pineal gland's function) provide a scientific basis for their beliefs. From their point of view, \"Falun Dafa is knowledge rather than religion, a new form of science rather than faith\".\n\nLi Hongzhi introduced Falun Gong to the public on 13 May 1992, in Changchun, Jilin Province. Several months later, in September 1992, Falun Gong was admitted as a branch of qigong under the administration of the state-run China Qigong Scientific Research Society (CQRS). Li was recognized as a qigong master, and was authorized to teach his practice nationwide. Like many \"qigong\" masters at the time, Li toured major cities in China from 1992 to 1994 to teach the practice. He was granted a number of awards by PRC governmental organizations.\n\nAccording to David Ownby, Professor of History and Director of the Center for East Asian Studies at the Université de Montréal, Li became an \"instant star of the qigong movement\", and Falun Gong was embraced by the government as an effective means of lowering health care costs, promoting Chinese culture, and improving public morality. In December 1992, for instance, Li and several Falun Gong students participated in the Asian Health Expo in Beijing, where he reportedly \"received the most praise [of any qigong school] at the fair, and achieved very good therapeutic results\", according to the fair's organizer. The event helped cement Li's popularity, and journalistic reports of Falun Gong's healing powers spread. In 1993, a publication of the Ministry of Public Security praised Li for \"promoting the traditional crime-fighting virtues of the Chinese people, in safeguarding social order and security, and in promoting rectitude in society.\"\n\nFalun Gong had differentiated itself from other \"qigong\" groups in its emphasis on morality, low cost, and health benefits. It rapidly spread via word-of-mouth, attracting a wide range of practitioners from all walks of life, including numerous members of the Chinese Communist Party.\n\nFrom 1992 to 1994, Li did charge fees for the seminars he was giving across China, though the fees were considerably lower than those of competing qigong practices, and the local qigong associations received a substantial share. Li justified the fees as being necessary to cover travel costs and other expenses, and on some occasions, he donated the money earned to charitable causes. In 1994, Li ceased charging fees altogether, thereafter stipulating that Falun Gong must always be taught for free, and its teachings made available without charge (including online). Although some observers believe Li continued to earn substantial income through the sale of Falun Gong books, others dispute this, noting that most Falun Gong books in circulation were bootleg copies.\nWith the publication of the books \"Falun Gong\" and \"Zhuan Falun\", Li made his teachings more widely accessible. \"Zhuan Falun\", published in January 1995 at an unveiling ceremony held in the auditorium of the Ministry of Public Security, became a best-seller in China.\n\nIn 1995, Chinese authorities began looking to Falun Gong to solidify its organizational structure and ties to the party-state. Li was approached by the Chinese National Sports Committee, Ministry of Public Health, and China Qigong Science Research Association (CQRS) to jointly establish a Falun Gong association. Li declined the offer. The same year, the CQRS issued a new regulation mandating that all qigong denominations establish a Communist Party branch. Li again refused.\n\nTensions continued to mount between Li and the CQRS in 1996. In the face of Falun Gong's rise in popularity—a large part of which was attributed to its low cost—competing \"qigong\" masters accused Li of undercutting them. According to Schechter, the \"qigong\" society under which Li and other \"qigong\" masters belonged asked Li to hike his tuition, but Li emphasized the need for the teachings to be free of charge.\n\nIn March 1996, in response to mounting disagreements, Falun Gong withdrew from the CQRS, after which time it operated outside the official sanction of the state. Falun Gong representatives attempted to register with other government entities, but were rebuffed. Li and Falun Gong were then outside the circuit of personal relations and financial exchanges through which masters and their \"qigong\" organizations could find a place within the state system, and also the protections this afforded.\n\nFalun Gong's departure from the state-run CQRS corresponded to a wider shift in the government's attitudes towards qigong practices. As qigong's detractors in government grew more influential, authorities began attempting to rein in the growth and influence of these groups, some of which had amassed tens of millions of followers. In the mid-1990s the state-run media began publishing articles critical of qigong.\n\nFalun Gong was initially shielded from the mounting criticism, but following its withdrawal from the CQRS in March 1996, it lost this protection. On 17 June 1996, the \"Guangming Daily\", an influential state-run newspaper, published a polemic against Falun Gong in which its central text, \"Zhuan Falun\", was described as an example of \"feudal superstition.\" The author wrote that the history of humanity is a \"struggle between science and superstition,\" and called on Chinese publishers not to print \"pseudo-scientific books of the swindlers.\" The article was followed by at least twenty more in newspapers nationwide. Soon after, on 24 July, the Central Propaganda Department banned all publication of Falun Gong books (though the ban was not consistently enforced). The state-administered Buddhist Association of China also began issuing criticisms of Falun Gong, urging lay Buddhists not to take up the practice.\n\nThe events were an important challenge to Falun Gong, and one that practitioners did not take lightly. Thousands of Falun Gong followers wrote to \"Guangming Daily\" and to the CQRS to complain against the measures, claiming that they violated Hu Yaobang's 1982 'Triple No' directive, which prohibited the media from either encouraging or criticizing qigong practices. In other instances, Falun Gong practitioners staged peaceful demonstrations outside media or local government offices to request retractions of perceived unfair coverage.\n\nThe polemics against Falun Gong were part of a larger movement opposing qigong organizations in the state-run media. Although Falun Gong was not the only target of the media criticism, nor the only group to protest, theirs was the most mobilized and steadfast response. Many of Falun Gong's protests against negative media portrayals were successful, resulting in the retraction of several newspaper stories critical of the practice. This contributed to practitioners' belief that the media claims against them were false or exaggerated, and that their stance was justified.\n\nIn June 1998, He Zuoxiu, an outspoken critic of qigong and a fierce defender of Marxism, appeared on a talk show on Beijing Television and openly disparaged \"qigong\" groups, making particular mention of Falun Gong. Falun Gong practitioners responded with peaceful protests and by lobbying the station for a retraction. The reporter responsible for the program was reportedly fired, and a program favorable to Falun Gong was aired several days later. Falun Gong practitioners also mounted demonstrations at 14 other media outlets.\n\nIn 1997, The Ministry of Public Security launched an investigation into whether Falun Gong should be deemed xie jiao (邪教, \"heretical teaching\"). The report concluded that \"no evidence has appeared thus far\". The following year, however, on 21 July 1998, the Ministry of Public Security issued Document No. 555, \"Notice of the Investigation of Falun Gong\". The document asserted that Falun Gong is a \"heretical teaching\", and mandated that another investigation be launched to seek evidence in support of the conclusion. Falun Gong practitioners reported having phone lines tapped, homes ransacked and raided, and Falun Gong exercise sites disrupted by public security agents.\nIn this time period, even as criticism of qigong and Falun Gong mounted in some circles, the practice maintained a number of high-profile supporters in the government. In 1998, Qiao Shi, the recently retired Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, initiated his own investigation into Falun Gong. After months of investigations, his group concluded that \"Falun Gong has hundreds of benefits for the Chinese people and China, and does not have one single bad effect.\" In May of the same year, China's National Sports Commission launched its own survey of Falun Gong. Based on interviews with over 12,000 Falun Gong practitioners in Guangdong province, they stated that they were \"convinced the exercises and effects of Falun Gong are excellent. It has done an extraordinary amount to improve society's stability and ethics.\"\n\nThe practice's founder, Li Hongzhi, was largely absent from the country during the period of rising tensions with the government. In March 1995, Li had left China to first teach his practice in France and then other countries, and in 1998 obtained permanent residency in the United States.\n\nBy 1999, estimates provided by the State Sports Commission suggested there were 70 million Falun Gong practitioners in China. An anonymous employee of China's National Sports Commission, was at this time quoted in an interview with U.S. News & World Report as speculating that if 100 million had taken up Falun Gong and other forms of qigong there would be a dramatic reduction of health care costs and that \"Premier Zhu Rongji is very happy about that.\"\n\nBy the late 1990s, the Communist Party's relationship to the growing Falun Gong movement had become increasingly tense. Reports of discrimination and surveillance by the Public Security Bureau were escalating, and Falun Gong practitioners were routinely organizing sit-in demonstrations responding to media articles they deemed to be unfair. The conflicting investigations launched by the Ministry of the Public Security on one side and the State Sports Commission and Qiao Shi on the other spoke of the disagreements among China's elites on how to regard the growing practice.\n\nIn April 1999, an article critical of Falun Gong was published in Tianjin Normal University's \"Youth Reader\" magazine. The article was authored by physicist He Zuoxiu who, as Porter and Gutmann note, is a relative of Politburo member and public security secretary Luo Gan. The article cast qigong, and Falun Gong in particular, as superstitious and harmful for youth. Falun Gong practitioners responded by picketing the offices of the newspaper requesting a retraction of the article. Unlike past instances in which Falun Gong protests were successful, on 22 April the Tianjin demonstration was broken up by the arrival of three hundred riot police. Some of the practitioners were beaten, and forty-five arrested. Other Falun Gong practitioners were told that if they wished to appeal further, they needed to take the issue up with the Ministry of Public Security and go to Beijing to appeal.\nThe Falun Gong community quickly mobilized a response, and on the morning of 25 April, upwards of 10,000 practitioners gathered near the central appeals office to demand an end to the escalating harassment against the movement, and request the release of the Tianjin practitioners. According to Benjamin Penny, practitioners sought redress from the leadership of the country by going to them and, \"albeit very quietly and politely, making it clear that they would not be treated so shabbily.\" Journalist Ethan Gutmann wrote that security officers had been expecting them, and corralled the practitioners onto Fuyou Street in front of Zhongnanhai government compound. They sat or read quietly on the sidewalks surrounding the Zhongnanhai.\n\nFive Falun Gong representatives met with Premier Zhu Rongji and other senior officials to negotiate a resolution. The Falun Gong representatives were assured that the regime supported physical exercises for health improvements and did not consider the Falun Gong to be anti-government. Upon reaching this resolution, the crowd of Falun Gong protesters dispersed.\n\nParty General Secretary Jiang Zemin was alerted to the demonstration by CPC Politburo member Luo Gan, and was reportedly angered by the audacity of the demonstration—the largest since the Tiananmen Square protests ten years earlier. Jiang called for resolute action to suppress the group, and reportedly criticized Premier Zhu for being \"too soft\" in his handling of the situation. That evening, Jiang composed a letter indicating his desire to see Falun Gong \"defeated\". In the letter, Jiang expressed concerns over the size and popularity of Falun Gong, and in particular about the large number of senior Communist Party members found among Falun Gong practitioners. He noted the possibility of foreign forces behind Falun Gong's protests (the practice's founder, Li Hongzhi, had emigrated to the United States), and expressed concern about their use of the internet to coordinate a large-scale demonstration. Jiang also intimated that Falun Gong's moral philosophy was at odds with the atheist values of Marxist–Leninism, and therefore constituted a form of ideological competition.\n\nJiang is held by Falun Gong to be personally responsible for this decision to persecute Falun Gong. Peerman cited reasons such as suspected personal jealousy of Li Hongzhi; Saich points to Jiang's anger at Falun Gong's widespread appeal, and ideological struggle as causes for the crackdown that followed. Willy Wo-Lap Lam suggests Jiang's decision to suppress Falun Gong was related to a desire to consolidate his power within the Politburo. According to Human Rights Watch, Communist Party leaders and ruling elite were far from unified in their support for the crackdown.\n\nOn 20 July 1999, security forces abducted and detained thousands of Falun Gong practitioners that they identified as leaders. Two days later, on 22 July, the PRC Ministry of Civil Affairs outlawed the Falun Dafa Research Society as an illegal organization \"engaged in illegal activities, advocating superstition and spreading fallacies, hoodwinking people, inciting and creating disturbances, and jeopardizing social stability\". The same day, the Ministry of Public Security issued a circular forbidding citizens from practicing Falun Gong in groups, possessing Falun Gong's teachings, displaying Falun Gong banners or symbols, or protesting the ban.\n\nThe ensuing campaign aimed to \"eradicate\" the group through a combination of propaganda, imprisonment, and coercive thought reform of practitioners, sometimes resulting in deaths. In October 1999, four months after the ban, legislation was created to outlaw \"heterodox religions\" and sentence Falun Gong devotees to prison terms.\nHundreds of thousands are estimated to have been imprisoned extrajudicially, and practitioners in detention are reportedly subjected to forced labor, psychiatric abuse, torture, and other coercive methods of thought reform at the hands of Chinese authorities. The U.S. Department of State and Congressional-Executive Commission on China cite estimates that as much as half of China's reeducation-through-labor camp population is made up of Falun Gong practitioners. Researcher Ethan Gutmann estimates that Falun Gong represents an average of 15 to 20 percent of the total \"laogai\" population, which includes reeducation through labor camps as well as prisons and other forms of administrative detention. Former detainees of the labor camp system have reported that Falun Gong practitioners are one of the largest groups of prisoners; in some labor camp and prison facilities, they comprise the majority of detainees, and are often said to receive the longest sentences and the worst treatment. A 2013 report by Amnesty International on labor reeducation camps found that Falun Gong practitioners \"constituted on average from one third to in some cases 100 per cent of the total population\" of certain camps.\n\nAccording to Johnson, the campaign against Falun Gong extends to many aspects of society, including the media apparatus, police force, military, education system, and workplaces. An extra-constitutional body, the \"610 Office\" was created to \"oversee\" the effort. Human Rights Watch (2002) noted that families and workplaces were urged to cooperate with the government.\n\nForeign observers have attempted to explain the Party's rationale for banning Falun Gong as stemming from a variety of factors. These include Falun Gong's popularity, China's history of quasi-religious movements that turned into violent insurrections, its independence from the state and refusal to toe the party line, internal power politics within the Communist Party—and Falun Gong's moral and spiritual content, which put it at odds with aspects of the official Marxist ideology.\nXinhua News Agency, the official news organization of the Communist Party, declared that Falun Gong is \"opposed to the Communist Party of China and the central government, preaches idealism, theism and feudal superstition.\" Xinhua also asserted that \"the so-called 'truth, kindness and forbearance' principle preached by [Falun Gong] has nothing in common with the socialist ethical and cultural progress we are striving to achieve\", and argued that it was necessary to crush Falun Gong to preserve the \"vanguard role and purity\" of the Communist Party. Other articles appearing in the state-run media in the first days and weeks of the ban posited that Falun Gong must be defeated because its \"theistic\" philosophy was at odds with the Marxist–Leninism paradigm and with the secular values of materialism.\n\nWilly Wo-Lap Lam writes that Jiang Zemin's campaign against Falun Gong may have been used to promote allegiance to himself; Lam quotes one party veteran as saying \"by unleashing a Mao-style movement [against Falun Gong], Jiang is forcing senior cadres to pledge allegiance to his line.\" \"The Washington Post\" reported that sources indicated not all of the standing committee of the Politburo shared Jiang's view that Falun Gong should be eradicated, but James Tong suggests there was not substantial resistance from the Politburo.\n\nHuman Rights Watch notes that the crackdown on Falun Gong reflects historical efforts by the Chinese Communist Party to eradicate religion, which the government believes is inherently subversive. The Chinese government protects five \"patriotic\", Communist Party-sanctioned religious groups. Unregistered religions that fall outside the state-sanctioned organizations are thus vulnerable to suppression. \"The Globe and Mail\" wrote : \"... any group that does not come under the control of the Party is a threat\". Craig S. Smith of \"The Wall Street Journal\" wrote that the party feels increasingly threatened by any belief system that challenges its ideology and has an ability to organize itself. That Falun Gong, whose belief system represented a revival of traditional Chinese religion, was being practiced by a large number of Communist Party members and members of the military was seen as particularly disturbing to Jiang Zemin; according to Julia Ching, \"Jiang accepts the threat of Falun Gong as an ideological one: spiritual beliefs against militant atheism and historical materialism. He [wished] to purge the government and the military of such beliefs.\"\nYuezhi Zhao points to several other factors that may have led to a deterioration of the relationship between Falun Gong and the Chinese state and media. These included infighting within China's qigong establishment, the influence of qigong opponents among Communist Party leaders, and the struggles from mid-1996 to mid-1999 between Falun Gong and the Chinese power elite over the status and treatment of the movement. According to Zhao, Falun Gong practitioners have established a \"resistance identity\"—one that stands against prevailing pursuits of wealth, power, scientific rationality, and \"the entire value system associated with China's project of modernization.\" In China the practice represented an indigenous spiritual and moral tradition, a cultural revitalization movement, and drew a sharp contrast to \"Marxism with Chinese characteristics\".\n\nVivienne Shue similarly writes that Falun Gong presented a comprehensive challenge to the Communist Party's legitimacy. Shue argues that Chinese rulers historically have derived their legitimacy from a claim to possess an exclusive connection to the \"Truth\". In imperial China, truth was based on a Confucian and Daoist cosmology, where in the case of the Communist Party, the truth is represented by Marxist–Leninism and historical materialism. Falun Gong challenged the Marxist–Leninism paradigm, reviving an understanding based on more traditionally Buddhist or Daoist conceptions. David Ownby contends that Falun Gong also challenged the Communist Party's hegemony over Chinese nationalist discourse: \"[Falun Gong's] evocation of a different vision of Chinese tradition and its contemporary value is now so threatening to the state and party because it denies them the sole right to define the meaning of Chinese nationalism, and perhaps of Chineseness.\"\n\nMaria Chang noted that since the overthrow of the Qin Dynasty, \"Millenarian movements had exerted a profound impact on the course of Chinese history,\" cumulating in the Chinese Revolutions of 1949, which brought the Chinese Communists to power. Patsy Rahn (2002) describes a paradigm of conflict between Chinese sectarian groups and the rulers they often challenge. According to Rahn, the history of this paradigm goes back to the collapse of the Han dynasty: \"The pattern of ruling power keeping a watchful eye on sectarian groups, at times threatened by them, at times raising campaigns against them, began as early as the second century and continued throughout the dynastic period, through the Mao era and into the present.\"\n\nAccording to James Tong, the regime aimed at both coercive dissolution of the Falun Gong denomination and \"transformation\" of the practitioners. By 2000, the Party upped its campaign by sentencing \"recidivist\" practitioners to \"re-education through labor\", in an effort to have them renounce their beliefs and \"transform\" their thoughts. Terms were also arbitrarily extended by police, while some practitioners had ambiguous charges levied against them, such as \"disrupting social order\", \"endangering national security\", or \"subverting the socialist system\". According to Bejesky, the majority of long-term Falun Gong detainees are processed administratively through this system instead of the criminal justice system. Upon completion of their re-education sentences, those practitioners who refused to recant were then incarcerated in \"legal education centers\" set up by provincial authorities to \"transform minds\".\n\nMuch of the conversion program relied on Mao-style techniques of indoctrination and thought reform, where Falun Gong practitioners were organized to view anti-Falun Gong television programs and enroll in Marxism and materialism study sessions. Traditional Marxism and materialism were the core content of the sessions.\nThe government-sponsored image of the conversion process emphasizes psychological persuasion and a variety of \"soft-sell\" techniques; this is the \"ideal norm\" in regime reports, according to Tong. Falun Gong reports, on the other hand, depict \"disturbing and sinister\" forms of coercion against practitioners who fail to renounce their beliefs. 14,474 cases are classified by different methods of torture, according to Tong (Falun Gong agencies document over 63,000 individual cases of torture). Among them are cases of severe beatings; psychological torment, corporal punishment and forced intense, heavy-burden hard labor and stress positions; solitary confinement in squalid conditions; \"heat treatment\" including burning and freezing; electric shocks delivered to sensitive parts of the body that may result in nausea, convulsions, or fainting; \"devastative\" forced feeding; sticking bamboo strips into fingernails; deprivation of food, sleep, and use of toilet; rape and gang rape; asphyxiation; and threat, extortion, and termination of employment and student status.\n\nThe cases appear verifiable, and the great majority identify (1) the individual practitioner, often with age, occupation, and residence; (2) the time and location that the alleged abuse took place, down to the level of the district, township, village, and often the specific jail institution; and (3) the names and ranks of the alleged perpetrators. Many such reports include lists of the names of witnesses and descriptions of injuries, Tong says. The publication of \"persistent abusive, often brutal behavior by named individuals with their official title, place, and time of torture\" suggests that there is no official will to cease and desist such activities.\n\nDue to the difficulty in corroborating reports of torture deaths in China, estimates on the number of Falun Gong practitioners killed under persecution vary widely. In 2009, the New York Times reported that, according to human rights groups, the repressions had claimed \"at least 2,000\" lives.\nAmnesty International said at least 100 Falun Gong practitioners had reportedly died in the 2008 calendar year, either in custody or shortly after their release. Falun Gong sources have documented over 3,700 deaths. Investigative journalist Ethan Gutmann estimated 65,000 Falun Gong were killed for their organs from 2000 to 2008 based on extensive interviews, while researchers David Kilgour and David Matas reported, \"the source of 41,500 transplants for the six year period 2000 to 2005 is unexplained\".\n\nChinese authorities do not publish statistics on Falun Gong practitioners killed amidst the crackdown. In individual cases, however, authorities have denied that deaths in custody were due to torture.\n\nIn 2006, allegations emerged that a large number of Falun Gong practitioners had been killed to supply China's organ transplant industry. These allegations prompted an investigation by former Canadian Secretary of State David Kilgour and human rights lawyer David Matas.\n\nThe Kilgour-Matas report was published in July 2006, and concluded that \"the government of China and its agencies in numerous parts of the country, in particular hospitals but also detention centers and 'people's courts', since 1999 have put to death a large but unknown number of Falun Gong prisoners of conscience.\" The report, which was based mainly on circumstantial evidence, called attention to the extremely short wait times for organs in China—one to two weeks for a liver compared with 32.5 months in Canada—noting that this was indicative of organs being procured on demand. It also tracked a significant increase in the number of annual organ transplants in China beginning in 1999, corresponding with the onset of the persecution of Falun Gong. Despite very low levels of voluntary organ donation, China performs the second-highest number of transplants per year. Kilgour and Matas also presented self-accusatory material from Chinese transplant center web sites advertising the immediate availability of organs from living donors, and transcripts of interviews in which hospitals told prospective transplant recipients that they could obtain Falun Gong organs.\nIn May 2008 two United Nations Special Rapporteurs reiterated requests for the Chinese authorities to respond to the allegations, and to explain a source for the organs that would account for the sudden increase in organ transplants in China since 2000. Chinese officials have responded by denying the organ harvesting allegations, and insisting that China abides by World Health Organization principles that prohibit the sale of human organs without written consent from donors. Responding to a U.S. House of Representatives Resolution calling for an end to abusing transplant practices against religious and ethnic minorities, a Chinese embassy spokesperson said \"the so-called organ harvesting from death-row prisoners is totally a lie fabricated by Falun Gong.\" In August 2009, Manfred Nowak, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Torture, said, \"The Chinese government has yet to come clean and be transparent ... It remains to be seen how it could be possible that organ transplant surgeries in Chinese hospitals have risen massively since 1999, while there are never that many voluntary donors available.\"\n\nIn 2014, investigative journalist Ethan Gutmann published the result of his own investigation. Gutmann conducted extensive interviews with former detainees in Chinese labor camps and prisons, as well as former security officers and medical professionals with knowledge of China's transplant practices. He reported that organ harvesting from political prisoners likely began in Xinjiang province in the 1990s, and then spread nationwide. Gutmann estimates that some 64,000 Falun Gong prisoners may have been killed for their organs between the years 2000 and 2008.\n\nIn a 2016 report, David Kilgour found that he had underestimated. In the new report he found that the government's official estimates for the volume of organs harvested since the persecution of Falun Gong began to be 150,000 to 200,000. Media outlets have extrapolated from this study a death toll of 1,500,000. Ethan Gutmann estimated from this update that 60,000 to 110,000 organs are harvested in China annually noting it is (paraphrasing): \"difficult but plausible to harvest 3 organs from a single body\" and also calls the harvest \"a new form of genocide using the most respected members of society.\"\n\nThe Chinese government's campaign against Falun Gong was driven by large-scale propaganda through television, newspapers, radio and internet. \nWithin the first month of the crackdown, 300–400 articles attacking Falun Gong appeared in each of the main state-run papers, while primetime television replayed alleged exposés on the group, with no divergent views aired in the media. The propaganda campaign focused on allegations that Falun Gong jeopardized social stability, was deceiving and dangerous, was \"anti-science\" and threatened progress, and argued that Falun Gong's moral philosophy was incompatible with a Marxist social ethic.\n\nChina scholars Daniel Wright and Joseph Fewsmith asserted that for several months after Falun Gong was outlawed, China Central Television's evening news contained little but anti-Falun Gong rhetoric; the government operation was \"a study in all-out demonization\", they wrote. Falun Gong was compared to \"a rat crossing the street that everyone shouts out to squash\" by \"Beijing Daily\"; other officials said it would be a \"long-term, complex and serious\" struggle to \"eradicate\" Falun Gong.\n\nState propaganda initially used the appeal of scientific rationalism to argue that Falun Gong's worldview was in \"complete opposition to science\" and communism. For example, the \"People's Daily\" asserted on 27 July 1999, that the fight against Falun Gong \"was a struggle between theism and atheism, superstition and science, idealism and materialism.\" Other editorials declared that Falun Gong's \"idealism and theism\" are \"absolutely contradictory to the\nfundamental theories and principles of Marxism,\" and that the \"'truth, kindness and forbearance' principle preached by [Falun Gong] has nothing in common with the socialist ethical and cultural progress we are striving to achieve.\" Suppressing Falun Gong was presented as a necessary step to maintaining the \"vanguard role\" of the Communist Party in Chinese society.\n\nDespite Party efforts, initial charges leveled against Falun Gong failed to elicit widespread popular support for the persecution of the group. In the months following July 1999, the rhetoric in the state-run press escalated to include charges that Falun Gong was colluding with foreign, \"anti-China\" forces. In October 1999, three months after the persecution began, the People Daily newspaper claimed Falun Gong as a \"xiejiao\". A direct translation of that term is \"heretical teaching\", but during the anti-Falun Gong propaganda campaign was rendered as \"evil cult\" in English. In the context of imperial China, the term \"xiejiao\" was used to refer to non-Confucian religions, though in the context of Communist China, it has been used to target religious organizations that do not submit to Communist Party authority.\n\nIan Johnson argued that applying the 'cult' label to Falun Gong effectively \"cloaked the government's crackdown with the legitimacy of the West's anticult movement.\" He notes, however, that Falun Gong does not satisfy common definitions of a cult: \"its members marry outside the group, have outside friends, hold normal jobs, do not live isolated from society, do not believe that the world's end is imminent and do not give significant amounts of money to the organisation ... it does not advocate violence and is at heart an apolitical, inward-oriented discipline, one aimed at cleansing oneself spiritually and improving one's health.\" David Ownby similarly wrote that \"the entire issue of the supposed cultic nature of Falun Gong was a red herring from the beginning, cleverly exploited by the Chinese state to blunt the appeal of Falun Gong.\". According to John Powers and Meg Y. M. Lee, because the Falun Gong was categorized in the popular perception as an \"apolitical, qigong exercise club,\" it was not seen as a threat to the government. The most critical strategy in the Falun Gong suppression campaign, therefore, was to convince people to reclassify the Falun Gong into a number of \"negatively charged religious labels\", like \"evil cult\", \"sect\", or \"superstition\". The group's silent protests were reclassified as creating \"social disturbances\". In this process of relabelling, the government was attempting to tap into a \"deep reservoir of negative feelings related to the historical role of quasi-religious cults as a destabilising force in Chinese political history.\"\n\nA turning point in the propaganda campaign came on the eve of Chinese New Year on 23 January 2001, when five people attempted to set themselves ablaze on Tiananmen Square. The official Chinese press agency, Xinhua News Agency, and other state media asserted that the self-immolators were practitioners, though the Falun Dafa Information Center disputed this, on the grounds that the movement's teachings explicitly forbid suicide and killing, further alleging that the event was \"a cruel (but clever) piece of stunt-work.\" The incident received international news coverage, and video footage of the burnings were broadcast later inside China by China Central Television (CCTV). The broadcasts showed images of a 12-year-old girl, Liu Siying, burning, and interviews with the other participants in which they stated a belief that self-immolation would lead them to paradise. But one of the CNN producers on the scene did not even see a child there. Falun Gong sources and other commentators pointed out that the main participants' account of the incident and other aspects of the participants' behavior were inconsistent with the teachings of Falun Dafa. Media Channel and the International Education Development (IED) agree that the supposed self-immolation incident was staged by CCP to \"prove\" that Falun Gong brainwashes its followers to commit suicide and has therefore to be banned as a threat to the nation. IED's statement at the 53rd UN session describes China's violent assault on Falun Gong practitioners as state terrorism and that the self-immolation \"was staged by the government.\" \"Washington Post\" journalist Phillip Pan wrote that the two self-immolators who died were not actually Falun Gong practitioners. On March 21, 2001, Liu Siying suddenly died after appearing very lively and being deemed ready to leave the hospital to go home. \"Time\" reported that prior to the self-immolation incident, many Chinese had felt that Falun Gong posed no real threat, and that the state's crackdown had gone too far. After the event, however, the mainland Chinese media campaign against Falun Gong gained significant traction. As public sympathy for Falun Gong declined, the government began sanctioning \"systematic use of violence\" against the group.\n\nIn February, 2001, the month following the Tiananmen Square incident, Jiang Zemin convened a rare Central Work Conference to stress the importance of continuity in the anti-Falun Gong campaign and unite senior party officials behind the effort. Under Jiang's leadership, the crackdown on Falun Gong became part of the Chinese political ethos of \"upholding stability\" – much the same rhetoric employed by the party during Tiananmen in 1989. Jiang's message was echoed at the 2001 National People's Congress, where the Falun Gong's eradication was tied to China's economic progress. Though less prominent on the national agenda, the persecution of Falun Gong has carried on after Jiang was retired; successive, high-level \"strike hard\" campaigns against Falun Gong were initiated in both 2008 and 2009. In 2010, a three-year campaign was launched to renew attempts at the coercive \"transformation\" of Falun Gong practitioners.\n\nAnti-Falun Gong propaganda efforts have also permeated the Chinese education system. Following Jiang Zemin's 1999 ban of Falun Gong, then-Minister of Education Chen Zhili launched an active campaign to promote the Party's line on Falun Gong within all levels of academic institutions, including graduate schools, universities and colleges, middle schools, primary schools, and kindergartens. Her efforts included a \"Cultural Revolution-like pledge\" in Chinese schools that required faculty members, staff, and students to publicly denounce Falun Gong. Teachers who did not comply with Chen's program were dismissed or detained; uncooperative students were refused academic advancement, expelled from school, or sent to \"transformation\" camps to alter their thinking. Chen also worked to spread the anti-Falun Gong academic propaganda movement overseas, using domestic educational funding to donate aid to foreign institutions, encouraging them to oppose Falun Gong.\n\nFalun Gong's response to the persecution in China began in July 1999 with appeals to local, provincial, and central petitioning offices in Beijing. It soon progressed to larger demonstrations, with hundreds of Falun Gong practitioners traveling daily to Tiananmen Square to perform Falun Gong exercises or raise banners in defense of the practice. These demonstrations were invariably broken up by security forces, and the practitioners involved were arrested—sometimes violently—and detained. By 25 April 2000, a total of more than 30,000 practitioners had been arrested on the square; seven hundred Falun Gong followers were arrested during a demonstration in the square on 1 January 2001. Public protests continued well into 2001. Writing for the \"Wall Street Journal\", Ian Johnson wrote that \"Falun Gong faithful have mustered what is arguably the most sustained challenge to authority in 50 years of Communist rule.\"\n\nBy late 2001, demonstrations in Tiananmen Square had become less frequent, and the practice was driven deeper underground. As public protest fell out of favor, practitioners established underground \"material sites,\" which would produce literature and DVDs to counter the portrayal of Falun Gong in the official media. Practitioners then distribute these materials, often door-to-door. Falun Gong sources estimated in 2009 that over 200,000 such sites exist across China today. The production, possession, or distribution of these materials is frequently grounds for security agents to incarcerate or sentence Falun Gong practitioners.\n\nIn 2002, Falun Gong activists in China tapped into television broadcasts, replacing regular state-run programming with their own content. One of the more notable instances occurred in March 2002, when Falun Gong practitioners in Changchun intercepted eight cable television networks in Jilin Province, and for nearly an hour, televised a program titled \"Self-Immolation or a Staged Act?\". All six of the Falun Gong practitioners involved were captured over the next few months. Two were killed immediately, while the other four were all dead by 2010 as a result of injuries sustained while imprisoned.\n\nOutside China, Falun Gong practitioners established international media organizations to gain wider exposure for their cause and challenge narratives of the Chinese state-run media. These include The Epoch Times newspaper, New Tang Dynasty Television, and Sound of Hope radio station. According to Zhao, through \"The Epoch Times\" it can be discerned how Falun Gong is building a \"de facto media alliance\" with China's democracy movements in exile, as demonstrated by its frequent printing of articles by prominent overseas Chinese critics of the PRC government. In 2004, \"The Epoch Times\" published a collection of nine editorials that presented a critical history of Communist Party rule. This catalyzed the Tuidang movement, which encourages Chinese citizens to renounce their affiliations to the Chinese Communist Party, including ex post facto renunciations of the Communist Youth League and Young Pioneers. \"The Epoch Times\" claims that tens of millions have renounced the Communist Party as part of the movement, though these numbers have not been independently verified.\nIn 2006, Falun Gong practitioners in the United States formed Shen Yun Performing Arts, a dance and music company that tours internationally.\n\nFalun Gong software developers in the United States are also responsible for the creation of several popular censorship-circumvention tools employed by internet users in China.\n\nFalun Gong Practitioners outside China have filed dozens of lawsuits against Jiang Zemin, Luo Gan, Bo Xilai, and other Chinese officials alleging genocide and crimes against humanity. According to \"International Advocates for Justice\", Falun Gong has filed the largest number of human rights lawsuits in the 21st century and the charges are among the most severe international crimes defined by international criminal laws. As of 2006, 54 civil and criminal lawsuits were under way in 33 countries. In many instances, courts have refused to adjudicate the cases on the grounds of sovereign immunity. In late 2009, however, separate courts in Spain and Argentina indicted Jiang Zemin and Luo Gan on charges of \"crimes of humanity\" and genocide, and asked for their arrest—the ruling is acknowledged to be largely symbolic and unlikely to be carried out. The court in Spain also indicted Bo Xilai, Jia Qinglin and Wu Guanzheng.\n\nFalun Gong practitioners and their supporters also filed a lawsuit in May 2011 against the technology company Cisco Systems, alleging that the company helped design and implement a surveillance system for the Chinese government to suppress Falun Gong. Cisco denied customizing their technology for this purpose.\n\nLi Hongzhi began teaching Falun Gong internationally in March 1995. His first stop was in Paris where, at the invitation of the Chinese ambassador, he held a lecture seminar at the PRC embassy. This was followed by lectures in Sweden in May 1995. Between 1995 and 1999, Li gave lectures in the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Germany, Switzerland, and Singapore.\n\nFalun Gong's growth outside China largely corresponded to the migration of students from Mainland China to the West in the early- to mid-1990s. Falun Gong associations and clubs began appearing in Europe, North America and Australia, with activities centered mainly on university campuses. Falun Gong volunteer instructors and Falun Dafa Associations are currently found in 80 countries outside China.\n\nTranslations of Falun Gong teachings began appearing in the late 1990s. As the practice began proliferating outside China, Li Hongzhi was beginning to receive recognition in the United States and elsewhere in the western world. In May 1999, Li was welcomed to Toronto with greetings from the city's mayor and the provincial lieutenant governor, and in the two months that followed also received recognition from the cities of Chicago and San Jose.\n\nAlthough the practice was beginning to attract an overseas constituency in the 1990s, it remained relatively unknown outside China until the Spring of 1999, when tensions between Falun Gong and Communist Party authorities became a subject of international media coverage. With the increased attention, the practice gained a greater following outside China. Following the launch of the Communist Party's suppression campaign against Falun Gong, the overseas presence became vital to the practice's resistance in China and its continued survival. Falun Gong practitioners overseas have responded to the persecution in China through regular demonstrations, parades, and through the creation of media outlets, performing arts companies, and censorship-circumvention software mainly intended to reach Mainland Chinese audiences.\n\nA body of scholarly work has been published on Falun Gong ever since it began. Most of these have been created by social scientists, who investigate the social conditions that lead to the creation of the movement.\n\nSince 1999, numerous Western governments and human rights organizations have expressed condemnation of the Chinese government's suppression of Falun Gong. Since 1999, members of the United States Congress have made public pronouncements and introduced several resolutions in support of Falun Gong. In 2010, U.S. House of Representatives Resolution 605 called for \"an immediate end to the campaign to persecute, intimidate, imprison, and torture Falun Gong practitioners,\" condemned the Chinese authorities' efforts to distribute \"false propaganda\" about the practice worldwide, and expressed sympathy to persecuted Falun Gong practitioners and their families.\nFrom 1999 to 2001, Western media reports on Falun Gong—and in particular, the mistreatment of practitioners—were frequent, if mixed. By the latter half of 2001, however, the volume of media reports declined precipitously, and by 2002, major news organizations like the \"New York Times\" and \"Washington Post\" had almost completely ceased their coverage of Falun Gong from China. In a study of media discourse on Falun Gong, researcher Leeshai Lemish found that Western news organizations also became less balanced, and more likely to uncritically present the narratives of the Communist Party, rather than those of Falun Gong or human rights groups. Adam Frank writes that in reporting on the Falun Gong, the Western tradition of casting the Chinese as \"exotic\" took dominance, and that while the facts were generally correct in Western media coverage, \"the normalcy that millions of Chinese practitioners associated with the practice had all but disappeared.\" David Ownby noted that alongside these tactics, the \"cult\" label applied to Falun Gong by the Chinese authorities never entirely went away in the minds of some Westerners, and the stigma still plays a role in wary public perceptions of Falun Gong.\n\nTo counter the support of Falun Gong in the West, the Chinese government expanded their efforts against the group internationally. This included visits to newspaper officers by diplomats to \"extol the virtues of Communist China and the evils of Falun Gong\", linking support for Falun Gong with \"jeopardizing trade relations,\" and sending letters to local politicians telling them to withdraw support for the practice. According to Perry Link, pressure on Western institutions also takes more subtle forms, including academic self-censorship, whereby research on Falun Gong could result in a denial of visa for fieldwork in China; or exclusion and discrimination from business and community groups who have connections with China and fear angering the Communist Party.\n\nAlthough the persecution of Falun Gong has drawn considerable condemnation outside China, some observers note that Falun Gong has failed to attract the level of sympathy and sustained attention afforded to other Chinese dissident groups. Katrina Lantos Swett, vice chair of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, notes that most Americans are aware of the suppression of \"Tibetan Buddhists and unregistered Christian groups or pro-democracy and free speech advocates such as Liu Xiaobo and Ai Weiwei,\" and yet \"know little to nothing about China’s assault on the Falun Gong.\"\n\nEthan Gutmann, a journalist reporting on China since the early 1990s, has attempted to explain this apparent dearth of public sympathy for Falun Gong as stemming, in part, from the group's shortcomings in public relations. Unlike the democracy activists or Tibetans, who have found a comfortable place in Western perceptions, \"Falun Gong marched to a distinctly Chinese drum\", Gutmann writes. Moreover, practitioners' attempts at getting their message across carried some of the uncouthness of Communist party culture, including a perception that practitioners tended to exaggerate, create \"torture tableaux straight out of a Cultural Revolution opera\", or \"spout slogans rather than facts\". This is coupled with a general doubtfulness in the West of persecuted refugees. Gutmann also notes that media organizations and human rights groups also self-censor on the topic, given the PRC governments vehement attitude toward the practice, and the potential repercussions that may follow for making overt representations on Falun Gong's behalf.\n\nRichard Madsen writes that Falun Gong lacks robust backing from the American constituencies that usually support religious freedom. For instance, Falun Gong's conservative moral beliefs have alienated some liberal constituencies in the West (e.g. its teachings against promiscuity and homosexual behavior). Christian conservatives, by contrast, don't accord the practice the same space as persecuted Chinese Christians. Madsen charges that the American political center does not want to push the human rights issue so hard that it would disrupt commercial and political relations with China. Thus, Falun Gong practitioners have largely had to rely on their own resources in responding to suppression.\n\nIn August 2007 at the request of the Falun Gong, the newly reestablished Rabbinic Sanhedrin deliberated persecution of the movement by Chinese government.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52082270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52082270", "title": "Feminization of language", "text": "Feminization of language\n\nIn linguistics, feminization has two mutually independent meanings.\n\nFirst, it refers to the process of re-classifying nouns and adjectives which as such refer to male beings, including occupational terms, as feminine. This is done most of the time by adding inflectional suffixes denoting a female (such as the standard suffix \"-ess\" in English, and its equivalent \"-a\" in Spanish).\n\nIn some languages with grammatical gender, for example Dutch, there is a tendency to assign the feminine gender to certain – in particular abstract – nouns which are originally masculine or neuter. This also happened to some words in Middle English (which, in contrast to Modern English, had grammatical gender) which denoted virtue and vice. In Modern English, in spite of it being a gender-neutral language, certain non-human things that are usually neuter are still sometimes feminized by way of figure of speech, especially countries and ships (see also , ).\n\nFeminists believe the use of the generic masculine to refer to someone who's gender is unknown erases women and should be abolished. There are a number of arguments against such prescriptive rules however.\n\nDouble gender marking is prevalent in radical political pamphlets and manifestos. This is difficult to track, however, as these types of publications are written by many groups and tend to be published by organizations that don't keep detailed records of their activities.\n\nFemale members of a profession can be referred to with the masculine ending -e (eg. presidente) or the feminine -essa (eg. presidentessa). A 2001 study by Mucchi-Faina and Barro showed that women professionals are more persuasive when using the masculine ending while a 2012 study by Merkel et al. show there was no difference in perception.\n\nNoun declension is asymmetrical in Russian. Women can be referred to with suffixes of the first or second declension but men can only be referred to with first declension suffixes.\n\n\"Man\" is commonly used to mean 'one' and is frequently used in general statements. It is similar to English indefinite \"you\" or \"one.\"\nFeminine job titles are usually created by adding -in to the grammatically masculine word in question. Informatiker (singular or plural). The feminine form is Informatikerin (singular) and Informatikerinnen (plural).\n\n"}
{"id": "37781958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37781958", "title": "Feudalism in the Holy Roman Empire", "text": "Feudalism in the Holy Roman Empire\n\nFeudalism in the Holy Roman Empire was a politico-economic system of relationships between liege lords and enfeoffed vassals (or feudatories) that formed the basis of the social structure within the Holy Roman Empire during the High Middle Ages. In German the system is variously referred to \"Lehnswesen\", \"Feudalwesen\" or \"Benefizialwesen\".\n\nFeudalism in Europe emerged in the Early Middle Ages, based on Roman clientship and the Germanic social hierarchy of lords and retainers. It obliged the feudatory to render personal services to the lord. These included e. g. holding his stirrup, joining him on festive occasions and service as a cupbearer at the banquet table. Both pledged mutual loyalty: the lord to \"shelter and protect\", the vassal to \"help and advise\". Furthermore, feudal lord and vassal were bound to mutually respect one another, i.e. the lord could not, by law, beat his vassal, humiliate or lay hands on his wife or daughter.\n\nThe highest liege lord was the sovereign, the king or duke, who granted fiefs to his princes. In turn, they could award fiefs to other nobles, who wanted to be enfeoffed by them and who were often subordinate to the liege lord in the aristocratic hierarchy.\n\nA fief (also fee, feu, feud, tenure or fiefdom, , , \"feodum\" or \"beneficium\") was understood to be a thing (land, property), which its owner, the liege lord (\"Lehnsherr\"), had transferred to the hereditary ownership of the beneficiary on the basis of mutual loyalty, with the proviso that it would return to the lord under certain circumstances.\n\nEnfeoffment gave the vassal extensive, hereditary usufruct of the fief, founded and maintained on a relationship of mutual loyalty between the lord and the beneficiary. The Latin word \"beneficum\" implied, not only the actual estate or property, the fief - in Latin usually called the \"feodum\" - but also the associated legal relationship.\n\nThe owner was the so-called liege lord or feudal lord (German: Lehnsherr \"Lehnsgeber\"; Latin: \"dominus feudi\", \"senior\"), who was usually the territorial lord or reigning monarch. The beneficiary was his vassal, liegeman or feudatory (German: Vasall, \"Lehnsmann\", \"Knecht\", \"Lehenempfänger\" or \"Lehensträger\"; Latin: \"vassus\" or \"vasallus\"). Both parties swore an oath of fealty (Lehnseid) to one another. The rights conferred on the vassal were so similar to actual possession that it was described as beneficial ownership (\"dominium utile\"), whereas the rights of the lord were referred to as direct ownership (\"dominium directum\").\n\nThe fief (German: \"Lehen\" or Lehnsgut) usually comprised an estate or a complex of estates, but also specified rights of use and rights of taxation or duties.\n\nLinguistically the term \"Lehen\" is connected with the word \"leihen\", to lend or loan, and meant something like \"loaned property\" (c.f. the modern German \"Darlehen\", a loan), whilst the word \"feudum\", which some etymologists suggest comes from the Latin \"fides\" (loyalty), is more likely to be derived from the Old High German \"feo\", which meant \"Vieh\" i.e. \"cattle\", but later generally meant \"goods\" or \"property\".\n\nThe opposite of a fief was the freehold, allod or \"allodium\", which roughly corresponds to the present freehold estate.\n\nAn institution during the transition from feudal states to what is now the free ownership of property, was the \"allodifizierte Lehen\" (\"allodified fief\"), a fief in which the feudal lord gave up direct ownership - usually in return for the payment of compensation or an allodified rent (\"Allodifikationsrenten\") - but the vassal's ownership of the fief with an agreed agnatic succession - resembling a family entailed estate (\"Familienfideikommiß\") - remained in place.\n\nThere were numerous different types of feudal arrangement depending on regional tradition and the nature of feudal lordship (secular or ecclesiastical/monastic). The best-known of these were:\n\n\nThe king gave estates or appointments (\"Ämter\") to upper or crown vassals (\"Kronvasallen\"), who, in turn, passed them on to lower vassals (\"Untervasallen\"). The lower vassals would then hire the land to be cultivated by unfree farmers. There were no feudal relationships between farmers and the lower vassals.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages another structure developed in Germany, the so-called \"Heerschildordnung\", a medieval feudal hierarchy:\n\n\nInitially, only those of knightly birth were entitled to be enfeoffed, i.e. free knights who could bear arms and were in full possession of their title. Later, unfree ministeriales also rose to the knighthood. Vassalage consisted mainly of military campaigns (military service) and court duty (the presence of vassals at the court in order to offer advice). From court service, the state and imperial diets emerged. The fief was only given to the vassal to utilize; later, the vassal also became a sub-owner, but the feudal lord always retained the rights to this office. Eventually, the heritability of fiefs evolved later, but the landowner nevertheless remain the liege lord.\n\nIn Late Antiquity, out of the Roman system of patronage (or clientage) and the clan (\"Sippe\") relationships of the Migration Period (\"Völkerwanderungszeit\") (Germanic kingdoms on Roman soil), relations between rulers and their subjects developed into a prevailing consensus that was commonplace and accepted.\n\nIn Roman culture, it was common for a patron (a wealthy Roman citizen) to automatically retain his freed slaves in a dependent relationship, known as patronage. In some cases, populations of conquered areas would become clients of the general who conquered the area. This required the client to accompany his patron to war and protect him if the latter so wished, to accompany him to court as a vocal supporter and, if the patron held public office, to act as his assistant and to accompany him on representational events in public.\n\nIn return, the patron had to ensure the legal and practical support of his client in all aspects of life. A Roman citizen, a non-Roman and even entire tribes in the Roman Empire could have a patron-client relationship.\n\nIn Late Antiquity, this form of relationship was increasingly adopted in rural areas, because the Roman nomenklatura increasingly saw their vast estates (\"Latifundia\") as their refuge and also as economically important pillars, over which they sometimes even had their own jurisdiction and fortified prisons.\nClients at that time were usually bound to their patrons through the allocation of land.\n\nDuring the latter years of the period of clan society with Germanic kingdoms on Roman soil, it was common for all the land to belong to the king. Only he could distribute land to his subjects. These subjects were usually family members, warriors who had performed outstanding feats, and noblemen. This land did not become the property of the subject, but was handed over to him only \"in persona\". On the death of king or vassal, the land was de facto returned to the new king. Over time, a practice developed that the person enfeoffed with the land, together with his family, became the beneficiaries of the fief and remained permanently bound to it. Upon the death of one party, a new act of homage (\"Lehnseid\"), a formal legal ceremony, had to take place. These transitions were fluid and there were exceptions to the practice of enfeoffment.\n\nThe vassal often enfeoffed the estate, usually divided into smaller parcels of land, to other lesser vassals, who in turn had to swear fealty to him. In return for the lease of land, the king could demand loyalty and allegiance from the vassal and his sub-vassals. This means that, in the event of war, they had to provide soldiers and assistance, or if money ran short or a ransom was needed, they were expected to support the king.\n\nThe Roman patron-client relationship and the early clan-based feudal relationship in the Germanic kingdoms merged during the early Middle Ages into the feudal law, or \"Lehnsrecht\", a legal and social set of relationships, which effectively formed a pyramid with the king at the top.\n\nThe enforcement of \"Lehnsrecht\" is associated with the reduced circulation of money in the Late Antiquity and Early Medieval periods. Money could not bind a vassal to a king, only land. Unlike money, this was plentiful.\n\nEven kings (see Richard the Lionheart - compulsory allegiance) and at least in the early Middle Ages, the clergy (see Ottonian-Salian imperial church system) could be vassals of a king or another king.\n\nUnder the feudal system, various legal institutions came together during the Carolingian period that had previously existed independently. These institutions were:\n\nIt was from the combination of these institutions, especially as more and more lords achieved high social position, that the feudal system emerged.\nThe \"handgang\", which together with the oath of loyalty (\"Treueid\"), became referred to as \"homagium\" (Latin), \"homage\" (French), or \"mannschaft\" (German), became the decisive legal device until well into the 12th century. Not until the spread of the system of legal deeds was the \"handgang\" dropped from the oath of allegiance, which was better recorded in writing.\n\nCommendations were still carried out at all levels. In lower classes they were based on the manorial system (\"Grundherrschaft\"), at the high levels on feudalism (\"Lehnswesen\").\n\nThe award of fiefs often replaced the remuneration for work. This was necessary because the monetary system necessary to make regular payments was still far too underdeveloped during the early Middle Ages.\n\nAs the services of the vassal specifically included military service, under the Frankish monarchy the feudal system was for centuries the basis of the army as well as the social organization of the Holy Roman Empire. \n\nIt was not only the king who acquired vassals in this way. He was soon imitated by secular and ecclesiastical magnates. Gradually, the principle of the heritability of fiefs was established along with the admissibility of passing them on as \"Afterlehen\" to sub-vassals. The latter were also declared as heritable in 1037 by Conrad II in the \"constitutio de feudis\". So it came to pass that as early as the 12th century, all duchies and counties were awarded as fiefs.\n\nWithin each of these ecclesiastical and secular territories, however, there was a variety of types of feudalism. Not until the 13th century, did the importance of the feudal system decline, because instead of vassals (\"Vassallen\"), liegemen (\"Dienstmannen\") - well-educated men (c.f. the development of the university system) - were appointed. The kings encouraged this development, for political reasons, and so strengthened territorial lordship (\"Landesherrschaft\"), which replaced the feudal system empire-wide. This strengthening of territorial rulers had an impact that could not be reversed, so that the power of the various principalities did not reduce, unlike the situation in France and England.\n\nIn England, feudal ties were abolished as early as the Revolution of 1649, and then by an express decree by Charles II in 1660. In France they were abolished by the decisions of the National Assembly on 4 and 5 August 1789. In Germany, the dissolution of feudal associations (\"Lehnsverband\") was a long process. Legally, it was abolished \"inter alia\" by the Confederation of the Rhine acts, in the Final Recess of the Reichsdeputation and the Frankfurt Constitution of 1849. One of the last fiefs was awarded in 1835, when the ailing Count Friedrich Wilhelm von Schlitz, known as Görtz, was enfeoffed with the spring at Salzschlirf and began to excavate it again. Those fiefs still in existence in the 20th century were abolished in 1947 by an Allied Control Council edict.\n\nIn general, the vassal (\"Lehnsmann\") was granted land or free houses (\"Freihäuser\") in return for his services. He could also provide services at the lord's residence and be accommodated there. Most of these so-called \"servi non cassati\" were given a fief as soon as one became available.\n\nOfficial positions (\"Ämter\") and sovereign rights over a particular territory (feudal regalia) could be awarded as a fief. It was in this way that the House of Thurn and Taxis received its Postlehen or postal service rights. In addition, there were numerous enfeoffments of church rights, church fiefs (\"Stifte\" or \"feudal ecclesiastica\") and enfeoffments of foundations associated with an altar (\"feudum altaragli\"). Also, cash payments from the royal treasury or profits from certain duties could be awarded as a fief.\n\nFeoffment (\"constitutio feudi, infeudatio\") involved the vassal being formally seized of his fief through a commendation ceremony. In Frankish times, commendation centered around the so-called handclasping ceremony (\"Handgang\"): the vassal clasped his hands together and placed them in the hands of his lord, who then clasped his hands around those of his vassal. He thereby symbolically received the protection of his new superior. From the end of the 9th century, this act was expanded to include an oath of allegiance, which was usually sworn on a religious relic. The oath served to affirm the binding of the liegeman to his liege, but emphasized that the vassal had not lost his status as a free knight, because only the free could be bound by oath.\n\nIn the 11th century, the commendation ceremony required the liegeman to pay homage (\"homagium\" or \"Mannschaft\"), which involved the handclasping ceremony as well as a declaration of intent. The liege lord could also make a declaration, but he would often forego this. This was followed by the loyalty oath and sometimes a kiss. Since, in the Middle Ages, a binding legal act could be constituted by a symbolic action, an object was symbolically handed over in a process known as livery of seizin and could be a staff or a banner (called a \"Fahnenlehn\"). The emperor could also symbolically hand over his sceptre (in the so-called \"Zepterlehen\"). As literacy rose, a charter of feoffment was also made out as part of the act that, over time, listed the feoffed estate and benefits that the vassal was to receive in ever increasing detail.\n\nIn the late Middle Ages, an entry fee was demanded for feoffment, which was often based on the fief's annual income.\n\nThe fief (benefice) that the vassal received could be owned by the lord or have been granted in fee by another. Sometimes the vassal even sold or gifted over his possessions to the lord (\"Lehnsauftragung\") and then received it back as a fief (\"oblatio feudi\"). This was usually done in the hope that the liege lord could defend his estate better in the event of a dispute in the field or at court. The lord purchased or accepted the gift because he might have the intention or hope, for example, of merging unrelated fiefdoms into a whole and thus extending his sphere of influence, for example, in terms of jurisdiction, or the appointment of clergy.\n\nFrom the 11th century, the obligations of vassals were usually described as \"auxilium et consilium\" (help and advice). \"Auxilium\" usually implied assistance in terms of military service that the vassal had to render. This could be unlimited, i.e. the vassal had to assist his lord in every conflict, or it could be limited in time, space and in the number of troops to be raised. With the advent of the mercenaries, the reliance on vassals became less important and their service increasingly took the form of administration and court duties. \"Consilium\" meant primarily the obligation to appear at imperial assemblies or \"Hoftage\". Vassals whose feudal lord was not the king took part in the councils of their liege lords. They also had to administer justice over their subjects in the name of their master.\n\nThe vassal could even be required to pay money; though perhaps not to the extent of England, where military service became a requirement for war funds and the English king used the money to pay for his mercenaries. Monetary payments were also required in other cases, such as to pay a ransom for a captive lord, for the accolade of his eldest son, for the dowry of his eldest daughter, or for a journey to the Holy Land.\n\nThe feudal lord could also demand recompense (\"Lehnserneuerung\" or \"renovatio investiturae\") from his vassals if they lost their fief or upon changes of lord - changes of ruler at any level, local lord, prince or king (known as \"Herrenfall, Hauptfall, Thronfall\") - as well as changes of vassal (known as \"Lehnsfall, Vasallenfall\" or \"Mannfall, Nebenfall\"). The latter had to submit a written application (\"Lehnsmutung\") within a year and a day (actually 1 year, 6 weeks, 3 days) and ask for the renewal of his investiture, but this term could be extended by a decree from the lord (\"Lehnsindult\").\n\nDepending on local law, the vassal might be liable, apart from the fee, for the renewal of the enfeoffment (called the \"Schreibschilling\" or \"Lehnstaxe\"), to pay a special tax (the \"Laudemium, Lehnsgeld, Lehnsware\" or \"Handlohn\"). Finally, in the event of a felony by the vassal, the lord could confiscate the fief under the so-called \"Privationsklage\" action or step in to prevent the deterioration of the estate, if necessary, by legal means. He could also assert his claim to ownership at any time against any unauthorized third parties.\n\nThe duties of the lords were less precisely defined, however, they were largely discharged on the handover of the fief. The vassal always had a claim to loyalty from his lord (\"Lehnsprotektion\") and a breach of that by the lord meant the loss of his sovereignty over his vassal. The vassal had the \"right of use\" of the fief (the object of enfeoffment or \"Lehnsobjekt\"). The lord also had to represent his vassals in court.\n\nOriginally, a lord-vassal tie (\"Lehnsbindung\") was a lifelong, faithful relationship that could end only on death. It was also inconceivable that someone could be the vassal of more than one lord. In fact, multiple vassalage soon emerged and loosened the duty of loyalty for the liegeman (\"Lehnsmann\") considerably. Also, the opportunity to inherit a fief diminished the ability of the lord to intervene and loosened the personal loyalty of liegemen. Over time, the importance of fiefdoms increased more and more, whilst the duty of loyalty faded increasingly into the background. In the end, a fief was simply an estate for which the heir had to perform a certain ceremony.\n\nIn summary, the feudal system was based on two main components - the personal and the material elements.\n\nPersonal element:\nThe lord and vassal committed themselves to mutual loyalty. The visible expression of this commitment was the act of the vassal placing his hands in those of his lord (\"handgang\" - comparable with today's handshake, except that the \"handgang\" symbolized a hierarchical relation).\n\nMaterial element:\nBased on the pledge of loyalty between them, the lord made land available to the vassal. The vassal was obliged, in return, to render various services and taxes.\n\nAn echo of the old feudal system in Europe is found in family names such as Lehner, Lechner, Lehmann, Lehle, Horrigan and Lenherr as well as in numerous house and even place names, that even today have the term \"Lehen\" in the names (see a list at Lehen (disambiguation)).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9190950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9190950", "title": "Global Environmental Citizen Award", "text": "Global Environmental Citizen Award\n\nThe Global Environmental Citizen Award is an environmental award created by the Harvard Medical School Center for Health and the Global Environment and bestowed annually upon an individual working to restore and protect the global environment.\n\nIn 2003, Primatologist Jane Goodall received Harvard’s annual Global Environmental Citizen Award. Goodall founded a program called “Take Care,” aimed at creating microcredit banks and educating conservation methods to inhabitants near the forest and national park. \n\nIn 2004, the award was given to Journalist Bill Moyers who has created discussion around the relation between the environment and various political trends, such as the discourse between environmental policy and religious right. Moyers’s acceptance made a connection between the rising Christian fundamentalism movement and environmental policies of the post-Columbine era.\n\nAl Gore, the 45th Vice President of the United States was the 2005 award recipient. Al Gore has long voiced his interests in the role of technology in environmental issues—from biomedical and genetic engineering to the socio-ecological effects of greenhouse gases.\n\nIn 2007, Charles, Prince of Wales was presented with the Global Environmental Citizen Award for his work towards preserving the environment. In 1990, Charles prince started Duchy Originals, a company dedicated in providing small farmers new markets to sell their goods and delivering high-quality organic goods through more sustainable production methods. Since then, Duchy Originals has rapidly grown to profit more than £1 million annually, becoming one of the most well-known and prosperous natural brands in the United Kingdom. For decades, the prince has voiced concerns about the dangerous risks of genetically modified foods, advocated for research into chemical farming and its effects on human health, launched numerous development projects in rural communities, and fostered corporate responsibility toward the environment. The prince has actively called for the improvement of energy efficiency and reduction of toxic discharge. In his award speech, the prince addressed the role of the British government in recognizing climate change as an upmost global priority.\n\nIn 2008, Kofi Annan and Alice Waters received the Award for their contributions to sustainable living and agricultural production. Kofi Annan has led the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment as Secretary-General of the United Nations, served as the President of the Global Humanitarian Forum and now serves as Chair of the Alliance for Africa’s Green Revolution. Alice Waters, founder of Chez Panisse Foundation, has established an organic classroom, The Edible Schoolyard in Berkeley, California, providing a space for students of all ages to tend land, harvest their crops and prepare food fresh from the garden. As a chef, Waters has long advocated for sustainably produced local goods and empowerment of youth through educational food programs.\n\nSource: Harvard College\n\n"}
{"id": "24809459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24809459", "title": "Heroes of the Environment (2009)", "text": "Heroes of the Environment (2009)\n\nHeroes of the Environment is a list published in Time Magazine. The third list was published in September 2009. \n\nThe list contains 30 entries, individuals or groups, that have contributed substantially to the preservation of environment. It is divided into four categories: Leaders & Visionaries, Activists, Scientists & Innovators and Moguls & Entrepreneurs.\n\n"}
{"id": "28682259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28682259", "title": "Historical Social Research", "text": "Historical Social Research\n\nHistorical Social Research/Historische Sozialforschung is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering political science, social science, cultural studies, and history. It is the official journal of the QUANTUM association and is published by GESIS – Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences. The journal was established in 1976 as \"QUANTUM Information\" and obtained its current name in 1979. The journal publishes four issues plus one supplement per year. All content is available as open access after 6 months.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in SocINDEX, Social Science Citation Index, Scopus, Sociological Abstracts, Historical Abstracts (ABC-CLIO), International Political Science Abstracts, Social Research Methodology Database, and the Social Science Literature Information System.\n"}
{"id": "220065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220065", "title": "Index of international public law articles", "text": "Index of international public law articles\n\nList of international public law topics:\n\nThis is a comprehensive list of pages dealing with public international law, i.e. those areas of law dealing with the United Nations System and the Law of Nations. It is being started as a sublist as it is a specialized area of law that often does not interact with general legal topics. There is also a separate List of treaties.\n\n"}
{"id": "55718322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55718322", "title": "It's OK to be white", "text": "It's OK to be white\n\nIt's okay to be white or It's OK to be white (IOTBW) is a slogan based on a poster campaign organized on the American imageboard 4chan in 2017, as a \"proof of concept\" that a \"harmless message\" would cause a media backlash. Posters and stickers containing the sentence \"It's okay to be white\" have been placed in streets in the United States as well as on campuses in the United States, Canada, New Zealand, Australia and the United Kingdom. The slogan has been spread by Fox News host Tucker Carlson, and racist groups including neo-Nazis and white supremacists.\n\nThe suggestion for the use of posters with the saying originated on the message board 4chan with the intent of provoking reactions. The saying was later spread by neo-Nazi groups and politically organized racists, including former Ku Klux Klan Grand Wizard David Duke and \"The Daily Stormer\". A report by the ADL states that the phrase itself has a history within the white supremacist movement going back to 2001 when it was used as the title of a song by a white power music group called Aggressive Force as well as fliers with the phrase being spotted in 2005 and the slogan being used by a member of the United Klans of America.\n\nMany of the flyers were torn down and some accused the posters of being covertly racist, while others, like Jeff Guillory, executive director of Washington State University's Office of Equity and Diversity, argued that there was nothing offensive.\n\nThe University of Regina declared the posters \"divisive\". University President Vianne Timmons said: \"Simply put, these signs have no place at our university.\"\n\nA spokesman for a Waterloo Region District School Board commented: \"Our schools are safe spaces. We want to see them be safe for all of our children, so to see this kind of thing emerge is a worry.\"\n\nAfter the signs were found at Washington State University, Phil Weiler, Vice President of University Communications, said that \"one could reasonably believe the intention of the signs is to set a sense of fear and intimidation on campus\". Executive director of Washington State University's Office of Equity and Diversity responded to the posters by saying: \"In my mind, it's a nonthreatening statement\", further stating: \"Sure, it's OK to be white. It's OK to be African-American. It's OK to be Latino. It's OK to be gay.\"\n\nThe University of Utah said: \"If, indeed, these tactics are meant to silence our work in diversity and inclusion, please know we shall not be deterred.\" Concordia College said that their President was planning a meeting where students could \"discuss the matter\".\n\nPolice were contacted regarding the flyers being posted at University of California, Berkeley. A police department spokesperson said \"the signs did not constitute a hate crime because they did not target a specific race and because no criminal act was committed\".\n\nIn November 2017, Lucian Wintrich attempted to give a speech titled \"It's OK To Be White\" at University of Connecticut as an invited speaker of the school's Republican club. The speech was protested and came to an end when a protester, employed as the director of career services at Quinebaug Valley Community College, grabbed Wintrich's speech papers from the podium and Wintrich grabbed her, resulting in breach of peace charges against Wintrich. In December 2017, the charges against Wintrich were dropped and the woman who took the papers was charged with attempted sixth-degree larceny and disorderly conduct. She stated through her attorney she took Wintrich's speech as a form of protest, describing Wintrich's \"It's OK To Be White\" speech as \"hateful language\".\n\nWhile some media sources reacted in the way the original authors on 4chan had expected, others like TheBlaze described the campaign as trolling, or a prank.\n\nTucker Carlson on Fox News defended the campaign in a segment entitled \"High school Fliers Create Shock and Horror\". Carlson asked: \"What’s the correct position? That it’s not okay to be white?\", but \"Newsweek\" writer Michael Hayden said Carlson was helping to spread neo-Nazi propaganda by defending the posters, saying the slogan is being promoted by neo-Nazis and white supremacists. Writing for \"The Washington Post\", Janell Ross commented on the poster campaign saying \"the white victim construct is one that experts say, not so long ago, only had traction in avowed white supremacists, segregationists and neo-Nazi circles. But today, it animates open and anonymous public discussions of race and shapes the nation’s politics.\" \"The Root\" compared it with the children's book \"It's Okay To Be Different\" and said, \"but white folks have taken that beautiful sentiment and distorted it to suit their infinite need to center themselves\".\n\nThe online magazine \"Jacobite\" argued that the goal of the meme was to trick certain political progressives into attacking an \"anodyne\" message and thus elicit a \"second-order reaction\" from outsiders perplexed by the idea that the concept of being white is somehow unacceptable, instead of ignoring the message. The writer claims that the meme attempts to exploit its progressive opponents psychologically.\n\nThe Guardian columnist Jason Wilson argued that \"It's OK To Be White\" was devised by white supremacists in order to stoke overreaction from the left, sow confusion, embed a racist agenda in the mainstream media, and ultimately invite a backlash against anti-racist activism. \n\nAccording to \"ThinkProgress\", T-shirts with the slogan were put on sale at Shopify by Milo Yiannopoulos.\n\nMarkus Persson, founder of Mojang, tweeted the phrase on November 30, 2017.\n\nOn October 15, 2018, right-wing politician Pauline Hanson proposed an \"It's OK to be white\" motion in the Australian Senate intended to acknowledge the \"deplorable rise of anti-white racism and attacks on Western civilization\". It was supported by most senators from the governing Liberal-National Coalition, but was defeated 31-28 by opponents who called it a racist slogan from the white supremacist movement. The following day, the motion was brought up again and rejected unanimously by senators in attendance, with its initial supporters saying they had voted for it due to an administrative error.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "841967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=841967", "title": "Liberal conservatism", "text": "Liberal conservatism\n\nLiberal conservatism is a political ideology combining conservative policies with liberal stances, especially on ethical and social issues, or a brand of political conservatism strongly influenced by liberalism.\n\nLiberal conservatism incorporates the classical liberal view of minimal government intervention in the economy, according to which individuals should be free to participate in the market and generate wealth without government interference. However, individuals cannot be thoroughly depended on to act responsibly in other spheres of life, therefore liberal conservatives believe that a strong state is necessary to ensure law and order and social institutions are needed to nurture a sense of duty and responsibility to the nation. It is a political position which also supports civil liberties along with some social conservative positions and is usually regarded as a centre-right ideology. In western Europe, especially northern Europe, liberal conservatism is the dominant form of contemporary conservatism and has also adopted some socially liberal positions.\n\nAs both \"conservatism\" and \"liberalism\" have had different meanings over time and across countries, the term \"liberal conservatism\" has been used in quite different ways. It usually contrasts with aristocratic conservatism, which rejects the principle of equality as something in discordance with human nature and emphasizes instead the idea of natural inequality. As conservatives in democratic countries have embraced typical liberal institutions such as the rule of law, private property, the market economy and constitutional representative government, the liberal element of liberal conservatism became consensual among conservatives. In some countries (e.g. the United Kingdom and the United States), the term \"liberal conservatism\" came to be understood simply as \"conservatism\" in popular culture, prompting some conservatives who embraced more strongly classical liberal values to call themselves \"libertarians\" instead.\n\nNevertheless, in the United States conservatives often combine the economic individualism of classical liberals with a Burkean form of conservatism that emphasizes the natural inequalities between men, the irrationality of human behavior as the basis for the human drive for order and stability and the rejection of natural rights as the basis for government. However, from a different perspective, American conservatism (a \"hybrid of conservatism and classical liberalism\") has exalted three tenets of Burkean conservatism, namely the diffidence toward the power of the state, the preference of liberty over equality, and patriotism while rejecting the three remaining tenets, namely loyalty to traditional institutions and hierarchies, scepticism regarding progress and elitism. Consequently, in the United States the term \"liberal conservatism\" is not used. American \"modern liberalism\" happens to be quite different from the European brand and occupies the centre-left of the political spectrum, in contrast to many European countries where liberalism is often more associated with the centre-right and social democracy makes up a substantial part of the centre-left. The opposite is true in Latin America, where economically liberal conservatism is often labelled under the rubric of neoliberalism both in popular culture and academic discourse.\n\nFor their part, in their embracement of liberal and free market principles European liberal conservatives are clearly distinguishable from those conservatives who have embraced national conservative views, more socially conservative stances and/or outright populism, let alone a right-wing populist posture. In much of central and northwestern Europe, especially in Germanic and traditionally Protestant countries, a divide between conservatives (including Christian democrats) and liberals persists. On the other hand, in those countries where liberal conservative movements have more recently entered the political mainstream, such as Italy and Spain, the terms \"liberal\" and \"conservative\" may be understood as synonymous. Often this involves stressing free market economics and the belief in individual responsibility together with the defense of civil rights and support for a limited welfare state. Compared to traditional centre-right politics, such as those proposed by Christian democrats, liberal conservatism is less traditionalist and more right-libertarian economically, favouring low taxes and minimal state intervention in the economy. In the modern European discourse, \"liberal conservatism\" usually encompasses centre-right political outlooks that reject at least to some extent social conservatism. This position is also associated with support for moderate forms of social safety net and environmentalism. In this sense, \"liberal conservatism\" has been espoused for instance by Nordic conservative parties (the Moderate Party in Sweden, the Conservative Party in Norway and the National Coalition Party in Finland), which have seen right-wing populist parties emerge to their right and do not comprise Christian democrats who form separate parties and the British Conservative Party under David Cameron, who in an interview shortly after taking office as Prime Minister in 2010 said that he had always described himself as a \"liberal conservative\". In his first speech to a Conservative Party's conference in 2006, Cameron had defined this as believing in individual freedom and human rights, but being skeptical of \"grand schemes to remake the world\".\n\nHistorically, in the 18th and 19th centuries \"conservatism\" comprised a set of principles based on concern for established tradition, respect for authority and religious values. This form of traditionalist or classical conservatism is often considered to be exemplified by the writings of Joseph de Maistre in the post-Enlightenment age. Contemporaneous \"liberalism\" – now recalled as classical liberalism – advocated both political freedom for individuals and a free market in the economic sphere. Ideas of this sort were promulgated by John Locke, Montesquieu, Adam Smith, Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill, who are respectively remembered as the fathers of classical liberalism, the separation of church and state, economic liberalism, utilitarianism and social liberalism.\nAccording to scholar Andrew Vincent, the maxim of liberal conservatism is \"economics is prior to politics\". Others emphasize the openness of historical change and a suspicion of tyrannical majorities behind the hailing of individual liberties and traditional virtues, by authors such as Edmund Burke and Alexis de Tocqueville, as the basis of current liberal conservatism as seen both in the works of Raymond Aron and Michael Oakeshott and the ideological outlook of centre-right parties. However, there is general agreement that the original liberal conservatives were those who combined conservative social attitudes with an economically liberal outlook, adapting a previous aristocratic understanding of natural inequalities between men to the rule of meritocracy – without directly criticizing privileges of birth as long as individual liberties were guaranteed. Over time, the majority of conservatives in the Western world came to adopt free market economic ideas as the Industrial Revolution progressed and the aristocracy lost its power, to the extent that such ideas are now generally considered as part of conservatism. Nonetheless, in most countries the term \"liberal\" is used to describe those with free market economic views. This is the case, for example, in continental Europe, Australia and Latin America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36619874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36619874", "title": "Linguistic system", "text": "Linguistic system\n\nThe idea of language as a 'system' appears in the linguistic theory of Ferdinand de Saussure, J.R. Firth, Benjamin Lee Whorf, Louis Hjelmslev, and Michael Halliday.\n\nThe paradigmatic principle - the idea that the process of using language involves choosing from a specifiable set of options - was established in semiotics by Saussure, whose concept of value (viz. “valeur”), and of signs as terms in a system, “showed up paradigmatic organization as the most abstract dimension of meaning” \n\n“System” is used in two related ways in systemic functional linguistics (SFL). SFL uses the idea of system to refer to language as a whole, (e.g. “the system of language”). This usage derives from Hjelmslev In this context, Jay Lemke describes language as an open, dynamic system.\n\nThere is also the notion of “system” as used by J.R. Firth, where linguistic systems are considered to furnish the background for elements of structure. Halliday argues that, unlike system in the sense in which it was used by Firth was a conception only found in Firth’s linguistic theory.\n\nIn this use of the term “system”, grammatical, or other features of language, are considered best understood when described as sets of options. Thus, “the most abstract categories of the grammatical description are the systems together with their options (systemic features). A systemic grammar differs from other functional grammars (and from all formal grammars) in that it is paradigmatic: a system is paradigmatic set of alternative features, of which one must be chosen if the entry condition is satisfied.\n\nIn Halliday’s early work, “system” was considered to be one of four fundamental categories for the theory of grammar, the others being unit, structure and class. The category of ‘system’ was invoked to account for “the occurency of one rather than another from among a number of like events” At that time, Halliday defined grammar as “that level of linguistic form at which operate closed systems” \n\nIn adopting a system perspective on language, systemic functional linguistics can be seen as part of a more general 20th and 21st century reaction against atomistic approaches to science, in which an essence is sought after within smaller and smaller components of the phenomenon under study. In systems thinking, any delineated object of study is defined by its relations to other units postulated by the theory. In systemic functional linguistics, this has been described as the trinocular perspective. Thus a descriptive category must be defended from three perspectives: from above (‘what does it construe?’ ‘what effect does it have in a context of use?’), below (‘how is this function realized?’) and round about (‘what else is in the neighbourhood?’ ‘what other things does this thing have to interact with?’). This gives systemic functional linguistics an affinity with studies of complex systems.\n"}
{"id": "407214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=407214", "title": "List of proposed future transport", "text": "List of proposed future transport\n\nTransport today is mostly powered by fossil fuel. The reason for this is the ease of use and the existence of mature technologies harnessing this fuel source. Fossil fuels represent a concentrated, relatively compact source of energy. The drawbacks are that they are heavily polluting and rely on limited natural resources. There are many proposals to harness renewable forms of energy, to use fossil fuel more efficiently, or to use human power, or some hybrid of these, to move people and things.\n\nThe list below contains some forms of transport not in general use, but considered as possibilities in the future.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1426957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1426957", "title": "Lwów–Warsaw school", "text": "Lwów–Warsaw school\n\nThe Lwów–Warsaw school () was a Polish school of thought founded by Kazimierz Twardowski in 1895 in Lemberg (now Lviv, Ukraine).\n\nAlthough the members represented a variety of disciplines, from mathematics through logic to psychology, the School is widely considered to have been a philosophical movement. Developed in the 1920s and 1930s, the school's work was interrupted by the outbreak of World War II. Despite this, the members went on and fundamentally influenced modern science, notably mathematics and logic, in the post-war period. The most prominent member of this school, Alfred Tarski, has been ranked as one of the four greatest logicians of all time—along with Aristotle, Gottlob Frege, and Kurt Gödel.\n\nIn modern Polish science, the philosopher Jan Woleński considers himself close to the heritage of the school. In 2013 Woleński was awarded by the Foundation for Polish Science for a comprehensive analysis of the work of the Lwów–Warsaw school and for placing its achievements within the international discourse of contemporary philosophy.\n\nThe Lwów–Warsaw school of logic lay at the origin of Polish logic and was closely associated with the Warsaw school of mathematics. It began as a more general philosophical school but steadily moved toward logic. In the 1930s Alfred Tarski initiated contacts with the Vienna Circle. In addition to Brentano, his pupils Anton Marty, Alexius Meinong and Edmund Husserl also considerably influenced Polish philosophy and the Lwów–Warsaw school.\n\nPrincipal topics of interest to that school included formal ontology, mereology, and universal or categorial grammar.\n\nAs mentioned above, many of the school's members worked in more than one field.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34473015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34473015", "title": "Marriage loan", "text": "Marriage loan\n\nMarriage loans (, ) were part of the promotion of the family in Nazi Germany. Instituted in 1933, they were offered to newlywed couples in the form of vouchers for household goods, initially on condition that the woman stopped working. Unless the husband's earnings were very low, interest rates on the loans continued to be lower if only he worked; and one quarter of the principal was forgiven for each child.\n\nMarriage loans were created by the \"Law for the Reduction of Unemployment\" of June 1, 1933. Aryan newylyweds were eligible to receive an interest-free loan of 1,000 Reichsmarks, in the form of vouchers in the husband's name that could be redeemed for household goods such as furniture. The amount was approximately one fifth of average annual take-home pay; industrial workers earned 140 RM a month.\n\nInitially, the loans required that the bride stop work immediately and not take another position during the life of the loan unless the husband was earning less than 125 RM per month. Planners hoped that the loan programme would cause 800,000 women to leave the workforce over the first four years, and there was an associated programme of subsidies for household goods manufacture intended to provide jobs for another 200,000 men. In November 1933, the \"Völkischer Beobachter\" featured as a \"shining\" example the mass wedding and subsequent resignations of 122 female employees of the Reemtsma cigarette factory in Berlin, who thereby freed jobs for unemployed men. By 1937, full employment had been achieved and women workers were needed, so the requirement was removed and the loan made available to all young people of documented Aryan ancestry and genetic fitness. This caused an increase in applications: by 1936 approximately one third of couples were receiving them; by 1939 this had risen to 42%. In July 1938, a special marriage loan programme for agricultural workers was added as part of the Decree on the Welfare of the Rural Population: couples were eligible if one partner had worked in agriculture or forestry for five years before they married, and the loan would be excused after a further ten years of such work. There was also a renewable 400 RM subsidy to farm workers for setting up a household.\n\nApplying for the loans required demonstrating ancestral and medical \"fitness,\" which could be onerous. However, a law of August 31, 1939 suspended the documentary requirements in anticipation of the effects of the war.\n\nCouples who were both employed had to pay back the loan at the rate of 3% per month; if only the husband was employed, the repayment rate was 1% a month. In accordance with the Nazi policy of reversing the decline in the birth rate among Germans, one quarter of the loan was forgiven for each child, so that with the fourth child, no more was owed. This gave rise to the colloquialism \"abkindern\" (from \"ab\", off, and \"Kind\", child) for discharging the loan by producing offspring.\n\nBy the end of 1938, 1,121,000 marriage loans had been extended, 800,000 under the original conditions of requiring the bride to stop work, and a \"baby boom\" had resulted in the forgiveness of 980,000. The loan was then halved, to 500 RM. The 250 RM for each child remained a powerful incentive; other financial assistance, called \"Kindergeld\", was also available to encourage families to have children. The loans were a particularly strong incentive to marry after extramarital pregnancy had occurred.\n\nThe loans were partially paid for by a tax on unmarried people called \"Ehestandshilfe\" (marriage assistance, fund for the aid of marriage). This was levied at a rate of 2–5% of gross annual income on those under 55 who were liable for income tax; under a law of October 16, 1934, it was incorporated into the income tax beginning in January 1935.\n\nAs a result of the marriage loan programme, furniture and home furnishings were amongst the few retail trade sectors to show expansion under the Third Reich; and this did not apply to department stores, which were specifically excluded.\n\nThe East German government forgave all outstanding marriage loans in 1950, and in 1972 instituted its own loan programme, the \"Ehekredit\" (marriage credit), which was strongly reminiscent of the Nazi marriage loan: newlyweds under 26 received an interest-free loan of 5,000 East German marks, which was progressively forgiven as they had children (in this case 3), again referred to as \"abkindern\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16908870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16908870", "title": "Medical Officer for Health", "text": "Medical Officer for Health\n\nMedical Officer of Health, Medical Health Officer or District Medical Officer, is a title and commonly used for the senior government official of a health department or agency, usually at a municipal, county/district, state/province, or regional level. The post is held by a physician who serves to advise and lead a team of public health professionals such as environmental health officers and public health nurses on matters of public health importance.\n\nThe equivalent senior health official at the national level is often referred to as the Chief Medical Officer, although the title varies across countries, for example known as the Surgeon General in the United States and the Chief Public Health Officer in Canada.\n\nIn Canada, all communities are under the jurisdiction of an MOH. The roles of the MOH vary across jurisdictions, but always include responsibilities related to public health and safety, and may include the following functions:\n\n\nHealth officers in India are expected to have prescribed qualifications, such as a Bachelor of Sanitary Science (B.S.Sc.), a degree of an institution recognized by the Medical Council of India or a diploma in Public Health after a 2-year study at the University of Calcutta.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the municipal position was an elected head of the local board of health, however the term MOH has also been used to refer to the Chief Medical Officer. Under the Metropolis Local Management Act 1855, London municipalities were each required to appoint a medical officer. In 1856, 48 officers took up appointments in the city, and these specialists formed Metropolitan Association of Medical Officers of Health. They were important and influential in the establishment of municipal hospitals under the provisions of the Local Government Act 1929. In the 1974 NHS reorganisation they were replaced by Community Physicians who were attached to the different levels of the NHS.\n\n\nHealth Officer is a common term used in the United States for public health officials, such as medical health officers and environmental health officers. They may serve at the global, federal, state, county, or municipal level.\nThe end of the 20th century and beginning of the 21st saw major issues for health officials and health officers include tobacco control, injury prevention, public health surveillance, disease control, access to health care, health equity, health disparities, cultural competence, access to preventive services such as immunizations and health promotion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6540070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6540070", "title": "Michael McCormack (judge)", "text": "Michael McCormack (judge)\n\nMichael McCormack (born July 30, 1939) is a retired justice of the Nebraska Supreme Court, appointed by Governor Ben Nelson in 1997. He graduated from Creighton University School of Law in 1963 as well as graduating from Creighton Preparatory School in 1957 and worked as an Assistant Public Defender in Douglas County from 1963 to 1966. He then worked as an attorney in a private practice until being appointed to the Court.\n\n"}
{"id": "355559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355559", "title": "Mobbing", "text": "Mobbing\n\nMobbing, as a sociological term, means bullying of an individual by a group, in any context, such as a family, peer group, school, workplace, neighborhood, community, or online.\n\nWhen it occurs as emotional abuse in the workplace, such as ‘ganging up’ by co-workers, subordinates or superiors, to force someone out of the workplace through rumor, innuendo, intimidation, humiliation, discrediting, and isolation, it is also referred to as malicious, nonsexual, nonracial / racial, general harassment.\n\nKonrad Lorenz, in his book entitled \"On Aggression\" (1966), first described mobbing among birds and animals, attributing it to instincts rooted in the Darwinian struggle to thrive (see animal mobbing behavior). In his view, most humans are subject to similar innate impulses but capable of bringing them under rational control. Lorenz's explanation for his choice of the English word Mobbing was omitted in the English translation by Marjorie Kerr Wilson. According to Kenneth Westhues, Lorenz chose the word mobbing because he remembered in the collective attack by birds, the old German term \"hassen auf\", which means \"to hate after\" or \"to put a hate on\" was applied and this emphasised \"the depth of antipathy with which the attack is made\" rather than the English word mobbing which emphasised the collective aspect of the attack. \n\nIn the 1970s, the Swedish physician applied Lorenz's conceptualization to the collective aggression of children against a targeted child.\n\nIn the 1980s, professor and practising psychologist Heinz Leymann applied the term to ganging up in the workplace. \n\nIn 2011, anthropologist Janice Harper published an essay in The Huffington Post suggesting that some of the anti-bully approaches effectively constitute a form of mobbing by using the label \"bully\" to dehumanize, encouraging people to shun and avoid people labeled bullies, and in some cases, sabotage their work or refuse to work with them, while almost always calling for their exclusion and termination from employment.\n\nJanice Harper followed her Huffington Post essay with a series of essays in both The Huffington Post and in her column, Beyond Bullying: Peacebuilding at Work, School and Home in Psychology Today that argued that mobbing is a form of group aggression innate to primates, and that those who engage in mobbing are not necessarily \"evil\" or \"psychopathic,\" but responding in a predictable and patterned manner when someone in a position of leadership or influence communicates to the group that someone must go. For that reason, she indicated that anyone can and will engage in mobbing, and that once mobbing gets underway, just as in the animal kingdom it will almost always continue and intensify as long as the target remains with the group. She subsequently published a book on the topic in which she explored animal behavior, organizational cultures and historical forms of group aggression, suggesting that mobbing is a form of group aggression on a continuum of structural violence with genocide as the most extreme form of mob aggression.\n\nBritish anti-bullying researchers Andrea Adams and Tim Field have used the expression \"workplace bullying\" instead of what Leymann called \"mobbing\" in a workplace context. They identify mobbing as a particular type of bullying that is not as apparent as most, defining it as \"an emotional assault. It begins when an individual becomes the target of disrespectful and harmful behavior. Through innuendo, rumors, and public discrediting, a hostile environment is created in which one individual gathers others to willingly, or unwillingly, participate in continuous malevolent actions to force a person out of the workplace.\"\n\nAdams and Field believe that mobbing is typically found in work environments that have poorly organised production or working methods and incapable or inattentive management and that mobbing victims are usually \"exceptional individuals who demonstrated intelligence, competence, creativity, integrity, accomplishment and dedication\".\n\nIn contrast, Janice Harper suggests that workplace mobbing is typically found in organizations where there is limited opportunity for employees to exit, whether through tenure systems or contracts that make it difficult to terminate an employee (such as universities or unionized organizations), and/or where finding comparable work in the same community makes it difficult for the employee to voluntarily leave (such as academic positions, religious institutions, or military). In these employments, efforts to eliminate the worker will intensify to push the worker out against his or her will through shunning, sabotage, false accusations and a series of investigations and poor reviews. Another form of employment where workers are mobbed are those that require the use of uniforms or other markers of group inclusion (law enforcement, fire fighting, military), organizations where a single gender has predominated, but the other gender is beginning to enter (STEM fields, fire fighting, military, nursing, teaching, and construction). Finally, she suggests that organizations where there are limited opportunities for advancement can be prone to mobbing because those who do advance are more likely to view challenges to their leadership as threats to their precarious positions. Harper further challenges the idea that workers are targeted for their exceptional competence. In some cases, she suggests, exceptional workers are mobbed because they are viewed as threatening to someone, but some workers who are mobbed are not necessarily good workers. Rather, Harper contends, some mobbing targets are outcasts or unproductive workers who cannot easily be terminated, and are thus treated inhumanely to push them out. While Harper emphasizes the cruelty and damaging consequences of mobbing, her organizational analysis focuses on the structural, rather than moral, nature of the organization. Moreover, she views the behavior itself, which she terms workplace aggression, as grounded in group psychology, rather than individual psychosis—even when the mobbing is initiated due to a leader's personal psychosis, the dynamics of group aggression will transform the leader's bullying into group mobbing—two vastly distinct psychological and social phenomena.\n\nShallcross, Ramsay and Barker consider workplace \"mobbing\" to be a generally unfamiliar term in some English speaking countries. Some researchers claim that mobbing is simply another name for bullying. Workplace mobbing can be considered as a \"virus\" or a \"cancer\" that spreads throughout the workplace via gossip, rumour and unfounded accusations. It is a deliberate attempt to force a person out of their workplace by humiliation, general harassment, emotional abuse and/or terror. Mobbing can be described as being \"ganged up on.\" Mobbing is executed by a leader (who can be a manager, a co-worker, or a subordinate). The leader then rallies others into a systematic and frequent \"mob-like\" behaviour toward the victim.\n\nMobbing as \"downward bullying\" by superiors is also known as \"bossing\", and \"upward bullying\" by colleagues as \"staffing\", in some European countries, for instance, in German-speaking regions.\n\nVictims of workplace mobbing frequently suffer from: adjustment disorders, somatic symptoms, psychological trauma (e.g., trauma tremors or sudden onset selective mutism), post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and major depression.\n\nIn mobbing targets with PTSD, Leymann notes that the \"mental effects were fully comparable with PTSD from war or prison camp experiences.\" Some patients may develop alcoholism or other substance abuse disorders. Family relationships routinely suffer. Workplace targets and witnesses may even develop brief psychotic episodes occupational psychosis generally with paranoid symptoms. Leymann estimated that 15% of suicides in Sweden could be directly attributed to workplace mobbing.\n\nFollowing on from the work of Heinemann, Elliot identifies mobbing as a common phenomenon in the form of group bullying at school. It involves 'ganging up' on someone using tactics of rumor, innuendo, discrediting, isolating, intimidating, and above all, making it look as if the targeted person is responsible (victim blaming).\n\nKenneth Westhues' study of mobbing in academia found that vulnerability was increased by personal differences such as being a foreigner or of a different sex; by working in fields such as music or literature which have recently come under the sway of less objective and more post-modern scholarship; financial pressure; or having an aggressive superior. Other factors included envy, heresy and campus politics.\n\nSociologists and authors have created checklists and other tools to identify mobbing behaviour. Common approaches to assessing mobbing behavior is through quantifying frequency of mobbing behavior based off a given definition of the behavior or through quantifying what respondents believe encompasses mobbing behavior. These are referred to as \"self-labeling\" and \"behavior experience\" methods respectively.\n\nLimitations of some mobbing examination tools are:\n\nCommon Tools used to measure mobbing behavior are:\n\nThe Waterloo Anti-Mobbing Instruments (WAMI) created by Kenneth Westhues contains a 16 item checklist to identify the signs of mobbing.\n\nFrom an organizational perspective, it has been suggested that mobbing behavior can be curtailed by acknowledging behaviors as mobbing behaviors and that such behaviors result in harm and/or negative consequences. Precise definitions of such traits are critical due to ambiguity of unacceptable and acceptable behaviors potentially leading to unintentional mobbing behavior. Attenuation of mobbing behavior can further be enhanced by developing policies that explicitly address specific behaviors that are culturally accepted to result in harm or negative affect. This provides a framework from which mobbing victims can respond to mobbing. Lack of such a framework may result in a situation where each instance of mobbing is treated on an individual basis with no recourse of prevention. It may also indicate that such behaviors are warranted and within the realm of acceptable behavior within an organization. Direct responses to grievances related to mobbing that are handled outside of a courtroom and training programs outlining antibully-countermeasures also demonstrate a reduction in mobbing behavior.\n\n"}
{"id": "30971486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30971486", "title": "Mongolia Economic Forum", "text": "Mongolia Economic Forum\n\nAbout us\n\n“The Mongolian Economic Forum” is a NON-PROFIT, NON-POLITICAL and non-governmental organization that was founded in 2010. The founders of the organization are: P. Tsagaan, D. Jargalsaikhan, S. Batbold, D. Zorigt, S. Bayartsogt, Ch. Saikhanbileg, D. Enkhbat, S. Oyun, Ch. Gankhuyag, Yo. Otgonbayar, G. Zandanshatar, Ch. Khashchuluun, and D. Tsogtbaatar.\n\nMission\n\nThe main mission of the forum is to identify policies that promote sustainable development for Mongolia and to generate dialogue amongst leaders such as policy makers, businessmen, scientists, and civil organizations, so that they can reach a consensus on the controversial issues surrounding strategic industries.\n\n“Mongolian Economic Forum 2010”\n\nThe Mongolian Economic Forum 2010 was held on the 8th and 9 February 2010, under the auspices of the Prime Minister of Mongolia, S. Batbold under the slogan of “Together we can”. Noble prize-winning economist Hernando De Soto attended as a honorary guest. The first day of the forum focused on the subjects of “Budgetary reforms”, “Development of the mining sector”, “Environment, green economy”. The themes of discussions on the following day were “State registration reforms”, “Capital market reforms”, “Competitiveness”. During the forum an organization was founded under the name “Mongolian Economic Forum” which is independent from politics, non-governmental with task to organizing annual economic forum.\n\nMongolia Economic Forum 2010 sponsor list.\n\nАjnai corporation, Golomt Bank, World Bank, Oyunii Undraa Holdings, Khan Bank, Khas Bank, MCS Group, Eurasia Capital, Lovells, Newcom Group, Mobicom, Eznis, NC property, Oyu Tolgoi, Petrovis.\n\nMedia Sponsors:\n\nMongolian National Broadcasting, TV5, NTV, Unuudur Newspaper, Zuunii Medee Newspaper, olloo.mn, Gogo Web Portal, Iconcept LLC, EMECA.\n\n“Mongolia Economic Forum 2011”\n\nThe Mongolian Economic Forum 2011 was held between the 2nd to the 4th of March, 2011 under the auspices of the Prime Minister S. Batbold with slogan “Together in Development” and focused on the following 4 main themes; “Human development”, “Development policy”, “Governance”, “Infrastructure” and had 15 different set of sessions. The highlight of the forum was round table meetings between delegates from the World Economic Forum in civil chamber of the Presidential Office, themes of the roundtable discussions were “Responsible mining”, “Transparency in extraction production”, and “Together against corruption”. Another beneficial aspect of the forum was that the “Invest Mongolia” forum was held together with the Mongolian Economic Forum.\n\nMongolian Economic Forum 2011 sponsor list.\n\nThe Mongolian Government, Peabody, Golomt Bank, Bodi Group, TDB, Khas Bank, Tenger Financial Group, Goldman Sachs, Rio Tinto, MCS, Energy Resources, APU LLC, Petrovis, Newcom Group, Mobicom, BDSEC JSC, Eurasia Capital, Monet Capital, Terelj Hotel, International Financial Corporation, Sound of Mongolia, Oyunii Undraa Holdings.\n\n“Mongolian Economic Forum 2012”\n\nThe Mongolian Economic Forum 2012 was held between the 2nd to the 6th of March, 2012, under the auspices of the Prime Minister S. Batbold. 11 different discussions were conducted around the main topics of “Economic Development: Inclusive Growth”, “Social Policy: Equitable Growth”, “Competitiveness: Innovation and Green Growth”. This year’s forum was unique due to the fact that numerous series of discussions and debates where held before the forum under the main themes of the year as a preparation for the forum. The discussions were delivered to the scientists, businessmen, and the society and the feedbacks were applied to the main themes of the year.\n\nMongolian Economic Forum 2012 sponsor list.\n\nThe Mongolian Government, Rio Tinto, Golomt Bank, Khan Bank, TDB, Bodi Group, Newcom Group, Mobicom, Oyu Tolgoi, Petrovis LLC, Peabody Energy, Khas Bank, Tenger Insurance, World Bank, Eurasia Capital, ADB, IFC, Standard Chartered, Ulaanbaatar Railways.\n\n“Mongolia Economic Forum 2013”\n\nMongolian Economic Forum 2013 sponsor list.\n\nThe Mongolian Government, TDB, MAK, Khan Bank, World Bank, ADB, Khas Bank, Tenger Financial Group, MNB, Mongolian Economy Magazine, Bloomberg TV Mongolia, Mobinet, Mongolian Artists Organization.\n\n“Mongolian Economic Forum 2014”\n\nMongolian Economic Forum 2014 sponsor list.\n\nThe Mongolian Government, TDB, Khan Bank, ETT, State Bank, Khas Bank, Golomt Bank, Erdenet, IFC.\n\nMedia Sponsors:\n\nBloomberg TV Mongolia, BRB RENT, Mobinet, Mongolian Economy Magazine, Sound of Mongolia, Mongol Mass Media ХХК.\n\n“Mongolian Economic Forum 2015”\n\nThe Mongolian Economic Forum 2015 was held on the 2nd and 3 April 2015 with the support of the then prime minister Ch. Saikhanbileg under the slogan “Trust”. During the 2 days of the forum, 18 subject discussions were held on the main topics of “Mongolia’s long term vision” and “The current macro state of the Mongolian economy”. One of the defining discussion theme of the forum was how to increase and improve Mongolia’s credit rating in the international financial market.\n\nThe sponsors for the Mongolian Economic Forum 2015.\n\nThe Mongolian Government, Golomt Bank, Khan Bank, Oyu Tolgoi, E&Y, Ard Financial, BCM, Sound of Mongolia, Megaproject Development Institute, Bloomberg TV Mongolia, Union of Mongolian Journalists, Gogo Web Portal, Mongolian Economy Magazine, Government News, Mongolia Business Summit, Cover Mongolia, BRB Media, Oxford Business Group, German Mongolian Business Association, Gereg Magazine.\n\n“Mongolian Economic Forum 2016”\n\nThe Mongolian Economic Forum 2016 was held on the 30th and 31 March 2016 with the support of the then prime minister Ch. Saikhanbileg under the slogan “Lessons, Challenges, and Solutions”. The first day of the forum focused on the topic of “Global and regional economic trends and Mongolia’s economic trajectory”. The main topic for the second day was “Business Environment”. An additional discussion was held on the topic of “The long-term development policy of Mongolia” and was attended by party members of the 5 parties that held seats in the Mongolian parliament. A total of 18 discussions were held during the event. The event also marked the 25th anniversary of Mongolia’s membership into the Asian Development Bank and the ADB’s South East Asian region director Ayumi Konishi attended the event.\n\nThe sponsors for the Mongolian Economic Forum 2016.\n\nThe Mongolian Government, ADB, IFC, Erdenet, Golomt Bank, Khan Bank, E&Y, Mongol ID, Bloomberg TV Mongolia, Gogo News Agency, BCM, Mobinet, Sound of Mongolia, Oxford Business Group, National News Corporation, Association of Mongolian Builders, Cover Mongolia, Mongolia Business Summit 2016, Mongolian Economy Magazine, Mongolian Chamber of Commerce, French Mongolian Chamber of Commerce, American Chamber of Commerce, German Mongolian Business Association.\n\n“Mongolian Economic Forum 2018”\n\nIt has been decided that “The Mongolian Economic Forum 2018” will be hosted in 2 stages. On the 28th of March, 2018 the forum discussions were held under the subject of “Spring discussions between the private sector and the Government” with the slogan “lets join forces”. During the forum the Mongolian government introduced their “3 pillared development strategy” to the public and discussions were held on the recently introduced new tax bill.\n\nThe main event was held on the 21st and 22 May 2018 under the topic of “Investment”.\n\nHeadquartered in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, the Mongolia Economic Forum is a non-governmental organization and was established in 2010. The NGO's highest governing body is the Board of Directors.\n\nChairman of the Mongolia Economic Forum NGO is Пунцагийн Цагаан, . Director of the Mongolia Economic Forum NGO is Lakshmi Bodsho. Mongolia Economic Forum NGO's highest governing body is the Board of Directors. The members of the Board of Directors include P. Tsagaan, ; D. Jargalsaikhan, ; D. Zorig, ; S. Bayartsogt,; S. Saikhanbileg, t; D. Enkhbat, ; S. Oyun, ; Yo. Otgonbayar, ; J. Zandanshatar, ; Ch. Khashchuluun, and D. Tsogtbaatar, State Secretary of the Minister of Foreign Affairs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1739382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1739382", "title": "Nazi punk", "text": "Nazi punk\n\nA Nazi punk is a neo-Nazi who is part of the punk subculture. The term also describes the related music genre, which is sometimes also referred to as hatecore. Nazi Punk music generally sounds like other forms of punk rock, but differs by having lyrics that express hatred of some ethnic minorities, Jews, homosexuals,anarchists, and other perceived enemies. \n\nIt is a subgenre of punk that contrasts sharply with the anti-authoritarian ideas prevalent in much of the punk subculture. While early punks including Sid Vicious and Siouxsie Sioux incorporated Nazi imagery such as Swastikas, this has commonly been interpreted as an attempt to shock, rather than as a genuine belief in principles of Nazism. In the long-standing band The Exploited, Wattie Buchan has been regularly questioned about his swastika tattoo and he has constantly denied being a racist.\n\nIn 1978 in Britain, the white nationalist National Front had a punk-oriented youth organization called the Punk Front. Although the Punk Front only lasted one year, it recruited several English punks, as well as forming a number of white power punk bands such as The Dentists, The Ventz, Tragic Minds and White Boss. In the early 1980s, the white power skinhead band Brutal Attack temporarily transformed into a Nazi punk band. They said they did that in the hopes of getting public concerts booked easier, but this tactic did not work, and they soon returned to being a racist skinhead band.\n\nThe Nazi Punk subculture appeared in the United States by the early 1980s in the hardcore punk scene.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42720898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42720898", "title": "Pony Express Bible", "text": "Pony Express Bible\n\nThe special edition leather-bound Bible was given to all the employees by the operators Russell, Majors and Waddell. Its dimensions are about 5.7 inches (14.5 cm) tall by 3.6 inches (9.1 cm) wide and a little over 2 inches thick. It has 1,278 double-columned pages.\n\nThe copies of the Bible were specifically commissioned by Alexander Majors and contained full versions of both the Old and New Testaments. The firm had originally purchased these special copies for their company's wagon-train employees. The Bibles had gold lettering on the cover with a contemporary inscription and the wording, \"Presented by Russell, Majors & Waddell. 1858\". The source for the Old and New Testaments was an 1858 King James Version published by the American Bible Society in New York City.\n\nOn commencing employment, a Pony Express rider was given one of the special edition Bibles. The rider had to swear to and sign the \"frontier pledge\" of loyalty, honesty, and sobriety, that was on the inside front cover of the Bible:\n\nIt appears that the 183 riders employed from April 1860 to November 1861 did not take the pledge very seriously as, on the whole, they were considered dreadful, rough and unconventional.\n\nAlexander Majors, one of the original operators of the Pony Express, had religious convictions and required certain principles be held that he related to the Christian Bible. Examples were not to swear in public or drink intoxicating alcoholic beverages and that each rider was to honor Sunday as a day of rest. Initially the Pony Express riders were issued certain pieces of equipment to carry, which included a bowie knife, and the Pony Express Bible. Later, most of this hardware was abandoned because it was too heavy to carry and looked upon as extra unnecessary items for their journey. Some sources say that the riders carried the Bible given them, at least in the beginning. Other sources say the riders never carried their Bible since it added weight that would slow down the pony they were riding. Many of the riders took only a single pistol with an extra cylinder of bullets on their rides. Some didn't even take a gun, depending instead on the speed of their pony for their greatest defense against hostilities.\n\nThe Forty-fifth Annual Report of the American Bible Society shows 300 copies of the Bibles granted May 9, 1861, to Major and Russell by the American Bible Society. Of as the last record known of a 1960 'census' there were 12 copies left in existence. There have been only two of these Bibles that were made available for public purchase since 1980.\n\n\nThe Pony Express route that the riders used went through the Territories of Utah, Nebraska and Kansas sharing relay stations with the Butterfield Overland Mail Company stagecoach line. The Overland Mail Company eventually did take over the western portion of the Pony Express route that went to Sacramento, California, when the Pony Express firm was dissolved in 1861. The Pony Express route went through what are now the states of Missouri, Kansas, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, and California.\n\nThe Overland Mail Company station operators likely had copies of the American Bible Society's 1859 edition of the Bible similar to the 1858 Pony Express Bible.\n\nOn the \"Pawn Stars\" television program in season 8, episode 55 called \"Ponies and Phonies\" (April 24, 2014), the Overland Mail Company Bible is compared to the Pony Express Bible by rare book consultant Rebecca Romney.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22643498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22643498", "title": "Pray the Devil Back to Hell", "text": "Pray the Devil Back to Hell\n\nPray the Devil Back to Hell is a documentary film directed by Gini Reticker and produced by Abigail Disney. The film premiered at the 2008 Tribeca Film Festival, where it won the award for Best Documentary. The film had its theatrical release in New York City on November 7, 2008.\n\nThe film documents a peace movement called Women of Liberia Mass Action for Peace. Organized by social worker Leymah Gbowee, the movement started with praying and singing in a fish market. Leymah Gbowee organized the Christian and Muslim women of Monrovia, Liberia to pray for peace and to organize nonviolent protests. Dressed in white to symbolize peace, and numbering in the thousands, the women became a political force against violence and against their government.\n\nTheir movement led to the election of Ellen Johnson Sirleaf in Liberia, the first African nation with a female president. The film has been used as an advocacy tool in post-conflict zones like Sudan, mobilizing African women to petition for peace and security.\n\nA group of ordinary women in Liberia, led by Leymah Gbowee, came together to pray for peace. Armed only with white T-shirts and the courage of their convictions, they demanded a resolution to the country’s civil war.\n\nUnder Leymah Gbowee's leadership, the women managed to force a meeting with President Charles Taylor and extract a promise from him to attend peace talks in Ghana. Gbowee then led a delegation of Liberian women to Ghana to continue to apply pressure on the warring factions during the peace process. They staged a silent protest outside of the Presidential Palace, Accra, bringing about an agreement during the stalled peace talks.\n\nAsatu Bah Kenneth is featured in the film. She is currently Assistant Minister for Administration and Public Safety of the Liberian Ministry of Justice. At the time, she was the president of the Liberia Female Law Enforcement Association. Inspired by the work of the Christian women's peace initiative, she formed the Liberian Muslim Women's Organization to work for peace.\n\nWorking together, over 3,000 Christian and Muslim women mobilized their efforts, and as a result, the women were able to achieve peace in Liberia after a 14-year civil war and helped bring to power the country's first female head of state.\n\nThe title of the film is drawn from Gbowee’s statement about Taylor and the rebels. Both sides were supposedly religious. The rebels frequented mosques, while Taylor claimed to be a devout Christian who, according to Gbowee, could “pray the devil out of Hell.” It was therefore the responsibility of the women in this inter-faith coalition to pray the devil (of war) right back to Hell.\n\nIn alphabetical order\n\n\nAs a result of the First Liberian Civil War from 1989 until 1996 and Second Liberian Civil War from 1999 until 2003, and during post-conflict periods, Liberian women were displaced and faced the death of family members, sexual violence, and challenging economic and social environments. The recovery effort has been led by Liberian women against sexual violence with an all-female United Nations peacekeeping force, trained in sophisticated combat tactics and weaponry, crowd and mob control, and counter-insurgency. In 2009, women made up 15 percent of Liberia’s national police force.\n\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "698598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=698598", "title": "Scalping", "text": "Scalping\n\nScalping is the act of cutting or tearing a part of the human scalp, with hair attached, from the head.\n\nThis can either occur as part of war with the scalp being a trophy, or as an accident. Scalp-taking is considered part of the broader cultural practice of the taking and display of human body parts as trophies, and may have developed as an alternative to the taking of human heads, for scalps were easier to take, transport, and preserve for subsequent display. Scalping independently developed in various cultures in both the Old and New Worlds.\n\nIn England in 1036, Earl Godwin, father of Harold Godwinson, was reportedly responsible for scalping his enemies. According to the ancient Abingdon manuscript, 'some of them were blinded, some maimed, some scalped. No more horrible deed was done in this country since the Danes came and made peace here'.\n\nGeorg Frederici noted that “Herodotus provided the only clear and satisfactory portrayal of a scalping people in the old world” in his description of the Scythians, a nomadic people then located to the north and west of the Black Sea. Herodotus related that Scythian warriors would behead the enemies they defeated in battle and present the heads to their king to claim their share of the plunder. Then, the warrior would skin the head “by making a circular cut round the ears and shaking out the skull; he then scrapes the flesh off the skin with the rib of an ox, and when it is clean works it with his fingers until it is supple, and fit to be used as a sort of handkerchief. He hangs these handkerchiefs on the bridle of his horse, and is very proud of them. The best man is the man who has the greatest number.”\n\nAmmianus Marcellinus noted the taking of scalps by the Alani, a people of Asiatic Scythia, in terms quite similar to those used by Herodotus.\n\nThe Abbé Emmanuel H. D. Domenech referenced the \"decalvare\" of the ancient Germans and the \"capillos et cutem detrahere\" of the code of the Visigoths as examples of scalping in early medieval Europe, though some more recent interpretations of these terms relate them to shaving off the hair of the head as a legal punishment rather than scalping.\n\nIn 1845, mercenary John Duncan observed what he estimated to be 700 scalps taken in warfare and displayed as trophies by a contingent of female soldiers — Dahomey Amazons — employed by the King of Dahomey (present-day Republic of Benin). Duncan noted that these would have been taken and kept over a long period of time and would not have come from a single battle. Although Duncan travelled widely in Dahomey, and described customs such as the taking of heads and the retention of skulls as trophies, nowhere else does he mention scalping.\n\nSpecific scalping techniques varied somewhat from place to place, depending on the cultural patterns of the scalper regarding the desired shape, size, and intended use of the severed scalp, and on how the victims wore their hair, but the general process of scalping was quite uniform. The scalper firmly grasped the hair of a subdued adversary, made several quick semicircular cuts with a sharp instrument on either side of the area to be taken, and then vigorously yanked at the nearly-severed scalp. The scalp separated from the skull along the plane of the areolar connective tissue, the fourth (and least substantial) of the five layers of the human scalp. Scalping was not in itself fatal, though it was most commonly inflicted on the gravely wounded or the dead. The earliest instruments used in scalping were stone knives crafted of flint, chert, or obsidian, or other materials like reeds or oyster shells that could be worked to carry an edge equal to the task. Collectively, such tools were also used for a variety of everyday tasks like skinning and processing game, but were replaced by metal knives acquired in trade through European contact. The implement, often referred to as a “scalping knife” in popular American and European literature, was not known as such by Native Americans, a knife being for them just a simple and effective multi-purpose utility tool for which scalping was but one of many uses.\n\nAuthor and historian Mark van de Logt wrote, \"Although military historians tend to reserve the concept of 'total war, in which civilians are targeted, \"for conflicts between modern industrial nations,\" the term \"closely approaches the state of affairs between the Pawnees, the Sioux, and the Cheyennes. Noncombatants were legitimate targets. Indeed, the taking of a scalp of a woman or child was considered honorable because it signified that the scalp taker had dared to enter the very heart of the enemy's territory.\"\nMany tribes of Native Americans practiced scalping, in some instances up until the end of the 19th century. Of the approximately 500 bodies at the Crow Creek massacre site, 90 percent of the skulls show evidence of scalping. The event took place \"circa\" 1325 AD.\n\nAuthorities of New Spain offered bounties on heads to suppress indigenous tribes in Durango as early as 1616. The Connecticut and Massachusetts colonies offered bounties for the heads of murdered Native Americans, and later for just their scalps, during the Pequot War in the 1630s; Connecticut specifically reimbursed Mohegans for slaying the Pequot in 1637. Four years later, the Dutch in New Amsterdam offered bounties for the heads of Raritans. In 1643, the Iroquois attacked a group of Huron pelters and French carpenters near Montreal, killing and scalping three of the French.\n\nBounties for indigenous captives or their scalps appeared in the legislation of the American colonies during the Susquehannock War (1675–77). New England offered bounties to white settlers and Narragansett people in 1675 during King Philip's War. By 1692, New France also paid their native allies for scalps of their enemies. In 1697, on the northern frontier of Massachusetts colony, settler Hannah Dustin killed ten of her Abenaki captors during her nighttime escape, presented their ten scalps to the Massachusetts General Assembly, and was rewarded with bounties for two men, two women, and six children. There were six colonial wars with New England and the Iroquois Confederacy fighting New France and the Wabanaki Confederacy over a 75-year period, starting with King William's War in 1688. All sides scalped victims, including noncombatants, during this frontier warfare. Bounty policies originally intended only for Native American scalps were extended to enemy colonists.\n\nMassachusetts created a scalp bounty during King William's War in July 1689. During Queen Anne's War, by 1703, the Massachusetts Bay Colony was offering $60 for each native scalp. During Father Rale's War (1722–1725), on August 8, 1722, Massachusetts put a bounty on native families. Ranger John Lovewell is known to have conducted scalp-hunting expeditions, the most famous being the Battle of Pequawket in New Hampshire.\n\nIn the 1710s and '20s, New France engaged in frontier warfare with the Natchez people and the Meskwaki people, during which both sides would employ the practice. In response to repeated massacres of British families by the French and their native allies during King George's War, Massachusetts governor William Shirley issued a bounty in 1746 to be paid to British-allied Indians for the scalps of French-allied Indian men, women, and children. New York passed a Scalp Act in 1747.\n\nDuring Father Le Loutre's War and the Seven Years' War in Nova Scotia and Acadia, French colonists offered payments to Indians for British scalps. In 1749, British Governor Edward Cornwallis offered payment to New England Rangers for Indian scalps. Both the Mi'kmaq people and the British killed combatants and non-combatants (i.e., women, children, and infants). Also during the Seven Years' War, Governor of Nova Scotia Charles Lawrence offered a reward for male Mi'kmaq scalps in 1756. (In 2000, some Mi'kmaq argued that this proclamation was still legal in Nova Scotia. Government officials argued that it was no longer legal because the bounty was superseded by later treaties - see the Burying the Hatchet ceremony).\n\nDuring the French and Indian War, as of June 12, 1755, Massachusetts governor William Shirley was offering a bounty of £40 for a male Indian scalp, and £20 for scalps of females or of children under 12 years old. In 1756, Pennsylvania Lieutenant Governor Robert Morris, in his Declaration of War against the Lenni Lenape (Delaware) people, offered \"130 Pieces of Eight, for the Scalp of Every Male Indian Enemy, above the Age of Twelve Years,\" and \"50 Pieces of Eight for the Scalp of Every Indian Woman, produced as evidence of their being killed.\"\n\nIn the American Revolutionary War, Henry Hamilton, the Lieutenant Governor and Superintendent of Indian Affairs at Fort Detroit, was known by American Patriots as the \"hair-buyer general\" because they believed he encouraged and paid his Native American allies to scalp American settlers. When Hamilton was captured in the war by the colonists, he was treated as a war criminal instead of a prisoner of war because of this. However, American historians have conceded that there was no positive proof that he had ever offered rewards for scalps. It is now assumed that during the American Revolution, no British officer paid for scalps. During the Sullivan Expedition, the September 13, 1779 journal entry of Lieutenant William Barton tells of patriots participating in scalping.\nIn 1835, the government of the Mexican state of Sonora put a bounty on the Apache which, over time, evolved into a payment by the government of 100 pesos for each scalp of a male 14 or more years old . In 1837, the Mexican state of Chihuahua also offered a bounty on Apache scalps, 100 pesos per warrior, 50 pesos per woman, and 25 pesos per child. Harris Worcester wrote: \"The new policy attracted a diverse group of men, including Anglos, runaway slaves led by Seminole John Horse, and Indians — Kirker used Delawares and Shawnees; others, such as Terrazas, used Tarahumaras; and Seminole Chief Coacoochee led a band of his own people who had fled from Indian Territory.\"\n\nSome scalping incidents even occurred during the American Civil War. For example, Confederate guerrillas led by \"Bloody Bill\" Anderson were well known for decorating their saddles with the scalps of Union soldiers they had killed. Archie Clement had the reputation of being Anderson’s “chief scalper”.\n\nIn 1851, the U.S. Army displayed Indian scalps in Stanislaus County, California. In Tehama County, California, U.S. military and local volunteers razed villages and scalped hundreds of men, women, and children.\n\nScalping also occurred during the Sand Creek Massacre on November 29, 1864, during the American Indian Wars, when a 700-man force of U.S. Army volunteers destroyed the village of Cheyenne and Arapaho in southeastern Colorado Territory, killing and mutilating an estimated 70–163 Native Americans. An 1867 \"New York Times\" article reported that \"settlers in a small town in Colorado Territory had recently subscribed $5,000 to a fund ‘for the purpose of buying Indian scalps (with $25 each to be paid for scalps with the ears on)’ and that the market for Indian scalps ‘is not affected by age or sex’.\" The article noted this behavior was \"sanctioned\" by the U.S. federal government, and was modeled on patterns the U.S. had begun a century earlier in the \"American East\".\n\nFrom one writer's point of view, it was a \"uniquely American\" innovation that the use of scalp bounties in the wars against indigenous societies \"became an indiscriminate killing process that deliberately targeted Indian non-combatants (including women, children, and infants), as well as warriors.\"\n\nAccidental scalping has become a public health issue in Brazil along the Amazon River, where numerous boaters have been scalped after becoming ensnared by propellers or motors of unregulated watercraft.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6751525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6751525", "title": "Sell-through", "text": "Sell-through\n\nSell-through refers to the percentage of a product that is sold by a retailer after being shipped by its supplier, typically expressed as a percentage. Net sales essentially refers to the same thing, in absolute numbers. Sell-through is calculated during a period (usually 1 month).\n\nSell through refers to sales made directly (Direct sales). Sell in, on the other hand, refers to sales made through a channel.\n\nThis is relevant to sweet retail management software programs.\n\nSee also electronic sell-through\n"}
{"id": "7969689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7969689", "title": "Slavery in Mauritania", "text": "Slavery in Mauritania\n\nSlavery has been called \"deeply rooted\" in the structure of the northwestern African country of Mauritania, and \"closely tied\" to the ethnic composition of the country.\n\nIn 1905, an end of slavery in Mauritania was declared by the colonial French administration but the vastness of Mauritania mostly gave the law very few successes. In 1981, Mauritania became the last country in the world to abolish slavery, when a presidential decree abolished the practice. However, no criminal laws were passed to enforce the ban. In 2007, \"under international pressure\", the government passed a law allowing slaveholders to be prosecuted. Despite this, the number of slaves in the country has been estimated by Global Slavery Index to be 43,000 (or 1.058% of the population) in 2015 and by the organization SOS Slavery to be up to 600,000 (or 17% of the population). Sociologist Kevin Bales and Global Slavery Index estimate that Mauritania has the highest proportion of people in slavery of any country in the world. While other countries in the region have people in \"slavelike conditions\", the situation in Mauritania is \"unusually severe\", according to African history professor Bruce Hall.\n\nThe position of the government of Mauritania is that slavery is \"totally finished ... all people are free\", and that talk of it \"suggests manipulation by the West, an act of enmity toward Islam, or influence from the worldwide Jewish conspiracy.\" However, Amnesty International estimates that 43,000 people still live in slavery in Mauritania. It notes that: \n\"Slavery was outlawed in 1981 but 1% of the population are still living in bondage, human rights groups say.\n\nBlack people of certain ethnic groups are often enslaved as domestic workers by lighter-skinned Mauritanians.\n\nThe country has jailed more anti-slavery activists than slave owners, rights groups say.\" \n\nA November 2009 United Nations mission, headed by UN Special Rapporteur Gulnara Shahinian, evaluated slavery practices in the country. In an August 2010 report to the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) it concluded that \"despite laws, programmes and difference of opinion with regard to the existence of slavery in Mauritania, ... de facto slavery continues to exist in Mauritania\".\n\nSlave status has been passed down through the generations. The descendants of black Africans captured during historical slave raids now live in Mauritania as \"black Moors\" or \"haratin\", some of them still serve as slaves to the lighter-skinned \"white\" or \"beydan\" (\"Whites\") (Berbers or mixed Berber-Arabs, descendants of slave-owners known collectively as \"al-beydan\"). According to Global Slavery Index, slavery of adults and children in Mauritania \"primarily takes the form of chattel slavery\" (i.e. the slaves and their descendants \"are the full property of their masters\"). Slaves \"may be bought and sold, rented out and given away as gifts\". Slavery in Mauritania is \"prevalent in both rural and urban areas\", but women are reportedly \"disproportionately affected\" by slavery. Women slaves \"usually work within the domestic sphere\", caring for children and doing domestic chores, but \"may also herd animals and farm\". Women slaves \"are subject to sexual assault by their masters\". Because slave status is matrilineal, slaves typically serve the same families that their mothers and grandmothers did. They usually sleep and eat in the same quarters as the animals of their owning families. Slaves are \"not restrained by chains\" but by \"economic\" and \"psychological\" factors. They are denied education in secular fields that provide job skills, and taught that \"questioning slavery is tantamount to questioning Islam\". There is also a \"grey area\" or \"a continuum\" between slavery and freedom in Mauritania—referred to politely as the \"vestiges of slavery\"—where sharecroppers and workers are exploited by Beydane landowners and bosses. According to Ahmed Vall Ould Dine, of Mauritanian Human Rights Watch, \"Slaves tend to develop very close relations with their masters; the freed ones, who are poor and have inherited nothing from their parents, chose to remain under the auspices of their ex-masters as they provide them with basic necessities of life.\"\n\nTwo academics, Ahmed Meiloud and Mohamed El Mokhtar Sidi Haiba, have criticized statements on slavery in Mauritania by anti-slavery organizations and writers for alleged exaggeration, lack of statistical sources, factual errors.\n\nThe government of Mauritania (which is dominated by Beydanes) denies that slavery exists in the country. According to Abdel Nasser Ould Ethmane, a political adviser to the African Union and a cofounder of the abolitionist group SOS Slaves, the Mauritanian government's \"line\" on slavery is: \"Slavery no longer exists, and talk of it suggests manipulation by the West, an act of enmity toward Islam, or influence from the worldwide Jewish conspiracy.\"\n\nResponding to accusations of human rights abuse, in 2012 the Mauritanian Minister of rural development, Brahim Ould M'Bareck Ould Med El Moctar, stated:\nI must tell you that in Mauritania, freedom is total: freedom of thought, equality – of all men and women of Mauritania... in all cases, especially with this government, this is in the past. There are probably former relationships – slavery relationships and familial relationships from old days and of the older generations, maybe, or descendants who wish to continue to be in relationships with descendants of their old masters, for familial reasons, or out of affinity, and maybe also for economic interests. But (slavery) is something that is totally finished. All people are free in Mauritania and this phenomenon no longer exists. And I believe that I can tell you that no one profits from this commerce.\n\nIn March 2013, the President established an agency to \"combat slavery\", known as the \"National Agency to Fight against the Vestiges of Slavery, Integration, and Fight against Poverty\". The director, Hamdi Ould Mahjoub, a Beydane, told \"The New Yorker\" author Alexis Okeowo, \"Slavery as an institution, as something accepted by society, does not exist\" in Mauritania, and that his agency was working on a program to help farmers and others to build clinics and improve access to water.\n\nAmong the reasons given for the difficulty of ending slavery in Mauritania are:\n\nMauritanian antislavery organizations include: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "42326285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42326285", "title": "Smallpox virus retention controversy", "text": "Smallpox virus retention controversy\n\nThe smallpox virus retention controversy is a debate that has been ongoing among international scientists and other officials since smallpox was declared eradicated by the World Health Organization (WHO) in 1980. It centers on whether to finally and irreversibly destroy the two last remnants of the virus that causes smallpox, which reside in government laboratories in the United States and Russia. Advocates of final destruction maintain that there is no longer any valid rationale for retaining the samples, which represent a hazard, while opponents of it maintain that the samples are needed for further research as smallpox virus may still exist in the world outside of the two labs, and thus may re-emerge, particularly as a bio-weapon.\n\nThe last cases of smallpox occurred in an outbreak of two cases, one of which was fatal, in Birmingham, UK, in 1978. A medical photographer, Janet Parker, contracted the disease at the University of Birmingham Medical School and died on September 11, 1978. In light of this incident, all known stocks of smallpox were destroyed or transferred to one of two WHO reference laboratories which had BSL-4 facilities—the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in the United States and the State Research Center of Virology and Biotechnology VECTOR in Koltsovo, Russia. Since 1984, these two labs have been the only ones authorized by the WHO to hold stocks of live smallpox virus.\n\nIn 1986, the WHO first recommended destruction of all virus, and later set the date of destruction to be 30 December 1993. This was postponed to 30 June 1999, then again to 30 June 2002. Due to resistance from the U.S. and Russia, in 2002 the World Health Assembly agreed to permit the temporary retention of the virus stocks for specific research purposes. Destroying existing stocks would reduce the risk involved with ongoing smallpox research; the stocks are not needed to respond to a smallpox outbreak. Some scientists have argued that the stocks may be useful in developing new vaccines, antiviral drugs, and diagnostic tests; A 2010 review by a team of public health experts appointed by the WHO, however, concluded that no essential public health purpose is served by the U.S. and Russia continuing to retain virus stocks. The latter view is frequently supported in the scientific community, particularly among veterans of the WHO Smallpox Eradication Program (1958–79).\n\nAn \"Ad Hoc\" Committee on Orthopox Infections, advising the WHO, has debated the fate of the remaining samples of smallpox in the remaining two official repositories since 1980. Smallpox expert D. A. Henderson has been foremost in favor of destruction, while U.S. Army scientist Peter Jahrling has been against it on the basis that further research is needed since he believes that smallpox almost certainly exists outside of the repositories. Other scientists have expressed similar opinions.\n\nIn 2011, Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, laid out the rationale of the Obama Administration in a \"New York Times\" op-ed piece. She said, in part:\n[In 1980], the WHO called on all nations to destroy their collections of smallpox virus or transfer them to the WHO-sanctioned collections at one of two labs in Russia or the United States. The global public health community assumes that all nations acted in good faith; however, no one has ever attempted to verify or validate compliance with the WHO request…. Although keeping the samples may carry a minuscule risk, both the United States and Russia believe the dangers of destroying them now are far greater…. It is quite possible that undisclosed or forgotten stocks exist. Also, 30 years after the disease was eradicated, the virus’ genomic information is available online and the technology now exists for someone with the right tools and the wrong intentions to create a new smallpox virus in a laboratory…. Destroying the virus now is merely a symbolic act that would slow our progress and could even stop it completely, leaving the world vulnerable…. Destruction of the last securely stored viruses is an irrevocable action that should occur only when the global community has eliminated the threat of smallpox once and for all. To do any less keeps future generations at risk from the re-emergence of one of the deadliest diseases humanity has ever known. Until this research is complete, we cannot afford to take that risk.\n\n\nAs of May 2018, based on the latest (19th) meeting of the WHO Advisory Committee on Variola Virus Research (1–2 November 2017), the question remained as to whether the use of live variola virus for their further development was \"essential for public health\".\n\n"}
{"id": "14743820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14743820", "title": "Sports chaplain", "text": "Sports chaplain\n\nA sports chaplain provides pastoral care for the sports person and the broader sports community including the coaches, administrators and their families.\n\nChaplains to sports communities have existed since the middle of the 20th century and have significantly grown in the past 20 years. The United States, United Kingdom and Australia have well established Christian sports chaplaincy ministries. \n\nIn 1982 a congress held in Hong Kong on sports mission saw sports chaplains and those interested in Mission to people engaged in sports come together from around the world including recognised representatives from North and South America, Europe, Africa, Asia, the sub-continent and Australasia. It was this congress that created the inspiration to further develop or initiate national sports missions and sports chaplains. \n\nSports chaplains consist of people from many different walks of life. Most commonly, the chaplains are ministers or full-time Christian workers but always, chaplaincy work is done without charge or any financial remuneration. Often, sports chaplains to a particular sport are former participants of that sport. This helps the chaplain to not only provide spiritual support and guidance to a player, but gives them the ability to empathize and relate to some of the challenges facing the participant with whom they are ministering.\n\nThere were 193 multi-faith sports chaplains at the London 2012 Olympics.\n\nThe USA have various sport related chaplaincy organizations. Along with major Denominations, Ministries such as Athletes in Action and Fellowship of Christian Athletes also provide chaplains to various sports at the collegiate and professional levels. Every major professional sport in the United States has at least some sports chaplaincy. Some sports are more coordinated, like Major League Baseball (see www.baseballchapel.org), but most are far more loosely structured with each chaplain having a program that best suits their team and individual situation. Every MLB, NFL, NBA & Major League Soccer franchise has a chaplain. Due to financial constraints, very few chaplains travel with their teams. In some cases, especially when an individual coach understands the value of the chaplain to their team, the coach may invite the chaplain to come on a road trip. This happens far more frequently when a team is traveling a short distance to a neighboring city by bus or motor coach, but in some cases, coaches have paid (out of their own pocket) to bring a chaplain on a road trip. \n\nIn recent years, much more work is being done by chaplains in specific sports to coordinate and work together so that their players can have support and encouragement from a chaplain even when they are “on the road”. \n\nIn addition, the US Olympic Team travels with one or more chaplains, primarily to provide emotional support to the athletes.\n\nSports Chaplaincy UK, formerly known as SCORE was established in 1991 under the guidance and direction of the Baptist Union of Great Britain to use the specialist experience of one of their ministers to pioneer sports chaplaincy and sports ministry.\n\nCalled Sports Chaplaincy UK since 2011, the Christian charity seeks to resource over 250 chaplains in a variety of sports and situations. Their chaplains are mainly in football, rugby union, rugby league, cricket and horseracing. They supplied over 40 chaplains to serve at the London2012 Olympics. All offer pastoral and spiritual support in a sensitive, non-judgement, non-sectarian way. All work with integrity and professionalism amongst the whole community of their clubs - the players, coaches, organisation and support staff. There is a real sense of affirmation and endorsement from the widest spectrum of the sports world, from the chaplains' work and involvement.\n\nAs a direct result of the Hong Kong 1982 Congress on Sports Mission, pioneered by Mark Tronson, the Australian Heads of Churches approved a Sports Chaplaincy mission, which was named the 'Sports and Leisure Ministry' (SLM). It was initially housed within the well established InterChurch Trade and Industry Mission (ITIM). In 1985 Australian Heads of Churches gave SLM its independence and in 1987 its Heads of Churches appointed board members adopted incorporation. In 2000 Heads of Churches released its founder, Mark Tronson, to establish Well-Being Australia, specialising in athlete respite. Five years later in 2005 SLM changed its name to Sports Chaplaincy Australia (SCA). \n\nAs a result of its solid foundation under Australian Heads of Churches, SLM (now SCA) has seen many professional sports in Australia adopt sport chaplains. Over 180 chaplains now serve in sports and sport organizations such as cricket, motor racing, tennis, rugby league, basketball, baseball, soccer, golf, yachting, skiing, netball, rodeo and horse racing, the Australian Institute of Sport, and State Institutes of Sport.\n\n\nSports Chaplaincy Australia\nWell-Being Australia\n"}
{"id": "256038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=256038", "title": "Substance-related disorder", "text": "Substance-related disorder\n\nSubstance abuse, also known as drug abuse, is a patterned use of a substance (drug) in which the user consumes the substance in amounts or with methods which are harmful to themselves or others. \nThe drugs used are often associated with levels of intoxication that alter judgment, perception, attention and physical control, not related with medical effects. It is often thought that the main abused substances are illegal drugs and alcohol; however it is becoming more common that prescription drugs and tobacco are a prevalent problem.\n\nSubstance-related disorders, including both substance dependence and substance abuse, can lead to large societal problems. It is found to be greatest in individuals ages 18–25, with a higher likelihood occurring in men compared to women, and urban residents compared to rural residents. On average, general medical facilities hold 20% of patients with substance-related disorders, possibly leading to psychiatric disorders later on. Over 50% of individuals with substance-related disorders will often have a \"dual diagnosis,\" where they are diagnosed with the substance abuse, as well as a psychiatric diagnosis, the most common being major depression, personality disorder, anxiety disorders, and dysthymia.\n\nCommon symptoms include:\n\nThere are many more symptoms such as physical and psychological changes, though this is often dependent on which drug is being abused. It is, however, common that abusers will experience unpleasant withdrawal symptoms if the drug is taken away from them.\n\nIt is also reported that others have strong cravings even after they have not used the drug for a long period of time. This is called being \"clean\". To determine how the brain triggers these cravings, multiple tests have been done on mice. It is also now thought that these cravings can be explained by substance-related disorders as a subcategory of personality disorders as classified by the DSM-5.\n\nSubstance-related disorders were originally subcategorized into \"substance use disorders\" (SUD) and \"substance-induced disorders\" (SID). Though DSM-IV makes a firm distinction between the two, SIDs often occur in the context of SUDs.\n\nSubstance-induced disorders include medical conditions that can be directly attributed to the use of a substance. These conditions include intoxication, withdrawal, substance-induced delirium, substance-induced psychosis, and substance-induced mood disorders.\n\nSubstance use disorders include substance abuse and substance dependence. In DSM-IV, the conditions are formally diagnosed as one or the other, but it has been proposed that DSM-V combine the two into a single condition called \"Substance-use disorder\".\n\nThe more recently published DSM-5 combined substance abuse and substance dependence into a single continuum; this is simply known as substance use disorder and requires more presenting symptoms before a diagnosis is made. It also considers each different substance as its own separate disorder, based upon the same basic criteria. It also distinguishes the difference between dependence and addictions as two separate disorders, not to be confused.\n\nThere are many potential complications that can arise due to substance abuse such as severe physiological damage, psychological changes and social changes that are often not desirable.\n\nPhysiological damage is often the most obvious, observed as an abnormal condition affecting the body of an organism: For instance, there are several known alcohol-induced diseases (e.g. alcoholic hepatitis, alcoholic liver disease, alcoholic cardiomyopathy.) Substance abuse is also often associated with premature ageing, fertility complications, brain damage and a higher risk of infectious diseases due to a weakened immune system.\n\nLong term abuse has been linked to personality changes such as depression, paranoia, anxiety which can be related to psychological disorders. It is often reported that substance abuse coincides with personality disorders, such as borderline personality disorder. It has also now been linked to severe brain damage leading to an inability to control behaviours, which could explain why many people who abuse substances go on to develop addictions.\n\nSubstance abuse is often regarded as negative in society and therefore those who engage in such behaviours can often be subject to social discrimination. The use of many drugs can lead to criminal convictions, whether the drug itself is illegal or abusers use unlawful methods to fund their substances. It is also more likely that someone will partake in criminal or anti-social behaviour when they are under the influence of a drug.\n\n"}
{"id": "32181655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32181655", "title": "Sustainable land management", "text": "Sustainable land management\n\nSustainable land management (SLM) refers to practices and technologies that aim to integrate the management of land, water, biodiversity, and other environmental resources to meet human needs while ensuring the long-term sustainability of ecosystem services and livelihoods. The term sustainable land management is used, for example, in regional planning and soil or environmental protection, as well as in property and estate management.\n\nThe World Bank defines sustainable land management as a process in a charged environment between environmental protection and the guarantee claim of ecosystem services on the one hand. On the other hand, it is about productivity of agriculture and forestry with respect to demographic growth and increasing pressure in land use.\nThe United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) applies the term in a much wider context. Besides agriculture and forestry they include the mineral extraction sector, property and estate management.\n\nIn the course of national politics and programmes, few European states use the terminology \"sustainable land management\". Here Australia and New Zealand are to be mentioned, as both countries have agreed on sustainable land management with respect to climate change as part of their government programmes.\n\nIn the European context, the definition of the European Network for Land Use Management for Sustainable European Cities (LUMASEC) may be used as a reference. It emphasizes the inter- and transdisciplinary cooperation on sustainable land management: \n\nSince 2010, the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) funds an international research program on \"sustainable land management\". Module A of the program investigates interactions between land management, climate change, and ecosystem services. It includes projects operating in South America, Africa, Europe, Central Asia, and South Asia. Module B seeks \"innovative system solutions\" in 13 projects with a Central European focus.\n\nFurthermore, the Economics of Land Degradation (ELD) Initiative seeks to establish a cost benefit analysis on the practice of sustainable land management highlighting its economic benefits. This economic analysis will enable decision makers to take appropriate measures combat land degradation globally. Additionally, the Initiative supports regional case studies focusing on Africa and Central Asia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3088001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3088001", "title": "Ten Acre Observatory", "text": "Ten Acre Observatory\n\nTen Acre Observatory (TAO) is a public astronomical observatory owned and operated by Nick Lazzaro and used as its primary viewing site by the Odyssey Astronomy Club. It is located near Tribbey, Oklahoma (USA).\n"}
{"id": "5533519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5533519", "title": "The Crocodile Hunter: Collision Course", "text": "The Crocodile Hunter: Collision Course\n\nThe Crocodile Hunter: Collision Course is a 2002 Australian-American adventure comedy film based on the nature documentary television series \"The Crocodile Hunter\". It stars Steve Irwin and his wife Terri Irwin and was directed by frequent Irwin collaborator John Stainton. The film was released in between the fourth and fifth seasons of the series. The film follows Steve and Terri who attempt to save a crocodile from \"poachers\" not knowing that the two men are actually American Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) agents who are after them because the crocodile in the Irwins' possession has accidentally swallowed an important satellite tracking beacon.\n\nThe film was theatrically released on 12 July 2002 in the U.S. by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, which used a crocodile in place of the usual Leo the Lion for its title credit logo sequence. The film earned $33.4 million on a $12 million budget.\n\nIn outer space, a United States-owned satellite blows up and one of the last remaining pieces, a beacon, is sent hurdling towards Earth where it lands in Australia, only to be swallowed by a crocodile. Back at the CIA, Agent Buckwhiler and Deputy Director Reynolds reveal that, in the wrong hands, the beacon can change the axis of power in the world, so they send two agents, Robert Wheeler and Vaughn Barcher, down to Australia to retrieve the beacon. Department Director Ansell also secretly hires an operative of his own, Jo Buckley, to go and retrieve the beacon before Wheeler and Archer, so Ansell can take Reynolds' job.\n\nIn Australia, the crocodile that swallowed the beacon lives in a river next to the house of Brozzie Drewitt, an obnoxious cattle station owner who is taking it in her own hands to kill the crocodile for preying on her cattle. Because of this, the Department of Fauna and Fisheries send one of its workers, Sam Flynn, to Drewitt's house. Sam attempts to convince Brozzie to hire some professionals to relocate the animal, instead of having her kill it, which is illegal. Despite Flynn's words, Brozzie attempts to kill the crocodile later that night, only to fail.\n\nMeanwhile, the Crocodile Hunter Steve Irwin and his wife Terri are filming a documentary about the \"less-lovable of Australia's wildlife\" when they are hired by Flynn to relocate the crocodile that has been bothering Brozzie. Steve successfully gets the crocodile in his boat. Wheeler and Barcher are nearby using GPS technology to track the beacon. When the two agents see Steve and Terri zoom past them in their boat with the crocodile who swallowed the beacon on board, they are convinced that the Irwins have the beacon. They call up the CIA, who believe the Irwins plan to use the beacon to pay for a multimillion-dollar expansion to Australia Zoo. Steve and Terri board up the crocodile in a crate and put it in the back of the truck to drive to a new river system. Wheeler and Barcher follow them from behind in a Land Rover, and when Wheeler hops on the top of the Irwins' truck, Steve believes them to be poachers who are after the crocodile. Steve climbs up on the roof and, after a brief fistfight, manages to knock Wheeler off the truck. When the Irwins reach the river, Steve opens the crocodile's crate and discovers that the crocodile had defecated. In the poop, Steve sees a shiny metal object (the beacon) which he mistakes to be a misproperly discarded children's spinning top toy. Steve and Terri successfully get the crocodile in the river, but Wheeler and Barcher show up again in a boat, determined to get the beacon. Jo Buckley shows up in an ultralight and throws sticks of dynamite down on Wheeler and BArcher's boat, destroying it and knocking the two agents in the river. Steve believes that he and Terri are caught up in the middle of a \"poacher war\" and, not wanting the dynamite to hurt the newly relocated crocodile, gets a rope out of the boat and lassoes the aircraft, causing it to crash in the river and seemingly kill Buckley. It turns out Buckley did survive and she swims to shore to inform Ansell via a phone call that she failed to retrieve the beacon. Ansell informs Buckley that he is on the run from the CIA and the police for hiring her for the mission. He is found by police and is arrested for his crimes, ending the phone call.\n\nDue to Wheeler and Barcher's failure to retrieve the beacon, the CIA decides that it is time for drastic measures and they call up U.S. President George W. Bush in the White House to request permission to use military helicopters to fly to Australia and get the beacon.\n\nSteve is ending his documentary by throwing the beacon in the air, when the military helicopters arrive. Steve hands them the beacon revealing that the whole predicament was a misunderstanding, and, in return, the CIA send Wheeler and Barcher to work at the zoo as volunteers. Brozzie becomes a volunteer for the Department of Fauna and Fisheries.\n\n\nDue to the series' immense popularity, director/producer Stainton had developed an idea for a feature-length \"Crocodile Hunter\" film in 1999 while shooting a documentary in Africa. He wanted to make a good film, but, at the same time, make it easy for Steve who was not used to acting, believing that Irwin should only play himself. It was Stainton's idea to film Steve and Terri doing a traditional nature documentary in the Australian Outback and film these scenes in a 1:85 screen ratio. In fact, nothing for the \"documentary\" scenes were ever scripted, and when the actors (from the scripted dramatic scenes that use a 2:40 screen ratio) entered the Irwins' world for a few brief scenes, Steve (who did not know anything about the script or plot) was informed by Stainton what was about to happen so Irwin could prepare and ad-lib as much as he wanted or needed. Cheyenne Enterprises, a film and television production company owned by Bruce Willis and producer Arnold Rifkin showed interest in producing and helping finance the project. MGM then showed interest in distributing the film worldwide and principal photography began in November 2001, after having filmed the non-scripted documentary segments for well over a year. The Irwins came across hundreds of animals for the filming of the documentary scenes, but only a few, the kangaroo, the perentie, the bird eating spider, and two snakes made it into the film. The animals they encountered were re-written into the script by Holly Goldberg-Sloan for the dramatic scenes when Wheeler and Archer encounter the Irwins' truck.\n\n\"Collision Course\" was shot in two film aspect ratios, 1.85:1 for the scenes with Steve and Terri and 2.35:1 for the plot about the Australian farmer and the CIA and their efforts to find the tracking drone. In theaters and on DVD, the 1.85:1 image appears with pillar boxing, a format usually reserved for 1.33:1 ratio content appearing within 1.85:1 or 2.35:1 frames. On the Fullscreen versions, the windowboxing (mostly in the scenes with Steve and Terri and the finale) is not present due to the fullscreen process cropping the widescreen image to the 1.33:1 ratio, causing the windowboxing borders not to be shown, even when shown on a widescreen television if the image is stretched as per fullscreen programs usually are.\n\nThe film holds a 53% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 88 reviews. Roger Ebert gave the film three out of four stars, stating \"You see a couple of likable people journeying through the outback, encountering dangerous critters and getting too close for comfort, while lecturing us on their habits and dangers and almost being killed by them.\" Robert K. Elder of the \"Chicago Tribune\" said, \"Irwin and his director never come up with an adequate reason why we should pay money for what we can get on television for free.\"\n\nThe film made $28.4 million at the American box office, with a worldwide gross of $33.4 million, which against the production budget of $12 million, makes the film a considerable box office success.\n\nThe \"Crocodile Hunter: Collision Course\" was released to VHS and DVD in the United States on 17 December 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "19452409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19452409", "title": "The Superclass List", "text": "The Superclass List\n\nThe Superclass List is a creation of David Rothkopf which his book \"Superclass: The Global Power Elite and The World They Are Making\" (publ. March 2008) is based upon. There are four key elements of success that unite the members of the Superclass, and gives them unparalleled power over world affairs. These elements are: \"geography\", \"pedigree\", \"networking\" and \"luck\".\nIn the book Rothkopf writes that his list from 2008 contains 6,000 individuals. The grouping is, however, only defined roughly and as a statistical reality. Rothkopf also writes that list (one in a million, globally), is always in flux. (Note, world population is now 6.9 - 7 billion. so, if published today, the list may contain 7,000 names)\n\nRothkopf states that his list is not to be shown in public as there will be so much discussion about who does or does not qualify to be on the list. In interviews he mentions individuals that are on the list. This list contain names that he argues he has verified.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"About 20-30 Swedes are on the list\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19701413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19701413", "title": "Think Before You Speak (campaign)", "text": "Think Before You Speak (campaign)\n\nThe Think Before You Speak campaign is a television, radio, and magazine advertising campaign launched in 2008 and developed to raise awareness of the common use of derogatory vocabulary among youth towards lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer/questioning (LGBTQ) people. It also aims to \"raise awareness about the prevalence and consequences of anti-LGBTQ bias and behaviour in America’s schools.\" As LGBTQ people have become more accepted in the mainstream culture more studies have confirmed that they are one of the most targeted groups for harassment and bullying. An \"analysis of 14 years of hate crime data\" by the FBI found that gays and lesbians, or those perceived to be gay, \"are far more likely to be victims of a violent hate crime than any other minority group in the United States\". “As Americans become more accepting of LGBT people, the most extreme elements of the anti-gay movement are digging in their heels and continuing to defame gays and lesbians with falsehoods that grow more incendiary by the day,” said Mark Potok, editor of the Intelligence Report. “The leaders of this movement may deny it, but it seems clear that their demonization of gays and lesbians plays a role in fomenting the violence, hatred and bullying we’re seeing.” Because of their sexual orientation or gender identity/expression, nearly half of LGBTQ students have been physically assaulted at school. The campaign takes positive steps to counteract hateful and anti-gay speech that LGBTQ students experience in their daily lives in hopes to de-escalate the cycle of hate speech/harassment/bullying/physical threats and violence.\n\nThe campaign was created by the New York office of Arnold Worldwide, part of the Arnold Worldwide Partners unit of Havas, and the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network (GLSEN). The campaign is the Advertising Council's first LGBT awareness campaign and is trying to achieve an ending to the use of what they consider offensive phrases such as \"that's so gay\". Television commercials for the campaign include singer Hilary Duff as well as comedian Wanda Sykes. In 2008 the campaign won the Ad Council's Gold Bell award for \"Best Public Service Advertising Campaign\" from the Ad Council.\n\nA U.S. government study, titled \"Report of the Secretary's Task Force on Youth Suicide\", published in 1989, found that LGBT youth are four times more likely to attempt suicide than other young people. This higher prevalence of suicidal ideation and overall mental health problems among gay teenagers compared to their heterosexual peers has been attributed to Minority Stress. Depression and drug use among LGBT people have both been shown to increase significantly after new laws that discriminate against gay people are passed. Institutionalized and internalized homophobia may also lead LGBTQ youth to not accept themselves and have deep internal conflicts about their sexual orientation.\n\n\"Approximately 25 percent of lesbian, gay and bisexual students and university employees have been harassed due to their sexual orientation, as well as a third of those who identify as transgender, according to the study and reported by the Chronicle of Higher Education.\" \"LGBT students are three times as likely as non-LGBT students to say that they do not feel safe at school (22% vs. 7%) and 90% of LGBT students (vs. 62% of non-LGBT teens) have been harassed or assaulted during the past year.\" In addition, \"LGBQ students were more likely than heterosexual students to have seriously considered leaving their institution as a result of harassment and discrimination.\" Susan Rankin, a contributing author to the report in Miami, found that “Unequivocally, The 2010 State of Higher Education for LGBT People demonstrates that LGBTQ students, faculty and staff experience a ‘chilly’ campus climate of harassment and far less than welcoming campus communities.\"\n\nHomophobia arrived at by any means can be a gateway to bullying. As seen in the nine LGBTQ youth suicides in September 2010, severe bullying can lead to extremities such as suicide. It does not always have to be physical, but it can be emotional, viral, sexual, and racial, too. Physical bullying is kicking, punching, while emotional bullying is name calling, spreading rumors and other verbal abuse. Viral, or cyber bullying, involves abusive text messages or messages of the same nature on Facebook, Twitter, and other social media networks. Sexual bullying is unwanted touching, lewd gestures or jokes, and racial bullying has to do with stereotypes and discrimination.\n\nBullying is often dismissed as a \"rite of passage\", but studies have shown it has negative physical and psychological effects. \"Sexual minority youth, or teens that identify themselves as gay, lesbian or bisexual, are bullied two to three times more than heterosexuals\", and \"almost all transgender students have been verbally harassed (e.g., called names or threatened in the past year at school because of their sexual orientation (89%) and gender expression (89%)\", according to GLSEN's \"Harsh Realities, The Experiences of Transgender Youth In Our Nation’s Schools\". These issues have become more mainstream in the 2000s (decade), and even more so in the months of September and October 2010 when a series of suicides got national attention. In August 2010 the US Department of Education (DOE) hosted the first-ever National Bullying Summit. President Barack Obama has posted an \"It Gets Better\" video on The White House website as part of the It Gets Better Project, it became the second most-viewed video on the White House YouTube channel.\n\n\"More than 34,000 people die by suicide each year,\" making it \"the third leading cause of death among 15 to 24 year olds with lesbian, gay, and bisexual youth attempting suicide up to four times more than their heterosexual peers.\" In 2004, 1,985 American adolescents under the age of twenty committed suicide, an increase of 18% from the previous year. Though it is impossible to know the exact suicide rate of LGBT youth because sexuality and gender minorities are often hidden and even unknown, particularly in this age group. Further research is currently being done to explain the prevalence of suicide among LGBT youths.\n\nKevin Jennings, who is openly gay and is the Assistant Deputy Secretary for the Office of Safe and Drug-Free Schools at the U.S. Department of Education, has experienced bullying himself at school and has hoped for this campaign for over ten years. The campaign aims to reduce homophobic slang among youth, and educate parents and teachers on how to create a safe space for LGBT teens. GLSEN and the Ad Council have reported that over half of all students have heard homophobic remarks being made often at school, and 9 out of 10 LGBT students have been harassed at school over the last year. The campaign encourages students to get involved by starting a Gay-Straight Alliance, educating their peers, and working to create a safer environment for LGBT students. This is the first campaign on GLBT issues since the Ad Council was founded in 1942. The campaign uses the slogan \"When you say ‘That’s so gay,’ do you realize what you say? Knock it off.\" Previously the council has run other anti-discrimination campaigns like \"A mind is a terrible thing to waste,” for the United Negro College Fund, and \"Expect the best from a girl and that’s what you’ll get\" to promote gender equality.\n\nGLSEN spent approximately $2 million dollars to produce the campaign, which was released along with GLSEN's \"2007 School Climate Survey\". It includes three television public service announcements (PSAs), six print PSAs and three radio PSAs. The ad was the first ever campaign by the Ad Council, \"which directs and coordinates public service campaigns on behalf of Madison Avenue and the media industry\", to address any GLBTQ issues. The campaign was done pro bono by the New York office of Arnold Worldwide.\n\nIn researching the possibility that public service directors, who decide which pro bono campaigns their media outlet will run, they found only a \"very small percentage\" who would not run the campaign but mainly due to their audience was much older. They also tested how to deliver the messages to \"tough and media savvy\" kids \"that speaks to young people in a tone they do not deem patronizing or condescending.\" Their goal became \"to show the situation in a new light [...] to point out this language can be hurtful and let the kids make their own decisions.\"\n\nAfter the first year of the campaign had been reached, the second harder-hitting phase addressing the consequences, \"sometimes life-or-death\", of anti-gay language was launched. The first phase focussed on showing the television PSAs to get young people to see how their language can be hurtful, the ads combined for \"more than $9 million worth of media exposure for the campaign's message since its launch in October 2008.\" The second phase will be more viral and enable people to embed banners and materials on websites and in their social media use. All the materials are downloadable from the campaign site. The Ad Council reports a high recognition of the television spots among teens (41% of teens aged 13–16 nationwide reporting that they have seen or heard at least one PSA) and a recent survey conducted by the Council shows \"significant shifts in key attitudes and behaviors regarding the use of anti-LGBTQ slurs.\" Another downloadable feature is a meter that tracks the occurrence of common LGBTQ slurs such as \"fag\" and \"dyke\" \"in real time—on the popular micro-blogging site Twitter.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16731600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16731600", "title": "Trading diaspora", "text": "Trading diaspora\n\nTrading diasporas is a term coined by Philip D. Curtin to mean: “communities of merchants living among aliens in associated networks”.\n\nTrading diasporas were formed as a result of international trade that resulted in the settlement of merchants in certain countries where they sold their products. Their importance to the global world was marked by their impact on the spread of cultures and ideologies of certain areas to the rest of the world. First mention of trading diasporas dates back around 2000 BCE when the Assyrian merchants traveled to the Anatolian Peninsula in order to sell their goods. Trading diasporas in this period of time were created as a result of the Assyrian traders staying as “semi-permanent residents” in cities of the Anatolian peninsula. According to Steve Gosch of the University of Wisconsin–Eau Claire divides the Assyrian traders into “stayers” and “movers.” Gosch further explains that “stayers” were the merchants who permanently settled on the Anatolian peninsula while “movers” traveled back and forth in order to sell their goods.\n\nAccording to Jane Schneider, the merchants trading prior to 15th century were able to create “asymmetrical links between world regions.” Barry Gillis and Andre Gunder Frank go on to say that “the earliest world system contained the essential features of its modern counterpart: asymmetrical relationships between regions in the core and periphery, continuing struggles for hegemony within the core and alternating periods of expansion and contraction in the system as a whole.” This means that the relations between different regions in the early modern world were not perfect and differed from the international relations of the modern time. Trading diasporas were able to create cultural and economical ties with different regions rather than a political relationship.\n\nThere are several reasons for the creation of trading diasporas some of which included a demand for products that were not available in particular regions of the world, the division of the world into small city states who wanted to create economic and cultural ties with the rest of the world and the willingness of people living in certain areas to create their communities abroad and to be represented by them. As Gosch explains “premodern world system was to some extent an “archipelago of towns\" in which urban centers in Europe (Bruges, Ghent, Genoa and Venice), the Middle East (Cairo, Aden, and Hormuz), and Asia (Samarkand, Calicut, Kanchipuram, Malacca, Quanzhou and Hangzhou) were connected to one another by trade and shared in a common culture of commerce.” Strong empires like China and several European states were also using the merchants to create trading diasporas in order to gather information about a certain country and possibly exploit it either in the event of conflict or just for sociable reasons. Long distance trade at this time mainly “dealt largely if not exclusively with luxury goods or high value relative to their bulk.” Therefore, protection of trading diasporas in the countries where diasporas settled was important as it guaranteed supply of luxury products into the country.\n\nThe Jewish diaspora in India in an area called Goa is considered one of the oldest and strongest of the Early Modern World diasporas. The migration of Jews to India can be marked by the discovery of the route to India through the South African coast by the Portuguese. As Walter Fischel, the author of Leading Jews in the service of Portuguese India notes “Already in 1498 there appeared in the vicinity of Goa on the island of Anjediva the first Western Jew to play a role in the Portuguese Indian history.” Prior to the diamond trade, Jews in Portugal were employed as letter carriers, translators and agents. As the Portuguese expansion in India continued, Jews were able to create their own communities and practice their religious traditions. As Dutch traveler J. Van Linschoten noted “There are great numbers of Moores and Jews in all places of India as at Goa, Cochin and within the land… amongst the Indians they have their Synagogues… wherein they use all ceremonies according to their law.” Linschoten’s statement clearly explains that Spanish Muslims–Moors and Jews were able to practice their religions in India. This meant that they were able to create communities within the Indian peninsula and preserve their culture and religion. Such cases strongly suggest that rather than living like Indians, Jews created diasporas which helped them preserve their identity. Jews in India were able to trade and practice their religion unlike in Europe, where they were oppressed and killed. This meant that “a Jew could rise to power and prominence in public life and could become an agent and diplomat in the service of the Portuguese viceroy in Goa.”\n\nAs Fischel states Jews were also used by the Portuguese to negotiate with the Muslim rulers of India. This was due to the “skill, knowledge and linguistic abilities of non-Christians.”\n\nSurat was a city in Gujarat which at the time of the Portuguese conquest on the northern shores of India became one of the most important trading centers of Asia. Jewish diaspora was closely related to Surat as Jewish merchants plied their commerce through Surat. They, for the most part were jewelers and diamond merchants.\n\n“They came from many parts of the world, from Constantinople, Safed, Baghdad and Portugal, Italy and England, as well as from Yemen, Persia and Jewish colony at Cochin–all attracted by the great economic potential and possibilities of Surat.” Therefore, Surat can be considered to be one of the largest centers of Jewish trading and diaspora.\n\nTrading diasporas were important in a way that they were crucial in a process of establishing long-distance trade, “transfers of technology, imperial and colonial ventures, missionary campaigns, the transatlantic slave trade, and the development of global capitalism.\" Therefore, trading diasporas were not always a positive community as it led to the establishment of the slave trade and colonialism. However, the interaction between the different nations and long distance trade which was made possible by the existence of trading diasporas was an important vanguard as it led to the development of global markets. In addition to the development of global markets trading diasporas also triggered an exchange of cultures, ideas and technology between the host country and the merchant.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30299", "title": "Transhumanism", "text": "Transhumanism\n\nTranshumanism (abbreviated as H+ or h+) is an international philosophical movement that advocates for the transformation of the human condition by developing and making widely available sophisticated technologies to greatly enhance human intellect and physiology.\n\nTranshumanist thinkers study the potential benefits and dangers of emerging technologies that could overcome fundamental human limitations as well as the ethical limitations of using such technologies. The most common transhumanist thesis is that human beings may eventually be able to transform themselves into different beings with abilities so greatly expanded from the current condition as to merit the label of posthuman beings.\n\nThe contemporary meaning of the term \"transhumanism\" was foreshadowed by one of the first professors of futurology, FM-2030, who taught \"new concepts of the human\" at The New School in the 1960s, when he began to identify people who adopt technologies, lifestyles and worldviews \"transitional\" to posthumanity as \"transhuman\". The assertion would lay the intellectual groundwork for the British philosopher Max More to begin articulating the principles of transhumanism as a futurist philosophy in 1990, and organizing in California an intelligentsia that has since grown into the worldwide transhumanist movement.\n\nInfluenced by seminal works of science fiction, the transhumanist vision of a transformed future humanity has attracted many supporters and detractors from a wide range of perspectives, including philosophy and religion.\n\nAccording to Nick Bostrom, transcendentalist impulses have been expressed at least as far back as the quest for immortality in the Epic of Gilgamesh, as well as in historical quests for the Fountain of Youth, the Elixir of Life, and other efforts to stave off aging and death.\n\nThere is debate about whether the philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche can be considered an influence on transhumanism, despite its exaltation of the \"Übermensch\" (overman or superman), due to its emphasis on self-actualization rather than technological transformation. The transhumanist philosophies of Max More and Stefan Lorenz Sorgner have been influenced strongly by Nietzschean thinking. By way of contrast, The Transhumanist Declaration \"\"...advocates the well-being of all sentience (whether in artificial intellects, humans, posthumans, or non-human animals)\".\n\nThe late 19th to early 20th century movement known as Russian cosmism also incorporated some ideas which later developed into the core of the transhumanist movement.\n\nFundamental ideas of transhumanism were first advanced in 1923 by the British geneticist J. B. S. Haldane in his essay \"Daedalus: Science and the Future\", which predicted that great benefits would come from the application of advanced sciences to human biology—and that every such advance would first appear to someone as blasphemy or perversion, \"indecent and unnatural\". In particular, he was interested in the development of the science of eugenics, ectogenesis (creating and sustaining life in an artificial environment), and the application of genetics to improve human characteristics, such as health and intelligence.\n\nHis article inspired academic and popular interest. J. D. Bernal, a crystallographer at Cambridge, wrote \"The World, the Flesh and the Devil\" in 1929, in which he speculated on the prospects of space colonization and radical changes to human bodies and intelligence through bionic implants and cognitive enhancement. These ideas have been common transhumanist themes ever since.\n\nThe biologist Julian Huxley is generally regarded as the founder of transhumanism after using the term for the title of an influential 1957 article. The term itself, however, derives from an earlier 1940 paper by the Canadian philosopher W. D. Lighthall. Huxley describes transhumanism in these terms:\nHuxley's definition differs, albeit not substantially, from the one commonly in use since the 1980s. The ideas raised by these thinkers were explored in the science fiction of the 1960s, notably in Arthur C. Clarke's \"\", in which an alien artifact grants transcendent power to its wielder.\n\nJapanese Metabolist architects produced a manifesto in 1960 which outlined goals to \"encourage active metabolic development of our society\" through design and technology. In the Material and Man section of the manifesto, Noboru Kawazoe suggests that:After several decades, with the rapid progress of communication technology, every one will have a “brain wave receiver” in his ear, which conveys directly and exactly what other people think about him and vice versa. What I think will be known by all the people. There is no more individual consciousness, only the will of mankind as a whole.\n\nThe concept of the technological singularity, or the ultra-rapid advent of superhuman intelligence, was first proposed by the British cryptologist I. J. Good in 1965:\nComputer scientist Marvin Minsky wrote on relationships between human and artificial intelligence beginning in the 1960s. Over the succeeding decades, this field continued to generate influential thinkers such as Hans Moravec and Raymond Kurzweil, who oscillated between the technical arena and futuristic speculations in the transhumanist vein. The coalescence of an identifiable transhumanist movement began in the last decades of the 20th century. In 1966, FM-2030 (formerly F. M. Esfandiary), a futurist who taught \"new concepts of the human\" at The New School, in New York City, began to identify people who adopt technologies, lifestyles and world views transitional to posthumanity as \"transhuman\". In 1972, Robert Ettinger contributed to the conceptualization of \"transhumanity\" in his book \"Man into Superman.\" FM-2030 published the \"Upwingers Manifesto\" in 1973.\n\nThe first self-described transhumanists met formally in the early 1980s at the University of California, Los Angeles, which became the main center of transhumanist thought. Here, FM-2030 lectured on his \"Third Way\" futurist ideology. At the EZTV Media venue, frequented by transhumanists and other futurists, Natasha Vita-More presented \"Breaking Away\", her 1980 experimental film with the theme of humans breaking away from their biological limitations and the Earth's gravity as they head into space. FM-2030 and Vita-More soon began holding gatherings for transhumanists in Los Angeles, which included students from FM-2030's courses and audiences from Vita-More's artistic productions. In 1982, Vita-More authored the \"Transhumanist Arts Statement\" and, six years later, produced the cable TV show \"TransCentury Update \"on transhumanity, a program which reached over 100,000 viewers.\n\nIn 1986, Eric Drexler published \"Engines of Creation: The Coming Era of Nanotechnology,\" which discussed the prospects for nanotechnology and molecular assemblers, and founded the Foresight Institute. As the first non-profit organization to research, advocate for, and perform cryonics, the Southern California offices of the Alcor Life Extension Foundation became a center for futurists. In 1988, the first issue of \"Extropy Magazine\" was published by Max More and Tom Morrow. In 1990, More, a strategic philosopher, created his own particular transhumanist doctrine, which took the form of the \"Principles of Extropy,\" and laid the foundation of modern transhumanism by giving it a new definition:\n\nIn 1992, More and Morrow founded the Extropy Institute, a catalyst for networking futurists and brainstorming new memeplexes by organizing a series of conferences and, more importantly, providing a mailing list, which exposed many to transhumanist views for the first time during the rise of cyberculture and the cyberdelic counterculture. In 1998, philosophers Nick Bostrom and David Pearce founded the World Transhumanist Association (WTA), an international non-governmental organization working toward the recognition of transhumanism as a legitimate subject of scientific inquiry and public policy. In 2002, the WTA modified and adopted \"The Transhumanist Declaration.\" \"The Transhumanist FAQ\", prepared by the WTA (later Humanity+), gave two formal definitions for transhumanism:\nIn possible contrast with other transhumanist organizations, WTA officials considered that social forces could undermine their futurist visions and needed to be addressed. A particular concern is the equal access to human enhancement technologies across classes and borders. In 2006, a political struggle within the transhumanist movement between the libertarian right and the liberal left resulted in a more centre-leftward positioning of the WTA under its former executive director James Hughes. In 2006, the board of directors of the Extropy Institute ceased operations of the organization, stating that its mission was \"essentially completed\". This left the World Transhumanist Association as the leading international transhumanist organization. In 2008, as part of a rebranding effort, the WTA changed its name to \"Humanity+\". In 2012, the transhumanist Longevity Party had been initiated as an international union of people who promote the development of scientific and technological means to significant life extension, that for now has more than 30 national organisations throughout the world.\n\nThe Mormon Transhumanist Association was founded in 2006. By 2012, it consisted of hundreds of members.\n\nThe first transhumanist elected member of a Parliament has been Giuseppe Vatinno, in Italy.\n\nIt is a matter of debate whether transhumanism is a branch of posthumanism and how this philosophical movement should be conceptualised with regard to transhumanism. The latter is often referred to as a variant or activist form of posthumanism by its conservative, Christian and progressive critics.\n\nA common feature of transhumanism and philosophical posthumanism is the future vision of a new intelligent species, into which humanity will evolve and eventually will supplement or supersede it. Transhumanism stresses the evolutionary perspective, including sometimes the creation of a highly intelligent animal species by way of cognitive enhancement (i.e. biological uplift), but clings to a \"posthuman future\" as the final goal of participant evolution.\n\nNevertheless, the idea of creating intelligent artificial beings (proposed, for example, by roboticist Hans Moravec) has influenced transhumanism. Moravec's ideas and transhumanism have also been characterised as a \"complacent\" or \"apocalyptic\" variant of posthumanism and contrasted with \"cultural posthumanism\" in humanities and the arts. While such a \"cultural posthumanism\" would offer resources for rethinking the relationships between humans and increasingly sophisticated machines, transhumanism and similar posthumanisms are, in this view, not abandoning obsolete concepts of the \"autonomous liberal subject\", but are expanding its \"prerogatives\" into the realm of the posthuman. Transhumanist self-characterisations as a continuation of humanism and Enlightenment thinking correspond with this view.\n\nSome secular humanists conceive transhumanism as an offspring of the humanist freethought movement and argue that transhumanists differ from the humanist mainstream by having a specific focus on technological approaches to resolving human concerns (i.e. technocentrism) and on the issue of mortality. However, other progressives have argued that posthumanism, whether it be its philosophical or activist forms, amounts to a shift away from concerns about social justice, from the reform of human institutions and from other Enlightenment preoccupations, toward narcissistic longings for a transcendence of the human body in quest of more exquisite ways of being.\n\nAs an alternative, humanist philosopher Dwight Gilbert Jones has proposed a renewed Renaissance humanism through DNA and genome repositories, with each individual genotype (DNA) being instantiated as successive phenotypes (bodies or lives via cloning, \"Church of Man\", 1978). In his view, native molecular DNA \"continuity\" is required for retaining the \"self\" and no amount of computing power or memory aggregation can replace the essential \"stink\" of our true genetic identity, which he terms \"genity\". Instead, DNA/genome stewardship by an institution analogous to the Jesuits' 400 year vigil is a suggested model for enabling humanism to become our species' common credo, a project he proposed in his speculative novel \"The Humanist – 1000 Summers\" (2011), wherein humanity dedicates these coming centuries to harmonizing our planet and peoples.\n\nThe philosophy of transhumanism is closely related to technoself studies, an interdisciplinary domain of scholarly research dealing with all aspects of human identity in a technological society and focusing on the changing nature of relationships between humans and technology.\n\nWhile many transhumanist theorists and advocates seek to apply reason, science and technology for the purposes of reducing poverty, disease, disability and malnutrition around the globe, transhumanism is distinctive in its particular focus on the applications of technologies to the improvement of human bodies at the individual level. Many transhumanists actively assess the potential for future technologies and innovative social systems to improve the quality of all life, while seeking to make the material reality of the human condition fulfill the promise of legal and political equality by eliminating congenital mental and physical barriers.\n\nTranshumanist philosophers argue that there not only exists a perfectionist ethical imperative for humans to strive for progress and improvement of the human condition, but that it is possible and desirable for humanity to enter a transhuman phase of existence in which humans enhance themselves beyond what is naturally human. In such a phase, natural evolution would be replaced with deliberate participatory or directed evolution.\n\nSome theorists such as Ray Kurzweil think that the pace of technological innovation is accelerating and that the next 50 years may yield not only radical technological advances, but possibly a technological singularity, which may fundamentally change the nature of human beings. Transhumanists who foresee this massive technological change generally maintain that it is desirable. However, some are also concerned with the possible dangers of extremely rapid technological change and propose options for ensuring that advanced technology is used responsibly. For example, Bostrom has written extensively on existential risks to humanity's future welfare, including ones that could be created by emerging technologies.\n\nWhile many people believe that all transhumanists are striving for immortality, it is not necessarily true. Hank Pellissier, managing director of the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies (2011–2012), surveyed transhumanists. He found that, of the 818 respondents, 23.8% did not want immortality. Some of the reasons argued were boredom, Earth's overpopulation and the desire \"to go to an afterlife\".\n\nCertain transhumanist philosophers hold that since all assumptions about what others experience are fallible, and that therefore all attempts to help or protect beings that are not capable of correcting what others assume about them no matter how well-intentioned are in danger of actually hurting them, all sentient beings deserve to be sapient. These thinkers argue that the ability to discuss in a falsification-based way constitutes a threshold that is not arbitrary at which it becomes possible for an individual to speak for themself in a way that is not dependent on exterior assumptions. They also argue that all beings capable of experiencing something deserve to be elevated to this threshold if they are not at it, typically stating that the underlying change that leads to the threshold is an increase in the preciseness of the brain's ability to discriminate. This includes increasing the neuron count and connectivity in animals as well as accelerating the development of connectivity in order to shorten or ideally skip non-sapient childhood incapable of independently deciding for oneself. Transhumanists of this description stress that the genetic engineering that they advocate is general insertion into both the somatic cells of living beings and in germ cells, and not purging of individuals without the modifications, deeming the latter not only unethical but also unnecessary due to the possibilities of efficient genetic engineering.\n\nTranshumanists engage in interdisciplinary approaches to understand and evaluate possibilities for overcoming biological limitations by drawing on futurology and various fields of ethics. Unlike many philosophers, social critics and activists who place a moral value on preservation of natural systems, transhumanists see the very concept of the specifically natural as problematically nebulous at best and an obstacle to progress at worst. In keeping with this, many prominent transhumanist advocates, such as Dan Agin, refer to transhumanism's critics, on the political right and left jointly, as \"bioconservatives\" or \"bioluddites\", the latter term alluding to the 19th century anti-industrialisation social movement that opposed the replacement of human manual labourers by machines.\n\nA belief of counter-transhumanism is that transhumanism can cause unfair human enhancement in many areas of life, but specifically on the social plane. This can be compared to steroid use, where athletes who use steroids in sports have an advantage over those who do not. The same scenario happens when people have certain neural implants that give them an advantage in the work place and in educational aspects.\n\nThere is a variety of opinions within transhumanist thought. Many of the leading transhumanist thinkers hold views that are under constant revision and development. Some distinctive currents of transhumanism are identified and listed here in alphabetical order:\n\nAlthough many transhumanists are atheists, agnostics, and/or secular humanists, some have religious or spiritual views. Despite the prevailing secular attitude, some transhumanists pursue hopes traditionally espoused by religions, such as immortality, while several controversial new religious movements from the late 20th century have explicitly embraced transhumanist goals of transforming the human condition by applying technology to the alteration of the mind and body, such as Raëlism. However, most thinkers associated with the transhumanist movement focus on the practical goals of using technology to help achieve longer and healthier lives, while speculating that future understanding of neurotheology and the application of neurotechnology will enable humans to gain greater control of altered states of consciousness, which were commonly interpreted as spiritual experiences, and thus achieve more profound self-knowledge. Transhumanist Buddhists have sought to explore areas of agreement between various types of Buddhism and Buddhist-derived meditation and mind expanding \"neurotechnologies\". However, they have been criticised for appropriating mindfulness as a tool for transcending humanness.\n\nSome transhumanists believe in the compatibility between the human mind and computer hardware, with the theoretical implication that human consciousness may someday be transferred to alternative media (a speculative technique commonly known as mind uploading). One extreme formulation of this idea, which some transhumanists are interested in, is the proposal of the Omega Point by Christian cosmologist Frank Tipler. Drawing upon ideas in digitalism, Tipler has advanced the notion that the collapse of the Universe billions of years hence could create the conditions for the perpetuation of humanity in a simulated reality within a megacomputer and thus achieve a form of \"posthuman godhood\". Tipler's thought was inspired by the writings of Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, a paleontologist and Jesuit theologian who saw an evolutionary telos in the development of an encompassing noosphere, a global consciousness.\n\nViewed from the perspective of some Christian thinkers, the idea of mind uploading is asserted to represent a denigration of the human body, characteristic of gnostic manichaean belief. Transhumanism and its presumed intellectual progenitors have also been described as neo-gnostic by non-Christian and secular commentators.\n\nThe first dialogue between transhumanism and faith was a one-day conference held at the University of Toronto in 2004. Religious critics alone faulted the philosophy of transhumanism as offering no eternal truths nor a relationship with the divine. They commented that a philosophy bereft of these beliefs leaves humanity adrift in a foggy sea of postmodern cynicism and anomie. Transhumanists responded that such criticisms reflect a failure to look at the actual content of the transhumanist philosophy, which, far from being cynical, is rooted in optimistic, idealistic attitudes that trace back to the Enlightenment. Following this dialogue, William Sims Bainbridge, a sociologist of religion, conducted a pilot study, published in the Journal of Evolution and Technology, suggesting that religious attitudes were negatively correlated with acceptance of transhumanist ideas and indicating that individuals with highly religious worldviews tended to perceive transhumanism as being a direct, competitive (though ultimately futile) affront to their spiritual beliefs.\n\nSince 2006, the Mormon Transhumanist Association sponsors conferences and lectures on the intersection of technology and religion.\n\nSince 2009, the American Academy of Religion holds a \"Transhumanism and Religion\" consultation during its annual meeting, where scholars in the field of religious studies seek to identify and critically evaluate any implicit religious beliefs that might underlie key transhumanist claims and assumptions; consider how transhumanism challenges religious traditions to develop their own ideas of the human future, in particular the prospect of human transformation, whether by technological or other means; and provide critical and constructive assessments of an envisioned future that place greater confidence in nanotechnology, robotics and information technology to achieve virtual immortality and create a superior posthuman species.\n\nThe physicist and transhumanist thinker Giulio Prisco states that \"cosmist religions based on science, might be our best protection from reckless pursuit of superintelligence and other risky technologies.\" Prisco also recognizes the importance of spiritual ideas, such as the ones of Nikolai Fyodorovich Fyodorov, to the origins of the transhumanism movement.\n\nWhile some transhumanists take an abstract and theoretical approach to the perceived benefits of emerging technologies, others have offered specific proposals for modifications to the human body, including heritable ones. Transhumanists are often concerned with methods of enhancing the human nervous system. Though some, such as Kevin Warwick, propose modification of the peripheral nervous system, the brain is considered the common denominator of personhood and is thus a primary focus of transhumanist ambitions.\n\nIn fact, Warwick has gone a lot further than merely making a proposal. In 2002 he had a 100 electrode array surgically implanted into the median nerves of his left arm in order to link his nervous system directly with a computer and thus to also connect with the internet. As a consequence, he carried out a series of experiments. He was able to directly control a robot hand using his neural signals and to feel the force applied by the hand through feedback from the fingertips. He also experienced a form of ultrasonic sensory input and conducted the first purely electronic communication between his own nervous system and that of his wife who also had electrodes implanted.<ref name=\"doi10.1001/archneur.60.10.1369|noedit\"></ref>\n\nAs proponents of self-improvement and body modification, including gender transitioning, transhumanists tend to use existing technologies and techniques that supposedly improve cognitive and physical performance, while engaging in routines and lifestyles designed to improve health and longevity. Depending on their age, some transhumanists express concern that they will not live to reap the benefits of future technologies. However, many have a great interest in life extension strategies and in funding research in cryonics in order to make the latter a viable option of last resort, rather than remaining an unproven method. Regional and global transhumanist networks and communities with a range of objectives exist to provide support and forums for discussion and collaborative projects.\n\nTranshumanists support the emergence and convergence of technologies including nanotechnology, biotechnology, information technology and cognitive science (NBIC), as well as hypothetical future technologies like simulated reality, artificial intelligence, superintelligence, 3D bioprinting, mind uploading, chemical brain preservation and cryonics. They believe that humans can and should use these technologies to become more than human. Therefore, they support the recognition and/or protection of cognitive liberty, morphological freedom and procreative liberty as civil liberties, so as to guarantee individuals the choice of using human enhancement technologies on themselves and their children. Some speculate that human enhancement techniques and other emerging technologies may facilitate more radical human enhancement no later than at the midpoint of the 21st century. Kurzweil's book \"The Singularity is Near\" and Michio Kaku's book \"Physics of the Future\" outline various human enhancement technologies and give insight on how these technologies may impact the human race.\n\nSome reports on the converging technologies and NBIC concepts have criticised their transhumanist orientation and alleged science fictional character. At the same time, research on brain and body alteration technologies has been accelerated under the sponsorship of the U.S. Department of Defense, which is interested in the battlefield advantages they would provide to the supersoldiers of the United States and its allies. There has already been a brain research program to \"extend the ability to manage information\", while military scientists are now looking at stretching the human capacity for combat to a maximum 168 hours without sleep.\n\nNeuroscientist Anders Sandberg has been practicing on the method of scanning ultra-thin sections of the brain. This method is being used to help better understand the architecture of the brain. As of now, this method is currently being used on mice. This is the first step towards uploading contents of the human brain, including memories and emotions, onto a computer.\n\nTranshumanist themes have become increasingly prominent in various literary forms during the period in which the movement itself has emerged. Contemporary science fiction often contains positive renditions of technologically enhanced human life set in utopian (especially techno-utopian) societies. However, science fiction's depictions of enhanced humans or other posthuman beings frequently come with a cautionary twist. The more pessimistic scenarios include many horrific or dystopian tales of human bioengineering gone wrong. In the decades immediately before transhumanism emerged as an explicit movement, many transhumanist concepts and themes began appearing in the speculative fiction of authors of the Golden Age of Science Fiction such as Robert A. Heinlein (Lazarus Long series, 1941–87), A. E. van Vogt (\"Slan\", 1946), Isaac Asimov (\"I, Robot\", 1950), Arthur C. Clarke (\"Childhood's End\", 1953) and Stanisław Lem (\"Cyberiad\", 1967). C. S. Lewis' \"That Hideous Strength\" (1945) contains an early critique of transhumanism.\n\nIn a series of science fiction novels by Neal Asher, the protagonist is an augmented human who carries out missions for \"Earth Central Security\", an artificial intelligence and superhuman coalition. The author portrays a variety of augmentations in addition to the copying of memory and human minds into crystals and the presence of both benevolent and malevolent artificial intelligences.\n\nThe cyberpunk genre, exemplified by William Gibson's \"Neuromancer\" (1984) and Bruce Sterling's \"Schismatrix\" (1985), has particularly been concerned with the modification of human bodies. Other novels dealing with transhumanist themes that have stimulated broad discussion of these issues include \"Blood Music\" (1985), by Greg Bear; \"The Xenogenesis Trilogy\" (1987–1989), by Octavia Butler; \"The Beggar's Trilogy\" (1990–94), by Nancy Kress; much of Greg Egan's work since the early 1990s such as \"Permutation City\" (1994) and \"Diaspora\" (1997); The Culture series of Iain M. Banks; \"The Bohr Maker\" (1995), by Linda Nagata; \"Altered Carbon\" (2002), by Richard K. Morgan; \"Oryx and Crake\" (2003), by Margaret Atwood; \"The Elementary Particles\" (Eng. trans. 2001) and \"The Possibility of an Island\" (Eng. trans. 2006), by Michel Houellebecq; \"Mindscan\" (2005), by Robert J. Sawyer; the \"Commonwealth Saga\" (2002–10), by Peter F. Hamilton; and \"Glasshouse\" (2005), by Charles Stross. Some of these works are considered part of the cyberpunk genre or its postcyberpunk offshoot.\n\nDan Brown's novel \"Inferno\" focuses on the theme of transhumanism. In an interview with \"Today\", Dan Brown said \"Transhumanism is the ethics and science of using things like biological and genetic engineering to transform our bodies and make us a more powerful species\".\n\nFictional transhumanist scenarios have also become popular in other media during the late 20th and early 21st centuries. Such treatments are found in comic books (\"Captain America\", 1941; \"Iron Man\" 1963; \"Transmetropolitan\", 1997; \"The Surrogates\", 2006), films (\"\", 1968; \"Blade Runner\", 1982; \"Gattaca\", 1997, \"Ex Machina\", 2015), television series (the Cybermen of \"Doctor Who\", 1966; the Borg of \"\", 1989, \"Battlestar Galactica\", 2003, \"Black Mirror\", 2011), manga and anime (\"Galaxy Express 999\", 1978; \"Appleseed\", 1985; \"Ghost in the Shell\", 1989; \"Neon Genesis Evangelion\", 1995; and the \"Gundam\" metaseries, 1979), video games (\"Metal Gear Solid\", 1998; \"Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri\", 1999; \"Deus Ex\", 2000; \"EVE Online\", 2003; \"BioShock\", 2007; \"Half-Life 2\", 2004; \"Crysis\", 2007; \"\"; 2011; \"\", 2016) and role-playing games.\n\nCarnal Art, a form of sculpture originated by French artist Orlan, uses the body as its medium and plastic surgery as its method. French biological anthropologist Dr. Judith Nicogossian also works on representations of the hybrid body.\n\nThe very notion and prospect of human enhancement and related issues arouse public controversy. Criticisms of transhumanism and its proposals take two main forms: those objecting to the likelihood of transhumanist goals being achieved (practical criticisms) and those objecting to the moral principles or worldview sustaining transhumanist proposals or underlying transhumanism itself (ethical criticisms). Critics and opponents often see transhumanists' goals as posing threats to human values.\n\nSome of the most widely known critiques of the transhumanist program are novels and fictional films. These works of art, despite presenting imagined worlds rather than philosophical analyses, are used as touchstones for some of the more formal arguments. Various arguments have been made to the effect that a society that adopts human enhancement technologies may come to resemble the dystopia depicted in the 1932 novel \"Brave New World, \"by Aldous Huxley.\n\nOn another front, some authors consider that humanity would already be transhuman, because medical advances in recent centuries have significantly altered our species. However, it would not be in a conscious and therefore transhumanistic way.\n\nIn a 1992 book, sociologist Max Dublin pointed to many past failed predictions of technological progress and argued that modern futurist predictions would prove similarly inaccurate. He also objected to what he saw as scientism, fanaticism and nihilism by a few in advancing transhumanist causes. Dublin also said that historical parallels existed between Millenarian religions and Communist doctrines.\n\nAlthough generally sympathetic to transhumanism, public health professor Gregory Stock is skeptical of the technical feasibility and mass appeal of the cyborgization of humanity predicted by Raymond Kurzweil, Hans Moravec and Kevin Warwick. He said that, throughout the 21st century, many humans would find themselves deeply integrated into systems of machines, but would remain biological. Primary changes to their own form and character would arise not from cyberware, but from the direct manipulation of their genetics, metabolism and biochemistry.\n\nIn her 1992 book \"Science as Salvation\", philosopher Mary Midgley traces the notion of achieving immortality by transcendence of the material human body (echoed in the transhumanist tenet of mind uploading) to a group of male scientific thinkers of the early 20th century, including J. B. S. Haldane and members of his circle. She characterizes these ideas as \"quasi-scientific dreams and prophesies\" involving visions of escape from the body coupled with \"self-indulgent, uncontrolled power-fantasies\". Her argument focuses on what she perceives as the pseudoscientific speculations and irrational, fear-of-death-driven fantasies of these thinkers, their disregard for laymen and the remoteness of their eschatological visions.\n\nAnother critique is aimed mainly at \"algeny\" (a portmanteau of \"alchemy\" and \"genetics\"), which Jeremy Rifkin defined as \"the upgrading of existing organisms and the design of wholly new ones with the intent of 'perfecting' their performance\". It emphasizes the issue of biocomplexity and the unpredictability of attempts to guide the development of products of biological evolution. This argument, elaborated in particular by the biologist Stuart Newman, is based on the recognition that cloning and germline genetic engineering of animals are error-prone and inherently disruptive of embryonic development. Accordingly, so it is argued, it would create unacceptable risks to use such methods on human embryos. Performing experiments, particularly ones with permanent biological consequences, on developing humans would thus be in violation of accepted principles governing research on human subjects (see the 1964 Declaration of Helsinki). Moreover, because improvements in experimental outcomes in one species are not automatically transferable to a new species without further experimentation, it is claimed that there is no ethical route to genetic manipulation of humans at early developmental stages.\n\nAs a practical matter, however, international protocols on human subject research may not present a legal obstacle to attempts by transhumanists and others to improve their offspring by germinal choice technology. According to legal scholar Kirsten Rabe Smolensky, existing laws would protect parents who choose to enhance their child's genome from future liability arising from adverse outcomes of the procedure.\n\nTranshumanists and other supporters of human genetic engineering do not dismiss practical concerns out of hand, insofar as there is a high degree of uncertainty about the timelines and likely outcomes of genetic modification experiments in humans. However, bioethicist James Hughes suggests that one possible ethical route to the genetic manipulation of humans at early developmental stages is the building of computer models of the human genome, the proteins it specifies and the tissue engineering he argues that it also codes for. With the exponential progress in bioinformatics, Hughes believes that a virtual model of genetic expression in the human body will not be far behind and that it will soon be possible to accelerate approval of genetic modifications by simulating their effects on virtual humans. Public health professor Gregory Stock points to artificial chromosomes as an alleged safer alternative to existing genetic engineering techniques.\n\nThinkers who defend the likelihood of accelerating change point to a past pattern of exponential increases in humanity's technological capacities. Kurzweil developed this position in his 2005 book \"The Singularity Is Near\".\n\nIt has been argued that, in transhumanist thought, humans attempt to substitute themselves for God. The 2002 Vatican statement \"Communion and Stewardship: Human Persons Created in the Image of God,\" stated that \"changing the genetic identity of man as a human person through the production of an infrahuman being is radically immoral\", implying, that \"man has full right of disposal over his own biological nature\". The statement also argues that creation of a superhuman or spiritually superior being is \"unthinkable\", since true improvement can come only through religious experience and \"realizing more fully the image of God\". Christian theologians and lay activists of several churches and denominations have expressed similar objections to transhumanism and claimed that Christians attain in the afterlife what radical transhumanism promises, such as indefinite life extension or the abolition of suffering. In this view, transhumanism is just another representative of the long line of utopian movements which seek to create \"heaven on earth\". On the other hand, religious thinkers allied with transhumanist goals such as the theologians Ronald Cole-Turner and Ted Peters hold that the doctrine of \"co-creation\" provides an obligation to use genetic engineering to improve human biology.\n\nOther critics target what they claim to be an instrumental conception of the human body in the writings of Marvin Minsky, Hans Moravec and some other transhumanists. Reflecting a strain of feminist criticism of the transhumanist program, philosopher Susan Bordo points to \"contemporary obsessions with slenderness, youth and physical perfection\", which she sees as affecting both men and women, but in distinct ways, as \"the logical (if extreme) manifestations of anxieties and fantasies fostered by our culture.\" Some critics question other social implications of the movement's focus on body modification. Political scientist Klaus-Gerd Giesen, in particular, has asserted that transhumanism's concentration on altering the human body represents the logical yet tragic consequence of atomized individualism and body commodification within a consumer culture.\n\nNick Bostrom responds that the desire to regain youth, specifically, and transcend the natural limitations of the human body, in general, is pan-cultural and pan-historical, and is therefore not uniquely tied to the culture of the 20th century. He argues that the transhumanist program is an attempt to channel that desire into a scientific project on par with the Human Genome Project and achieve humanity's oldest hope, rather than a puerile fantasy or social trend.\n\nIn his 2003 book \"Enough: Staying Human in an Engineered Age\", environmental ethicist Bill McKibben argued at length against many of the technologies that are postulated or supported by transhumanists, including germinal choice technology, nanomedicine and life extension strategies. He claims that it would be morally wrong for humans to tamper with fundamental aspects of themselves (or their children) in an attempt to overcome universal human limitations, such as vulnerability to aging, maximum life span and biological constraints on physical and cognitive ability. Attempts to \"improve\" themselves through such manipulation would remove limitations that provide a necessary context for the experience of meaningful human choice. He claims that human lives would no longer seem meaningful in a world where such limitations could be overcome technologically. Even the goal of using germinal choice technology for clearly therapeutic purposes should be relinquished, since it would inevitably produce temptations to tamper with such things as cognitive capacities. He argues that it is possible for societies to benefit from renouncing particular technologies, using as examples Ming China, Tokugawa Japan and the contemporary Amish.\n\nBiopolitical activist Jeremy Rifkin and biologist Stuart Newman accept that biotechnology has the power to make profound changes in organismal identity. They argue against the genetic engineering of human beings because they fear the blurring of the boundary between human and artifact. Philosopher Keekok Lee sees such developments as part of an accelerating trend in modernization in which technology has been used to transform the \"natural\" into the \"artefactual\". In the extreme, this could lead to the manufacturing and enslavement of \"monsters\" such as human clones, human-animal chimeras, or bioroids, but even lesser dislocations of humans and non-humans from social and ecological systems are seen as problematic. The film \"Blade Runner\" (1982) and the novels \"The Boys From Brazil\" (1976) and \"The Island of Doctor Moreau\" (1896) depict elements of such scenarios, but Mary Shelley's 1818 novel \"Frankenstein\" is most often alluded to by critics who suggest that biotechnologies could create objectified and socially unmoored people as well as subhumans. Such critics propose that strict measures be implemented to prevent what they portray as dehumanizing possibilities from ever happening, usually in the form of an international ban on human genetic engineering.\n\nScience journalist Ronald Bailey claims that McKibben's historical examples are flawed and support different conclusions when studied more closely. For example, few groups are more cautious than the Amish about embracing new technologies, but, though they shun television and use horses and buggies, some are welcoming the possibilities of gene therapy since inbreeding has afflicted them with a number of rare genetic diseases. Bailey and other supporters of technological alteration of human biology also reject the claim that life would be experienced as meaningless if some human limitations are overcome with enhancement technologies as extremely subjective.\n\nWriting in \"Reason\" magazine, Bailey has accused opponents of research involving the modification of animals as indulging in alarmism when they speculate about the creation of subhuman creatures with human-like intelligence and brains resembling those of \"Homo sapiens\". Bailey insists that the aim of conducting research on animals is simply to produce human health care benefits.\n\nA different response comes from transhumanist personhood theorists who object to what they characterize as the anthropomorphobia fueling some criticisms of this research, which science fiction writer Isaac Asimov termed the \"Frankenstein complex\". For example, Woody Evans argues that, provided they are self-aware, human clones, human-animal chimeras and uplifted animals would all be unique persons deserving of respect, dignity, rights, responsibilities, and citizenship. They conclude that the coming ethical issue is not the creation of so-called monsters, but what they characterize as the \"yuck factor\" and \"human-racism\", that would judge and treat these creations as monstrous.\n\nAt least one public interest organization, the U.S.-based Center for Genetics and Society, was formed, in 2001, with the specific goal of opposing transhumanist agendas that involve transgenerational modification of human biology, such as full-term human cloning and germinal choice technology. The Institute on Biotechnology and the Human Future of the Chicago-Kent College of Law critically scrutinizes proposed applications of genetic and nanotechnologies to human biology in an academic setting.\n\nSome critics of libertarian transhumanism have focused on the likely socioeconomic consequences in societies in which divisions between rich and poor are on the rise. Bill McKibben, for example, suggests that emerging human enhancement technologies would be disproportionately available to those with greater financial resources, thereby exacerbating the gap between rich and poor and creating a \"genetic divide\". Even Lee M. Silver, the biologist and science writer who coined the term \"reprogenetics\" and supports its applications, has expressed concern that these methods could create a two-tiered society of genetically engineered \"haves\" and \"have nots\" if social democratic reforms lag behind implementation of enhancement technologies. The 1997 film \"Gattaca\" depicts a dystopian society in which one's social class depends entirely on genetic modifications and is often cited by critics in support of these views.\n\nThese criticisms are also voiced by non-libertarian transhumanist advocates, especially self-described democratic transhumanists, who believe that the majority of current or future social and environmental issues (such as unemployment and resource depletion) need to be addressed by a combination of political and technological solutions (like a guaranteed minimum income and alternative technology). Therefore, on the specific issue of an emerging genetic divide due to unequal access to human enhancement technologies, bioethicist James Hughes, in his 2004 book \"Citizen Cyborg: Why Democratic Societies Must Respond to the Redesigned Human of the Future\", argues that progressives or, more precisely, techno-progressives must articulate and implement public policies (i.e., a universal health care voucher system that covers human enhancement technologies) in order to attenuate this problem as much as possible, rather than trying to ban human enhancement technologies. The latter, he argues, might actually worsen the problem by making these technologies unsafe or available only to the wealthy on the local black market or in countries where such a ban is not enforced.\n\nSometimes, as in the writings of Leon Kass, the fear is that various institutions and practices judged as fundamental to civilized society would be damaged or destroyed. In his 2002 book \"Our Posthuman Future\" and in a 2004 \"Foreign Policy\" magazine article, political economist and philosopher Francis Fukuyama designates transhumanism as the world's most dangerous idea because he believes that it may undermine the egalitarian ideals of democracy (in general) and liberal democracy (in particular) through a fundamental alteration of \"human nature\". Social philosopher Jürgen Habermas makes a similar argument in his 2003 book \"The Future of Human Nature\", in which he asserts that moral autonomy depends on not being subject to another's unilaterally imposed specifications. Habermas thus suggests that the human \"species ethic\" would be undermined by embryo-stage genetic alteration. Critics such as Kass, Fukuyama and a variety of authors hold that attempts to significantly alter human biology are not only inherently immoral, but also threaten the social order. Alternatively, they argue that implementation of such technologies would likely lead to the \"naturalizing\" of social hierarchies or place new means of control in the hands of totalitarian regimes. AI pioneer Joseph Weizenbaum criticizes what he sees as misanthropic tendencies in the language and ideas of some of his colleagues, in particular Marvin Minsky and Hans Moravec, which, by devaluing the human organism per se, promotes a discourse that enables divisive and undemocratic social policies.\n\nIn a 2004 article in the libertarian monthly \"Reason,\" science journalist Ronald Bailey contested the assertions of Fukuyama by arguing that political equality has never rested on the facts of human biology. He asserts that liberalism was founded not on the proposition of effective equality of human beings, or \"de facto\" equality, but on the assertion of an equality in political rights and before the law, or \"de jure\" equality. Bailey asserts that the products of genetic engineering may well ameliorate rather than exacerbate human inequality, giving to the many what were once the privileges of the few. Moreover, he argues, \"the crowning achievement of the Enlightenment is the principle of tolerance\". In fact, he says, political liberalism is already the solution to the issue of human and posthuman rights since in liberal societies the law is meant to apply equally to all, no matter how rich or poor, powerful or powerless, educated or ignorant, enhanced or unenhanced. Other thinkers who are sympathetic to transhumanist ideas, such as philosopher Russell Blackford, have also objected to the appeal to tradition and what they see as alarmism involved in \"Brave New World\"-type arguments.\n\nSome critics of transhumanism see the old eugenics, social Darwinist, and master race ideologies and programs of the past as warnings of what the promotion of eugenic enhancement technologies might unintentionally encourage. Some fear future \"eugenics wars\" as the worst-case scenario: the return of coercive state-sponsored genetic discrimination and human rights violations such as compulsory sterilization of persons with genetic defects, the killing of the institutionalized and, specifically, segregation and genocide of \"races\"\" \"perceived as inferior. Health law professor George Annas and technology law professor Lori Andrews are prominent advocates of the position that the use of these technologies could lead to such human-posthuman caste warfare.\n\nThe major transhumanist organizations strongly condemn the coercion involved in such policies and reject the racist and classist assumptions on which they were based, along with the pseudoscientific notions that eugenic improvements could be accomplished in a practically meaningful time frame through selective human breeding. Instead, most transhumanist thinkers advocate a \"new eugenics\", a form of egalitarian liberal eugenics. In their 2000 book \"From Chance to Choice: Genetics and Justice\", non-transhumanist bioethicists Allen Buchanan, Dan Brock, Norman Daniels and Daniel Wikler have argued that liberal societies have an obligation to encourage as wide an adoption of eugenic enhancement technologies as possible (so long as such policies do not infringe on individuals' reproductive rights or exert undue pressures on prospective parents to use these technologies) in order to maximize public health and minimize the inequalities that may result from both natural genetic endowments and unequal access to genetic enhancements. Most transhumanists holding similar views nonetheless distance themselves from the term \"eugenics\" (preferring \"germinal choice\" or \"reprogenetics\") to avoid having their position confused with the discredited theories and practices of early-20th-century eugenic movements.\n\nIn his 2003 book \"Our Final Hour\", British Astronomer Royal Martin Rees argues that advanced science and technology bring as much risk of disaster as opportunity for progress. However, Rees does not advocate a halt to scientific activity. Instead, he calls for tighter security and perhaps an end to traditional scientific openness. Advocates of the precautionary principle, such as many in the environmental movement, also favor slow, careful progress or a halt in potentially dangerous areas. Some precautionists believe that artificial intelligence and robotics present possibilities of alternative forms of cognition that may threaten human life.\n\nTranshumanists do not necessarily rule out specific restrictions on emerging technologies so as to lessen the prospect of existential risk. Generally, however, they counter that proposals based on the precautionary principle are often unrealistic and sometimes even counter-productive as opposed to the technogaian current of transhumanism, which they claim is both realistic and productive. In his television series \"Connections\", science historian James Burke dissects several views on technological change, including precautionism and the restriction of open inquiry. Burke questions the practicality of some of these views, but concludes that maintaining the \"status quo\" of inquiry and development poses hazards of its own, such as a disorienting rate of change and the depletion of our planet's resources. The common transhumanist position is a pragmatic one where society takes deliberate action to ensure the early arrival of the benefits of safe, clean, alternative technology, rather than fostering what it considers to be anti-scientific views and technophobia.\n\nNick Bostrom argues that even barring the occurrence of a singular global catastrophic event, basic Malthusian and evolutionary forces facilitated by technological progress threaten to eliminate the positive aspects of human society.\n\nOne transhumanist solution proposed by Bostrom to counter existential risks is control of differential technological development, a series of attempts to influence the sequence in which technologies are developed. In this approach, planners would strive to retard the development of possibly harmful technologies and their applications, while accelerating the development of likely beneficial technologies, especially those that offer protection against the harmful effects of others.\n\nLara Prendergast has stated that goals of transhumanism, such as trying to cut out food and sex, are inauthentic, because doing so would remove two of the great joys of life. She called transhumanism a part of 'the new narcissism'. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4487361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4487361", "title": "Volunteers for Economic Growth Alliance", "text": "Volunteers for Economic Growth Alliance\n\nVolunteers for Economic Growth Alliance (VEGA) is an umbrella group consisting of 23 economic development organizations that integrate highly skilled volunteers into programs. VEGA is usually contracted by United States Agency for International Development (USAID) for specific projects that involve one or more of the Member organizations. The organization is headquartered in Washington, DC and its members have offices around the world in developing/transitioning economies where USAID operates.\n\nThese are all typically US-based, economic development NGOs.\n"}
{"id": "3609533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3609533", "title": "Évolué", "text": "Évolué\n\nÉvolué (, \"evolved\" or \"developed\") is a French label used during the colonial era to refer to a native African or Asian who had \"evolved\" by becoming Europeanised through education or assimilation and had accepted European values and patterns of behavior. It is most commonly used to refer to individuals within the Belgian and French colonial empires. \"Évolués\" spoke French, followed European (rather than customary) laws, usually held white-collar jobs (although rarely higher than clerks), and lived primarily in urban areas of the colony.\n\nThe term was also used to describe the growing native middle class in the Belgian Congo (the modern-day Democratic Republic of the Congo) between the latter part of World War II and the independence of the colony in 1960. Most \"évolué\"s emerged from the Congolese who filled skilled positions (such as clerks and nurses) made available by the economic boom in the country following the war. Colonial administrators defined an \"évolué\" as \"a man having broken social ties with his group, [and] having entered another system of motivations, another system of values.\" While there were no universal criteria for determining \"évolué\" status, it was generally accepted that one would have \"a good knowledge of French, adhere to Christianity, and have some form of post-primary education.\" Early on in their history, most \"évolué\"s sought to use their unique status to earn special privileges in the Congo. They asked that the colonial administration recognize their role as mediators between the Belgians and the native \"savages.\" \nSince opportunities for upward mobility through the colonial structure were limited, the \"évolué\" class institutionally manifested itself through clubs and associations. Through these groups they could enjoy trivial privileges that made them feel distinct from the Congolese \"masses\". In 1947, there were 110 social clubs consisting of 5,609 members throughout the Congo's cities. From 1952 to 1956, the number of clubs rose from 131 to 317, with their membership increasing from 7,661 to 15,345. Most of these associations were rather small, but some eventually grew in size to encompass entire regions and ethnic groups, such as the \"Alliance des Bakongo\".\n\nBy 1958, colonial officials estimated that there were 175,000 people who could be classed as \"évolués\" in the colony. In the final years leading up to independence, \"évolués\" played a major role in colonial propaganda as they were felt to exemplify the success of the Belgian civilizing mission begun under King Leopold II. In particular, it was felt that after independence, the assimilation of European values by the \"évolués\" meant that Belgian civilian inhabitants of the Congo could continue to live in the Congo as part of a culturally European multiracial state.\n\nIn 1954, the colonial government opened Lovanium University in Léopoldville in order to provide university education to Congolese \"évolués\".\n\nMany of the leaders of the African nationalist parties in the Belgian Congo were members of the \"évolué\" class. In the 1970s, the Congolese dictator Mobutu Sese Seko launched a policy known as \"Authenticité\" in which he called for Congolese people to renounce all the cultural legacies of the colonial period by dressing and speaking in an \"authentic\" Congolese manner.\n\nIn the French colonial empire, \"évolués\" were seen as individuals who were the desired end product of France's assimilation policy. \"Évolués\" were treated as an élite and a privileged group by the colonial administrators.\n\n\n"}
