{"id": "5602636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5602636", "title": "1313 Dead End Drive", "text": "1313 Dead End Drive\n\n1313 Dead End Drive is a murder-themed board game from Parker Brothers. Released in 2002, it was the sequel to 1993 game \"13 Dead End Drive\".\n\nThe story behind the game revolves around the death of Aunt Agatha, a wealthy old woman and heiress to a \"kitty-litter empire.\" Sixteen of her closest companions have gathered at her estate for the reading of her will, and to collect their inheritance, they must escape Aunt Agatha's trap-filled mansion before midnight.\n\nAt the start of gameplay, players are passed out \"Heir Cards\" which correspond to the pawns that are placed on the board. There are a total of sixteen characters, so it is almost always the case that players control more than one character. Players are required to keep the roles of their Character Cards secret from their opponents. Additionally there are thirty-two \"Playing Cards,\" which allow players to do special things during their turn such as spring traps or instantly move pawns to other rooms. There is also one \"Clock Strikes Midnight\" card that is placed at the bottom of the Playing Cards, and if this card is drawn by any player, the game ends.\n\nDuring each turn, players roll two dice and move two pawns which correspond to each dice roll. Players are allowed to move any pawn on the board, regardless if they hold its corresponding Heir Card or not, so that they can move it closer to or further away from a trap space or the door. A pawn can be moved onto a Trap space by exact roll only, and when a pawn is moved onto a Trap space, the player must draw a card from the Playing Cards stack. To spring a trap, a player must have a corresponding trap card in their possession. Springing traps is not mandatory, however. There are also Secret Passage spaces that players can use to quickly travel around the mansion.\n\nAlso during the game, players must pay attention to Aunt Agatha's will, which changes with the death of each character. The will contains the portrait of each character and is organized in a chain-like fashion. Every character begins with a single money bag token, except for Spritzy, who begins with four, and Sedgewick, who begins with two. When a character is \"knocked off\", their money tokens go to the next character in line of the will. When the last surviving character of the will is knocked off, their money tokens go to the \"Pet Pals Retirement Home\", and no one receives the money. If a character escapes the mansion, their money bag tokens are removed from the will and their space on the will is skipped over if a character preceding them on the will is knocked off.\n\nThe winner of the game is determined by the amount of money bag tokens each player has at the end of the game. Whoever has the most money bag tokens when every player is out of the mansion (either by death or by escape) is the winner of the game. If the bottom of the Playing Cards stack is reached and the \"Clock Strikes Midnight\" card is drawn, gameplay ends instantly and players must count the moneybags currently in their possession to determine the winner.\n\n\"1313 Dead End Drive\" has five different booby traps that can be sprung throughout the mansion.\n\n\nAny player can move any pawn onto a Trap Space, but it must be by exact roll. To spring the trap to knock off the pawn, a player must use a corresponding Trap Card, which can be drawn from the Playing Cards stack. When a trap is sprung on a character, their pawn and Heir Card are placed on the table to signify that they are no longer in play. Additionally, any money bags that are on their space in the will or moved to the next heir in line.\n\nAunt Agatha: A \"filthy-rich heiress to a kitty-litter empire\" whose estate the heirs are competing for.\n\nThe Heirs (In the order that they appear on the will):\n\nThere are five different kinds of Playing Cards:\n\nPlayers can play as many Trap cards as they wish on a single turn; additionally or instead, they can play one of any other card. Playing Cards must be played after a player rolls their two dice.\n\n\n13 Dead End Drive is the predecessor to \"1313 Dead End Drive\". Many of the aspects of the first game were passed on to the second, but there are several alterations: in 13 Dead End Drive, Aunt Agatha's Will is replaced by a \"Portrait\", which hangs over the fireplace and displays the portrait of any of the twelve (instead of sixteen) heirs. If an heir escapes while they are displayed in the portrait, they win the game. Instead of the \"Clock Strikes Midnight\" card, there are thirteen \"Detective Cards\" scattered throughout the Trap card pile. When a Detective card is drawn, a Detective pawn, which is waiting outside of the mansion, moves one space closer to the mansion. The game can end instantly if the thirteenth Detective card is drawn and the Detective pawn reaches the front door. Additionally, the Boar's Head trap is replaced by a Chandelier, and the Safe trap is replaced by a Bookshelf. Also, one of the characters from the original game, Hickory, the gardener, does not appear in this one.\n"}
{"id": "56887321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56887321", "title": "2018 Commonwealth Games opening ceremony", "text": "2018 Commonwealth Games opening ceremony\n\nThe opening ceremony for the 2018 Commonwealth Games took place on the evening of Wednesday 4 April in the Carrara Stadium, Gold Coast. As mandated by the Commonwealth Games Charter, the proceedings of the ceremony combined the formal opening of the sporting event (including hoisting of the flags, parade of the athletes and welcome speeches) with an artistic performance to showcase the host nation's culture. The 2018 Games were formally opened by Charles, Prince of Wales. Jack Morton Worldwide was given the contract to produce the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2018 Commonwealth Games. The theme of the opening ceremony was Hello Earth and directed by David Zolkwer. \n\nThe ceremony began at 20:00 AEST and lasted almost three hours. It was watched by an estimated worldwide television of 1.5 billion. The principal sections of the artistic display represented Australia's Indigenous culture, Gold Coast's Surfers Paradise, wildlife and theme parks. A medley of Australian classics were played live by the Queensland Symphony Orchestra, Queensland Youth Orchestra and Gold Coast Youth Orchestra during the parade of nations. Popular Australian recording artists such as Christine Anu, Delta Goodrem, Katie Noonan and Ricki-Lee Coutler performed at the ceremony. The opening ceremony was seen as a tremendous success and worldwide praised. \n\nThree Australian companies: Specktak International, World Events, Dae Global and one American company Jack Morton Worldwide (JMW) submitted bids to the Gold Coast 2018 Commonwealth Games Corporation (GOLDOC) to produce the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2018 Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast. On 27 December 2015, the GOLDOC announced they chose Jack Morton Worldwide to produce the ceremonies of the games. This sparked a controversy as the head of all the three Australian Companies Ric Birch, head of Spectak, David Atkins, head of Dae Global and Julie Brooks, head of World Events questioned to GOLDOC that why an American company (JMW) was chosen for the production of ceremonies which was going to happen in Australia. Ric Birch, who co-ordinated the ceremonies of the 1982 Commonwealth Games in Brisbane, the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney and the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, called for a review of the decision to overlook three Australian companies to present the ceremonies at the 2018 Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast. GOLDOC's head of communications Marcus Taylor said that JMW is an international company which have been working in Australia since 1983 and have a range of experiences in producing the ceremonies of events as they have previously done for 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, 2006 Commonwealth Games in Melbourne and the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow. \n\nOn 22 November 2017, the GOLDOC revealed some of the key artistic personnel working on the ceremonies of the games. The creative team for the opening and closing ceremonies consisted of a roster of renowned individuals. Leading the ceremonies team as Artistic Director and Project Director was David Zolkwer, Head of Jack Morton Worldwide Public Events. David previously led the teams for the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, 2002 Commonwealth Games in Manchester, 2006 Commonwealth Games in Melbourne and 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow. Australian singer Katie Noonan, winner of five ARIA music awards and former lead singer of Brisbane based band George, was given the role of the Music Director of the ceremonies. Katie said \"I'm a fiercely proud Queensland musician; I think we make some of the best music in the world and indeed some of the best art in the world. There's some truly world class dance and music being made here, so it's a good time to focus on our (cultural) identity and realise that we're really good at what we do.\" She has served as the Artistic Director of the Queensland Music Festival since 2015.\n\nNathan M. Wright served as the Head of Choreography and Staging Director for the opening ceremony. Nathan is a highly respected choreographer and performer who has worked on large-scale events extensively, including choreography for the opening and closing ceremonies of both the 2012 Summer Olympics and Paralympics in London and the opening ceremony of the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. The role of Executive Producer for the ceremonies was given to Merryn Hughes. Merryn has also served as the Executive Producer for the ceremonies of the 2015 Pacific Games in Papua New Guinea and the closing ceremony of the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver. It was announced on 28 March 2018 that Australian pop singer Delta Goodrem would perform at the opening ceremony. \n\nCairns based Torres Strait Islander visual artist Brian Robinson designed the Parade Track in the Carrara stadium.\n\nThe opening ceremony started with a countdown from 65000 years quickly to 10-1 seconds. When the countdown is finished, a very large firework exploded in the middle of the ground of the Carrara Stadium. \n\nAustralian Actor Jack Thompson spoke about the history of Earth along with holding an illuminated globe.\n\nWhen he finished his narration, he then placed the globe in the ground which was covered with beach sand. The image of earth was projected on the ground showcasing the movement of winds, oceans, wind currents and large mass of land. A group of girls stood at the image projection of land and raised their right hands. The large mass of land immediately separated into seven continents. After the separation of land masses, a white humpback whale \"Migaloo\" was shown swimming across the oceans and diving into the land of Australia. \n\nWorld-renowned didgeridoo player William Barton played his instrument at the top of the Q1 tower. Hip-hop artist Mau Power from Thursday Island in the Torres Strait and Australian singer Christine Anu sang the song \"My Island Home\" along with Four Winds Didgeridoo Orchestra. A group of dancers holding small glowing spheres danced along with the song. When the song finished, the dancers immediately stood adjacent to each other forming the shape of Australian land boundary. Christine Anu sang the same song at the closing ceremony of the 2000 Summer Olympics and in the opening ceremonies of the 2000 Summer Paralympics in Sydney.\n\nCharles, Prince of Wales, Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, President of the Commonwealth Games Federation Louise Martin, Chairman of GOLDOC Peter Beattie and President of Commonwealth Games Australia Sam Coffa entered the stadium and welcomed with a huge applause by the audience. Australia's National Flag was hoisted in the stadium and Australian national anthem \"Advance Australia Fair\" was sung. While the anthem was sung, the image of the Australian Coat of Arms symbol was projected on the stadium's ground.\n\nAfter the history of Earth segment, the traditional totem ceremony was showcased. This part of the ceremony represented the moment of reconnecting and regeneration. It showcased a ritual in which the ceremonial knowledge of the totemic system was passed down from past ancestors and elders, through present elders, to the future elders. Performers from the Bangarra Dance Theatre and performers from the Bangarra's \"Rekindling\" programme performed a dance with shields. Rekindling is an intensive dance-based education program for Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander secondary students. After the dance performance, a large firework exploded in the middle of the stadium's ground.\n\nAfter the Totem ceremony segment, the Surfers Paradise scene was shown. A group of people wearing swimsuits gathered into the stadium along with props such as umbrellas, deck chairs, and beach towels. The image of the scenery of beach was projected onto the stadium's ground. Australian singer Ricki-Lee Coulter performed the song \"Technicolor Love\" and the people wearing swimsuits danced on the song.\n\nFollowing tradition, the host of the previous games, Scotland entered first, followed by the rest of the European countries competing. Following this, all countries paraded in alphabetical order from their respective regions. After the European countries entered, countries from Africa, the Americas, Asia, the Caribbean, and lastly Oceania marched in. The host nation of Australia entered last. The Parade of Nations track, designed by Cairns based Torres Strait Islander visual artist Brian Robinson, was a specially commissioned artwork drawing on indigenous and local culture and mythology, featuring stars, surfboards, sea animals and shells. The young Surf Lifesavers of Australia, popularly called as the \"Nippers\", escorted the athletes carrying a surfboard bearing the country name. The image of each nation's flag was projected on the ground of the stadium. Kylie Minogue's famous song \"Can't Get You Out of My Head\", was played at the arrival of England into the stadium. Sia's song \"Chandelier\" was played at the arrival of New Zealand team.\n\nAfter the parade of Commonwealth Nations, Australian singer Katie Noonan sang \"You’re Welcome Here\" with playing a piano backed by the Gold Coast Choir. She was also the musical director of the opening and closing ceremonies of the games.\n\nContemporary aboriginal artist Luther Cora performed a traditional smoking ceremony with his family. The smoking ceremony is an ancient and enduring custom still practiced widely among many Indigenous Australians. It involved burning various native plants to produce smoke. It was mentioned in \"The Guardian\" that the meaning of the ceremony was to cleanse oneself by bathing in the smoke and connect with each other and with the land. It was also about connecting with good spirits.\n\nThe Commonwealth Games flag was brought into the stadium by six athletes namely Dominican high jumper Brendan Williams, South African para swimmer Natalie Du Toit (para-sport representative), New Zealand professional racing cyclist Alison Shanks, Canadian high jumper Nicole Forrester, retired Scottish rugby union player Colin Gregor and Scottish women's hockey player Rhona Toft. The six athletes were also appointed to the CGF Athlete Advisory Commission on 3 April 2018. Australian singer John Farnham's song \"You're the Voice\" was played when the athletes entered into the stadium with the flag. John Farnham performed the same song at the closing ceremony of the 2006 Commonwealth Games in Melbourne.\n\nAustralian lawn bowls athlete Karen Murphy took the athlete's oath, while Australian netball coach Lisa Alexander took the coaches oath and athletics official Desmond Johnston took the officials oath.\n\nChairman of GOLDOC The Hon. Peter Beattie gave a speech about the games and welcomed the athletes.\nAfter him, President of the CGF Louise Martin gave a speech about the games. She started her speech by telling about her own experiences when she was an athlete representing Scotland at the 1962 Commonwealth Games in Perth. She also stated that the 2018 Commonwealth Games were the first International Multi Sport Event to have equal medal opportunities for both men and women and the first Games to include a Reconciliation Action Plan, respecting and recognising the first nation peoples of the entire Commonwealth. Further she added that the games were the largest fully inclusive para-sport medal events programme ever at a Commonwealth Games; the largest at any international sports event.\nThe Queen's baton, which contained the message letter written by Queen Elizabeth II at the Buckingham Palace in London, was brought into the stadium in the kombi van by Australian former swimmer Susie O’Neill . She then went to the centre of the stadium. Images and videos of popular Gold Coast attractions were projected on the ground of the stadium such as feeding lorikeets, skydiving, dreaming in the ocean, walking in the treetops, and riding the rollercoaster. After that, she handed over the baton to Australian former cyclist Brad McGee , who took it to Australian wheelchair racer Kurt Fearnley . Kurt after parading it around the stadium, handed over to Australian netballer Liz Ellis , who then took it to Australian hockey player Brent Livermore Finally, Brent handed the baton over to Australian hurdler Sally Pearson She received a large applause from the audience as she lives in Gold Coast. She went to the dais along with the baton and hand it over to Louise Martin. Louise removed the Queen's message from the baton and handed to HRH Prince Charles. Charles read out the message and declared the competition officially open.\n\nAustralian Singer songwriter Delta Goodrem performed her song \"Welcome to Earth\". After her performance, a large number of people gathered at the stadium and Sigur-Rossy music was played. A large white whale Migaloo shaped balloon was brought into the stadium. Images of Antarctica and the Great Barrier Reef were projected on the whale shaped balloon. The artwork was designed by Delvene Cockatoo-Collins, the artist who also designed the medals for the Games. Australian singer Ruel sang his song \"Golden Years\" and fireworks exploded on the roof of the stadium. Delta Goodrem's \"Together We Are One\" remix version single was played after Ruel's performance and a large number of fireworks exploded on the roof of the Carrara stadium and also near The Star Gold Coast hotel.\n\nThe opening ceremony of the 2018 Commonwealth Games was featured with the performances of singers, orchestras and songs of Australia in order to give an exposure of Australian music around the world and to showcase the culture of Australia. In the Four Winds segment, Australian singer Christine Anu and Torres Strait rapper Mau Power covered the song \"My Island Home\" which was one of the hit songs in Australia in 1995. Australian pop singer Ricki Lee Coutler sang \"Technicolor Love\" during the Surfer's Paradise segment in order to showcase the fun thriving beach life of Gold Coast.\n\nDuring the parade of nations, an orchestral medley of Australian classics were played by the members of the Queensland Symphony Orchestra, Queensland Youth Orchestra and Gold Coast Youth Orchestra which were led by conductor John Foreman. The songs played by the orchestras were INXS’s \"Need You Tonight\", Men At Work’s \"Down Under\", The Church’s \"Under The Milky Way\", Little River Band’s \"Reminiscing\", Alex Lloyd’s \"Amazing’’, The Divinyls’ \"I Touch Myself\", Kylie Minogue’s \"Can’t Get You Out of My Head\", Australian Crawl’s \"Reckless\" and Stevie Wright’s \"Evie\".\n\nKatie Noonan, winner of five ARIA music awards and musical director of the ceremony, performed a song \"You’re Welcome Here\" after the parade of nations. \"You’re The Voice\", recorded by Australian singer John Farnham and one of the biggest hits in 1986 in Australia was played by the orchestra when the CGF flag was brought into the stadium. Australian pop singer Delta Goodrem, winner of nine ARIA music awards, performed the official theme song of the opening ceremony \"Welcome to Earth\".\n\"The Courier-Mail\" said \"Gold Coast finally welcomed the world to its biggest ever party with a dazzling Commonwealth Games opening ceremony\". \"The New Daily\" said the opening ceremony had \"wowed\" the fans on the Gold Coast. The \"Gold Coast Bulletin\" called the opening ceremony as \"dazzling\" and \"welcomed the world to its biggest ever party\". \"The West Australian\" said that the \"Spirits gone high\" in the Gold Coast after the opening ceremony. The SBS called the ceremony as \"dazzling\" and the ABC said that the opening ceremony had \"signaled great start for the 2018 Commonwealth Games\".\n\nForeign reaction was overwhelmingly positive. The BBC said the 2018 Commonwealth Games started with a \"colorful\" and \"spectacular\" opening ceremony. The \"Dailymail\" said the opening ceremony \"kicked off in spectacular style\". The \"London Evening Standard\" said the games began with a \"spectacular opening ceremony paying tribute to region's Aboriginal history.\" \"The Daily Telegraph\" reported \"Gold Coast Commonwealth Games began with every symbol of Australiana\".\n\nThe \"Firstpost\" said \"Opening ceremony of Commonwealth Games 2018 celebrates indigenous culture, beaches and diversity\". \"The Times of India\" provided live updates of the ceremony in their official website and at the end commented \"What a spectacular welcome Gold Coast has given to the participating teams!\". \"The Hindu\" said \"...the opening ceremony of the XXI Commonwealth Games on Wednesday night was painted with colour and gaiety...\". They also commented \"The pageant showcased the Australian tradition and culture in all its glory\".\n\nThe CNN reported \"Commonwealth Games' opening ceremony celebrates Australia's Indigenous culture\". However, the CNN also commented that the Commonwealth Games are regarded as an enduring reminder of British imperialism. As it was raining for few minutes at the beginning of the opening ceremony, the \"Toronto Star\" noticed and commented \"Commonwealth Games begin after rain drenches spectators at Gold Coast opening ceremony\".\n\nNorwest productions was the official audio supplier for the opening and closing ceremonies of the Games. A large optocore fibre network was used for site-wide signal distribution by the company. Stagekings, a Sutherland Shire company provided the sets and staging for the opening ceremony. The company constructed most of the structures, from the speech stages, flag stages, the sand centre-piece, the sand surround (compete with smoke effect and light ring), the parade path, mobile lifeguard tower, the beach showers, lecterns, the Royal Box, Migaloo’s buggy, even the glowing globe that Jack Thompson used to open the show.\nSome 15,000 tickets for the event had the wrong day printed on them (Thursday), instead of the correct date (Wednesday).\n"}
{"id": "5845673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5845673", "title": "Animals in sport", "text": "Animals in sport\n\nAnimals in sport are a specific form of working animals. Many animals, at least in more commercial sports, are highly trained. Two of the most common animals in sport are horses and dogs.\n\nThere are many types of animal sporting events, with varying levels of participation from humans. Some are solely between the animals while others use the animals in a lesser role. Most sports involve training, while some can also involve selective breeding.\n\nThere are some large-scale events that include animals in a variety of sports. A rodeo can comprise many different sports, ranging from bull riding to pole bending. Some of the most well known types of animal racing may be, Horse racing, Dog racing (Greyhound racing), Pigeon racing, Camel racing, and (even Mule racing which mainly takes place in some parts of California etc,) as well as many more.\n\nRacing is the most popular form of animal-related sport, particularly horse racing. Some racing events directly involve humans as riders while others see the animals race alone. In some sports the rider is not directly riding the animal, instead being pulled along. Examples of this include harness racing, dogsled racing and popular ancient Greece and Roman Empire sport of chariot racing.\n\nGreyhound racing, a popular form of animal racing, dates back to the 1800s in the United States, after the dogs were brought over from Europe to help control the hare population. While track racing is the most common, there are other forms of racing. Pigeon racing, for example, sees homing pigeons finding their way home from a set distance away. Kambala, he-buffalo racing in coastal Karnataka, India is a rural spectator racing conducted every year during winter in about 50 towns/villages.\nRacing events are a common way to gamble, with billions spent worldwide every year. This is one reason that some countries or states have made such sports illegal.\n\nThere are some non-racing competitive events involving animals. Polo is an example, with competitors hitting a ball with mallets while on horseback. Elephant polo dates back to the early 20th century when members of the British aristocracy in Nepal began playing the sport.\n\nIn the 14th to 16th centuries jousting was a popular one-on-one tournament event involving knights on horseback.\n\nIn most counties the act of two or more animals fighting each other, such as cockfighting, and dog fighting, is seen as cruel and is therefore illegal. Some legal animal fights take place around the world, including cow fighting and camel wrestling. There are also some legal forms of sport where humans fight animals, such as bullfighting which has a long history in Spanish and Portuguese tradition. Not all animals are large, however, with cricket fighting being a popular (though illegal to gamble on) sport in Macau and Hong Kong.\n\nThere are several other blood sports in history that were intended as entertainment, many of which involved baiting by dogs. Many different types of animal have been placed into a pit, sometimes tied to a post, and set upon by dogs. This ranges from rat-baiting and badger-baiting to bear-baiting and lion-baiting. There are even some tales of human-baiting.\n\nAnimals that take part in animal fights are usually specifically bred for strength and stamina.\n\nHunting began as a crucial component of hunter-gatherer societies, being an important source of food. The domestication of animals and the development of agriculture lessened the need for hunts, with food being more readily available. Hunting became a sport for those of the high social classes. In most parts of medieval Europe, the upper-class (aristocracy and higher clergy) obtained as privilege the sole rights to hunt in certain areas of a feudal territory.\n\nDangerous hunting, as for lions or wild boars, usually on horseback (or from a chariot, as in Pharaonic Egypt and Mesopotamia) also had function similar to tournaments and manly sports: an honourable, somewhat competitive pastime to help the aristocracy practice skills of war in times of peace. In ancient Rome the \"Venatio\" was a form of entertainment that pitted humans against animals in an amphitheater.\n\nIn modern times, hunting is usually legal as long as the hunter has a license, though there are some unregulated forms in some countries. Animals can be on either side of a hunt, assisting the hunters or being hunted themselves.\n\nFox hunting has been a controversial issue, particularly in the United Kingdom, regarding its necessity and the cruelty involved (See Fox hunting legislation).\n\nFishing is somewhat different from other sports and is most commonly a pastime or hobby. However, it can also be a competitive sport.\n\nPigeon shooting was one of the shooting events of the 1900 Summer Olympics. Competitors in these events had to kill as many live pigeons as possible. Birds were released one at a time from 'traps' in front of the shooters.\n\nShows are intended to highlight the excellence of training or breeding of the animals involved. There is a variety of horse riding sports in this category, including show jumping and dressage, both of which are featured at the Olympic Games. At lower levels, horse shows offer a wide variety of competition both riding and driving as well as In-hand classes that evaluate equine conformation.\n\nDogs, being easily domesticated, are one of the most popular animals to have in shows. Cattle and sheepdog trials are popular in many countries and are used to show how well a dog can gather livestock. Other dog sports of this category include dog agility events, whereby the dogs must tackle obstacle courses, and obedience trials, where they must execute a predefined set of tasks.\n\nCrufts, a British conformation show for dogs, has grown since it started in 1886. While dogs are the most common show animal, cat shows are also common. Both of these animals have a wide variety of breeds and compete in categories, comparing each individual to the breed \"ideal.\"\n\nSome unusual animals also take part in shows, such as the competitors in rabbit show jumping and common chaffinches in vinkenzetting.\n\nFilms and television series about animals in sport can be realistic or fictional, involving animals in an activity that they cannot really perform. \"Seabiscuit\" is a fairly accurate portrayal of the famous American horse of the same name, while \"\", a film about a hockey-playing chimpanzee, is unrealistic.\n\nThe 1980 animated film \"Animalympics\" is a spoof of the Olympic Games and features anthropomorphicised animals. In the combination live action and animation film \"Bedknobs and Broomsticks\", animated animals play a game of football. Similarly, several television commercials used the Budweiser Clydesdales and other animals in live-action and CGA roles to appear to be playing American football.\n\nFrom 1976 to 1999, the BBC broadcast \"One Man and His Dog\", a television series about sheepdog trials. They also commissioned three series of \"Pets Win Prizes\", a game show with contestants' pets having to perform in various tasks.\n\n\"Man vs. Beast\" is an American television show that pitches humans against animals in a variety of unusual challenges, including competitive eating between world champion Takeru Kobayashi and a brown bear.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "340336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340336", "title": "Artistic license", "text": "Artistic license\n\nArtistic license (also known as art license, historical license, dramatic license, poetic license, narrative license, licentia poetica, creative license, or simply license) is a colloquial term, sometimes a euphemism, used to denote the distortion of fact, alteration of the conventions of grammar or language, or rewording of pre-existing text made by an artist in the name of art.\n\nThe artistic license may also refer to the ability of an artist to apply smaller distortions, such as a poet ignoring some of the minor requirements of grammar for poetic effect. For example, Mark Antony's \"Friends, Romans, Countrymen, lend me your ears\" from Shakespeare's \"Julius Caesar\" would technically require the word \"and\" before \"countrymen\", but the conjunction \"and\" is omitted to preserve the rhythm of iambic pentameter (the resulting conjunction is called an asyndetic tricolon). Conversely, on the next line, the end of \"I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him\" has an extra syllable because omitting the word \"him\" would make the sentence unclear, but adding a syllable at the end would not disrupt the meter. Both of these are examples of artistic license. \n\nAnother example of artistic license is the way in which stylized images of an object (for instance in a painting or an animated movie) are different from their real life counterparts, but are still intended to be interpreted by the viewer as representing the same thing. This can mean the omission of details, or the simplification of shapes and color shades, even to the point that the image is nothing more than a pictogram. It can also mean the addition of non-existing details, or exaggeration of shapes and colours, as in fantasy art or a caricature.\n\nCertain stylizations have become fixed conventions in art; an agreement between artist and viewer that is understood and undebatable. A striking example is how in simple cartoon drawings' monochromatic white parts on a dark colored surface are immediately recognized by most viewers to represent the reflection of light on a smooth or wet surface.\n\nIn summary, artistic license is:\n\n\nArtistic license is often referred to as dramatic license when it involves the glamorization of real-world occupations for the sake of exciting television or cinematic experience. For example, \"CSI: Crime Scene Investigation\" and other police procedural programs typically omit completely the more mundane aspects of the occupation such as paperwork, reports, administrative duties and other daily \"business-oriented\" aspects which in reality often constitute the majority of police work. They will also present other duties with much more action, suspense or drama than would be experienced in reality. The same is also true for many military-oriented adventure stories which often show high-ranking characters being allowed to continuously enter dangerous situations when in reality, they would usually be restricted to command-oriented and administrative duties.\n\nArtistic license often provokes controversy by offending those who resent the reinterpretation of cherished beliefs or previous works. Artists often respond to these criticisms by pointing out that their work was not intended to be a verbatim portrayal of something previous and should be judged only on artistic merit. Artistic license is a generally accepted practice, particularly when the result is widely acclaimed. William Shakespeare's historical plays, for example, are gross distortions of historical fact but are nevertheless lauded as outstanding literary works.\n\nCritical voices are sometimes raised when artistic license is applied to cinematic and other depictions of real historical events. While slight manipulation for dramatic effect of chronology and character traits are generally accepted, some critics feel that depictions that present a significantly altered reality are irresponsible, particularly because many viewers and readers do not know the actual events and may thus take the dramatized depiction to be true to reality. Examples of films and television series criticized for excessive use of dramatic license include Disney's \"Pocahontas\", Oliver Stone's \"Alexander\", the HBO series \"Rome\", 20th Century Fox's \"The Greatest Showman\" and Showtime's \"The Tudors\". \n\nWriters adapting a work for another medium (e.g., a film screenplay from a book) often make significant changes, additions to, or omissions from the original plot in the book, on the grounds that these changes were necessary to make a good film. These changes are sometimes to the dismay of fans of the original work.\n"}
{"id": "31773051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31773051", "title": "Attack on Titan", "text": "Attack on Titan\n\n\"Attack on Titan\" has become a commercial success. As of October 2018, the manga has 86million \"tankōbon\" copies in print worldwide (76 million in Japan and 10 million outside of Japan), making it one of the best-selling manga series. The release of the manga's anime adaptation, which received critical acclaim for its atmosphere, music and story, boosted the series' popularity. Although it also gained fame in neighboring Asian countries, the series' themes have been a subject of controversy.\n\nOver 100 years before the beginning of the story on an alternate world, giant humanoid creatures called suddenly appeared and nearly wiped out humanity, devouring them without remorse or reason and only targeting them; they completely ignore other wildlife. What remains of humanity now resides within three enormous curtain walls: the outermost is ; the middle wall is and the innermost is . Inside these walls, humanity has lived in uneasy peace for one hundred years, many people growing up without ever having seen a Titan. This all changes when one day, a giant -tall Colossus Titan mysteriously appears after a strike of lightning and breaches the outer wall (which is 50 meters tall) of the Shiganshina district, a town at Wall Maria, allowing the smaller Titans to invade the district. An Armored Titan smashes clean through the gate in Wall Maria, forcing humankind to abandon the land between Wall Maria and Wall Rose, evacuating the remaining population into the inner districts. The sudden influx of population causes turmoil and famine.\n\nThe Titans are giant humanoid figures ranging between tall and are usually masculine in body structure but lack reproductive organs. Although they do not appear to need food, they instinctively attack and eat humans on sight; it is mentioned that they derive their energy from sunlight. Furthermore, the Titans also do not have a proper digestive tract; once they have eaten their fill of human prey, Titans will vomit large, slimy balls, derisively referred to as \"hairballs\", as shown in the episode where the squad retakes Trost. Finally, their skin is tough and difficult to penetrate, and they regenerate quickly from injuries, except for a weak spot at the nape of their neck.\n\nCombating the Titans is the military, which is divided into three branches. Foremost in the story is the , which goes out into Titan territory to try to reclaim the land. The Survey Corps is heavily derided in society because of its apparently senseless high casualty rate and little sense of progress. The second and largest branch is the , which guards the walls and the civilian populace. The third branch is the , which guards the royal family and lives relatively relaxed lives in the innermost wall, although this eventually results in fraud, corruption, and political subterfuge. The soldiers use a grappling, tethering system called that allows them to jump onto (and swing from) walls, trees, or nearby buildings to attack Titans with dual swords, and use gas canisters which to propel themselves. However, despite it being the soldiers' primary line of both offense and defense against the Titans, it is useless in open and flat terrain like fields.\n\nIt is later revealed that the Titans were created when Ymir Fritz found the \"source of all organic life\" and became the Founding Titan which gave her the ability to create and control the Titans. When Ymir Fritz died as a side effect of having the Titan ability for 13 years, her power was divided among nine who pass their abilities to another upon death to other Subjects of Ymir, also known the Eldian people. These Titans consist of the Founding Titan, the Attack Titan, the Colossal Titan, the Armored Titan, the Female Titan, the Beast Titan, the Jaw Titan, the Cart Titan, and the War Hammer Titan. The Founding Titan remained with the Fritz family as Eldia's 145th King Karl Fritz arranged for his country's fall by the country of Marley and took a handful of his people to the island of Paradis where he used the countless Colossus Titans to make the walls and erased the memories of the Eldians he brought with him so that they did not know anything about the outside world, his descendants continuing his work while the Eldians in Marley suffer as second-class citizen with some being exiled to Paradis as the Titans that terrorize the island's residents.\n\nThe story of \"Attack on Titan\" revolves around the adventures of Eren Jeager who lives in the town of Shinganshina. When Wall Maria is breached by the Colossal Titan, with the Armored Titan further compromising the town, chaos ensues as the Titans enters Shinganshina causing a mass evacuation. Eren vows to kill all the Titans after watching in horror as a smiling Titan eats his mother, Carla, his father having mysteriously disappeared after giving him a key to their basement. He then enlists in the military with his friends following suit.\n\nFive years later, the three cadet graduates are positioned in Trost District, one of the border towns jutting out of Wall Rose when the Colossal Titan again appears. In the ensuing battle, Eren appears to have been killed when he sacrificed himself to save Armin from being eaten by a bearded Titan. Things appear bleak until Mikasa and Armin encounter a Titan that uncharacteristically attacks the other Titans with raging fury. The creature is ultimately revealed to be Eren. However, he is considered to be a threat despite helping take back Trost District, and the following military trial rules that Eren is to be assigned to the Survey Corps' Special Operations Squad under Captain Levi Ackerman.\n\nIn an expedition to Shinganshina to make use of Eren's abilities, the Scouts are attacked by a Female Titan who attempts to capture Eren while wiping out Levi's subordinates. Although Eren is rescued, the expedition ended in failure, however Armin concludes that the Female Titan is a fellow cadet from their class named Annie Leonheart. Annie encases herself in crystal when her capture at Stohess is assured, and the collateral damage reveals that the walls are formed from Titans. Eventually, Eren learns that their fellow cadets, Reiner Braun and Bertolt Hoover, are the Titans who compromised Wall Maria. It is revealed that they and Annie are dispatched by an unknown party to capture Eren as he possesses \"The Coordinate\" which allows him to control Titans. The event also reveals another cadet named Krista Lenz is actually Historia Reiss, the illegitimate daughter of the city's true ruler Rod Reiss. On Reiss's orders, the Military Police take Eren and Historia to him. It is revealed that Eren's Titan abilities resulted from his father Grisha stealing the power of the Reiss family during the chaos at Shinganshina and allowing himself to be devoured by his son, Eren.\n\nHistoria learns that her father intends to make her a Titan and eat Eren to claim her birthright and restore the old system. Historia refuses and aids Eren and the Survey Corps in overthrowing the monarchy while personally killing Reiss after he transforms himself into a Titan. The ordeal enables Eren to gain a new power that allowed him to create massive and permanent structures, which the Survey Corps used in their next expedition to seal the breach in Wall Maria. However, the group are ambushed by Zeke, Reiner and Bertolt's superior. The Scouts win the ensuing Battle of Shinganshina, subduing Bertolt and forcing the other enemy Titans to retreat, but most of the expedition members are killed, and Armin and Commander Erwin Smith are left mortally wounded. Levi, armed with a single vial of Titanization serum, decides to save Armin over Erwin. Armin devours Bertolt and becomes the new Colossus Titan.\n\nBefore returning home, the survivors reach the basement of the Jeager residence where they find the truth Grisha wanted them to learn: That human civilization is thriving despite what they had believed and that they are descendants of some of the Eldian people who fled to Paradis to escape oppression by Marley, a world power that seeks to acquire Paradis's natural resources by force. The mindless Titans are revealed to be exiled Eldian prisoners. The Marleyans used to keep the Eldians within the walls from expanding their territory prior to sending Zeke, who Eren learns is his older half-brother who had their father exiled to Paradis. But events led Grisha to acquire the power of the Attack Titan which he later passed to Eren along with the Founding Titan, nicknamed the \"Coordinate\" by the Marleyans.\n\nThe series then jumps to four years after the Battle of Shinganshina and the reclaim of Wall Maria, flashbacks revealing Zeke having made contact with Paradis during that period through his conscripted emissary Yelena, who helped the Paradisians receive training in modern weapons and technology while establishing contact with other nations opposing Marley like Hizuru, an ally nation of Eldia, with Mikasa revealed to be a descendant of its shogun. During a military committee meeting, Yelena reveals Zeke's long term plan, to hand over the Beast Titan power to Historia to help Eren unlock his Founding Titan powers. Because of the 13-year lifespan of one who acquires a Titan's power, Historia accepts the burden to produce as many heirs as possible to ensure a line of succession in the 50 years it would take for Paradis to be fully modernized. Eren disapproves of this arrangement and instead infiltrates Marley on his own, but secretly sends messages back to Paradis to coordinate an attack on Marley.\n\nEren and the Survey Corps begins their attack during a rally held by Willy Tybur, patriarch of Marley's most influential political family, in the Marleyan city of Liberio. Eren kills Tybur and then devours Tybur's sister to obtain the power of the Warhammer Titan. After retreating with the Survey Corps on an airship piloted by a foreign dignitary, Eren is immediately arrested for his insubordination by Levi. The Survey Corps' celebration is short-lived when Sasha Blouse is mortally wounded by Gabi Braun - Reiner's cousin and expected successor to the Armor Titan - who had stowed away on the airship along with her friend Falco.\n\nThe Scouts return to Paradis victorious, despite their losses. It is revealed that Historia is pregnant with her first child. Yelena and her followers are taken captive by the military government, and Levi escorts Zeke to a campsite in the forest. After Sasha's burial, the squad begins to question Eren's sanity and loyalty to them over the government and Zeke, despite Mikasa's insistence that he is acting in their best interests. Meanwhile, Falco and Gabi manage to break free from prison after disabling one of their jailers, and escape into the forest, eventually making their way to Sasha's father's farmstead.\n\nConcurrently, news of Eren's actions in Marley and subsequent imprisonment are leaked to the media, provoking mass outrage from the general populace, who support Eren's actions. The leaks originated from a band of nationalist rebels within the Survey Corps, led by Floch Forster, who view Eren as their leader. The rebels are promptly imprisoned, but their actions inspire more members of the military to join their cause; Commander-in-Chief Darius Zackly, the head of the military, is assassinated by a bomb placed by Eren's supporters, moments after he denied Armin and Mikasa permission to visit Eren. In the chaos, Eren escapes from his cell and meets up with his followers, informing them that their next objective is to find Zeke. In the aftermath of Zackly's death, Dot Pyxis assumes control and orders that Queen Historia and all individuals who know of Zeke's location be secured, planning on using both as bargaining chips in order to negotiate peace with Eren's followers, now called the Yeagerists.\n\nHajime Isayama created a 65-page one-shot version of \"Attack on Titan\" in 2006. In a 2018 interview with NHK, Isayama revealed that his inspiration for the series came from his hometown of Hita, Ōita, while wondering if there were monsters beyond the walls bordering the town. Originally, he also offered his work to the \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" department at Shueisha, where he was advised to modify his style and story to be more suitable for \"Jump\". He declined and instead decided to take it to the \"Weekly Shōnen Magazine\" department at Kodansha. Before serialization began in 2009, he had already thought of ideas for twists, although they are fleshed out as the series progresses. The author initially based the scenery in the manga on that of his hometown, which is surrounded by mountains. While working at an internet cafe, Isayama encountered a customer who grabbed him by the collar. It was this incident that showed him \"the fear of meeting a person I can't communicate with,\" which is the feeling that he conveys through the Titans. When designing the appearances of the Titans, he uses several models such as martial artist Yushin Okami for Eren Yeager's Titan form as well as Brock Lesnar for the Armored Titan. George Wada, the anime's producer, stated that the \"Wall of Fear\" was influenced by the isolated and enclosed nature of Japanese culture. He also said that the inner feelings of every individual is one of the series' main influences. Isayama later would confirm that \"Attack on Titan\" was inspired in part by \"Muv-Luv Alternative\", the second visual novel in the \"Muv-Luv\" visual novel series.\n\nIsayama estimated his basic monthly timeline as one week to storyboard and three weeks to actually draw the chapter. The story is planned out in advance, even marking down in which collected volumes a specific \"truth\" will be revealed. In September 2013, he stated that he was aiming to end the series in 20 collected volumes. Originally, Isayama planned to give the series a tragic conclusion similar to that of the film adaptation of Stephen King's \"The Mist\", where every character dies. However, positive response to the manga and anime has caused the author to contemplate changing the ending due to the impact it could have on fans.\n\nOn November 16th, Isayama reported saying that the final chapter is now in development and did a documentary about it.\n\nHajime Isayama's original manga serial, \"Attack on Titan\" commenced publication in Kodansha's monthly publication \"Bessatsu Shōnen Magazine\" starting with the September 2009 issue. The first \"tankōbon\" collected volume was released on March 17, 2010. The most recent, volume 22, was released on April 7, 2017. In November 2014, the manga had 45 million copies in print. By September 2016, the number had increased to 60 million. The series' twelfth collected volume was given a first printing of 2.2 million copies, making \"Attack on Titan\" one of only two manga series ever to get an initial print surpassing 2 million, the other being \"One Piece\". Volume 13 has the highest initial first print of the series so far, with 2,750,000 copies. It is also the first print run record for its publisher, Kodansha.\n\nA comedic spin-off of the series, titled and written by Saki Nakagawa, began serialization in \"Bessatsu Shōnen Magazine\" May 2012 issue. It follows the main characters as they battle the Titans while in junior high school. Another manga series based on the prequel light novels \"\" started running in Kodansha's \"Monthly Shōnen Sirius\" from August 2013, drawn by Satoshi Shiki. An additional spin-off based on the \"No Regrets\" visual novel was serialized in the shōjo manga magazine \"Aria\", titled . It is written by Gun Snark and illustrated by Hikaru Suruga. It focuses on the origins of Captain Levi, one of the most prominent characters in the main series. A yonkoma spin-off, called and drawn by hounori, was released on Kodansha's Manga Box smartphone and tablet application from December 2013 to December 30, 2014 in both Japanese and English. A manga adaptation of Hiroshi Seko's \"\" novel, written and illustrated by Ryōsuke Fuji, began publication in \"Bessatsu Shōnen Magazine\" on August 9, 2015.\n\nIn North America, the series is published in English by Kodansha USA. They published the first volume on June 19, 2012. The fifteenth was released on April 7, 2015. By July 2015, the manga had 2.5 million copies in circulation in North America. The first three spin-off manga have also been licensed by Kodansha USA, who published the first volume of each between March and June 2014. It announced its license to \"Spoof on Titan\" at the New York Comic Con in October 2015, and its acquisition of \"Lost Girls\" in March 2016.\n\nA light novel series titled , written by Ryō Suzukaze and illustrated by Thores Shibamoto, began on April 1, 2011. Its story is set before the events of the manga and it was published by Kodansha in three volumes. While the first tells the story of Angel, the blacksmith who develops the first prototypes of the Vertical Maneuvering Equipment, the following two follow a young man who was found as a baby in the stomach of a Titan. A second light novel series called , written by Ryō Kawakami and illustrated by Range Murata, was published between August 1, 2014 and May 1, 2015. Vertical released the novels in North America in 2014 and 2015. A novel titled , written by Hiroshi Seko, was published on December 9, 2014. It comprises three short stories featuring Mikasa and Annie Leonhart, titled \"Lost in the cruel world\", \"Wall Sina, Goodbye\", and \"Lost Girls\". It was also released in English by Vertical, in 2016. \"Garrison Girl: An Attack on Titan Novel\", a novel created by American writer Rachel Aaron was published by Quirk Books on August 7, 2018. It is centered on Rosalie Dumarque, who defies her family to join military garrison.\n\nAn anime television series adaptation produced by Wit Studio (a subsidiary of IG Port) aired on MBS between April 7, 2013 and September 29, 2013, directed by Tetsurō Araki with Yūki Kaji starring as Eren, Yui Ishikawa voicing Mikasa and Marina Inoue as Armin. Both Funimation and Crunchyroll simulcast the series on their respective websites, and Funimation began releasing the series on North American home video in 2014. The first season was acquired for distribution in the UK by Manga Entertainment, with subsequent seasons handled by Sony Pictures UK. Madman Entertainment acquired the show for distribution in Australia and New Zealand. The final episode was also aired in Japanese theaters. The anime had some production issues with needing more animators with Wit Studios' character designer, Kyoji Asano tweeting and looking for active animators to work on the anime. An OVA version of the \"Ilse's Notebook\" special chapter from \"tankōbon\" volume 5 was originally scheduled to be released on August 9, 2013, bundled with the volume 11 limited edition, but was postponed and included with a limited edition of volume 12, released on December 9, 2013, instead. The OVA was bundled on subtitled DVD with the English limited edition release of the 17th manga volume, released on December 1, 2015. A second OVA was released on April 9, 2014, bundled with the 13th volume of the series, this one focused on the members of the 104th Training Corps. Two additional OVA episodes, based on the \"Attack on Titan: No Regrets\" prequel manga, were bundled with the 15th and 16th volumes of the main series, released on December 9, 2014 and April 9, 2015, respectively. The anime previously aired on Adult Swim's Toonami block. In Australia, the anime aired on SBS 2 on Tuesdays, in Japanese with English subtitles, with the first episode having aired on September 30.\n\nThe anime was compiled into two animated theatrical films with new voice acting from the same cast. The first film covers the first 13 episodes and was released on November 22, 2014, while the second film adapts the remaining episodes and adds new opening and ending footage. It was released on June 27, 2015. A rebroadcast of the first season was aired from January 9, 2016 on NHK's BS Premium channel. The compilation films were also broadcast in January 2017 on MBS.\n\nA second season of the anime series was announced on the opening day of the first theatrical film, which was originally set to be released in 2016. It was then confirmed in the January 2017 issue of the \"Bessatsu Shōnen Magazine\" that the second season would premiere in April 2017. Masashi Koizuka directed the second season, with Araki acting as chief director. It has also been licensed by Funimation. It ran for 12 episodes.\n\nAn anime television adaptation of the \"Attack on Titan: Junior High\" manga spin-off began airing in October 2015. The series was directed by Yoshihide Ibata at Production I.G, with series composition by Midori Gotou, character design by Yuuko Yahiro, and music by Asami Tachibana. Linked Horizon performed the opening theme \"Youth Like Fireworks\". The ending theme, \"Ground's Counterattack\" (\"Hangeki no Daichi\"), is performed by the voice actors for Eren, Mikasa, and Jean. A rebroadcast of the series was aired during January 2016.\n\nThe second season of the anime series debuted on April 1, 2017. The season premiere was simulcast on Funimation, Crunchyroll, and the former's VRV channel at 10:30 AM EST. That same day, it was also announced that the second season of \"Attack on Titan\" would premiere on Toonami on April 29. It was subsequently announced on April 3 that the second season would premiere one week earlier, on April 22 instead.\n\nFollowing the broadcast of the second season's last episode, a third season was announced. It was premiered on NHK General TV in July 2018; however, it will not be broadcast on MBS and other UHF channels.\n\nA three part OVA of \"\" was released in 2017 and 2018 with the limited editions of volumes 24, 25, and 26.\n\nA third compilation film was announced alongside the release date of the anime series' third season at the \"\"Shingeki no Kyojin\" Reading & Live Event Orchestra \"Attack Oto Taikan 2\"\" event, titled . The film recapped the events of the anime series' second season and was released on January 13, 2018.\n\nA trailer for the third season was released on April 27, 2018. Funimation announced that they would air the worldwide premiere of the first episode at Anime Expo on July 8, 2018. They also announced that the first episode would air in theaters in the US and Canada alongside \"Attack on Titan: Roar of Awakening\" on July 10, 2018. The series premiered in Japan on July 23, 2018.\n\nIn the first season, for the first thirteen episodes, the opening theme is by Linked Horizon, and the ending theme is by Yōko Hikasa. For episodes 14–25, the opening theme is by Linked Horizon, and the ending theme is \"great escape\" by Cinema Staff. Both \"Guren no Yumiya\" and \"Jiyū no Tsubasa\" were released as part of the single \"Jiyū e no Shingeki\" on July 10, 2013.\n\nThe series' soundtrack was composed by Hiroyuki Sawano, and the first CD was released on June 28, 2013 by Pony Canyon. The first CD contains 16 tracks, with 6 vocal tracks featuring performances by Mika Kobayashi, mpi, Cyua, Aimee Blackschleger and CASG. The second CD containing the other half of the soundtrack was released on October 16, 2013 as a bonus offered with the fourth Blu-ray and DVD limited edition volumes of the anime.\n\nThe opening theme is by Linked Horizon, and the ending theme is by Shinsei Kamattechan.\n\nSawano returned to compose the soundtrack for the second season, with the 2CD soundtrack scheduled for release on June 7, 2017 by Pony Canyon.\n\nThe opening theme song is \"Red Swan\" by Yoshiki feat. Hyde, while the ending theme is by Linked Horizon.\n\nFor the first compilation film, , the ending themes were by Hiroyuki Sawano feat. Mika Kobayashi, Mica Caldito & mpi and by Linked Horizon. For the second compilation film, , the ending themes was by Hiroyuki Sawano feat. mpi. The film's theme song was by Linked Horizon.\n\n\nA live-action film was announced to be in production in October 2011. In December 2012, it was reported that Tetsuya Nakashima left his position as director. According to film distributor Toho, Nakashima had considerable creative differences on the scriptwriting and other matters. In December 2013, Shinji Higuchi was revealed to be directing, and would also be responsible with the special effects. Writer Yūsuke Watanabe and critic/subculture expert Tomohiro Machiyama were announced to be scripting the movie with series creator Isayama. In July 2014, it was revealed that two films will be released in the summer of 2015. It was also revealed that some major characters would be cut from the line up, most noticeably Levi Ackerman and Erwin Smith. A teaser trailer for the first live-action film was released in March 2015. The following month, Toho released the second trailer for the first film, and announced the second installment would be called \"Attack on Titan: End of the World\". In June 2015, a third trailer for the first film was released, revealing the Three-Dimensional Maneuvering Gear, as well as confirming the film would be released in IMAX theaters in Japan.\n\nA live-action miniseries, titled and utilizing the same actors as the films, started streaming on NTT DoCoMo's online-video service dTV on August 15, 2015. The three episode series focuses on Zoë Hange and her research of the Titans, as well as how the Vertical Maneuvering Equipment was created.\n\n\"Deadline Hollywood\" reported on January 17, 2017 that Warner Bros. is in negotiations to secure the film rights to the \"Attack on Titan\" franchise. \"Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them\" producer David Heyman would be on board to produce a proposed two-film project that would remake the 2015 Japanese live-action film adaptations. A day later, however, Kodansha representatives said there were no negotiations with Warner Bros. In October 2018, it's revealed that Warner Bros. and Kodansha have finalized a deal to produce a live action adaptation with \"It\" director Andy Muschietti signing on to direct the film.\n\nA Stage Play titled \"LIVE IMPACT\" was announced on the wraparound jacket band on Volume 21. It was scheduled to run from July 28 to September 3, 2017. The Stage Play was cancelled after one of the staff members being involved in an accident.\n\nTwo guidebooks to the manga titled \"Inside\" and \"Outside\" were released on April 9 and September 9, 2013, featuring concept art, character profiles and interviews. They were combined into one and released in North America on September 16, 2014, by Kodansha USA.\n\nA 16-minute drama CD was created with the anime's staff and included in the January 2014 issue of \"Bessatsu Shōnen Magazine\".\n\nOn November 3, 2014, American writer C. B. Cebulski revealed that a crossover between \"Attack on Titan\" and Marvel Comics was in the works. Cebulski scripts the scenario written by the original author Hajime Isayama. The one-shot crossover featured Spider-Man, the Avengers and the Guardians of the Galaxy facing off against several Titans, including the Colossal Titan, the Armored Titan, and the Female Titan on the streets of New York City. During Free Comic Book Day 2015, Marvel's \"Secret Wars\" preview included an 8-page presentation \"Attack on Avengers\" by creator Hajime Isayama with art by Gerardo Sandoval. It was announced at the 2015 New York Comic-Con that an American comic book titled \"Attack on Titan Anthology\" will be published.\n\nFrom January 23 to May 10, 2015, Universal Studios Japan hosted attractions based on \"Attack on Titan\". \"The Real\" \"Attack on Titan\" Experience features a life-size 15 meter tall Eren titan engaging a 14 meter tall female titan in combat. Other attractions include a ground level titan, which visitors can pose with.\n\n\"Attack on Titan\" won the Kodansha Manga Award in the \"shōnen\" category in 2011, was nominated for the 4th Manga Taishō Award and both the 16th and 18th annual Tezuka Osamu Cultural Prize. The 2012 edition of \"Kono Manga ga Sugoi!\", which surveys people in the manga and publishing industry, named \"Attack on Titan\" the eighth best manga series for male readers, while the 2014 edition named it the sixth best. \"Attack on Titan\" was the top favorite manga for \"Yomiuri Shimbun\"s Sugoi Japan Awards in 2015. \"Attack on Titan\" was the second highest selling manga series of 2013, with 15,933,801 copies sold in a single year. In April 2014, Oricon reported that 30 million volumes of the series have been sold. In the first half of 2014 it topped the chart, ending \"One Piece\"s five-year reign as the highest selling series in that period, with Isayama surprised about it and thanking the readers. By the end of the year, it was the second best selling manga with 11,728,368 copies sold. In 2015, the series sold 8,778,048 copies ranking third for the year, and 6,544,081 in 2016 for the fourth rank. \"Attack on Titan\" was the second best-selling manga of 2017 with sales of 6,622,781 copies, behind only \"One Piece\". The manga's publisher, Kodansha, credits \"Attack on Titan\" for the company's first revenue increase in eighteen years. The anime is noted to have helped in boosting the series' sales while \"Mainichi Shimbun\" called it a \"once-in-a-decade hit.\"\n\nSix of the seven English volumes published in North America at the time charted on \"The New York Times Manga Best Seller\" list for the week of October 13, 2013, and volume one was on the list for 81 weeks straight. In June 2015, the first volume clocked in at its 100th week on the top 10 chart, having sold 2.5 million copies. It also currently holds the title of appearing on the list for a volume with 121 weeks. Volume one was also number one on Nielsen BookScan's list of top 20 graphic novels in American bookstores for October 2013, and for the month of September, the series had more volumes on the list than any other series. The Young Adult Library Services Association in the United States named the series one of its \"Great Graphic Novels for Teens\" in 2013. Kodansha USA's English release won the 2014 Harvey Award for Best American Edition of Foreign Material. \"Attack on Titan\" was the only manga to be nominated for the 2015 Goodreads Choice Award for Best Graphic Novel/Comic.\n\nMany have analyzed \"Attack on Titan\" as representing \"the hopelessness felt by young people in today's society.\" while writer Mao Yamawaki called it a \"coming-of-age story of the boys and girls at its core,\" with a new mystery every episode. It is these mysteries that critic Tomofusa Kure says amplifies readers' expectations. The artwork of the manga has been criticized as crude by some reviewers, with Isayama himself admitting his drawings are \"amateurish.\" However, those same critics stated that after years of serialization, the art has been improving, and Kure believes that had the illustrations been \"refined\", it would not have conveyed the \"eeriness\" that is a key characteristic of the work. In a short review, Jason Thompson noted how the characters conveniently receive \"power-ups\" to create plot twists, but concluded that these said plot twists and the manga's post-apocalyptic world are \"too good to miss.\"\n\nThe anime has been very successful in Japan, with average sales of 52,067 across 9 volumes, with a total of 468,603 as of August 2016. It was the number one selling TV anime of 2013 in Japan and is currently the eighth best selling anime of 2010's. It has also been very successful in the U.S. with sales of at least 200,000. It was also the number one streaming anime from Funimation in 2014 and the number one fan favorite Funimation home video released of 2014. The anime adaptation won multiple prizes during the 3rd \"Newtype\" Anime Awards, including Best Director, Best Script, Best Soundtrack, Best Theme Song, Top Female Character and Title of the Year. It received the award for Best TV Animation at the 2013 Animation Kobe Awards. It received the award for Animation of the Year at the 2014 Tokyo Anime Award, along with, Best Director, Best Screenplay and Best Music. It won the 2013 Digital Contents of the Year Award at Japan's 19th annual Association of Media in Digital (AMD) Awards.\n\nCarl Kimlinger from Anime News Network was sharply critical of the first two episodes of the anime adaptation. He did praise the show for \"[bringing] back the terror of the fee-fi-fo-fum set\", but then said that it \"does not a good show make\". Kimlinger criticized Araki's direction, saying he \"clearly intends it to be powerful and unsettling, but it's just crude and unpleasant.\" On the other hand, other critics from Anime News Network praised much of the series. Rebecca Silverman said it \"is both gorgeous and appalling in its visuals\", and \"an excellent mix of what 18th century Gothic novelist Ann Radcliffe defined as horror versus terror: the one is physical, making you want to look away, and the other is intellectual, making you want to know what's going to happen next.\" Though there are several apocalyptic action shows, Carlo Santos noted that \"few get as close to perfection as \"Attack on Titan\" does\". Santos described it as \"a masterpiece of death and destruction\" even if he only watched the first episode. Theron Martin of Anime News Network praised the musical score and the \"intense, impactful first episode\" despite his feeling that it has \"limited animation\". Martin also compared \"Attack on Titan\" vibe and visual aesthetic to \"Claymore\". John Sinnott of DVD Talk called the series one of the best ones he has ever watched and one \"that anime fans should not miss.\"\n\nThe series has gained a strong popularity in not only Japan but also throughout the world. For instance, coverage of the anime appeared on the front page of the Hong Kong free newspaper \"am730\" on May 27, 2013, concerning its popularity within Hong Kong as well as in Mainland China and Taiwan. The series also attracted criticism: the South Korean \"Electronic Times\" magazine accused \"Attack on Titan\" of having a militaristic message that serves Japanese Prime Minister Shinzō Abe's political leanings; while the series also resonated with Hong Kong youths who saw the invading Titans as a metaphor for mainland China. Hong Kong media commentator Wong Yeung-tat praised Isayama's style and the versatility of \"Attack on Titan\"s setting, which opens itself to readers' various interpretations. In 2013, after media linked to a 2010 blog post by Isayama indicating that the design of the character Dot Pixis was based on the Imperial Japanese General Akiyama Yoshifuru, an Internet flame war about the general's war record (e.g. allowing the Port Arthur massacre to occur) ensued on his blog and included death threats to the author. Because many of the threats written in Japanese had grammatical errors, it is believed that they were written by people outside of Japan. The central political message of breaking free from the prison of collective historical guilt imposed by a decadent ruling class echoes the nationalist political wave sweeping the globe in the late 2010s, as well as drawing criticism from its opponents.\n\nOn June 12, 2015, the Chinese Ministry of Culture listed \"Attack on Titan\" among 38 anime and manga titles banned in China.\n\n"}
{"id": "16249324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16249324", "title": "Balanced sentence", "text": "Balanced sentence\n\nA balanced sentence is a sentence that employs parallel structures of approximately the same length and importance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41051481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41051481", "title": "Bleach balloon", "text": "Bleach balloon\n\nBleach balloons, also known as bleach bombs, are water balloons filled with bleach as opposed to water.\n\nIn 2012 there were multiple incidences of balloons allegedly filled with bleach thrown at students between the months of June and September. Four students filed reports with the UT police department, which were followed by protests from students, faculty, and alumni. The students who filed reports came forward once they were contacted by the UT police department. They had heard of the incidents and were concerned as to why the students had not already reported what happened. The students reported that the incidents took place near apartments in West Campus, an area located just off campus. The UT police have not been able to prove that there was in fact bleach in the balloons, but it has been investigated.\n\nThe most recent incident occurred on August 21, 2013 to a 21-year-old student by the name of Bryan Davis while walking to a friend's house. He was reportedly struck in the leg by a bleach-filled balloon while walking by an apartment in West Campus. This event was also looked at as being not only physically dangerous, but potentially racially driven. However, upon further investigation and forensic testing, the balloon was confirmed to only have contained water.\n\nIn 2010, a bleach balloon attack was reported in Atlanta, Georgia. It was reported that four high school students threw bleach balloons from a van at a Hispanic, male seventh grader who was walking home from school. The seventh grader, Miguel Mesa, was temporarily blinded upon being struck directly in the face. Two of Mesa's classmates called the police and were able to describe the van's appearance. The driver of the van was identified and arrested, the other three turned themselves in. The suspects told police they were only trying to ruin Mesa's clothing. No information was given or discussed on the possibilities of the attack having racist intentions. Mesa's vision returned after undergoing numerous medical treatments.\n\nFurther back, in 2005, another racial attack with the use of bleach was reported in the Netherlands. A 16-year-old girl from Ethiopia was walking with some friends when a 25-year-old male threw bleach on her. As he threw the bleach he yelled, \"This will make you whiter\". The girl was not seriously hurt, and the man was arrested for assault and hate speech.\n\nThe response from the university is that the balloon thrown in August 2013 appears to have been filled with only water, and they sent clothing and pieces of the balloon away for further forensic testing. Authorities claim that they had difficulty verifying that these were racially motivated because there were reports that claim that non-minority students have been hit also but the fact remains that a majority of students targeted have indeed been minority. Sources who were interviewed by the Huffington Post, who wished to be remain anonymous, claimed that as early as 2007, there had been bleach-filled balloons dropped on groups of women participating in sorority rush. They also claimed that bleach-bombing incidents are common and may occur \"maybe once or twice a month.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3516048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3516048", "title": "Body swap", "text": "Body swap\n\nA body swap is a storytelling device seen in a variety of science and supernatural fiction, in which two people (or beings) exchange minds and end up in each other's bodies. In media such as television and film, the device is an opportunity for two actors to temporarily play each other's characters, although in some cases, dialogue is dubbed by the original actors.\n\nThere are different types of body swapping. For non-technology swapping, switches can be caused by magic items such as amulets, heartfelt wishes, or just strange quirks of the universe. The switches typically reverse after the subjects have expanded their world views, gained a new appreciation for each other's troubles by literally \"walking in another's shoes\" and/or caused sufficient amounts of farce. Notable examples include the books \"Vice Versa\" (1882) and \"Freaky Friday\" (1972), as well as the film versions of both.\n\nSwitches accomplished by technology, exempting gadgets advanced sufficiently to appear as magic, are the fare of mad scientists. Body-swapping devices are usually characterized by a highly experimental status, straps, helmets with many complicated cables that run to a central system and a tendency to direly malfunction before their effects can be reversed. Those without such means may resort to brain transplants. Such experiments can have overtones of horror.\n\nSince the \"Vice Versa\" novel was published in 1882, body swaps have been a popular theme in various media:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5928", "title": "Clown", "text": "Clown\n\nA clown is a comic performer who employs slapstick or similar types of physical comedy, often in a mime style.\n\nClowns have a varied tradition with significant variations in costume and performance. The most recognisable modern clown character is the \"Auguste\" or \"red clown\" type, with outlandish costumes featuring distinctive makeup, colourful wigs, exaggerated footwear, and colourful clothing. Their entertainment style is generally designed to entertain large audiences. \n\nModern clowns are strongly associated with the tradition of the circus clown, which developed out of earlier comedic roles in theatre or \"Varieté\" shows during the 19th to mid 20th centuries.\n\nMany circus clowns have become well known and are a key circus act in their own right. The first mainstream clown role was portrayed by Joseph Grimaldi (who also created the traditional whiteface make-up design). In the early 1800s, he expanded the role of Clown in the harlequinade that formed part of British pantomimes, notably at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane and the Sadler's Wells and Covent Garden theatres. He became so dominant on the London comic stage that harlequinade Clowns became known as \"Joey\", and both the nickname and Grimaldi's whiteface make-up design were, and still are, used by other types of clowns.\n\nThe comedy that clowns perform is usually in the role of a fool whose everyday actions and tasks become extraordinary—and for whom the ridiculous, for a short while, becomes ordinary. This style of comedy has a long history in many countries and cultures across the world. Some writers have argued that due to the widespread use of such comedy and its long history it is a need that is part of the human condition. \n\nThe \"fear of clowns,\" circus clowns in particular as a psychiatric condition has become known by the term coulrophobia.\n\nThe \"\"clown\" character developed out of the zanni \"rustic fool\" characters of the early modern commedia dell'arte, which were themselves directly based on the \"rustic fool\"\" characters of ancient Greek and Roman theatre.\nRustic buffoon characters in Classical Greek theater were known as \" sklêro-paiktês\" (from \"paizein\" \"to play (like a child)\") or \"deikeliktas\", besides other generic terms for \"rustic\" or \"peasant\". In Roman theater, a term for clown was \"fossor\", literally \"digger; labourer\".\n\nThe English word \"clown\" was first recorded c. 1560 (as \"clowne, cloyne\") in the generic meaning \"rustic, boor, peasant\". \nThe origin of the word is uncertain, perhaps from a Scandinavian word cognate with \"clumsy\".\nIt is in this sense that \"Clown\" is used as the name of fool characters in Shakespeare's \"Othello\" and \"The Winter's Tale\".\nThe sense of \"clown\" as referring to a professional or habitual fool or jester developed soon after 1600, based on Elizabethan \"rustic fool\" characters such as Shakespeare's.\n\nThe harlequinade developed in England in the 17th century, inspired by the commedia dell'arte. It was here that \"Clown\" came into use as the given name of a stock character. Originally a foil for Harlequin's slyness and adroit nature, Clown was a buffoon or bumpkin fool who resembled less a jester than a comical idiot. He was a lower class character dressed in tattered servants' garb.\n\nThe now-classical features of the clown character were developed in the early 1800s by Joseph Grimaldi, who played Clown in Charles Dibdin's 1800 pantomime \"Peter Wilkins: or Harlequin in the Flying World\" at Sadler's Wells Theatre, where Grimaldi built the character up into the central figure of the harlequinade.\n\nThe circus clown developed in the 19th century. The modern circus derives from Philip Astley's London riding school, which opened in 1768. Astley added a clown to his shows to amuse the spectators between equestrian sequences. American comedian George L. Fox became known for his clown role, directly inspired by Grimaldi, in the 1860s.\nTom Belling senior (1843–1900) developed the \"red clown\" or \"Auguste\" (\"Dummer August\") character c. 1870, acting as a foil for the more sophisticated \"white clown\". Belling worked for Circus Renz in Vienna. Belling's costume became the template for the modern stock character of circus or children's clown, based on a lower class or \"hobo\" character, with red nose, white makeup around the eyes and mouth, and oversized clothes and shoes. The clown character as developed by the late 19th century is reflected in Ruggero Leoncavallo's 1892 opera \"Pagliacci\" (\"Clowns\").\nBelling's \"Auguste\" character was further popularized by Nicolai Poliakoff's \"Coco\" in the 1920s to 1930s.\n\nThe English word \"clown\" was borrowed, along with the circus clown act, into many other languages, such as French \"clown\", Russian (and other Slavic languages) кло́ун, Greek κλόουν, Danish/Norwegian \"klovn\", Romanian \"clovn\" etc.\n\nItalian retains \"Pagliaccio\", a Commedia dell'arte zanni character, and derivations of the Italian term are found in other Romance languages, such as French \"Paillasse\", Spanish \"payaso\", Catalan/Galician \"pallasso\", Portuguese \"palhaço\", Greek παλιάτσος, Turkish \"palyaço\", German \"Pajass\" (via French), Yiddish פּאַיאַץ (\"payats\"), Russian пая́ц.\n\nIn the early 20th century, with the disappearance of the rustic simpleton or village idiot character of everyday experience, North American circuses developed characters such as the tramp or hobo. Examples include Marceline Orbes, who performed at the Hippodrome Theater(1905), Charlie Chaplin's \"The Tramp\" (1914), and Emmett Kelly's \"Weary Willie\" based on hobos of the Depression era. Another influential tramp character was played by Otto Griebling during the 1930s to 1950s. Red Skelton's Dodo the Clown in \"The Clown\" (1953), depicts the circus clown as a tragicomic stock character, \"a funny man with a drinking problem\".\n\nIn the United States, Bozo the Clown was an influential \"Auguste\" character since the late 1950s. \"The Bozo Show\" premiered in 1960 and appeared nationally on cable television in 1978. McDonald's derived its mascot clown, Ronald McDonald, from the \"Bozo\" character in the 1960s. Willard Scott, who had played \"Bozo\" during 1959–1962, performed as the mascot in 1963 television spots. The McDonald's trademark application for the character dates to 1967.\n\nBased on the \"Bozo\" template, the US custom of birthday clown, private contractors who offer to perform as clowns at children's parties, developed in the 1960s to 1970s. The strong association of the (\"Bozo\"-derived) clown character with children's entertainment as it has developed since the 1960s also gave rise to \"Clown Care\" or \"hospital clowning\" in children's hospitals by the mid 1980s. Clowns of America International (established 1984) and World Clown Association (established 1987) are associations of semi-professionals and professional performers.\n\nThe shift of the \"Auguste\" or \"red clown\" character from his role as a foil for the white in circus or pantomime shows to a \"Bozo\"-derived standalone character in children's entertainment by the 1980s also gave rise to the evil clown character, the attraction of clowns for small children being based in their fundamentally threatening or frightening nature.\n\nThere are different types of clowns portrayed around the world. They include\n\nThe classical pairing of the White Clown with Auguste in modern tradition\nhas a precedent in the pairing of Pierrot and Harlequin in the Commedia dell'arte.\nOriginally, Harlequin's role was that of a light-hearted, nimble and astute servant, paired with the sterner and melancholic Pierrot.\n\nIn the 18th-century English Harlequinade, Harlequin was now paired with Clown.\nAs developed by Joseph Grimaldi around 1800, Clown became the mischievous and brutish foil for the more sophisticated Harlequin, who became more of a romantic character. The most influential such pair in Victorian England were the Payne Brothers, active during the 1860s and 1870s.\n\nThe \"white clown\", or \"clown blanc\" from the original French, is a sophisticated character, as opposed to the clumsy auguste. They are also distinguished as the \"sad clown\" (blanc) and \"happy clown\" (auguste).\n\nThe Auguste face base makeup color is a variation of pink, red, or tan rather than white. Features are exaggerated in size, and are typically red and black in color. The mouth is thickly outlined with white (called the muzzle) as are the eyes. Appropriate to the character, the auguste can be dressed in either well-fitted garb or in a costume that does not fit — either oversize or too small is appropriate. Bold colors, large prints or patterns, and suspenders often characterize Auguste costumes.\n\nThe auguste character-type is often an anarchist, a joker, or a fool. He is clever and has much lower status than the whiteface. Classically the whiteface character instructs the auguste character to perform his bidding. The auguste has a hard time performing a given task, which leads to funny situations. Sometimes the auguste plays the role of an anarchist and purposefully has trouble following the whiteface's directions. Sometimes the auguste is confused or is foolish and makes errors less deliberately.\n\nThe \"contra-auguste\" plays the role of the mediator between the white clown and the auguste character. He has a lower status than the white clown but a higher status than the auguste. He aspires to be more like the white clown and often mimics everything the white clown does to try to gain approval. If there is a contra-auguste character, he often is instructed by the whiteface to correct the auguste when he is doing something wrong.\n\nThere are two major types of clowns with \"whiteface\" makeup:\nThe classic \"white clown\" is derived from the Pierrot character. His makeup is white, usually with facial features such as eyebrows emphasized in black. He is the more intelligent and sophisticated clown, contrasting with the rude or grotesque \"Auguste\" types. Francesco Caroli and Glenn \"Frosty\" Little are examples of this type. The second type of whiteface is the buffoonish clown of the \"Bozo\" type, known as \"Comedy\" or \"Grotesque Whiteface\". This type has grotesquely emphasized features, especially a red nose and red mouth, often with partial (mostly red) hair. \nIn the comedic partnership of Abbott and Costello, Bud Abbot would have been the classic whiteface and Lou Costello the comedy whiteface or Auguste.\n\nTraditionally, the whiteface clown uses \"clown white\" makeup to cover the entire face and neck, leaving none of the underlying natural skin visible. In the European whiteface makeup, the ears are painted red.\n\nWhiteface makeup was originally designed by Joseph Grimaldi in 1801. He began by painting a white base over his face, neck and chest before adding red triangles on the cheeks, thick eyebrows and large red lips set in a mischievous grin. Grimaldi's design is used by many modern clowns. According to Grimaldi's biographer Andrew McConnell Stott, it was one of the most important theatrical designs of the 1800s.\n\nAmerica's first great whiteface clown was stage star George \"G.L.\" Fox. Following English Joseph Grimaldi, Fox popularised the Humpty Dumpty stories throughout the land in the first half of the 19th century in America.\n\nThe character clown adopts an eccentric character of some type, such as a butcher, a baker, a policeman, a housewife or hobo. Prime examples of this type of clown are the circus tramps Otto Griebling and Emmett Kelly. Red Skelton, Harold Lloyd, Buster Keaton, Charlie Chaplin and Sacha Baron Cohen would all fit the definition of a character clown.\n\nThe character clown makeup is a comic slant on the standard human face. Their makeup starts with a flesh tone base and may make use of anything from glasses, mustaches and beards to freckles, warts, big ears or strange haircuts.\n\nThe most prevalent character clown in the American circus is the \"hobo\", \"tramp\" or \"bum\" clown. There are subtle differences in the American character clown types. The primary differences among these clown types is attitude. According to American circus expert Hovey Burgess, they are :\n\nClowns International claims to be the oldest clown society in the world. It was set up in 1946. Apart from being a membership organisation, Clowns International has set up a museum of clown memorabilia and a register of clown make-up. The latter also has a collection of full eggshells decorated as replicas of the specific clown's head.\n\nThe World Clown Association (WCA) is a worldwide organization for clowns, jugglers, magicians, and face painters. It holds an annual convention, mainly in the United States.\n\nClowns of America International, Inc. (COAI) is a Minnesota-based nonprofit clown arts membership organization which aims \"to share, educate, and act as a gathering place for serious minded amateurs, semiprofessionals, and professional clowns\".\n\nIn the circus, a clown might perform other circus roles or skills. Clowns may perform such skills as tightrope, juggling, unicycling, Master of Ceremonies, or ride an animal. Clowns may also \"sit in\" with the orchestra. Other circus performers may also temporarily stand in for a clown and perform their skills in clown costume.\n\nFrameworks are the general outline of an act that clowns use to help them build out an act. Frameworks can be loose, including only a general beginning and ending to the act, leaving it up to the clown's creativity to fill in the rest, or at the other extreme a fully developed script that allows very little room for creativity.\n\nShows are the overall production that a clown is a part of, it may or may not include elements other than clowning, such as in a circus show. In a circus context, clown shows are typically made up of some combination of Entrées, Side dishes, Clown Stops, Track Gags, Gags and bits.\n\n\n\n\"Clown Stops\" or \"interludes\" are the brief appearances of clowns in a circus while the props and rigging are changed. These are typically made up of a few \"gags\" or several \"bits\". Clown stops will always have a beginning, a middle, and an end to them, invariably culminating in a blow-off. These are also called \"reprises\" or \"run-ins\" by many, and in today's circus they are an art form in themselves. Originally they were bits of \"business\" usually parodying the act that had preceded it. If for instance there had been a tightrope walker the reprise would involve two chairs with a piece of rope between and the clown trying to imitate the \"artiste\" by trying to walk between them, with the resulting falls and cascades bringing laughter from the audience. Today, interludes are far more complex, and in many modern shows the clowning is a thread that links the whole show together.\n\nAmong the more well-known clown stunts are: squirting flower; the \"too-many-clowns-coming-out-of-a-tiny-car\" stunt; doing just about anything with a rubber chicken, tripping over one's own feet (or an air pocket or imaginary blemish in the floor), or riding any number of ridiculous vehicles or \"clown bikes\". Individual prop stunts are generally considered individual bits.\n\nIn anthropology, the term \"clown\" has been extended to comparable jester or fool characters in non-Western cultures. A society in which such \"clowns\" have an important position are termed \"clown societies\", and a \"clown\" character involved in a religious or ritual capacity is known as a \"ritual clown\".\n\nThe most ancient \"clowns\" have been found in the Fifth dynasty of Egypt, around 2400 BC. Unlike court jesters, clowns have traditionally served a socio-religious and psychological role, and traditionally the roles of priest and clown have been held by the same persons.\nPeter Berger writes that \"It seems plausible that folly and fools, like religion and magic, meet some deeply rooted needs in human society\". For this reason, clowning is often considered an important part of training as a physical performance discipline, partly because tricky subject matter can be dealt with, but also because it requires a high level of risk and play in the performer.\n\nIn Native American mythology, the Trickster channels the spirit of the Coyote and becomes a sacred Clown character. A Heyoka is an individual in Native cultures who lives outside the constraints of normal cultural roles. The Heyoka plays the role of a backwards clown, doing everything in reverse. The Heyoka role is sometimes best filled by a Winkte.\n\nMany native tribes have a history of clowning.\nThe Canadian Clowning method developed by Richard Pochinko and furthered by his former apprentice, Sue Morrison, combines European and Native American clowning techniques.\n\nIn this tradition, masks are made of clay while the creator's eyes are closed. A mask is made for each direction of the medicine wheel. During this process, the clown creates a personal mythology that explores their personal experiences.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "16663203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16663203", "title": "Comedy (drama)", "text": "Comedy (drama)\n\nA comedy is entertainment consisting of jokes intended to make an audience laugh. For ancient Greeks and Romans a comedy was a stage-play with a happy ending. In the Middle Ages, the term expanded to include narrative poems with happy endings and a lighter tone. In this sense Dante used the term in the title of his poem, the \"Divine Comedy\" (Italian: \"Divina Commedia\").\n\nThe phenomena connected with laughter and that which provokes it has been carefully investigated by psychologists and agreed upon the predominating characteristics are incongruity or contrast in the object, and shock or emotional seizure on the part of the subject. It has also been held that the feeling of superiority is an essential factor: thus Thomas Hobbes speaks of laughter as a \"sudden glory.\" Modern investigators have paid much attention to the origin both of laughter and of smiling, as well as the development of the \"play instinct\" and its emotional expression.\n\nMuch comedy contains variations on the elements of surprise, incongruity, conflict, repetitiveness, and the effect of opposite expectations, but there are many recognized genres of comedy. Satire and political satire use ironic comedy used to portray persons or social institutions as ridiculous or corrupt, thus alienating their audience from the object of humor.\n\nParody borrows the form of some popular genre, artwork, or text but uses certain ironic changes to critique that form from within (though not necessarily in a condemning way). Screwball comedy derives its humor largely from bizarre, surprising (and improbable) situations or characters. Black comedy is defined by dark humor that makes light of so-called dark or evil elements in human nature. Similarly scatological humor, sexual humor, and race humor create comedy by violating social conventions or taboos in comedic ways.\n\nA comedy of manners typically takes as its subject a particular part of society (usually upper class society) and uses humor to parody or satirize the behavior and mannerisms of its members. Romantic comedy is a popular genre that depicts burgeoning romance in humorous terms, and focuses on the foibles of those who are falling in love.\n\nThe word \"comedy\" is derived from the Classical Greek κωμῳδία, which is a compound either of \"κῶμος\" (revel) or \"κώμη\" (village) and \"ᾠδή\" (singing): it is possible that \"κῶμος\" itself is derived from \"κώμη\", and originally meant a village revel. The adjective \"comic\" (Greek κωμικός), which strictly means that which relates to comedy is, in modern usage, generally confined to the sense of \"laughter-provoking\". The word came into modern usage through the Latin \"comoedia \"and Italian \"commedia\" and has, over time, passed through various shades of meaning.\n\nIn ancient Greece, comedy seems to have originated in songs or recitations apropos of fertility festivals or gatherings, or also in making fun at other people or stereotypes. In the \"Poetics\", Aristotle states that comedy originated in phallic rituals and festivals of mirth. It is basically an imitation of 'the ridiculous, which is a species of the ugly.' However, Aristotle taught that comedy is a good thing. It brings forth happiness, which for Aristotle is the ideal state, the final goal in any activity. He does believe that we humans feel pleasure oftentimes by doing the wrong thing, but he does not necessarily believe that comedy and humor is the wrong thing. It is also not true for Aristotle that a comedy must involve sexual humor to qualify as a comedy. A comedy is about the fortunate arise of a sympathetic character. A happy ending is all that is required in his opinion. \n\nOn the contrary, the Greek Philosopher Plato taught that comedy is a destruction to the self. He believed it produces an emotion that overrides rational self-control and learning. In The Republic (Plato), he says that the Guardians of the state should avoid laughter, \"for ordinarily when one abandons himself to violent laughter, his condition provokes a violent reaction.\" Plato says comedy should be tightly controlled if one wants to achieve the ideal state.\n\nNorthrop Frye described the comic genre as a drama that pits two societies against each other in an amusing agon or conflict. He depicted these two opposing sides as a \"Society of Youth\" and a \"Society of the Old\", \"The Anatomy of Criticism\". 1957, but this dichotomy is seldom described as an entirely satisfactory explanation. A later view characterizes the essential agon of comedy as a struggle between a powerless youth and the societal conventions that pose obstacles to his hopes; in this sense, the youth is understood to be constrained by his lack of social authority, and is left with little choice but to take recourse to ruses which engender very dramatic.\n\n\nfrom what has been discussed\n\n"}
{"id": "32967110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32967110", "title": "Corpse Party", "text": "Corpse Party\n\nThe PSP game was followed by a sequel, \"Corpse Party: Book of Shadows\", which was released for the PSP on September 1, 2011 in Japan, and on January 15, 2013 in North America. A spin-off game, \"Corpse Party: Hysteric Birthday 2U\", was released for the PSP in Japan on August 2, 2012 and will be released for Windows in the winter of 2018. A direct sequel of \"Corpse Party: Book of Shadows\", called \"Corpse Party: Blood Drive\", was released in Japan on July 24, 2014 on PlayStation Vita, and was released in North America by XSeed Games on October 13, 2015, and on October 20, 2015 in Europe.\n\nAnother sequel titled \"Corpse Party 2: Dead Patient\" was created for the PC by GrindHouse, a dōjin circle founded by members affiliated with Team GrisGris. It is released episodically, with the first chapter released on May 29, 2013.\n\nThe series has spawned several manga works, an anime OVA series, drama CDs, theme park attractions, and two live action films.\n\n\"Corpse Party\" is a linear horror monster adventure game with some role-playing elements. It is played in a third-person view, top-down perspective. Players are tasked with exploring the haunted school grounds for a means of escape. To fulfill this task, characters must interact with the environment and surroundings such as picking up objects, talking to other characters, and inspecting documents while avoiding enemy-like entities.\n\nThe game's story is split into five chapters, each focusing on different characters and featuring multiple endings that are achieved based on the player's in-game decisions: a \"True Ending\" required for the game's progression; and several \"Wrong Endings\" that are unlocked when the player performs events irrelevant to the main storyline. Characters also possess hit points (HP), which measure how much damage they can take before dying, in some instances leading to a wrong ending. As players progress through the game, they will unlock ten optional \"Extra Chapters\", vignettes that focus on the game's side characters and expand the storyline.\n\nThe plot of the \"Corpse Party\" series concerns a group of Japanese high school students who, after celebrating their school's culture festival, are telling ghost stories when a sudden earthquake transports them to a dilapidated schoolhouse in an alternative dimension that is haunted by the ghosts of people who have been trapped there. The main playable character is Satoshi Mochida, a kindhearted high school student who is teased by his classmates for his cowardly nature. Three of the other characters are students from Satoshi's class: Naomi Nakashima, Satoshi's childhood friend; Yoshiki Kishinuma, an intimidating yet good-natured student; and Ayumi Shinozaki, the class representative. Rounding out the group is Yuka Mochida, Satoshi's younger sister. The game's antagonist is the red ghost of a teenage girl who seeks vengeance for her wrongful death.\n\n\"Blood Covered\", released in 2008, is an enhanced remake and port of the 1996 \"Corpse Party\". It includes more characters, larger maps, updated graphics, and professional voice actors. It was later followed by another enhanced remake, \"Blood Covered: Repeated Fear\", which was released internationally as \"Corpse Party\".\n\nThe remake thoroughly expands the plot and setting of the original game. Here, the haunted schoolhouse is named , a fictional Fujisawa elementary school that was torn down following the murders and disappearances of several of its staff and students. In modern-day Japan, the main characters' high school, , has been built over the elementary school site. The students are transported to Heavenly Host after performing a charm called , which would supposedly allow them to remain friends for eternity.\n\nIn addition to the five protagonists of the original game, \"Blood Covered\" introduces four characters to the playable cast: Seiko Shinohara, Naomi's best friend; Mayu Suzumoto, a popular student due to transfer out of Kisaragi; Sakutaro Morishige, Mayu's best friend; and Yui Shishido, the class's homeroom teacher. \"Blood Covered\" also includes several characters from other schools who are also trapped inside Heavenly Host and affect the story. Two notable characters are Naho Saenoki, a selfish but helpful paranormalist from who discovered the Sachiko Ever After charm and came to investigate Heavenly Host; and Yuuya Kizami, a sadistic student from who accompanies Yuka as she is separated from her brother. The red ghost is re-envisioned as a young child named Sachiko Shinozaki who kills the students of Heavenly Hosts in anger over her and her mother's murder.\n\nA sequel to \"Blood Covered\", \"Book of Shadows\" features a series of nonlinear chapters that add new twists and backgrounds for various characters and details important to the storyline. The game mostly takes place during the same time the first game did, continuing from one of the \"wrong ends\" in \"Corpse Party\", where Sachiko sends the Kisaragi Academy students back in time. For this purpose, she erases their memories except for Satoshi's. He tries in a desperate attempt to dissuade his classmates from performing the charm, but he joins them, not wanting to let them go alone, sending them on alternative course of actions and encountering several supporting victims in Heavenly Host.\n\nThe game's prologue, \"Blood Drive\", serves as the set up to the eponymous sequel. Two weeks after escaping Heavenly Host, Ayumi and Naomi go to investigate the Shinozaki estate, Sachiko's birthplace, believing there is hope in reviving their dead friends since Naho and Kou Kibiki's existences were not erased like the other victims. At the estate, Ayumi discovers that she is of the same lineage as Sachiko. Hearing an eerie voice, Ayumi uncovers a magical tome known as the Book of Shadows. Ayumi and Naomi perform a resurrection spell for Mayu, but fail. As compensation for using black magic, the book unleashes its rage upon Ayumi until her older sister Hinoe Shinozaki rushes in and saves Ayumi, at the cost of her own life.\n\nOn the day of Sachiko's birth and death, the curse on her weakens and she gets 24 hours to celebrate her birthday as someone closer to the girl she was before her death. She uses the timeloops as established in \"Corpse Party: Book of Shadows\" to force all survivors at that point to participate in activities she has set up. Given it's either that or die horribly again, something all are aware that they've already experienced but can't remember in full, they go along with her demands. The game features almost all characters from the previous games and some new ones. While a pseudo-horror spin-off at best, it is part of the storyline, setting up a few details to prepare for \"Corpse Party: Blood Drive\".\n\nAs with \"Corpse Party: Book of Shadows\", there is only one extra chapter. This extra chapter takes place during the previous game and is more conventional horror. It tells of Yoshiki's and Ayumi's encounter with four students from Sugatani Senior High School, notably Azusa Takai.\n\n\"Corpse Party: Blood Drive\" is the direct sequel to \"Corpse Party: Book of Shadows\", and is the first game featuring settings and characters rendered in 3D. The game was released for the PlayStation Vita in Japan in July 2014 by 5pb. The characters are depicted in 3D chibi style, however traditional CG artwork appears during cutscenes, illustrated by Sakuya Kamishiro.\n\nContinuing from the prologue, Naomi manages to save Ayumi and takes her to a hospital. The Shinozaki estate and tome subsequently vanish without a trace. Ayumi had been severely ill for her misuse of the Book of Shadows' black magic. In the hospital, a woman claiming to be a spiritual associate of Hinoe's visits Ayumi. This woman belongs to the Wiccan Institute, an organization that worships spirits. She tells her Hinoe's last wish, which is to regain the Book of Shadows or the world will fall into the abyss. This is partially a lie, as the woman is under threat of other organizations to get Ayumi to find the book, which they wish to use for their own gain.\n\nAfter being discharged from the hospital two months later, Ayumi returns to Kisaragi Academy where Satoshi and friends give her a warm welcome. However, the absence of their dead friends is a constant reminder of their inevitable reality. A new teacher's assistant, Kuon Niwa, supervises their homeroom. Later, on her way home, a black hooded boy approaches Ayumi and tells her, \"If you reclaim the Book of Shadows and use it at Heavenly Host, those who have died there will be revived.\" Ayumi pledges that she will once more take back the Book of Shadows. The trail leads into the previous residence of Makina Shinozaki. To make matters worse, Heavenly Host's curse is expanded by the \"new Sachiko\", later named Sachi.\n\nIn January 2017, the game was ported to Android and iOS. The port contained various improvements to the balance of the game and improved loading times. In addition to that, the game also supports a cloud saving feature.\n\nDummy head mics were utilized for \"Blood Covered\", \"Book of Shadows\", and \"Blood Drive\" to provide perceived three dimensional sound.\n\nA spin-off manga that takes place during the events of \"Corpse Party\". With their school, , shutting down for good, the students of a small town were heading for different directions in life, not until they decide to perform the \"Sachiko Ever After\" charm swallowing the entire class to Heavenly Host Elementary, along with a mysterious girl's spirit. In order to get out, they must track and get rid of the spirit.\n\nThe game takes place five years after the events of \"Corpse Party\" Heavenly Host Arc, implied to be the consequences of the Book of Shadows' powers starting to bring about the end of the world by allowing the spirit realm and real world to start to converge together. The setting takes place at fallen into a dark abyss. Patient records and clinical charts are scattered all over the hospital, with zombies and a bizarre SWAT team roaming through the hallways. An amnesiac girl, Ayame Itou, wakes up on an operating table and encounters the dark happenings around her.\n\nThe opening for \"Corpse Party Blood Covered: ...Repeated Fear\" is \"Shangri-La\" by Asami Imai, and the ending for \"Blood Covered\" is \"Confutatis no Inori\" by Artery Vein (Imai & Eri Kitamura). An insert song, \"Yami ni Nureta Catastrophe\", also sung by Artery Vein, plays at the end of the game.\n\nThe opening theme for \"Corpse Party: Book of Shadows\" is \"Hana no Saku Basho\" by Imai, and the ending is \"Pandora no Yoru\", by Artery Vein.\n\nThe opening theme for \"Corpse Party: Sweet Sachiko's Hysteric Birthday Bash\" is called \"Limited Love\" by Imai, and the ending theme is \"Tsukigen\" by ARTERY VEIN. An insert song, \"Hanabi\", sung by Yumi Hara, plays at the final scene where Sachiko's birthday has ended and she seemed to have only a brief memory of it, before screaming in agony and reverting to her malicious self.\n\nIn \"Corpse Party: Blood Drive\", there are two openings; the first one being \"In the Rain\", by Hara, and the second being \"Keshin\" by Imai, which plays at Chapter 7 after Ayumi's retrieval of the Book of Shadows. The ending is \"Translucent Days\" by ARTERY VEIN.\n\nAlthough the series has received mixed to positive reviews as a whole, it is regarded as a \"cult favorite\" in Japan with a dedicated fan following. \"Famitsu\" gave \"Corpse Party: Blood Drive\" a score of 29/40.\n\nThe video game has been adapted into four manga series: \"Corpse Party: Blood Covered\", published by Square Enix; \"Corpse Party: Musume\" and \"Corpse Party: Book of Shadows\", published by Media Factory; and \"Corpse Party: Another Child\", published by Mag Garden. One original video animation (OVA), \"Corpse Party: Missing Footage\", was released on August 2, 2012. Another OVA consisting of four episodes titled \"\", was released on July 24, 2013, and later licensed by Section23 Films.\nA movie adaptation was also made, which was released on August 1, 2015, while a film adaptation of \"Corpse Party: Book of Shadows\" was released on June 30, 2016.\n\nOn June 12, 2015, the Chinese Ministry of Culture listed \"Corpse Party\" among 38 anime and manga titles banned in China.\n\n"}
{"id": "3451484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3451484", "title": "Dialogue in writing", "text": "Dialogue in writing\n\nDialogue, in fiction, is a verbal exchange between two or more characters. If there is only \"one\" character talking aloud, it is a monologue.\n\n\"\"This breakfast is making me sick,\" George said.\"\n\nThe \"George said\" is the identifier. \"Said\" is the verb most writers use because reader familiarity with \"said\" prevents it from drawing attention to itself. Although other verbs such as \"ask\", \"shout\", or \"reply\" are acceptable, some identifiers get in the reader's way. For example:\n\n\"\"Hello,\" he croaked nervously, \"my name's Horace.\"<br>\n\"What's yours?\" he asked with as much aplomb as he could muster.\"\nanother example is:\n\"My name is Peg, what's yours?\" I asked.\n\"My name is William, but my friends call me Will,\" said Will.\n\nStephen King, in his book \"\", expresses his belief that \"said\" is the best identifier to use. King recommends reading a novel by Larry McMurtry, who he claims has mastered the art of well-written dialogue.\n\nSubstitutes are known as \"said-bookisms\". For example, in the sentence \"\"What do you mean?\" he smiled.\", the word \"smiled\" is a said-bookism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "438454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=438454", "title": "Double Dare (Nickelodeon game show)", "text": "Double Dare (Nickelodeon game show)\n\nDouble Dare is an American television game show on which two teams compete to win cash and prizes by answering trivia questions and completing messy stunts known as physical challenges. It originally ran from 1986 to 1993. A revival ran in 2000, and a new revival began on June 25, 2018.\n\nHosted by Marc Summers, the program originally premiered on Nickelodeon on October 6, 1986, as its first game show. The series saw many adjustments in scheduling and titling throughout its run. Almost immediately after its debut, \"Double Dare\" had more than tripled viewership for Nickelodeon’s afternoon lineup, becoming the most-watched original daily program on cable television. The program was a major success for Nickelodeon, helping to establish the network as a major player in cable television, and to revitalize the genre of game shows for children. \"Double Dare\" remains Nickelodeon's longest-running game show. In January 2001, \"TV Guide\" ranked the show number 29 on its list of 50 Greatest Game Shows.\n\nA continuation for syndication premiered on February 22, 1988, later revamped as \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" on January 22, 1989. The program also had a short run on Fox as \"Family Double Dare\", airing from April 3 to July 23, 1988. Nickelodeon continued \"Family Double Dare\", premiering a new version on October 6, 1990. The original series ended on February 6, 1993. The series was revived, hosted by Jason Harris, and titled \"Double Dare 2000\"; this aired from January 22 to November 10, 2000. A second revival of the series, hosted by Liza Koshy and featuring Marc Summers, premiered on June 25, 2018.\n\nEach team on the original \"Double Dare\" and \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" consisted of two children, while teams on \"Family Double Dare\" and \"Double Dare 2000\" included two adults and two children. Originally, both teams wore red uniforms, but after \"Double Dare\" entered syndication in 1988, one team wore blue uniforms while the other wore red.\n\nEach round begins with a toss-up physical challenge in which both teams compete, with the winning team receiving both initial control of the round, and money for their score. After the toss-up, the host begins asking trivia questions of the team in control. Each correct answer earns a monetary award, and allows the team to maintain control, while an incorrect answer, or failure to respond within approximately ten seconds turns control over to the opponents. However, the team can dare their opponents to answer the question, doubling its value; in response, the opponents can double dare for quadruple the original value. When the team in control is challenged to a double dare, they have to either answer or compete in a physical challenge. An incorrect answer, or not responding within approximately five seconds on a dare or double dare, awards both control and the appropriate amount of money to the team that issues it. The second round plays the same as the first, with question values doubled. On the original \"Double Dare\" and \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\", a question was initially worth $10. On \"Family Double Dare\" and \"Double Dare 2000\", a question was initially worth $25. On the 2018 \"Double Dare\", a question is initially worth $50.\n\nAfter the toss-up at the start of the first round, the host explains the rules as follows:\n\nPhysical challenges are often messy stunts that a team has to perform in a specified time, usually 20 or 30 seconds, although occasionally 10 or 15 seconds. All physical challenges on \"Double Dare 2000\" were 30 seconds in length, unless a time reduction was in play due to the Triple Dare Challenge. The team wins money and retained control for completing the stunt. Otherwise, the money and control pass to their opponents.\n\nMany challenges have involved filling a container past a line with one of a variety of substances including water, uncooked rice, green slime, whipped cream, and milk. Others involve catching a specific number of items before time runs out. For example, during \"Pies in the Pants,\" a contestant has to catch a set number of pies in a pair of oversized clown pants within the specified time limit, while their teammate launches the pies from a foot-operated catapult at the opposite end of the stage.\n\nOn the original \"Double Dare\" and \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\", both contestants on a team competed in all physical challenges. For the 1988 version of \"Family Double Dare\", all four members of a team competed in the challenges. On the 1990–93 version of \"Family Double Dare\" and on \"Double Dare 2000\", two members of a team competed in round one, and all four members competed in round two. All members of a team competed in physical challenges on the 2018 \"Double Dare\".\n\n\"Double Dare 2000\" introduced the Triple Dare Challenge. Available only in round two, this allowed a team to make their physical challenge more difficult, increasing its value by $100, and putting a bonus prize at stake. Difficulties included reducing the time limit, adding an extra item to the stunt, or increasing the overall difficulty of the stunt. The actual modifier was not revealed unless the team decided to accept the challenge. If the team did not complete the challenge successfully, the money, prize, and control went to their opponents.\n\nThe team with the highest score at the end of round two goes on to the bonus round, the obstacle course (renamed the Slopstacle Course for \"Double Dare 2000\"). From the original \"Double Dare\" through \"Double Dare 2000\" both teams keep all money earned, regardless of the outcome. Only the winning team on the 2018 version gets to keep their money. \n\nThe course consists of eight obstacles which have to be completed within 60 seconds. Each obstacle has an orange flag either at its end or hidden within it. One team member runs the first obstacle, then passes its flag to a partner, who then moves on to the next obstacle. The team continues to alternate in this manner until they have completed the course or until time expires. For safety reasons, team members are given helmets, elbow pads, and knee pads to wear while running the course.\n\nMany obstacles have appeared in the course rotation, often based on body parts, food, and enlarged items found in daily life. Popular elements of the obstacle course have included The One-Ton Human Hamster Wheel, an oversized hamster wheel; Pick It, a giant human nose with a flag hidden inside; The Sundae Slide, a chocolate-covered ramp leading to a playground slide with ice cream at the bottom; and Gum Drop, which required contestants to leap into a giant gumball machine filled with plastic balls and slide out through the dispensing hatch at the bottom.\n\nThe team wins a prize for each obstacle completed, escalating in value up to a grand prize for completing the entire course. Two-person teams split the cash earnings, and both contestants receive the same prize for each obstacle. Prizes have included televisions, concert tickets, encyclopedias, electronics, gift certificates, non-motorized modes of transportation and, on the Fox \"Family Double Dare\", cash. On the original and \"Super Sloppy\" versions, the grand prize was usually a vacation or an experience at Space Camp. All eight prizes were usually worth a total of between $3,000 and $4,000, with some episodes featuring a prize package nearing $10,000. On the Fox \"Family Double Dare\", as well as the first season of the Nickelodeon run, the grand prize was a vehicle, making all eight prizes worth between $15,000 and $25,000. Once again, the grand prize was typically a vacation for the second season of Nickelodeon's \"Family Double Dare\", \"Double Dare 2000\" and the 2018 \"Double Dare\", with grand prize packages on the 2018 version having a value of more than $6,000.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, Nickelodeon was approached by production and consulting groups with the idea of doing a game show for children, a first for the network. Nickelodeon conducted focus groups and concluded that children enjoyed watching game shows with adults, but they did not have a game show targeted at their demographic. Dee LaDuke, Robert Mittenthal, Michael Klinghoffer, and Geoffrey Darby worked to develop a new format, basing it on a combination of trivia, truth or dare, and the board game Mouse Trap. The pilot presentation was recorded in May 1986, hosted by Darby. \"Double Dare\" was green-lighted and announced in June 1986.\n\nInitial candidates to host the program included Soupy Sales, host of children's variety shows in the 1950s and 1960s, and comedian Dana Carvey. After Nickelodeon determined Sales to be too old for the role, and Carvey was offered a chance to audition for \"Saturday Night Live\", the search for a host continued. Producers viewed over 1,000 applicants from New York or Los Angeles. First attending a tryout in lieu of a friend, and later passing multiple auditions, television warm-up comedian Marc Summers was one of two finalists advancing to a final audition. Each hosted a mock game for Nickelodeon to make an ultimate decision on who would host \"Double Dare\". The producers felt the way Summers ended the game by leading into a commercial break was more professional and he was hired for the position in the first week of September 1986. Because focus groups showed that the audience thought he was more than 10 years younger than he actually was, Summers, then 34 years old, was obligated by Nickelodeon for years to not mention his age publicly.\n\nIn need of an announcer, \"Double Dare\" producers were made aware of Philadelphia-area radio host John Harvey, known on-air as Harvey, whose \"Harvey in the Morning\" program on WIOQ had been canceled months earlier. He accepted the offer to be announcer of the program. Stage assistants also appeared on-camera on \"Double Dare\", initially only assisting in setting up physical challenges and obstacles, but expanding the role as the series continued to sometimes interacting with Summers, demonstrating challenges, and modeling prizes. Robin Marrella and Dave Shikiar were the two permanent stage assistants when the program began.\n\nJames Fenhagen and Byron Taylor created the original stage design for \"Double Dare.\" The design for the original series' set was inspired by a 1980s Italian postmodern design and architecture group known as the Memphis Group. Glass brick walls and yellow and pink, often in a checkerboard pattern, were prominent aspects of the set design. Highlighted by blue and yellow tile-style floors, Geoffrey Darby gave the direction for the set to look like a \"natatorium\" (swimming pool), while Robert Mittenthal feels its inspiration is derived from a bathroom. All the original \"Double Dare\" music was composed by Edd Kalehoff.\n\nProduction originated at the studios of PBS affiliate WHYY-TV in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. WHYY offered Nickelodeon their newly opened production wing to use, and Nickelodeon felt Philadelphia was a better location to initially produce \"Double Dare\" because of its lower production costs, instead of cities like New York or Los Angeles where national television production is more common. The 65-episode first season was recorded in a 23-day period beginning September 18, 1986. \"Double Dare\" premiered on Nickelodeon on October 6, 1986. New episodes aired weekdays at 5:30p.m. ET during the original series' run on Nickelodeon. After the success of the first 65 episodes, a second 65-episode season was ordered.\nA weekend edition titled \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" began taping in July 1987 and premiered August 2, 1987, with an initial 26-episode run. \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" featured gameplay identical to the original format; however, physical challenges and obstacles were designed to make a bigger mess. Viewers were encouraged to send in a postcard with their contact information and could win a prize if their card was selected, and a team performing a physical challenge completed the stunt successfully. Episodes of \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" were taped at Unitel Studio in New York City before production moved back to WHYY-TV.\n\nIn July 1987, pilots hosted by Bruce Jenner were produced by Viacom for two possible versions of \"Double Dare\" with adult players: one pairing celebrities with contestants, and another with married couples. Neither concept advanced to a full series.\n\nBy November 1987, Fox announced they had partnered with Viacom to purchase the distribution rights for new episodes of the program in syndication. New episodes of \"Double Dare\" aired on independent stations and Fox affiliates beginning on February 22, 1988. There were 130 first-run syndication episodes in 1988.\n\nA 13-episode Saturday night edition titled \"Family Double Dare\" aired on Fox from April 3 to July 23, 1988. Teams on this version consisted of four family members, most often a mother, father, and two children. The budget was increased, and the prize total featured during the obstacle course was larger than that featured on the Nickelodeon series. A further 13 episodes of \"Family Double Dare\" were then ordered, but Fox canceled the series shortly before production was to begin because of \"creative differences.\"\n\nOn January 5, 1989, production began on a new version of \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" from Philadelphia at WHYY-TV, continuing in syndication. The series premiered on January 22, 1989. The second half of the series was produced at Universal Studios in Orlando, Florida, with production beginning in April 1989. This version of the show recorded in larger studios with a larger set allowed for a lower level devoted to physical challenges and obstacles with a bigger size and, typically, bigger messes. Many episodes in this part of the series featured unique and offbeat themes that questions, challenges, and sometimes wardrobe would be patterned after. Themes included a Salute to Baseball, Backwards Day, Stupid Hat Day, a Salute to Breakfast, and two Super-Slop-a-Mania episodes featuring wrestlers and personalities from the World Wrestling Federation. Another special episode saw Summers and Harvey each team with a contestant to compete against each other, with Jim J. Bullock taking over hosting duties. By the end of \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\", the program was syndicated to 154 stations. The series left syndication on September 8, 1989.\n\n\"Family Double Dare\" returned to Nickelodeon on August 13, 1990, first airing repeats of the Fox version. A \"Salute to Double Dare\" special aired September 2, 1990, with Summers, Harvey, and Marrella highlighting moments from \"Double Dare\", discussing its popularity, and previewing the upcoming \"Family Double Dare\". Nickelodeon launched its own version of \"Family Double Dare\" on weekends beginning October 6, 1990. Nickelodeon produced the series at the newly-opened Nickelodeon Studios on the Universal Studios Florida grounds in Orlando. Production began in July 1990 and ended on July 24, 1992, with 80 episodes taped over two seasons. Between the production cycles of \"Family Double Dare\", two special episodes of \"Double Dare\" were recorded in January 1992: \"NBA All-Star Double Dare\" with National Basketball Association alumni and \"Super Special Double Dare\" with members of the casts of \"Clarissa Explains It All\" and \"Welcome Freshmen\".\n\nJamie Bojanowski and Chris Miles joined Robin Marrella as stage assistants for \"Family Double Dare\", replacing Dave Shikiar who left the series between the ending of \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" in 1989 and the beginning of \"Family Double Dare\" in 1990 to pursue production opportunities on other programs like \"The Home Show\" and \"Wild & Crazy Kids\". In order to spend time with his wife and his newborn son Caleb, Harvey did not announce the last season of \"Family Double Dare\" in 1992. He was replaced as announcer by Doc Holliday, an Orlando-area radio host on WXXL's \"Doc & Johnny in the Morning\". Harvey made a cameo appearance on the final episode of the season and the series.\n\n\"Family Double Dare\" concluded on February 6, 1993, with a one-hour Tournament of Champions episode. The episode featured a \"brains vs. brawn\" mini-tournament where the two families from the final season who answered the most questions correctly played against each other, and the two families from the final season with the fastest obstacle course times played against each other. The winners of those games competed to determine the 1993 \"Family Double Dare\" champions. Physical challenges from \"Double Dare\" appeared on \"Nickelodeon All-Star Challenge\", a three-part special combining elements from many of Nickelodeon's game shows, airing on October 3, 1994.\n\nRepeats of the original \"Double Dare\" continued to air on Nickelodeon until March 15, 1991, and returned to Nickelodeon's schedule again from June 12 to September 30, 1994. Repeats of \"Family Double Dare\" remained on the Nickelodeon schedule until January 31, 1999. At this time, development began for the revival that would become \"Double Dare 2000\".\n\n\"Double Dare\" has spawned versions in foreign countries throughout the world, including: Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, The Netherlands, Germany, India, and Brazil. Six episodes of the Australian version recorded for American consumption, one featuring an American team competing against an Australian team, aired on Nickelodeon during a special marathon on September 3, 1990. Repeats of all versions of \"Double Dare\" aired in various cycles on Nickelodeon Games and Sports for Kids from the network's inception in 1999 until its closure in 2009. Since 2011, \"Double Dare\" has been incorporated into the branding of TeenNick's classic Nickelodeon blocks The '90s Are All That, and its successor, NickSplat (previously known as The Splat). Episodes of \"Double Dare\" have occasionally aired in these blocks.\n\nOn December 20, 1999, Nickelodeon announced a revival of the original \"Double Dare\" show, titled \"Double Dare 2000\". Production began on January 5, 2000, and the show broadcast its first episode later that same month on January 22, 2000, now hosted by Jason Harris with Tiffany Phillips as announcer. Additional episodes were taped in July of the same year. Eileen Braun, who worked on the original \"Double Dare\" as a production assistant and a production coordinator, was the executive producer for \"Double Dare 2000\". Marc Summers advised on production as an executive consultant. Tia Schroeder and Will Finley worked on \"Double Dare 2000\" as stage assistants.\n\n\"Double Dare 2000\" followed the \"Family Double Dare\" format with a revamped set and bigger physical challenges. It also featured the new Triple Dare Challenge option in round two, and referred to the obstacle course as the Slopstacle Course. In association with Sony and National Mobile Television, five episodes of \"Double Dare 2000\" were produced in high-definition with a aspect ratio. The episodes were broadcast in a letterboxed format as Nickelodeon did not broadcast in high-definition until 2008. The music for \"Double Dare 2000\", a remix of the original soundtrack, was composed by former Crack the Sky guitarist Rick Witkowski. Byron Taylor again served as set designer. The series concluded on November 10, 2000. Repeats remained on the Nickelodeon schedule until July 29, 2001.\n\nBeginning May 21, 2012, Nickelodeon Suites Resort in Orlando produced \"Double Dare\" as a nightly live stage presentation, \"Double Dare Live\". As part of the Studio Nick feature of the hotel, shows were performed each night exclusively for the resort's guests. The show featured elements and updates from the various versions of \"Double Dare\", including remixed music, physical challenges and an obstacle course similar to the TV show. Like the most recent formats of the program, eight contestants were selected to participate for the game-playing teams, while additional audience members played other physical challenges throughout the program. The production continued until Nickelodeon Suites Resort Orlando rebranded as a Holiday Inn Resort on June 1, 2016. A scaled-down version of \"Double Dare Live\", called \"Double Dare Challenge\", has been presented at Nickelodeon Universe in Mall of America from June 13 to September 24, 2016, and ran again from June 16 to September 30, 2017. Its current cycle began March 16, 2018, and is scheduled to run intermittently through the end of October.\n\nOn July 22, 2016, special live editions of \"Double Dare\", produced by Nickelodeon and The Splat with original host Marc Summers, took place at Fluxx nightclub during San Diego Comic-Con 2016. The event was live-streamed on The Splat's Facebook page and included in the later anniversary special. The week of July 25, 2016, The Splat aired a \"Double Dare\"-themed week featuring episodes and moments from the series' history, and included edited versions of the Comic-Con games. These events marked Summers' first Nickelodeon-sponsored involvement with the brand since \"Double Dare 2000\".\n\nA half-hour special presentation, celebrating the 30th anniversary of the show's premiere, the \"Double Dare Reunion Special\", aired on November 23, 2016, on Nick at Nite, with an encore airing on The Splat. The special included vintage clips, behind-the-scenes footage, and a new game recorded at San Diego Comic-Con 2016 played by cast members from \"All That\". Summers, announcer Harvey, and stage assistant Robin Russo (née Marrella) appeared in the special. 1.126 million viewers watched the special on Nick at Nite, outperforming all other shows on the network for the evening, and finishing as the third-most viewed of all non-sports original cable telecasts among viewers ages 18 to 34 for that day.\n\nIn 2017, Summers stated that, due to the success of the special, he was in negotiations to return to \"Double Dare\" in some form with Nickelodeon. News outlets reported in March 2018 that Nickelodeon was producing a new series of \"Blue's Clues\", and was in negotiations to reboot \"Clarissa Explains It All\", two shows originally made by the network in the 1990s. Upon learning of these developments, and inspired by the success of other contemporary television revivals like \"Will & Grace\", Summers emailed Nickelodeon executives to ask if he was going to be the person to receive \"the next phone call.\"\n\nOn April 25, 2018, Nickelodeon announced a new version of \"Double Dare\", which is the second revival of the show. The network ordered 40 episodes that recorded in Los Angeles at CBS Studio Center throughout June 2018. The series premiered on June 25, airing weeknights. Actress and television/internet personality Liza Koshy hosts the series. Original host Marc Summers also appears on the series in an on-camera role. Along with performing traditional duties of an announcer, Summers provides commentary on the show's physical challenges and helps introduce elements and transition the game.\nSummers is also one of the show's executive producers. Fremantle produces the series on behalf of Nickelodeon.\n\nThe set, designed by James Pearse Connelly, bears a heavy resemblance to the original set used in the 1980s. Updates include using digital screens for displays and decoration, enhanced lighting, and a dedicated space for the obstacle course, though timing and scoring uses emulation of the original vane display-type numerals. Members of the \"challenge team\" also appear as stage assistants, including Eric Pierce, Michelle Kallman, James Michael Ryan Jr., and Stad St. Fleur. Edd Kalehoff remixed and re-composed the original theme song and soundtrack for this version.\n\nEpisodes broadcast predominantly feature teams of two children competing, but some episodes have participation from teams of one child and one adult family member. An episode has also aired with teams of three siblings, and one with teams of two children with two adult family members. Some episodes feature celebrity participants, such as actors from past Nickelodeon series competing, including \"All That\"'s Jamie Lynn Spears and Josh Server. The 2018 Kids' Choice Sports Awards, which aired on July 20, 2018, culminated with host and basketball player Chris Paul competing against Olympic swimmer Michael Phelps in the \"Double Dare\" obstacle course, presented by Liza Koshy and Marc Summers. Because Koshy had difficulty with her voice during the taping of an episode, Summers filled in as host for the second half of a show, which aired on July 26. The first cycle of season one, airing 24 half-hour episodes, concluded on July 27. Episodes resumed airing on September 30, with weekly airings, culminating with a special 60-minute episode featuring \"Kenan & Kel\" stars Kenan Thompson and Kel Mitchell aired on November 21. In celebration of Super Bowl LIII, a special episode featuring Nickelodeon celebrities and NFL players is scheduled to air on February 3, 2019, \n\nWithin a month of its premiere, \"Double Dare\" had more than tripled viewership for Nickelodeon’s afternoon schedule becoming the highest-rated original, daily program on cable. During \"Double Dare\"s first year, the program averaged a 3.0 household Nielsen rating, with over 1 million households tuned in each week. On its February 1988 debut in syndication, the program averaged a 5.4 household Nielsen rating and a 15.4 rating among children ages 2 to 11, and was the second-highest rated syndicated program in that demographic. By January 1989, \"Double Dare\" averaged a 3.1 household Nielsen rating. The special Sunday premiere episode of \"Family Double Dare\" on Fox on April 3, 1988, scored a 4.0 household Nielsen rating, finishing 5th out of 10 programs broadcast on Fox that week helping to give Fox's Sunday night schedule its highest ratings to that point.\n\nWhen \"Double Dare 2000\" premiered in January 2000, episodes in its first two weeks averaged household Nielsen ratings of up to 3.0, being viewed by up to 2.7 million households, and finishing in the top 25 basic cable programs each week. \"Double Dare 2000\" often won its time slot in viewership among children ages 2 to 11.\n\nThe June premiere of the 2018 revival was watched by 1.843 million viewers, outperforming all other shows on Nickelodeon for the day, finishing as the highest-rated broadcast for teenagers ages 12 to 17. \"Double Dare\"'s premiere was Nickelodeon's most-viewed series launch among adults 18 to 49 in more than five years. By the end of its second week, viewership for new episodes hovered around one million overall viewers.\n\nAt its peak, \"Double Dare\" was the highest-rated, live-action show for children ages 8 to 15. The show was also popular with college students, with many schools offering \"Double Dare\" fan clubs. Half of Nickelodeon's operating profit in 1988 was due to the success of \"Double Dare\" and its syndication. On the show's success, then-senior vice-president of Nickelodeon programming Herb Scannell said that \"Double Dare\" was like \"having a hit record your first time out. \"Double Dare\" put Nick on the map.\"\n\n\"Double Dare\" revitalized interest in the concept of a game show for children. Less than a year after the program launched, NBC had premiered \"I'm Telling!\", Lorimar Television had announced plans for \"Fun House\", and Nickelodeon's \"Finders Keepers\" began airing—all shows based on competition between teams of children. During \"Double Dare\"s first year on television, junior versions of established game shows including \"Hollywood Squares\" and \"The Cross-Wits\" were developed for syndication, but ultimately were not produced. Game show executive and producer Bob Boden noted that \"Double Dare\" \"allowed kids to get dirty and have a good time in ways that really were not acceptable before that show\". \"Double Dare\" remains the longest-running game show produced by Nickelodeon.\n\nAs \"Double Dare\" grew messier, a green slime substance became more commonly used in physical challenges and obstacles. Slime was originally introduced on another Nickelodeon program, \"You Can't Do That on Television\". \"Double Dare\"'s high viewership led to greater visibility for Nickelodeon's association with slime, and saw it featured in promotions for the network in the late 1980s. The substance proliferated further, including annual slimings on the Kids' Choice Awards, a slime geyser at Nickelodeon Studios, and slime-based segments on other game shows including \"Wild & Crazy Kids\" and \"Figure It Out\". The relationship of Nickelodeon and slime still lasts on the network.\n\nReviews of the show were often favorable, noting it was fun entertainment for the family. After \"Double Dare\" premiered, Kenneth R. Clark, media writer for the \"Chicago Tribune\", observed that when contestants \"squeal and make faces, it is somehow natural, wholesome and infectious,\" and said, \"\"Double Dare\" is so refreshing.\" Noel Holston of the \"Minneapolis Star and Tribune\" wrote that \"kids and game shows, when you think about it, go together like hot fudge and ice cream\". The \"Orange County Register\"s Ellen T. Klein said \"Double Dare\" is \"such fast-paced, furious and messy fun\" and rated the show as \"good\". In 1988, television critic Ken Tucker cited the interaction between, and the performances of host Marc Summers and announcer Harvey as \"the not-so-secret ingredients in the show's success in drawing adult, as well as youthful, viewers\".\n\nSome criticism came from the feeling that the program was not educational. Others were concerned about food waste like beans and eggs in physical challenges and obstacles. In a \"Cheers and Jeers\" section in 1988, \"TV Guide\" gave \"jeers\" to \"Double Dare\" for \"daring to push beyond the limits of good taste,\" saying it was \"gross and insulting to watch.\" In 1989, television and film critic Jeffrey Lyons wrote that he \"wouldn't dream of proclaiming that \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" is good for your child. But what's wrong with watching an admittedly dumb—but hilarious—program just for fun?\"\n\nAndrea Graham wrote for Common Sense Media that revival series \"Double Dare 2000\" is a \"fun, action-filled game show that families can watch together – amid all the slime are some good messages about family togetherness\". Original host and executive consultant for \"Double Dare 2000\" Marc Summers said that \"there were issues\" with the revival. In an interview with AfterBuzz TV, he said that he felt the length of the Triple Dare Challenge took away from the game and that \"if we would have done it the way we originally did it, we would have been fine, but unfortunately, it didn't happen\".\n\nThe 2018 revival of \"Double Dare\" premiered to positive reviews, particularly for host Liza Koshy. Reality Blurred's Andy Dehnart said that the reboot \"did an excellent job of balancing the old and new,\" and praised the combination of Koshy and Marc Summers, saying she \"can absolutely hold her own as host,\" and \"her rapport with [Summers] felt natural and playful.\" Joel Keller of the \"New York Post\"'s Decider observed that \"the show belongs to Koshy, who ad libs well and makes the kids feel at ease,\" and gave \"Double Dare\" a favorable \"stream it\" rating.\n\n\"Double Dare\" was nominated for a CableACE Award in the Game Show Special or Series category at the 1989 and 1993 ceremonies, winning the award in 1989, but losing to MTV's \"Lip Service\" in 1993. Dana Calderwood was nominated for a Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Directing in a Children's Series in 1989. Nickelodeon was nominated for a 1988 Golden ACE award, cable's then-highest programming honor, for its \"pro-social television,\" including \"Double Dare\" by name. In January 2001, \"TV Guide\" ranked the show number 29 on its list of 50 Greatest Game Shows.\n\n\"Double Dare\" has been featured in a number of notable visual media since its premiere, often with one or more characters participating as contestants in homages to the series. On \"Double Dare\", a 2016 episode of the 1980s-set sitcom \"The Goldbergs\", Adam Goldberg (Sean Giambrone) tries to find the perfect partner to audition to be a contestant on \"Double Dare\". After rejecting his friend Emmy Mirsky (Stephanie Katherine Grant), he eventually runs through a mock obstacle course at a tryout with his grandfather Albert \"Pops\" Solomon (George Segal). Neither are selected to take part in the program. Benjamin Bauman and Amy Gross, real-life friends of series' creator Adam F. Goldberg who appeared as contestants on \"Double Dare\" in 1988, cameo as producers of the show. A first-season episode of the 2013 Nickelodeon series \"Sanjay and Craig\" titled \"Trouble Dare\" features the titular characters (voiced by Maulik Pancholy and Chris Hardwick), along with Sanjay's mother and father (voiced by Grey Griffin and Kunal Nayyar), leaving their home after a bug infestation. After asking Remington Tufflips (voiced by Chris D'Elia) to stay in his trailer, and finding that the Dickson family is already occupying it, Tufflips decides which family can stay through a game of \"Family Double Dare\" hosted by himself. Harvey (voiced by himself) is concerned with how Tufflips is running the game, until Marc Summers (voiced by himself) appears and declares Sanjay's family the winners of a night's sleep inside the Pick It obstacle. Another \"Family Double Dare\" game is seen in the music video for rock band Good Charlotte's 2011 single \"Last Night.\" The video shows an abridged game of \"Family Double Dare\", going through questions, physical challenges, and the obstacle course. Marc Summers appears as himself, guitarist Benji Madden appears as Harvey, and band members play contestants and stage assistants.\n\n\"Double Dare\" has also been subject to parodies and spoofs in various forms. The October 1988 issue of \"Mad\" has a spoof of \"Double Dare\" called \"Double Damp\". Marc Summers and Harvey are lampooned as \"Muck Slummers\" and \"Hardly\". The piece mocked the program's use of food products, the dangerous nature of some stunts, and the similarity to game show \"Beat the Clock\". Both Summers and Harvey consider being parodied in \"Mad\" a high point in their careers. A 2015 episode of the truTV sketch comedy series \"Friends of the People\" titled \"Double Dare\" guest stars Marc Summers as himself, hosting \"banned\" moments from \"Double Dare\". Sketches include a contestant exploding, and another being stuck permanently inside an obstacle. \"March Dadness,\" a 2012 episode of \"The Cleveland Show\", features a flashback to a \"Family Double Dare\"-like program called \"Dare Squared\". A young Cleveland Brown (voiced by Mike Henry) has difficulty finding an orange flag in an oversized stack of pancakes at the end of the program's obstacle course. Marc Summers voices the frustrated host. Also, in a 2017 episode of \"Billy on the Street\", host Billy Eichner led guest Keegan-Michael Key through an obstacle course with gun law themes titled \"Super Sloppy Semi-Automatic Double Dare.\" Eichner has cited \"Double Dare\" as a favorite show of his.\n\nReebok has been a major sponsor of \"Double Dare\" throughout its run. Every contestant and stage crew member wore a pair of the company's shoes. Additional corporate sponsorships and tie-ins were proposed, including Casio putting their logo on the stage clock, and a \"Double Dare\"-branded breakfast cereal, but Nickelodeon declined the offers.\n\nFrom 1987 to 1995, various \"Double Dare\" live tours visited venues around the United States. Featuring a format similar to the TV show wherein members of a live local audience could participate, the tour would later incorporate aspects of \"What Would You Do?\", another show hosted by Marc Summers for Nickelodeon. Some events in these tours sold out arenas they were held in, with attendance of more than 20,000 spectators. The tours and events resumed in 2000 to promote \"Double Dare 2000\". Beginning October 30, 2018, a version of \"Double Dare\" once again began touring nationwide. Marc Summers serves as host, with previous \"Double Dare\" personality Robin Russo appearing as well.\n\n\"Double Dare\"s lasting popularity has led to a variety of products being made available. Pressman Toy Corporation released two traditional board games based on the show: The \"Double Dare\" home game was released in September 1987 and \"Wet 'N Wild Double Dare\" was released in March 1989. Another board game titled \"Double Dare: The Game\" was manufactured by Mattel in 2001. GameTek published a PC game in 1988, and a video game for the Nintendo Entertainment System in 1990 based on the program. Containing facts about the show, along with trivia and activities to host a home version of the game, two editions of \"The Double Dare Game Book\" were released by Parachute Press in 1988 and 1989. Based on substances referenced on \"Double Dare\" and \"Double Dare 2000\", Mattel and Jakks Pacific manufactured a series of toy slimes called Gak and Goooze. Other toys, apparel, lunchboxes, and school supplies have been sold featuring the show's logo and art.\n\n\"Double Dare\" was heavily featured in the summer 2016 \"Remember When\" promotion at New York concept store STORY. Their partnership with Nickelodeon offered exclusive in-store products like \"Double Dare\" T-shirts and other goods designed in the style of the program's themes. Patrons at STORY could also participate in \"Double Dare\" experiences, like running the One-Ton Human Hamster Wheel obstacle. As well, other \"Double Dare\"-inspired products available in-store, including Keds shoes and Stance socks, were offered online through retail partner Neiman Marcus.\n\nFour collections of \"Double Dare\" highlights and special features were released on home video by Kids Klassics on October 1, 1988,— \"Double Dare: The Inside Scoop\" and \"Double Dare: The Messiest Moments.\" On October 17, 1989, a home party guide titled \"How to Throw a Double Dare Party\" was released by Elektra Video. Sony Wonder released \"Double Dare: Super Sloppiest Moments\" on May 31, 1994.\n\nCollections of episodes of the original \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" and versions of \"Family Double Dare\" were made available for purchase via digital distribution on Amazon Video and the iTunes Store throughout 2013. A DVD titled \"Nickelodeon Games and Sports: All-Star Collection\", released by Nickelodeon for Amazon.com on April 27, 2015, features an episode of the original \"Super Sloppy Double Dare\" and \"Family Double Dare\". Added at launch in August 2018, select episodes of \"Double Dare 2000\" are available to view on the NickSplat channel on Otter Media's VRV streaming service.\n\nEpisodes of the 2018 version of \"Double Dare\" are available for purchase through many online video retailers, sold individually and in multi-episode volumes. In August 2018, a \"Double Dare\" game was released on Facebook Messenger, allowing users to play against friends or other Messenger users in a turn-based version of the program.\n\n"}
{"id": "8438987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8438987", "title": "Exclusive ride time", "text": "Exclusive ride time\n\nExclusive ride time is a period aside by an amusement park for exclusive access to one or more amusement rides. Sessions may be scheduled outside of park operating hours or attractions may be closed off to the public during operating hours. Exclusive ride time has been allowed for private corporate events or celebrity functions, park sponsored groups such as annual passholders and roller coaster enthusiasts, special ticketed events, members of the media, or enthusiast groups such American Coaster Enthusiasts.\n\nDIsney theme parks brand exclusive ride time for guests staying in on-site resorts as Extra Magic Hours.\n"}
{"id": "31729867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31729867", "title": "Geek girl", "text": "Geek girl\n\n\"Geek girl\" is a 20th-century term, signifying a gendered subgenre within the modern geek subculture.\n\nThe return of the word \"geek\" in the mid-1990s can be traced to the popularization of workplace computing and the Internet and the dot-com bubble of 1995–2000. The early days of the reclaimed use of \"geek\" were strongly associated with computers and information technology and the majority of practitioners were male. Similarly, in a 1996 study of high school cultures, linguist Mary Bucholtz noted that \"nerd status is overwhelmingly associated with males\" Two studies by the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) quantified the gap between men and women in computing and the continuing problems recruiting and retaining female programmers. \n\nThe term \"Geekgirl\" was coined by Rosie Cross in 1993 as the title of her online cyberfeminist magazine. This is Australia's longest running online publication and in September 1996 it was exhibited at the New Museum of Contemporary Art New York. Editions of this magazine from the mid 90's have been preserved by the Internet Archive.\nAs the use of the personal computer grew during the mid-to-late 2000s, the number of women in computing rose proportionately, and networks were created to provide support and connection for self-described \"geek girls\". GirlGeeks.org was created in 1999 to serve as \"the source for women in computing\", and in 2005 Girl Geek Dinners was formed to connect women in the information technology (IT) sector.\n\nThe widespread recognition of \"geek girls\" as a community occurred in summer 2010, when the annual San Diego Comic-Con International included a panel entitled \"Geek Girls Exist\". Panelists included StarWars.com journalist Bonnie Burton, singer-songwriter Marian Call, Tekzilla and Qore host Veronica Belmont, MythBusters featured host Kari Byron, and was hosted by Kristin Rielly, founder of Geek Girls Network. The panel's popularity has been credited as a primary mover in solidifying the girl geek concept.\n\nThe term geek girl is in some ways fractured between its technical and cultural uses. The strongest association remains with computing, IT, and engineering. Practicing \"geek girls\" then include video game executive Jade Raymond, computer scientist and Yahoo! CEO Marissa Mayer, social media developer Leah Culver, and engineer Limor Fried of Adafruit Industries.\n\n\"Geek girl\" is also a term applied to women who engage in journalism and media about technology, typically through the Internet rather than traditional print media, such as tech journalist Natali Morris. Perhaps the most well-known variety of the \"geek girl\" is the gamer, who typically engages in video and/or live role-playing games. In 2007, actress and gamer Felicia Day popularized the archetype through the webseries \"The Guild\" and the YouTube viral video \"(Do You Wanna Date My) Avatar\".\n\n\"Fake geek girl\" is a pejorative term for a woman who is accused of feigning interest in geeky topics such as video games or comic books to get attention from men. The topic was the subject of controversy in 2012 and 2013, when multiple articles were published supporting or condemning the concept.\n\nMuch of the controversy surrounding the concept of fake geek girls began in March 2012, when Tara Brown published an article on the \"Forbes\" website titled \"Dear Fake Geek Girls: Please Go Away\". In the article, she discussed the difference between geeky women as a social outcasts, and \"pretentious females who have labeled themselves as a 'geek girl' [who have] figured out that guys will pay a lot of attention to them if they proclaim they are reading comics or playing video games.\"\n\nJoe Peacock continued this criticism to discuss booth babes and female cosplayers in a July 2012 blog post for CNN titled \"Booth babes need not apply\". In this article, he denounced women who pretend to be interested in geek culture to gain attention from men or to advance their modelling careers. Comic artist Tony Harris wrote a Facebook post in November 2012, described by \"The Daily Dot\" as a \"diatribe\", about female cosplayers who were not knowledgeable about the characters they were representing.\n\nCriticism of fake geek girls has given rise to other phenomena, such as the \"Idiot Nerd Girl\" image macro. These articles prompted considerable response. Some people argued that fake geek girls did not exist, or were more rare than the criticism suggested. Kirk Hamilton wrote in \"Kotaku\" that people perceived to be fake geek girls simply had interests that varied, in aspect or degree, from those of a male reader. Some responses describe the criticism as misogynist and as a form of gatekeeping.\n\nIn September 2010, the geek girl group Team Unicorn was formed by four \"gamer girls\", who produced the YouTube video \"G33k & G4m3r Girls\" as a parody of the song California Gurls by Katy Perry. The video went viral within a week, but the name of the group was intended to reflect the invisible status of women in the geek subculture: \"Geek Girls: Like unicorns, we're not supposed to exist.\"\n\nIn late 2010, the Seattle-based non-profit GeekGirlCon announced that it would hold the first conference devoted to geek girls on October 8–9, 2011.\n\nIn April 2011, the New York Times' television reviewer Ginia Bellefante caused a minor uproar by characterizing the medieval-fantasy series \"Game of Thrones\" as \"boy fiction\" that \"no woman alive\" would wish to watch. The review prompted a direct response from GeekGirlCon, as well as a flurry of discussion from bloggers and other news outlets.\n\nThe web series Reel Geek Girls was formed in 2015 by Drew C. Ryan to confront the concept of \"Fake Geek Girls\" by spotlighting and interviewing women involved in the entertainment industry. Each episode, a lady shares their personal stories of harassment, accusations of being a \"Fake geek,\" and also \"geeks out\" about the interests and topics they love.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13275850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13275850", "title": "Gladiators (franchise)", "text": "Gladiators (franchise)\n\nGladiators is a sports entertainment television show that was an international success during the 1990s and early 2000s with versions of the show being filmed for local broadcasters in the United States, the United Kingdom, Finland, Japan, Australia, South Africa, Sweden, Nigeria, and Denmark. However, Russia, Germany, and the Bahamas would also compete in international shows during the series, despite the fact that they did not have their own domestic series.\n\nAfter a lengthy break, \"Gladiators\" was revived in 2008 in the UK, the US and Australia; in 2009 Lebanon created their own series featuring competitors from all over the Arab region and most recently Sweden has brought back their version which is proving most successful of all revivals, with a new revival in Finland is set for broadcast in 2017.\n\nThe concept of the show is that athletic members of the public battle against the show's own Gladiators (often semi-professional or ex-athletes) to claim points in several events that require speed, strength and skill. In the final event of the show, \"The Eliminator\" the contenders race against each other (with starting times based on previous events), with the first to finish winning the episode and moving onto the next round.\n\nA children's derivative of the concept was also made in the US, called \"Gladiators 2000\" (1994–1996). A UK variant of this was aired starting in 1995, called \"\".\n\nThe initial concept for the show by Dan Carr and John C. Ferraro was held in Erie, Pennsylvania, in the USA before being sold to Samuel Goldwyn Productions/MGM where the format was adapted and televised as \"American Gladiators\" with the first series airing over 1989–90. As the show progressed, new events were introduced along with new Gladiators, sometimes retiring previous Gladiators.\n\nFollowing the success of \"American Gladiators\", other countries began to produce their own versions of the show with the UK and Finland starting production in 1992. \"American Gladiators\" had already picked up a cult following in the UK after being shown on late night TV. The UK, most noticeably adapted the concept into a large arena (the National Indoor Arena in Birmingham), glamorising the show, often adapting events from the American series as well as introducing many of their own, often more high-tech. Winners from the UK and Finnish series would then go over to America, to film a special show of \"American Gladiators\" in which they competed against the current American champions along with selected athletes from other territories such as Japan and the Bahamas and South Korea.\n\nIn early 1995, the first full scale international competition was launched in which selected Gladiators from the American, Finnish and British series competed against contender champions from those three countries. A fourth country, Russia was added but as they did not have their own domestic series, the Gladiators and contenders were hand-picked by Russian TV producers. The Finnish series ceased production after International Gladiators 1.\n\nIn 1995, Australia began production of their own show, basing it on the UK series. After the first series, a three part 'Ashes' mini series was filmed in Australia, in which a selection of British and Australian Gladiators faced champions from the opposing countries. Australia then went on to compete in International Gladiators 2 along with the UK and America. Russia also returned, even though they still did not have a domestic series. Germany and South Africa also competed even though they too did not have their own domestic series.\n\nAfter International Gladiators 2, the \"American Gladiators\" series ceased production due to falling ratings, although a live dinner show ran in Florida between 1996 and 1998. The UK and Australia continued to produce their own editions of the show, with the UK continuing to add new events to its roster (retiring some due to safety reasons) with Australia adding events from the UK series in its second and third series.\n\nIn 1996, the UK and Australia faced each other again in 'the Ashes 2' this time held in the UK Gladiator arena and an Australia vs. Russia mini series was filmed in Australia with two of the Russian Gladiators who had appeared in International Gladiators 2 appearing alongside new faces. After both of the mini series were filmed and aired, the Australian show was cancelled due to falling ratings, even though plans for a fourth series had commenced, which would include a brand new event that would be exclusive to Australia.\n\nIn 1997, South Africa competed against the UK in the Springbok Challenge held in the UK Gladiator arena, despite the fact that they did not have their own domestic series. Only one of the South African Gladiators who appeared in International Gladiators 2 appeared.\n\nIn 1999, it was announced that due to falling ratings, the UK series was to be axed. A final mini series in which past champions competed was filmed. It was at this time that South Africa finally began production of their own series and in 2000, a team of UK Gladiators and contenders went over to film the Springbok Challenge 2, a series filmed exclusively for South African TV only.\n\nWith the South African production in full swing, other territories began producing their own versions. Sweden began producing their own version in 2000 under the name \"Gladiatorerna\", with the old UK apparatus being shipped over. Short lived series in Nigeria (2002) and Denmark (2003) followed.\n\nIn 2001, the South African series was overhauled, but it proved unpopular with viewers and the show was axed. Sweden continued to produce \"Gladiators\", creating an event unique to the series, Spidercage, before being axed in 2004.\n\nIn August 2007, NBC confirmed that a revival of \"American Gladiators\" would be produced by Reveille Productions and MGM Television to air mid season during early 2008. In addition to events from the original show, the series drew elements from the 1990s UK series as well as being updated for the new millennium in which several events would be played over water. The UK also produced a revival of \"Gladiators\". In September 2007, the Seven Network in Australia announced that it too was reviving \"Gladiators\", although unlike the American revival, the Australian revival was to follow the lines of its predecessor rather than be overhauled.\n\nThe first episode of the new \"American Gladiators\" premiered on Sunday 6 January 2008 proving to be a ratings hit. A seconds season was instantly commissioned. At the same time, it was announced that Sky One were commissioning a UK revival which would follow the basis set by the American revival.\n\nThe Australian revival premiered on 30 March 2008 with the UK series starting on Sunday 11 May. Both revivals proved instant ratings hits for their respective channels. On 12 May 2008, the second season of the American show began, with the series being moved to a bigger arena.\n\nDue to low ratings, the Seven Network placed filming for a second series on hold and released the Gladiators from their holding contracts. NBC similarly have yet to commission a third series due to ratings for the second series being lower than expected.\n\nThe UK revival first aired in August 2008, a second series aired in January 2009. On 20 May 2009, the UK series was axed by the new controller for Sky 1, Stuart Murphy.\n\nThe Arab World launched its own version in 2009 featuring Contenders and Gladiators from all over the Arab region. It only lasted one season.\n\nIn 2012, the Swedish Gladiators, known as \"Gladiatorerna\", made a return to television and the revived show has proved very successful with 3 seasons so far filmed and screened, making it the most successful and longest lasting revival of the franchise. In July 2014, it was announced a 4th season would be made. This is due to be screened in early 2015.\n\nIn July 2014, Arthur A. Smith company announced plans to bring American Gladiators back again for the third time and were shopping the idea to networks to give it a home.\n\nIn August 2018, Actor Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg announced plans to bring American Gladiators back again for the fourth time and are shopping the idea to distributors who are interested in the revival.\n\nOn January 28, 2008 a broadband website will pay homage to the original series called \"americangladiators.com\" where it features clip of the original which all have been re-digitalized as clips would reintroduce original Gladiators and give fans an update on where they are today. Future segments would also include \"Best Hits\" and stunts that were performed on the show.\n\nIn 2008, MGM, Reveille and Flor-Jon Films Inc. revealed a special \"American Gladiators\" U.S. cross-country tour.\n\nMGM along with Johnny Ferraro have put into development a cartoon series based on the show but has never aired.\n\nIn 2009, Johnny Ferraro wanted to bring a live-action movie of \"American Gladiators\". Former Legendary Pictures chief marketing officer Scott Mednick was producing the film where the goal was to create an action story that takes place inside the world Ferraro created.\n\nIn a standard Gladiators show, two female and two male contenders face each other and the Gladiators in anywhere from four to seven events. The line up of events differs across each show with different Gladiators playing the different events dependent on their skill type. Towards the end of the initial UK and American series, the male and female contenders did not necessarily play the same events. Contenders score points for winning against the Gladiators, with the winner having a time advantage in the last event the contenders compete in, the Eliminator.\n\nThe winner of the Eliminator goes through to the next round (or wins the series) unless a qualifying time is needed for the next round.\n\nShows are usually presented by a male and female host (with the exception of all but two seasons of the original American Gladiators, which were presented by two male hosts), as well as a main referee (often wearing a striped black and white shirt, in the style of an American football referee) presiding over events, handing out disqualifications or red and yellow cards to contenders or Gladiators if needed. A timekeeper is often present behind the referee but these are not always referred to or provide a speaking role. An unseen commentator will provide play by play accounts (again with the exception of the original American Gladiators series, where the on-screen hosts also provided the play by play)\n\nThe show is filmed in front of a live studio audience made up of fans and supporters of the contenders. It is not uncommon for the cameras to focus on particular crowd members or banners. Some incarnations of the show such as the Australian and original UK series have cheerleaders to provide background entertainment.\n\nThere have been 35 events involving Gladiators (as well as the Eliminator) across the incarnations. Four of the events have an alternate name in certain territories. A different selection of the events will be played in each episode. No single territory has had all thirty five events on its roster. The UK had the biggest number of events during its initial run with twenty three events.\n\nAll events were created by either the American or UK series with the exception of \"Soccer Shootout\" (South Africa) and \"Spidercage\" (Sweden). The UK notably adapted some of the American events, with the adaptations becoming the standard design for the concept. For example, the UK version of \"Skytrack\" would later be adopted by the Australian and American revival series whereas the UK concept of the American event \"Tug-o-War\" known as \"Tilt\" eventually superseded Tug-o-War for the 2008 American revival.\n\nOver the course of the original UK and American series, several events were dropped, often due to safety reasons. The Eliminator was the only event which was played in every episode across every territory.\n\nThere have been more than 300 Gladiators across all participating territories. Inevitably, there has been some repeat usage of names, and there have been seven instances where the same name has been used twice in a territory for a televised series. The original American Gladiators had two different Gladiators named Lace, and the names Siren and Titan have been used in both the original and revival formats of the American show. The names Amazon, Panther, Siren and Warrior have been used for both the original and revived UK shows. The name Valkyria was used both in the original and revived series in Sweden. The names Panther, Ice, Scorpio, Lightning, Blade, Cyclone, Fierce/Hurja, Flash, Force, Shadow, Thunder, Viper, Nitro, Terminator, Cobra, Rebel, Hurricane, Laser, Phoenix, Destroyer, Rocket, Dynamite (as Miss Dynamite), Bullit as (Bullet) and Delta have been used for both male and female Gladiators.\n\nMost Gladiators come from either a bodybuilding or athletic background. Seven Olympic athletes have competed as Gladiators: Amazon (Sharron Davies) (UK), Nightshade (Judy Simpson) (UK), Rebel (Jennifer Stoute) (UK), Olympia (Tatiana Grigorieva) (AUS Revival), Hurricane (Breaux Greer) (US Revival), Predator (Du'aine Ladejo) (UK Revival) and Battleaxe (Shirley Webb) (UK Revival).\n\nThere have been a few instances where contenders have become Gladiators. Minna Ryynänen, a quarter-finalist from the first series of Finnish Gladiators, returned as Gladiator Safiiri for the next series. UK season 3 and International Gladiators 1 champion Eunice Huthart became Gladiator Blaze. However, Eunice only competed as Blaze in non televised live shows, opting to perform as herself in future televised episodes. Australian series 2 champion and International Gladiators 2 runner up Lourene Bevaart became Glacier, American Gladiators 2008 series 1 champions Monica Carlson and Evan Dollard becoming Jet and Rocket respectively (this was actually mentioned as part of the \"prize package\" for this season) and after a seven-year gap, Gladiatorerna season 5 winner Patrick Lessa joined the Swedish team for the 2012 revival as Gladiator Baron Samedi.\n\nOnly two Gladiators have played for two different domestic series in differing countries; Vulcan (John Seru) who was originally an Australian Gladiator who transferred to the UK team for Season 7 upon the end of the Australian series and Fox (Tammy Baker) who transferred from the UK to the South African team when the UK series finished. Laser (Tina Andrew), a UK Gladiator went on to compete as Sheena, a member of a South African team for the Springbok Challenge 1. However, she did not compete in the domestic South African series.\n\nSome Gladiators have died since their Gladiator careers ended, including Siren and Hawk from the original American Gladiators, Dynamite and Spartak from Russia, Zeke and Indra from Sweden, Sahara from South Africa, Ninja from Japan and Viking from Finland.\n\n\nZodiac TV, who worked alongside TV4 and MTV Produktion to produce \"Gladiatorerna\" and \"Gladiatorerne\", also started to create series in Russia, Germany and Benelux (Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg) but they never materialised.\n\n"}
{"id": "1739149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1739149", "title": "Hot Wheels: AcceleRacers", "text": "Hot Wheels: AcceleRacers\n\nHot Wheels: AcceleRacers is an animated series of four films by Mattel. It is computer-animated, produced by Mainframe Entertainment out of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, which also produced \"ReBoot\" and distributed by Warner Bros. Available on DVD and VHS, it has also been shown on Cartoon Network. \n\nThe series takes Mattel's Hot Wheels toy cars and puts them in a \"ReBoot\"-like situation, with racing somewhat reminiscent of \"Tron\". This is a sequel to the 2003 animated film \"\" and takes place in California. A soundtrack was distributed by Sony BMG, and toys were sold in stores and given away in a McDonald's Happy Meal. A collectible card game and other merchandise were also made.\n"}
{"id": "46793468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46793468", "title": "KonoSuba", "text": "KonoSuba\n\nA manga adaptation, illustrated by Masahito Watari and Joseph Yokobori, began serialization in Fujimi Shobo's \"Monthly Dragon Age\" magazine from October 2014. A radio drama CD was released by HobiRecords in March 2015, and an anime television adaptation by Studio Deen aired in Japan between January and March 2016. A second season of the anime aired between January and March 2017. A spin-off light novel series, \"Kono Subarashii Sekai ni Bakuen o!\", began publication from July 2014. Both the light novels and the manga are licensed in North America by Yen Press. An anime film adaptation by J.C.Staff titled \"Kono Subarashii Sekai ni Shukufuku o! Kurenai Densetsu\" will premiere in 2019.\n\nFollowing an untimely and embarrassing death, Kazuma Satō, a Japanese teenager shut-in NEET, meets a goddess named Aqua, who offers to reincarnate him in a parallel world with MMORPG elements, where he can go on adventures and battle monsters. Despite being offered a superpowered item or ability to use in this new world, Kazuma, following some provocation, chooses Aqua herself to accompany him to the town of Axel, quickly finding her absent-mindedness to be less than beneficial. With Aqua unable to return to the afterlife until the Devil King is defeated, the two form a party and recruit two other members; an explosion-obsessed magician named Megumin and a masochistic crusader named Darkness. Due to the party's dysfunctional abilities, Kazuma quickly gives up on the idea of defeating the Devil King and tries to live a luxurious lifestyle, only to find the circumstances of his daily life are forcing him and his party to encounter and battle the Devil King's generals.\n\nThe original web novel series written by Natsume Akatsuki was published on Syosetu between December 2012 and October 2013. The author also wrote a side story featuring Wiz and Vanir. Akatsuki, who enjoyed playing fantasy video games like \"Wizardry\" and \"Final Fantasy\", also derived much of \"KonoSuba\" fantasy elements from tabletop role-playing games.\n\nA light novel version with illustrations by Kurone Mishima began release under Kadokawa Shoten's Kadokawa Sneaker Bunko imprint from October 1, 2013, with thirteen volumes released as of December 1, 2017. The light novel diverges significantly from the web novel's plot from the sixth volume onwards, and also features changes to the characters' ages.\n\nA Megumin-focused spin-off light novel series, also written and illustrated by Akatsuki and Mishima respectively, titled and takes place a year prior to the main series, began release from July 1, 2014, with three volumes released as of June 1, 2015. A sequel novel was released December 28, 2016, named . Another spin-off featuring Vanir was published on April 1, 2016, called .\n\nWritten by Hirukuma and illustrated by Uihime Hagure, a third spin-off is published since August 1, 2017, it is titled . The second volume was released on December 1, 2017.\n\nYen Press announced on May 20, 2016 that it had licensed the light novels for release in North America. The first volume was released in conjunction with the second manga volume on February 21, 2017.\n\nA manga adaption of \"KonoSuba\" illustrated by Masahito Watari began serialization in the October 2014 issue of Fujimi Shobo's \"Monthly Dragon Age\" magazine on September 9, 2014. Five \"tankōbon\" volumes have been released as of March 2017. A spin-off manga, \"A Spotlight For (Even) This fool! Gifting this Wonderful World with Blessings! Extra\", was released as a bundle with the twelfth light novel volume. Written and illustrated by Kuma Hiru and Hagure Yuki, respectively, it follows the story of Dust, who finds himself in trouble with Vanir over selling stolen products.\n\nYen Press announced its acquisition of the manga adaptation at the same time that it licensed the original light novels.\n\nAn anime television adaptation by Studio Deen aired on Tokyo MX between January 14, 2016, and March 16, 2016; later broadcasting on eight other networks and several video on demand streaming networks. The series was simulcast by Crunchyroll in several regions such as North America, and by AnimeLab in Australia. The series was directed by Takaomi Kanasaki and written by Makoto Uezu with character designs by Koichi Kikuta. An original video animation (OVA) was bundled with the ninth light novel of \"KonoSuba\" in June 2016. The anime's opening theme is \"Fantastic Dreamer\" by Machico while the ending theme is performed by Sora Amamiya, Rie Takahashi, and Ai Kayano.\n\nThe series was animated by Koichi Kikuta and Momoka Komatsu, with the former working on odd-numbered episodes and the latter on even-numbered. While Komatsu's character designs closely resembled those of the light novels and had more attractive appearances, Kikuta based his designs on children's shows like \"Pokémon\" as he felt \"KonoSuba\" story was similar to those found in such shows.\n\nA second season premiered on January 12, 2017. The second season's opening theme is \"Tomorrow\" by Machico, and the ending theme is by Amamiya, Takahashi, and Kayano. A second OVA was bundled with the twelfth volume of \"KonoSuba\" in July 2017. On July 25, 2017, Jun Fukushima and Takahashi, the voice actors of Kazuma and Megumin respectively, announced plans for a new \"KonoSuba\" anime project.\n\nOn October 6, 2018, it was announced that characters from \"KonoSuba\" would appear in \"Isekai Quartet\", a crossover anime also featuring characters from \"\", \"Overlord\", and \"The Saga of Tanya the Evil\".\n\nA PC video game developed by game creator Tachi, titled , is bundled with the first Blu-ray Disc/DVD volume of the anime series on March 25, 2016. The game is developed using the software RPG Maker VX. Another video game, created by Team Ladybug and Krobon, titled \"KonoSuba: God's Blessing on this Wonderful World! Revival of Beldia\" () is bundled with the limited edition of first Blu-ray Disc/DVD volume of the anime series' second season and was released on April 28, 2017. The game is a side-scroller with gameplay resembling the \"Mega Man\" series.\n\nA visual novel adaptation for PlayStation Vita and PlayStation 4, \"KonoSuba: God's Blessing on this Wonderful World! Judgment on this Greedy Game!\" (), was developed by 5pb., published by Ubisoft and was released in Japan on September 7, 2017. The game features an original story, in which Kazuma discovers a cursed ring that allows him to steal the underwear of others near him. He learns the only way to undo the curse would be through raising enough money. \"Judgment on this Greedy Game!\" introduces an \"Underwear Judgment\" system, where the player assists Kazuma in returning lost underwear to their rightful owner. Like the anime, Machico performed the opening (\"Million Smile\"), while Amamiya, Takahashi, and Kayano sang the game's ending theme (\"101 Pikime no Hitsuji\").\n\nOn June 25, 2018, a film adaptation titled was announced to be in development at J.C.Staff. The cast and staff are set to reprise their roles from the TV series. The film is titled , and is scheduled to premiere in 2019.\n\nA radio drama CD, featuring a different voice cast to the anime, was released by HobiRecords on March 1, 2015. A second drama CD, along with an original soundtrack by Kouda Masato and a character song album, was released in March 2017.\n\nThe \"KonoSuba\" light novels have been quite popular. As of March 2, 2016, the 11-volume series has a total of 1.5 million copies in print, each volume selling 136,000 copies. As of February 2017, the light novels had three million copies in print. In a review of the first novel, Andy Hanley praised the series' comedy reflected in the \"tired genre\" as well as its cast finding them appealing based on their traits. However, Hanley criticized the short length of the first volume. The series won BookWalker's 2016 Grand Prix Award.\n\nLike its light novel counterpart, the anime has received positive reception for its comedy, parody of the \"trapped in a fantasy world\" subgenre, and faithful adaptation of the light novels. Reviewing the first few episodes, Anime News Network (ANN)'s Theron Martin described the second episode as \"the funniest episode of anime I have seen since \"Monthly Girls' Nozaki-kun\" aired\", while also praising the series' musical score. The voice acting has also been a subject of praise; Nick Creamer of ANN commended Sora Amamiya and Rie Takahashi's roles as Aqua and Megumin for the energy provided in their performances, while Martin applauded Jun Fukushima for his work in voicing Kazuma, considering his dry tone an additional factor in the show's humor.\n\nIn contrast, a common criticism of the anime was its inconsistent character animation, one that was described as \"low budget\" as characters appeared off-model. Koichi Kikuta responded by stating such design was intentional, hoping to \"bring out the individuality of each character\" rather than the prettier artwork in the light novels; to do this, Kikuta's animation displayed \"their more human sides, like their unflattering traits and their distressed moments.\" Crunchyroll's Kim Morrissy considered the animation to be humorous, especially fitting in a comedic anime. Kotaku writer Richard Eisenbeis explained much of the series' humor derives from the deconstruction of Kazuma's hopes of becoming the hero of a fantasy world, instead realizing he is forced to struggle his way through the world. Comparing Kazuma's problems in a fantasy world to those in real life, Creamer wrote about a sense of relatability between the series' protagonists and the audience, as the party deals with issues like debt and taking questionable jobs because of high pay. On a critical note, Creamer disapproved of Kazuma's negative attitude, which he felt harmed the comedy in the series.\n\n\"KonoSuba\" characters, especially those in Kazuma's party, have gained favorable thoughts in the anime community. Creamer described the group as possessing a \"strange but endearing chemistry,\" as the members are unfriendly with one another, yet are close. Morrissy added the party's \"emotional bond is also evident in the ways they interact with each other. My favorite thing about the anime is that it takes the time to draw these nuances out onscreen and express them with visual flair.\" Megumin in particular has been considered one of the series' most popular characters, winning Sneaker Bunko's official Favorite \"KonoSuba\" Character poll. She was also the sixth-highest vote in \"Newtype\" 2015–16 Awards for Best Female Character (Kazuma was third in the male category) and received the most \"Other\" votes in the Best Girl category in Crunchyroll's Anime Awards 2016. In an interview with internet personality The Anime Man, Natsume Akatsuki described Megumin as giving off \"a pure and elegant atmosphere\" like one of an anime heroine or waifu, hence her popularity among fans.\n\nIn 2016, the anime was voted the tenth-best TV anime in the \"Newtype\" 2015–16 Awards. \"KonoSuba\" also finished runner-up for Best Comedy in the Anime Awards 2016 to \"Haven't You Heard? I'm Sakamoto\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56636825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56636825", "title": "Leyendas (franchise)", "text": "Leyendas (franchise)\n\nLeyendas is an animated horror-comedy film franchise created by Ricardo Arnaiz and produced by Mexican animation studio, Ánima Estudios. It consists of five films, a television series, and a gaming application. It centers on Leo San Juan, a heroic preteen boy who can communicate with ghosts and monsters, Teodora, a sassy preteen ghost girl with a know-it-all personality, Don Andrés, an amicable but loony old knight, Alebrije, a mild-mannered mythological creature, and Finado and Moribunda, two charming calavera children. Each film is based on a Mexican legend, and are set during the 1800s timeline.\n\nThe franchise began in 2007 with the release of \"La Leyenda de la Nahuala\", directed by creator Ricardo Arnaiz and produced by Puebla-based Animex Producciones. The film was later followed by \"La Leyenda de la Llorona\" in 2011, \"La Leyenda de las Momias de Guanajuato\" in 2014, \"La Leyenda del Chupacabras\" in 2016, and \"La Leyenda del Charro Negro\" in 2018, all of which are produced by Ánima Estudios and directed and co-written by Alberto Rodríguez. The franchise has also been spawned into a Netflix original series, titled \"Legend Quest\".\n\nIt is the only film franchise in Mexico, which is a rare instance within the country's domestic film industry. As such, the franchise has become widely popular within the country and often achieves successful box-office numbers, with \"Chupacabras\" currently being the highest-grossing film.\n\nThe first film, \"La Leyenda de la Nahuala\" was released on 1 November 2007 in Mexico with 350 copies, directed by Ricardo Arnaiz and produced by Animex Producciones. The film has performed well at the Mexican box-office, grossing a total of $42.2 million pesos (US$4.03 million), which was one of the highest-grossing Mexican films at the time. Based on the 'Nahuala' legend and receiving the support of the state of Puebla, the film is written by Omar Mustre and Antonio Garci, and features the voices of famous Mexican actors, including Andrés Bustamante, Jesús Ochoa, Rafael Inclán, Martha Higareda, Manuel 'Loco' Valdés, and Pierre Angelo. Set in 1807 at the city of Puebla de Los Angeles, the film centers on Leo San Juan, a cowardly 9-year-old boy, summons the courage to rescue his older brother, Nando, from an abandoned house possessed by an evil witch, known as the 'Nahuala', with the aide of his new ghost friends. The success of the film has launched a franchise, to which Arnaiz have given the license and characters to Ánima Estudios.\n\nA sequel, \"La Leyenda de la Llorona\", based on the La Llorona (\"The Weeping Woman\") legend figure, was released on 21 October 2011 with 225 to 300 copies. Unlike its predecessor, it was produced by Ánima Estudios and directed and co-written by Alberto Rodríguez, which he and the company have taken over the production of further films. Additionally, the film also uses flash animation for the film and its successors (excluding \"Chupacabras\"; see below). The film is written by Ricardo Arnaiz, the predecessor's director, Jesús Guzmán, and Omar Mustre, who also written the preceding film. Some of the previous film's voice cast reprise their roles, while some actors, such as Andrés Bustamante, were replaced by new voice actors. The film picks up from \"Nahuala\" and follows the new adventures of Leo San Juan with his gang, Don Andrés, Alebrije, Teodora, Finado and Moribunda. Taking place in ancient Xochimilco, Leo falls out of the crew's ship where he meets a young village girl, named Kika, who is on her journey to find her lost brother, Beto, where they encounter the 'Llorona', while the rest of his gang end up in the La Isla de las Munecas ('Puppets' Island'). The film did not receive support from any Mexican state. It was another box-office success, earning $8 million pesos on its opening weekend, and grossing a total of $55.3 million pesos (US$2.9 million), performing better than its predecessor.\n\nThe third film, \"La Leyenda de las Momias de Guanajuato\", was released on 30 October 2014 with 700 copies in regular and 4DX formats, a first for a Mexican film. The film is a fictionalization of the origin of the mummies, notably from the Guanajuato region. It follows Leo San Juan and his gang now trying to find Xóchitl in Guanajuato who was kidnapped by Rosseau, an old wizard who has the ability to awaken the mummies from the dead. Along the way, Leo teams up with Valentina, disguised as her alter-ego Luis, who is on her own journey to find her father. Director Alberto Rodríguez returns to direct for the second time, and makes his writing debut, alongside with the screenplay by Jesús Guzmán, Ricardo Arnaiz, and Dulce María Guerrero. \"Momias\" was not produced with the support of the Mexican federal government, due to disapproval; however, it did receive support from the state government of Guanajuato. Despite the lack of national support, \"Momias\" is a major box-office success, and the first in the series to surpass $50 million pesos; grossing a total of $92.2 million pesos (US$4.9 million). As the voice cast from \"Llorona\" reunites for the third film, among the newcomers is Benny Emmanuel, known for \"La CQ\", as the voice of Leo San Juan, who has been the present voice actor for the character since \"Momias\". Alongside, Eduardo \"Lalo\" España, a Mexican actor and comedian, joins the franchise cast as the new character, Evaristo, an alebrije with a smooth personality, while Alejandra Müller, a teen actress who is also an alumnus of \"La CQ\", voices Valentina, a girl who Leo helps find Rosseau.\n\n\"La Leyenda del Chupacabras\", the fourth film, was released on 21 October 2016. The story is based on the chupacabra creature. In the film, while on his way home to Puebla, Leo and his fellow rebel mates get caught up in a civil war where they get locked up in Irapuato. When the 'chupacabra' invades the prison, Leo calls the help of his friend, Teodora, to discover the origin and arrival of the creature as he escapes with his inmates. The films' past characters, including Don Andrés and Xochitl, were left absent, while Fernando \"Nando\" San Juan, Leo's older brother from \"Nahuala\", makes a return to the franchise. The film also uses traditional animation, which is the first time since \"Nahuala\" and the first during the Ánima Estudios era. In another series first, the film was released in the United States on 14 October 2016, one week prior to its release in Mexico. Distributed by Pantelion Films, a major American film distributor for Latin American-themed films, the film was shown in the original Spanish-language format with English subtitles. Despite receiving negative reviews, the film is another major box-office success, grossing a total of $100.7 million pesos (US$5.4 million), making it the highest-grossing film in the franchise and currently the only one to surpass the $100 million peso-mark. While the \"Momias\" voice cast return for the fourth film, Rafael Inclán did not return to voice Alebrije, where he was replaced by dubbing actor Herman López.\n\n\"La Leyenda del Charro Negro\", the fifth entry, was released on 19 January 2018, as opposed to previous films which were normally released on an October. It picks up from \"Chupacabras\" where Leo San Juan and his brother Nando head home to Puebla. Along the way, Leo encounters the 'Charro Negro' (\"Black Charro\") who confuses him and causes a girl to be cast into the underworld. He enlists the help of his friends to correct his mistakes and take on the 'Charro Negro' once and for all. \"Charro Negro\" marks the return of some of the past films' characters, such as Don Andrés and Xochitl, while also featuring cameos of other returning characters and references the entire franchise elements. Along with the returning voice cast of the \"Momias\" and \"Chupacabras\", Mexican actor Erick Elías voices the 'Charro Negro'.\n\nWhile \"Charro Negro\" has been rumored to be the last film in the franchise, director Alberto Rodríguez has stated the possibility of a new film, due to the amount of potential and \"many more doors to explore\", but would require the creation of new characters.\nAndrés Couturier, the voice of Don Andrés and manager at Ánima Estudios, said that he wouldn't be \"surprised to see crossovers or spin-offs of \"Las Leyendas\".\" Rodríguez stated that \"Charro Negro\" would be his last film, as he has expressed interest in making new projects outside of the franchise. \"I feel that my cycle is already finished in terms of [\"Leyendas\"]. I already want to do other things, but we are still involved in the development of other things that come for the \"Leyendas\",\" he said.\n\nIt was announced on Twitter that another installment is confirmed. It is currently unknown whether the film will be a direct follow-up to Leo's past adventures or an entirely new film.\n\nA Netflix original series based on the characters, named \"Legend Quest\" (a.k.a. \"Las Leyendas\"), premiered in 2017 in 30 languages, making it the platform's first original animated series produced in Latin America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14390726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14390726", "title": "Lord of Vermilion", "text": "Lord of Vermilion\n\nAs of November 7, 2008, \"Lord of Vermilion\" has contributed over ¥4 billion in earnings for Square Enix.\n\nA sequel, \"Lord of Vermilion II\", was released in Japan on October 27, 2009, and was followed up by \"Lord of Vermilion Re:2\" on July 26, 2011. The sequels prominently featured collaborations with a number of other franchises and game series, including the \"Final Fantasy\", \"Romancing SaGa\", \"\", \"The King of Fighters\", \"Touhou\" and \"BlazBlue\".\n\nIt has also spawned a spinoff franchise of action RPG titles for the PlayStation Portable and PlayStation Vita, including \"Lord of Arcana\" and \"Lord of Apocalypse\".\n\nAnother sequel, \"Lord of Vermilion III\", was released on August 22, 2013.\n\nA free-to-play third person action multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA), \"Lord of Vermilion Arena\", was officially launched on June 17, 2015. The servers were closed on June 30, 2016 \n\nIn a parody real-time strategy (RTS) game using in-game minions called Lord of Verminion was made in reference and parody to Lord of Vermilion on November 10, 2015.\n\nOn January 26, 2017, Square Enix announced the development of \"Lord of Vermilion IV\". Another arcade release for up to eight players, it will feature music by Taku Iwasaki.\n\nThe player controls up to 4 units on the field at one time including the player's avatar and up to 90 total cost of units at one time. When a unit dies it must be returned to the inactive area and after a set amount of time it can be used again. Active units can only be switched in and out while the players units are in the gate area. Players can damage enemy arcane crystals, the search eye, the crystal shield or gates by putting their units in the associated area as long as no enemies are present. Players can also damage the arcane crystals by destroying all of the opponents units that are on the field.\n\nIn ancient times, before the creation of the worlds, there lived a God. He opened his heart and brought forth a vermilion stone in order to create seven different worlds. Whosoever held the vermilion stone held the power to create worlds, and would reign over the seven worlds as a god, the \"Lord of Vermilion\". The seven worlds existed side by side in harmony for millennia, their inhabitants separated by boundaries and unable to interfere with one another... until the \"Great Collapse\".\n\nThe lord of the human world, consumed by ambition, sought to use the forbidden magic of the vermilion stone, called the \"Arcana\", in order to become a god. However, he was unable to wield the power and the Arcana was shattered into seven pieces and scattered amongst the seven worlds, destroying their boundaries. The six worlds were drawn into the human world and they merged. With the six races of the six worlds thrust into the human world, chaos and war broke out.\n\nAges later, the world, called the \"Land of Acheron\", is still in turmoil. The six \"Lords\" of the six races sow strife across the land, warring for each other's Arcana. The player takes the role of a legendary warrior who holds the seventh Arcana and seeks to obtain the Arcana and upset the balance of the world, gathering an army of \"Familiars\" who hold faith in the legend of the \"Lord of Vermilion\".\n\n\n\n\nTo date, contributing guest artists include:\n\n"}
{"id": "16637103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16637103", "title": "Media monitoring", "text": "Media monitoring\n\nMedia monitoring is the activity of monitoring the output of the print, online and broadcast media. It can be conducted for a variety of reasons, including political, commercial, scientific, and so on.\n\nIn the commercial sphere, this activity is usually carried out in house or by a media monitoring service, a private company that provides such services to other companies, organisations and individuals on a subscription basis.\n\nThe services that media monitoring companies provide typically include the systematic recording of radio and television broadcasts, the collection of press clippings from print media publications, the collection of data from online information sources. The material collected usually consists of any media output that makes reference to the client, its activities and/or its designated topics of interests. The monitoring of online consumer sources such as blogs, forums and social networks is more specifically known as buzz monitoring which informs the company of how its service or product is perceived by users.\n\nWhile monitoring social media it can be beneficial for a company to respond to as many posts as possible. Not all comments will be positive ones, but it is good for the customers to know they are being heard. It is also important to keep in mind to avoid deleting any unfavorable content from a social media page you control. You should assume that something on the Internet was seen by at least one person, no matter how quickly you delete it. Deleting the comment can make the company look even worse and give the idea of a cover-up which implies guilt on the company’s part.\n\nMost media monitoring is done within private public relations agencies or businesses in house public relations sectors. Publicists will track the number of times the company was mentioned within different platforms. Some of the main platforms include magazines, newspaper, blogs, and social media. These entries are referred to as “clippings” and are compiled into monthly reports by the Public Relations firm. These clippings are then presented to the client along with the circulation and impressions from these platforms. Circulation is how many subscribers or viewers the platform has, and impressions are calculated by multiplying the circulation by three. Impressions are only calculated for print media because it is assumed print media will be circulated past the original subscribers. These figures are calculated to show the client approximately how many people their message has reached. Media monitoring is a beneficial tool to evaluate the efforts and progress of a PR firm.\n\nIn academia media monitoring is deployed by social scientists in an attempt to discover e.g. biases in the way the same event is presented in different media, among the media of different countries etc. The use of large scale monitoring techniques by computer scientists enabled the exploration of different aspects of the media system such as the visualisation of the media-sphere, the sentimental and objectivity analysis of news content etc.\n\nMedia monitoring is practically achieved by a combination of technologies—including audio and video recording, high speed text scanners and text recognition software—and human readers and analysts. The automation of the process is highly desirable and can be partially achieved by deploying data mining and machine learning techniques.\n\n"}
{"id": "1101500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1101500", "title": "Mentalism", "text": "Mentalism\n\nMentalism is a performing art in which its practitioners, known as mentalists, appear to demonstrate highly developed mental or intuitive abilities. Performances may appear to include hypnosis, telepathy, clairvoyance, divination, precognition, psychokinesis, mediumship, mind control, memory feats, deduction, and rapid mathematics. Mentalists are sometimes categorized as psychic entertainers, although that category also contains non-mentalist performers such as psychic readers and bizzarists.\n\nMuch of what modern mentalists perform in their acts can be traced back directly to \"tests\" of supernatural power that were carried out by mediums, spiritualists, and psychics in the 19th century. However, the history of mentalism goes back even further. Accounts of seers and oracles can be found in works by the ancient Greeks and in the Old Testament of the Bible. Among magicians, the mentalism performance generally cited as one of the earliest on record was by diplomat and pioneering sleight-of-hand magician Girolamo Scotto in 1572. The performance of mentalism may utilize these principles along with sleights, feints, misdirection, and other skills of street or stage magic.\n\nStyles of presentation can vary greatly. Traditional performers such as Dunninger and Annemann attributed their results to supernatural or psychic skills.\n\nSome contemporary performers, such as Derren Brown, attribute their results to natural skills, such as the ability to read body language or to manipulate the subject subliminally through psychological suggestion.\n\nOthers, including Chan Canasta and David Berglas would make no specific claims but leave it up to the audience to decide.\n\nContemporary mentalists often take their shows onto the streets and perform tricks to a live, unsuspecting audience. They do this by approaching random members of the public and ask to demonstrate their supernatural powers. Performers such as Derren Brown who often adopt this method of performance tell their audience before the trick starts that everything they see is an illusion and that they are not really \"having their mind read.\" This has been the cause of a lot of controversy in the sphere of magic as some mentalists want their audience to believe that this type of magic is 'real' whilst others think that it is morally wrong to lie to a spectator.\n\nMentalists generally do not mix \"standard\" magic tricks with their mental feats. Doing so associates mentalism too closely with the theatrical trickery employed by stage magicians. Many mentalists claim not to be magicians at all, arguing that it is a different art form altogether. The argument is that mentalism invokes belief and when presented properly, is offered as being \"real\" be it a claim of psychic ability, or proof that supports other claims such as a photographic memory, being a \"human calculator\", the power of suggestion, NLP, etc. Mentalism plays on the senses and a spectator's perception of tricks.\n\nMagicians ask the audience to suspend their disbelief and allow their imagination to play with the various tricks they present. They admit that they are tricksters and entertainers, and know the audience understands it's an illusion and the magician cannot really achieve the impossible feats shown, such as sawing a person in half and putting them back together without injury.\n\nHowever, many magicians mix mentally-themed performance with magic illusions. For example, a mind-reading stunt might also involve the magical transposition of two different objects. Such hybrid feats of magic are often called \"mental magic\" by performers. Magicians who routinely mix magic with mental magic include David Copperfield, David Blaine, The Amazing Kreskin, and Dynamo.. Notable mentalists who mix magic with mentalism include The Amazing Kreskin, Richard Osterlind, David Berglas, Derren Brown, and Joseph Dunninger.\n\nMentalism techniques have, on occasion, been allegedly used outside the entertainment industry to influence the actions of prominent people for personal and/or political gain. Famous examples of accused practitioners include:\n\n\"The Amazing Kreskin\" has audience members hide his cheques before the show; if Kreskin cannot find the cheque at the end of his performance, he does not get paid.\n\n\nRaju Gari Gadhi 2: Rudra, Played by Akkineni Nagarjuna, performs as a mentalist in Telugu movie Released on October 2017\n\n"}
{"id": "43121106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43121106", "title": "Motion-capture acting", "text": "Motion-capture acting\n\nMotion-capture acting, also called performance-capture acting, sometimes abbreviated as MoCap or Pcap, is a type of acting in which an actor wears markers or sensors on a skintight bodysuit or directly on the skin. Several cameras from different angles record the actor's movements simultaneously, recording the three-dimensional position of the sensors and not recording the rest of the actor. Sampling is done many times each second, aided by advances in computer technology. The resulting database of 3-D points permits a filmmaker or video game creator to create a digital character and to place this character in an entirely new setting, such as on top of a fictional volcano or flying through the air. This type of acting is seen as a growth area, with predictions that there will be more work in future for actors. Some theatrical agents represent motion-capture actors.\n\nMotion-capture acting can be difficult work. For example, one actor was \"placed in a tiny booth, had dots placed all over his face that captured his movements, and had to sit perfectly still\". One report suggested that actors wishing to break into this line of work should go to acting class and become experts in skills such as gunplay, sword fighting, dance, general body movement, running and jumping, gymnastics, and hand-to-hand fighting. It is a new type of acting work. Numerous sources identify actor Andy Serkis as the \"king of motion-capture acting\" based on his work in creating digital characters in movies such as \"The Lord of the Rings\", \"King Kong\" and \"Planet of the Apes\". According to one report, the first use of performance capture acting for a video game was for the 2007 game \"Heavenly Sword\" which starred Serkis and others. Serkis said:\n\nThere have been battles within the film industry about earning recognition for motion-capture actors. The Alliance of Motion Picture & Television Producers does not consider motion-capture acting as the same type of work as acting, which means that motion-capture actors are often paid less. The Screen Actors Guild (SAG) has lobbied the industry for better employment terms and conditions for motion-capture actors, and argued that motion-capture work should be included in standard labor contracts. The industry in 2012 did not give awards for motion-capture acting.\n\n"}
{"id": "59091880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59091880", "title": "Multimodal anthropology", "text": "Multimodal anthropology\n\nMultimodal anthropology is an emerging subfield of social cultural anthropology that encompasses anthropological research and knowledge production across multiple traditional and new media platforms and practices including film, video, photography, theatre, design, podcast, mobile apps, interactive games, web-based social networking, immersive 360 video and augmented reality. As characterized in American Anthropologist\",\" multimodal anthropology is an \"anthropology that works across multiple media, but one that also engages in public anthropology and collaborative anthropology through a field of differentially linked media platforms\" (Collins, Durington & Gill). A multimodal approach also encourages anthropologist to reconsider the ways in which they conduct their research, to pay close attention to the role various media technologies and digital devices plays in the lives of their interlocutors, and how they these technologies redefine what fieldwork looks like.\n\nMultimodal anthropology is not a new concept. It has been a fundamental part of anthropological research and fieldwork from the early days of the disciple. Anthropologists have been experimenting with different forms media technologies throughout the twentieth century whenever confronted with the limitation of text-based ethnography. Multimodal is a term that has readily been used since the 1970s in varied disciplines as psychotherapy, phonetics, genetics, literature and medicine to characterize different approaches to carrying out scientific research that involves to a certain degree, thinking outside of the box. In the early 1990s, semioticians used the terms to discuss different forms of communication across different media, eventually including digital media.\n\nTechnological advances in the later part of the twentieth century, the accessibility to photography, film cameras and audio recorders led to the emergence of visual anthropology as a sub discipline dedicated to the study and production of ethnographic photography, film and media. Building in this legacy, multimodal anthropology seeks to expand the boundaries of visual anthropology to incorporate emerging technologies of twenty-first century including mobile networking, social media, geo-mapping, virtual reality, podcasting, interactive design, along with other traditional forms of learning and knowledge production like art and drawing that were often sidelined within visual anthropology, such as interactive gaming, theatre, performance, graphic novels, ethnofiction and experimental ethnography. As Samuel Collins, Matthew Durington and Harjant Gill note in their introductory essay on title \"Multimodality: An Invitation,\" published in American Anthropologist, \"multimodal anthropologies does not attempt – or desire – to supplant visual anthropology. Rather it seeks to include traditional forms of visual anthropology while simultaneously broadening the purview of the discipline to engage in variety of media forms that exist today.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1039975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1039975", "title": "Narrative environment", "text": "Narrative environment\n\nA narrative environment is a space, whether physical or virtual, in which stories can unfold. A virtual narrative environment might be the narrative framework in which game play can proceed. A physical narrative environment might be an exhibition area within a museum, or a foyer of a retail space, or the public spaces around a building - anywhere in short where stories can be told in space. It is also a term coined by the Central Saint Martin's College of Art and Design program in Narrative Whitby, where the first Narrative Environment course was introduced in 2003. It is a full-time, 2 year Masters level course leading to an MA degree in Creative Practice for Narrative Environments.\n\n"}
{"id": "4751502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4751502", "title": "Narrative hook", "text": "Narrative hook\n\nA narrative hook (or just hook) is a literary technique in the opening of a story that \"hooks\" the reader's attention so that he or she will keep on reading. The \"opening\" may consist of several paragraphs for a short story, or several pages for a novel, but ideally it is the opening sentence in the book.\n\nOne of the most common forms is dramatic action, which engages the reader into wondering what the consequences of the action will be. This particular form has been recommended from the earliest days, stemming from Aristotle.\n\nThe use of action as the hook, and the advice to so use it, is so widespread as to sometimes lead to the use of the term to mean an action opening, but other things can be used for narrative hooks, such mysterious settings, or engaging characters, or even a thematic statement, as with Jane Austen's opening line, \"It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.\" (\"Pride and Prejudice\")\n\nWhen a story does not lend itself to a good hook when it is laid out linearly, the writer may tell the story out of order to engage the reader's interest. The story may begin with a dramatic moment and, once the reader is curious, flashback to the history necessary to understand it. Or it may be told as a story-within-a-story, with the narrator in the frame story telling the story to answer the curiosity of his listeners, or by warning them that the story began in an ordinary seeming way, but they must follow it to understand latter actions. A famous early example of this technique was used in the \"One Thousand and One Nights\", also known as the \"Arabian Nights\", in which the frame story consists of Sheherazade telling stories to King Shahriyar; she must keep him 'hooked' to each of the stories, in order to prevent him from executing her the next morning.\n\n\"In medias res\" is where the relating of a story begins at the midpoint, rather than at the beginning. This form of story telling might be used as a narrative hook. Narrative hooks often play an important role in suspense thrillers and mystery fiction. An example of both these occurrences is \"One Thousand and One Nights\", in which a tale, \"The Three Apples,\" begins with the discovery of a young woman's dead body, thus keeping the reader interested in \"whodunit.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4585364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4585364", "title": "National Coffee Park", "text": "National Coffee Park\n\nThe National Coffee Park () is a theme park located in the department of Quindío, Colombia, 4 km south-west of the town of Montenegro and 11 km west of the departmental capital city Armenia. The park was founded by the National Federation of Coffee Growers of Colombia () and the Departmental Committee of Coffee Growers of Quindío (), and opened on 24 February 1995. It consists of two main areas: by the main entrance are the buildings housing the museum and exhibitions detailing the history, culture and process of growing and producing coffee in the region; and in the valley beyond is an amusement park with rides and shows. The two areas are linked by two gondola lifts and a chairlift: it is also possible to walk between the two areas via an ecological trail that passes through a plantation of many varieties of coffee bushes.\n\nAs well as amusement rides the park also offers other attractions such as animatronics shows, a global coffee garden, food stalls based on coffee and traditional Colombian architecture. In 2009 the park received its five millionth visitor and has grown to become one of Colombia's top tourist attractions, with more than one million visitors in 2017.\nThe idea for a coffee museum came after Diego Arango Mora and his wife Margarita visited the Sugar Museum in nearby Valle del Cauca Department. Margarita remarked that if the country had a museum dedicated to sugar, it should also have one dedicated to Colombia's best known export. Arango, a member of the Departmental Committee of Coffee Growers of Quindío, agreed and contacted Jorge Cárdenas Gutiérrez, the head of the National Federation of Coffee Growers of Colombia, who was also receptive to the idea. When Arango was elected to chair the National Congress of Coffee Growers in 1982, he proposed the creation of the museum, but was told by the secretary of the Congress that he did not have the quorum to pass the proposal.\n\nOver the following years, Arango continued to work toward the creation of the museum, despite lack of financial support from banks unwilling to lend money for an enterprise they saw as non-profitable, and opposition from delegates from three other departments of Colombia who lobbied for the museum to be constructed in their departments, as well from other towns within the department of Quindío itself who objected to Arango's choice of Montenegro as the planned site for the museum.\n\nThe museum was finally constructed and opened on 24 February 1995, and drew 250,000 visitors in its first year. However, visitor surveys showed that it was mainly those of 40 years of age who enjoyed the park, while younger visitors and children indicated they would not return. Arango took the decision to add an amusement park to the museum in order to attract the younger crowds. The first attractions were the gondola lift and the steam railway, followed by the roller coaster and other rides.\n\n\n\nThe amusement park contains 27 rides as of 2018. These include three roller coasters:\n\nOther rides include free-fall rides, a log flume, a Ferris wheel, bumper boats and bumper cars (dodgems), go-karts and a traditional train (with live folkloric music onboard) and station\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34249254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34249254", "title": "Nightlife in Bangkok", "text": "Nightlife in Bangkok\n\nThe nightlife in Bangkok had a reputation in the past for having an element of rowdiness. Besides being the capital of Thailand, Bangkok has been recently reported as having a historic drop in its crime rate. Bangkok's crime fighting program will eventually be adopted by Bangkok's neighboring cities and communities in the near future.\n\nOn weekdays, most of Bangkok's nightlife takes places in the Red Light Districts of Soi Cowboy and Nana Plaza. Most venues outside of those areas are only open on weekends. Khaosan Road is another popular nightlife spot in Bangkok with mostly young backpackers roaming the streets.\n\nIt has been mentioned in popular culture in Murray Head's song \"One Night in Bangkok\" with the infamous quote \"One night in Bangkok can make a hard man humble.\" While the choruses extol Bangkok's reputation and exciting atmosphere in the song, the American in the music video would denounce the city, including its red-light district, \"muddy old river\" and \"reclining Buddha\". Bangkok is also well known for their massage parlors and the popular \"Eden Club\"; which offers \"professional sexual services\". One of the few rules of the Eden Club is to take two ladies that are equally skilled in pleasuring each other as the male client. Unmarried males can find sexual companionship amongst the local prostitutes.\n\nBangkok has also been discovered to be one of the safest and relaxed cities in the world. Their nightlife ranges from live music in jazz clubs to world-class restaurants. The once sleazy image of Bangkok at night has been virtually eradicated in the past 30 years. Bangkok is the only place in the world with pink taxi cabs that cater towards the LGBT tourists and residents. Even unescorted women can enjoy Bangkok safely and without any problems. Each bar has a different show of girls and bar games and a variety of stereos competing for the attentions of the patrons. Cabaret shows in Bangkok have a tendency to feature transgender performers. Drug violations are often handed out more severe penalties than in the Western world and statutory rape is completely frowned upon.\n\nThe price of domestic beer in Bangkok ranges from $1.44 USD to $2.87 USD while the cost of imported beer ranges from $1.92 USD to $4.79 USD. The price of taxi service for a 1-kilometer drive ranges from $0.13 USD to $0.18 USD. Due to the lower prices for alcoholic beverages as opposed to the major cities of North America and Europe, the majority of the customers are the local students who are attending university. The Lamsalee sub-district caters more to the local crowds than international tourists; with their dance clubs catering towards their regular stream of customers. Tourists are more likely to head towards the Si Lom sub-district (with Soi 2 being more for the young adult crowd with nightclubs playing dance music and Soi 4 being more easy-going with a variety of restaurants and places to drink alcohol).\n\nThailand is famous for its racy nightlife entertainment and amongst the madness is a thriving cabaret scene. Every night tourists pack into the various venues for an entertaining show that is full of laughs, music and dance. In Thailand the top shows include Calypso Cabaret, Simon Phuket, Tiffany's and popular newcomers Playhouse Theater.\n\nThailand is one of the most well-recognized centers of transgender and transvestite performance artists in the world. They are known as either \"kathoeys\" or \"ladyboys.\" In fact, it is the most cost-effective place to acquire sex reassignment surgery along with having the highest standards of surgeons trained in performing operations of this kind. Most of these performs already had breast implants and typically perform before completely transitioning into womanhood by undergoing surgery on their genitals. All sorts of feminine legends are celebrated here from Hollywood divas to legendary female disco artists and even mythical creaturess from Thailand's glorious past. These transgender people are accepted even in rural Thailand. However, their genders are not legally recognized and suicide rates amongst ladyboy show performers are higher than the national average.\n"}
{"id": "6556808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6556808", "title": "Outline of performing arts", "text": "Outline of performing arts\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to the performing arts:\n\nPerforming arts – art forms that use the artist's own body, face, presence as a medium.\n\nThe performing arts as a whole can be described as all of the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPoetry is also a form of performing arts, because it can tell a story if the writer chooses to do so, and you vocalize it.\nArt is another form because it is used to express feelings or anything really. It is used in plays, homes, and other things/places.\n\n"}
{"id": "4214394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4214394", "title": "Practical joke", "text": "Practical joke\n\nA practical joke, or prank, is a mischievous trick played on someone, generally causing the victim to experience embarrassment, perplexity, confusion, or discomfort. A person who performs a practical joke is called a \"practical joker\". Other terms for practical jokes include gag, jape, or shenanigan.\n\nPractical jokes differ from confidence tricks or hoaxes in that the victim finds out, or is let in on the joke, rather than being talked into handing over money or other valuables. Practical jokes are generally lighthearted and without lasting impact; they aim to make the victim feel humbled or foolish, but not victimized or humiliated. Thus most practical jokes are affectionate gestures of humour and designed to encourage laughter. However, practical jokes performed with cruelty can constitute bullying, whose intent is to harass or exclude rather than reinforce social bonds through ritual humbling.\n\nSome countries in Western culture traditionally emphasize the carrying out of practical jokes on April Fools' Day.\n\nA practical joke is \"practical\" because it consists of someone doing something physical, in contrast to a verbal or written joke. For example, the joker who is setting up and conducting the practical joke might hang a bucket of water above a doorway and rig the bucket using pulleys so when the door opens the bucket dumps the water. The joker would then wait for the victim to walk through the doorway and be drenched by the bucket of water. Objects can also be used in practical jokes, like fake vomit, chewing gum bugs, exploding cigars, stink bombs, costumes and whoopee cushions.\n\nPractical jokes often occur inside offices, usually to surprise co-workers. Covering the computer accessories with Jell-O, wrapping the desk with Christmas paper or aluminium foil or filling it with balloons are just some examples of office pranks. Practical jokes are also common occurrences during sleepovers, whereby teens will play pranks on their friends as they come into the home, enter a room or even as they sleep.\n\nAmerican humorist H. Allen Smith wrote a 320-page book in 1953 called \"The Compleat Practical Joker\" () that contains numerous examples of practical jokes. The book became a best seller not only in the United States but also in Japan. Moira Marsh has written an entire volume about practical jokes. One of her findings is that in the USA they are more often done by males than females.\n\nA practical joke recalled as his favorite by the playwright Charles MacArthur, concerns the American painter and bohemian character Waldo Peirce. While living in Paris in the 1920s, Peirce \"made a gift of a very big turtle to the woman who was the concierge of his building\". The woman doted on the turtle and lavished care on it. A few days later Peirce substituted a somewhat larger turtle for the original one. This continued for some time, with larger and larger turtles being surreptitiously introduced into the woman's apartment. The concierge was beside herself with happiness and displayed her miraculous turtle to the entire neighborhood. Peirce then began to sneak in and replace the turtle with smaller and smaller ones, to her bewildered distress. This was the storyline behind \"Esio Trot\", by Roald Dahl.\n\nModern and successful pranks often take advantage of the modernization of tools and techniques. In Canada, engineering students have a reputation for annual pranks; at the University of British Columbia these usually involve leaving a Volkswagen Beetle in an unexpected location (such as suspended from the Golden Gate Bridge and the Lions Gate Bridge). A similar prank was undertaken by engineering students at Cambridge University, England, where an Austin 7 car was put on top of the Senate House building. Pranks can also adapt to the political context of the era. Students at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) are particularly known for their \"hacks\".\n\nNot unlike the Stone Louse of Germany, in the American West the jackalope has become an institutionalized practical joke perennially perpetrated by ruralites (as a class) on tourists, most of whom have never heard of the decades-old myth.\n\nThe 2003 TV movie \"Windy City Heat\", consists of an elaborate practical joke on the film's star, Perry Caravallo, who is led to believe that he is starring in a faux action film, \"Windy City Heat\", where the filming which is ostensibly for the film's DVD extras actually documents the long chain of pranks and jokes performed at Caravallo's expense.\n"}
{"id": "1003029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1003029", "title": "Pull my finger", "text": "Pull my finger\n\nPull my finger is a joke or prank regarding flatulence in which a mark is asked to pull the finger of the joker, who simultaneously farts so as to suggest a causal relationship between the two events. \n\nA comparable activity is attributed to a character in a short story by Mordecai Richler (collected in \"The Street\", 1969):\nA variation on this joke appears in Yasujirō Ozu's film \"Good Morning\" (1959). Schoolboys ask each other to push their foreheads, responding with an expulsion of gas.\n\nIn the 1993 film \"Last Action Hero\", a gas bomb hidden in a corpse has its timer started by pulling on the corpse's finger.\n\nIn 2008, an iPhone app from Air-O-Matic called Pull My Finger was one of the most popular apps in Apple's App Store, purchased over 50,000 times in less than one week. It allowed users to pull a virtual finger, activating the sound. The phrase is now the focus of a legal battle between Pull My Finger and InfoMedia's iFart Mobile app over the use of the phrase.\n\nIn 2015, an MRI study of how knuckles trigger popping sounds was jokingly called the \"pull my finger study.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "156592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=156592", "title": "Puppeteer", "text": "Puppeteer\n\nA puppeteer is a person who manipulates an inanimate object that might be shaped like a human, animal or mythical creature, or another object to create the illusion that the puppet is \"alive\". The puppeteer may be visible to or hidden from the audience. A puppeteer can operate a puppet indirectly by the use of strings, rods, wires, electronics or directly by his or her own hands placed inside the puppet or holding it externally or any other part of the body- such as the legs. Some puppet styles require two or more puppeteers to work together to create a single puppet character.\n\nThe puppeteer's role is to manipulate the physical object in such a manner that the audience believes the object is imbued with life. In some instances, the persona of the puppeteer is also an important feature, as with ventriloquist's dummy performers, in which the puppeteer and the human figure-styled puppet appear onstage together, and in theatre shows like \"Avenue Q\".\n\nThe puppeteer might speak in the role of the puppet's character, synchronising the movements of the puppet's \"mouth\". However, there is much puppetry which does not use the moving mouth (which is a lip-sync innovation created originally for television where close-up \"headshots\" are popular). Often, in theatre, a moveable mouth is used only for gestural expression, or speech might be produced by a non-moving mouth. In traditional glove puppetry often one puppeteer will operate two puppets at a time out of a cast of several.\nMuch work is produced without any speech at all with all the emphasis on movement\n\nThe relationship between the puppeteer and the puppet-maker is similar to that between an actor and a playwright, in cases where a puppet-maker designs a puppet for a puppeteer. Very often, though, the puppeteer assumes the joint roles of puppet-maker, director, designer, writer and performer. In this case a puppeteer is a more complete theatre practitioner than is the case with other theatre forms, in which one person writes a play, another person directs it, and then actors perform the lines and gestures.\n\nPuppetry is a complex medium sometimes consisting of live performance, sometimes contributing to stop frame puppet animation, and film where performances might be technically processed as motion capture, CGI or as virtual puppetry.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2403354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2403354", "title": "Repertoire", "text": "Repertoire\n\nA repertoire () is a list or set of dramas, operas, musical compositions or roles which a company or person is prepared to perform.\n\nMusicians often have a musical repertoire. The first known use of the word \"repertoire\" was in 1847. It is a loan word from the French language, as \"répertoire\", with a similar meaning in the arts. The origin of the word is from the Late Latin word \"repertorium\".\n\nThe concept of a basic repertoire has been extended to refer to groups which focus mainly on performing standard works, as in repertory theater or repertoire ballet.\n\n"}
{"id": "18611039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18611039", "title": "Sociology of film", "text": "Sociology of film\n\nThe sociology of film deals with the sociological analysis of film. According to a university class in it, the field includes \"Contemporary cinema as a culture clue to social change; an introduction to the social forces involved in film-making in the United States and other cultures; the influence of films on mass and select audiences.\" According to another university course, it covers \"social aspects causes and consequences of the production, distribution, content, form and reception of film.\"\n\n\"The New York Times\" said, \"One problem, though, is that if the audience is the measure all things, then art becomes a reflection of sociology and dissecting audience tastes becomes the art.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1684824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1684824", "title": "Spectacle", "text": "Spectacle\n\nIn general, spectacle refers to an event that is memorable for the appearance it creates. Derived in Middle English from c. 1340 as \"specially prepared or arranged display\" it was borrowed from Old French \"spectacle\", itself a reflection of the Latin \"spectaculum\" \"a show\" from \"spectare\" \"to view, watch\" frequentative form of \"specere\" \"to look at.\" The word \"spectacle\" has also been a term of art in theater dating from the 17th century in English drama.\nCourt masques and masques of the nobility were most popular in the Jacobean and Caroline era. Such masques, as their name implies, relied heavily upon a non-verbal theater. The character lists for masques would be quite small, in keeping with the ability of a small family of patrons to act, but the costumes and theatrical effects would be lavish. Reading the text of masques, such as \"The Masque at Ludlow\" (most often referred to as \"Comus\"), the writing is spare, philosophical, and grandiose, with very few marks of traditional dramatic structure. This is partially due to the purpose of the masque being family entertainment and spectacle. Unlike \"The Masque at Ludlow\", most masques were recreations of well-known mythological or religious scenes. Some masques would derive from tableau. For example, Edmund Spenser (\"Fairie Queene\" I, iv) describes a masque of \"The Seven Deadly Sins\". \n\nMasques were multimedia, for they almost always involved costuming and music as a method of conveying the story or narrative. Ben Jonson, for example, wrote masques with the architect Inigo Jones. William Davenant, who would become one of the major impresarios of the English Restoration, also wrote pre-Revolutionary masques with Inigo Jones. The role of the architect was that of designer of the staging, which would be elaborate and often culminate in a fireworks show.\n\nWhen the zoetrope and nickelodeon technology first appeared, the earliest films were spectacles. They caught the attention of common people. They showed things people would rarely see, and they showed it to the wide audience.\n\nWithin industrial and post-industrial cultural and state formations, spectacle has been appropriated to describe appearances that are purported to be simultaneously enticing, deceptive, distracting and superficial. (Jonathan Crary: 2005) Current academic theories of spectacle \"highlight how the productive forces of marketing, often associated with media and Internet proliferation, create symbolic forms of practice that are emblematic of everyday situations\".\n\nSpectacle can also refer to a society that critics describe as dominated by electronic media, consumption, and surveillance, reducing citizens to spectators by political neutralization. Recently the word has been associated with the many ways in which a capitalist structure is purported to create play-like celebrations of its products and leisure time consumption. The work of French Marxist thinker Guy Debord is perhaps the best-known example of this critical analysis; see his \"The Society of the Spectacle\" (1967)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17947306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17947306", "title": "Stage illusions", "text": "Stage illusions\n\nStage illusions are large-scale magic tricks. As the name implies, stage illusions are distinct from all other types of magic in that they are performed a considerable distance away from the audience, usually on a stage, in order to maintain the illusion. Examples of stage illusions include sawing a woman in half and Lady-to-Tiger.\n\nStage illusions usually use large props and may involve the use of assistants or large animals. As this form of magic performance is very common on television, members of the public will report that this is the only form of magic with which they are familiar. In actuality, only a small percentage of professional magicians are stage illusionists. Most choose to specialize in close-up magic and perform in more intimate settings. Grand illusions are usually very costly and, due to their size, are difficult to ship, which would explain the paucity of professional stage illusionists.\n\nThe twister is a famous stage magic trick. A woman is placed in an upright cabinet, with her head and feet visible. The magician spins the head box, then opens the front. The assistant's body is now a narrow, twisted rope from which her fingers protrude. The magician closes the cabinet, rotates it in the opposite direction, and releases the assistant. The twister illusion has been around since the 1980s, first described by magician Lou Lancaster. Magician Franz Harary is credited with building the first working model.\n\n"}
{"id": "170593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=170593", "title": "Stage management", "text": "Stage management\n\nStage management is a broad field that is generally defined as the practice of organization and coordination of an event or theatrical production. Stage management may encompass a variety of activities including the overseeing of the rehearsal process and  coordinating communications among various production teams and personnel. Stage management requires a general understanding of all aspects of production and offers organisational support to ensure the process runs smoothly and efficiently.\n\nA Stage Manager is an individual who has overall responsibility for stage management and the smooth execution of a theatrical production. Stage management may be performed by an individual in small productions, while larger productions typically employ a stage management team consisting of a head stage manager, or \"Production Stage Manager\", and one or more Assistant Stage Managers.\n\nThe title of Stage Manager was not used until the 18th century. Though the concept and need for someone to fill the area of stage management can be seen with the Ancient Greeks. The playwrights were usually responsible for production elements. Sophocles is the first known stage technician, supported by his employment as a scenic artist, playwright, musician, and producer.\n\nMoving into the Middle Ages there is evidence of a Conducteurs De Secrets, who oversaw collecting money at the door and serving as a prompter on stage. The prompter held the script and was prepared to feed performers their lines, this was a common practice of the time. \n\nBetween the Renaissance and 17th century the actors and playwright handled stage management aspects and stage crew. During the Elizabethan and Jacobean Theatre there were two roles that covered the stage management: Stage Keeper and Book Keeper. The Stage Keeper was responsible for the maintenance of the theater, taking props on and off stage, and security of performance space. The Book Keeper was responsible for the stage script, obtaining necessary licenses, copying/providing lines for the performers, marking entrances and exits, tracking props, marking when sound effects come in, and cueing props and sound effects. \n\nBetween the Renaissance and the 16th century, actors and playwrights took upon themselves the handling of finances, general directorial duties, and stage management. Stage management first emerged as a distinct role in the 17th century during Shakespeare's and Molière's time. During Shakespeare’s time the roles of stage management were left to apprentices, young boys learning the trade. There is still evidence of a prompter at this time.\n\nThough it wasn't until the 18th century in England that the term Stage Manager was used. This was the first time a person other than actors and playwright was hired to direct or manage the stage. Over time, with the rise in complexity of theatre due to advances such as mechanized scenery, quick costume changes, and controlled lighting, the stage manager's job was split into two positions—\"director\" and \"stage manager\".\n\nMany playwrights, directors, and actors have previously worked as an assistant stage manager. Writer and director Preston Sturges, for example, was employed as an ASM on Isadora Duncan's production of \"Oedipus Rex\" at the age of 16 and a half:\n\nWhen one is responsible for giving an offstage cue, even the simplest ones, like the ring of a telephone or a birdcall, demand considerable sangfroid, and the job is nervewracking. One is very much aware that everything depends on the delivery of the cue at exactly the right microsecond. One stands there, knees slightly bent, breathing heavily...\n\nSturges didn't last long in this job, due to his calling for thunder and then lightning instead of lightning and then thunder, but 16 years later Brock Pemberton hired him as an ASM on Antoinette Perry's production of \"Goin' Home\", which led to the first mounting of one of Sturges' plays on Broadway, \"The Guinea Pig\", in 1929.\n\n\n\nThe stage management kit can be as expansive as a huge tackle box, or a smaller bag containing only the absolute essentials. Some common items in a kit include:\n\n\n\nOther items may be needed specifically during the rehearsal period, such as:\n\nIt is important to keep lines of communication open between the stage manager and all other departments of the production.\n\nThe prompt book contains the script from which the SM calls the show, labeled with light and sound cues. It may also contain:\n\nIn the United States, \"Stage Manager\" is a generic title that may be applied to anyone who performs stage management functions. On small shows, one person typically performs all the tasks of stage management, and is simply referred to as \"the stage manager\". Larger shows often need two or more stage managers. In such cases the head stage manager is titled Production Stage Manager (commonly abbreviated PSM), and working under the PSM is one or more Assistant Stage Managers (commonly abbreviated ASM). Shows that employ three stage managers have a PSM and two ASMs, though the program credits may list them as \"Production Stage Manager\" (first or head stage manager), \"Stage Manager\" (second stage manager), and \"Assistant Stage Manager\" (third stage manager).\n\nSome professional stage managers on plays and musicals may choose to be represented by a union known as the Actors' Equity Association, which also represents performers. In addition to performing their typical stage management duties (e.g., maintaining the prompt book and calling performances), Equity stage managers are also required to uphold the union's rules and rights for Equity artists. Union stage managers for opera, ballet, and modern dance are represented by the American Guild of Musical Artists and perform most of the same duties as their counterparts in plays and musicals.\n\nIn the UK, the structure of a stage management team depends on the type and size of the production. It can consist of stage manager (overseeing the running of the show), deputy stage manager (commonly called DSM), and assistant stage manager (commonly called ASM). A fringe theatre show may employ one stage manager to carry out the tasks of an entire team, whereas a West End theatre show in London might employ multiple ASMs. Professional stage managers are represented by the British Actors' Equity Association, which also represents performers.\n\nThe DSM prompts actors and will usually cue technical crew members and sometimes cast, while following the orders of the director and stage manager. The DSM calls actors to hold while technical problems are sorted out during rehearsal, and determines where in the script to restart halted scenes. The deputy stage manager (DSM) is a separate position in some theatres, while in others the responsibilities of the DSM may be assumed by the stage manager or assistant stage manager.\n\nThe assistant stage manager (ASM) has varied responsibilities, which are assigned by the stage manager. The ASM assists in finding and maintaining props during rehearsals and the run of the show. The ASM may take attendance or estimate audience size, may manage the backstage technicians, may act as a liaison between crew, cast and management, and may call some cues. Mundane tasks such as mopping the stage and brewing coffee or tea may fall to the ASM. If the stage manager is unable to perform his or her duties, the ASM must be able to fill in. The assistant may also be in charge of one wing of the stage, while the stage manager is on the other wing.\n\nMany live shows around the world are produced with the forehand knowledge that they will have a very long run, often measured in years. These are usually known quantities that are very expensive productions and have a guaranteed audience because of their location. Often, they are on cruise ships, in theme parks, Las Vegas or at destination resorts. These shows warrant very long-range development and planning and use stage managers to run almost all technical elements in the show, without many of the other traditional crew members, such as sound, lighting and rigging operators. In these cases, show control systems are installed and connected to all other technical systems in the theatre, which are specifically designed to be controlled by show control and to operate safely with minimal supervision. Stage managers working these shows usually have the additional responsibility for programming the show control system, and often the other control systems as well.\n\nThe role of stage manager evolved from an amalgamation of various positions in theater over several centuries and is still generally known for its integral relationship with theater. Many other types of productions and events have incorporated the position of stage management, however. Some of the most common are Opera, Music and Dance concerts and, Film and Television.\n\nFor music concerts, stage management includes a large variety of responsibilities depending on both the venue and the size and expertise of the musical group coming into the venue. Some of the responsibilities of a concert stage manager include overseeing the schedule for load in and out of equipment, seeing to the comfort of the group which can include arranging refreshments and or transportation, sometimes arranging how and where merchandise is to be sold at the venue, and above all, as with all areas of stage management, watching out for the safety of all participants in the experience including performers, audience, and any crews required.\n\nWith being a Stage Manager you also need to know what unions you will be working with. Some of the things that a Stage Manager needs to know about working with a union is how often do they take breaks, and who is represented by which union. \nCommonly referred to as Actors Equity (AEA). Actors Equity represents the stage actors and stage managers in the live theatre industry. The AEA works to negotiate and provide performers and stage managers quality living conditions, livable wages, and benefits.\nInternational Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees (IATSE) represents the stage hands in the theatre.\nUnited Scenic Artist also known as United Scenic Artists of America. It organizes designers, artists and craftspeople in the entertainment and decorative arts industries.<ref>United Scenic Artists is affiliated with International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees since 1999.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "529844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=529844", "title": "Story arc", "text": "Story arc\n\nA story arc (also narrative arc) is an extended or continuing storyline in episodic storytelling media such as television, comic books, comic strips, boardgames, video games, and films with each episode following a dramatic arc. On a television program, for example, the story would unfold over many episodes. In television, the use of the story arc is much more common in comedies, especially in soap operas. In a traditional Hollywood film, the story arc usually follows a three-act format. Webcomics are more likely to use story arcs than newspaper comics, as most web comics have readable archives online that a newcomer to the strip can read in order to understand what is going on. Although story arcs have existed for decades, the term \"story arc\" was coined in 1988 in relation to the television series \"Wiseguy\", and was quickly adapted for other uses.\n\nMany American comic book series are now written in four or six-issue arcs, within a continuing series. Short story arcs are easier to package as trade paperbacks for resale, and more accessible to the casual reader than the never-ending continuity that once characterised US comics.\nA corollary to the absence of continuity, however, is that, as exemplified in 1950s DC \"Superman\" comics, no permanent change to characters or situations occurs, meaning no growth can take place; thus storylines repeat over time in an endless loop.\n\nThe purpose of a story arc is to move a character or a situation from one state to another; in other words, to effect change. This change or transformation often takes the form of either a tragic fall from grace or a reversal of that pattern. One common form in which this reversal is found is a character going from a situation of weakness to one of strength. For example, a poor woman goes on adventures and in the end makes a fortune for herself, or a lonely man falls in love and marries.\n\nAnother form of storytelling that offers a change or transformation of character is that of \"hero's journey,\" as laid out in Joseph Campbell's theory of the monomyth in his work, \"The Hero with a Thousand Faces\". Christopher Vogler's \"\" details the same theory specifically for western storytelling.\n\nStory arcs in contemporary drama often follow the pattern of bringing a character to a low point, removing the structures the character depends upon, and then forcing the character to find new strength without those structures. In a story arc, the character undergoes substantial growth or change, which culminates in the denouement in the last third or quarter of a story.\n\nStory arcs on television (and also on radio) have existed for decades (one notable (albeit, unusual) example, from the so-called \"Golden Age of Radio\", being the 1946 NBC Radio Summer-run docudrama serial, \"The Fifth Horseman\", which (in part) featured a four-episode arc regarding a hypothetical chain of events (spanning nearly two full \"future\" decades) surrounding a fictitious nuclear holocaust), and are common in many countries where multi-episode storylines are the norm (an example being the UK's \"Doctor Who\"), as well as most anime series.\n\nMany arc-based series in past decades, such as \"V\", were often short-lived and found it difficult to attract new viewers; they also rarely appear in traditional syndication (one notable example being the science fiction \"novel for television\" \"Babylon 5\"). However, the rise of DVD retail and DVR of television series has worked in arc-based productions' favor as the standard season collection format allows the viewer to have easy access to the relevant episodes. One area of television where story arcs have always thrived, however, is in the realm of the soap opera, and often episodic series have been derisively referred to as \"soap operas\" when they have adopted story arcs.\n\nArc-based series draw and reward dedicated viewers, and fans of a particular show follow and discuss different story arcs independently from particular episodes. Story arcs are sometimes split into subarcs, if deemed significant by fans, making it easy to refer to certain episodes if their production order titles are unknown. Episodes not relevant to story arcs (such as \"monsters of the week\") are sometimes dismissed as filler by fans, but might be referred to as self-contained or stand-alone episodes by producers.\n\nManga and anime are usually good examples of arc-based stories, to the point that most series shorter than twenty-six chapters are a single arc spanning all the chapters. This makes syndication difficult, as episodes watched in isolation often confuse viewers unless watched in conjunction with the series as a whole. Series of thirty chapters or longer usually have multiple arcs.\n\n\"Neon Genesis Evangelion\", for example, is a single story arc spanning twenty-six episodes. Other longer anime have multiple story arcs, such as \"Bleach\", \"Higurashi no Naku Koro ni\", \"One Piece\", \"Naruto\", \"Yu-Gi-Oh!\" and \"Fairy Tail\". The anime \"Dragon Ball Z\" adapts four different story arcs from the \"Dragon Ball\" manga, each with its own ultimate antagonist, along with original story arcs created for the TV series.\n\n"}
{"id": "4804980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4804980", "title": "Strawberry Panic!", "text": "Strawberry Panic!\n\nFollowing \"Strawberry Panic!\"'s first run in \"Dengeki G's Magazine\" it was six months before results began to indicate that the series was a success, and that its fans were growing in number; the manga and light novels which followed were a reflection of its popularity. The series became sufficiently popular for Seven Seas Entertainment to license the manga series and light novels for English language distribution. \"Strawberry Panic!\" was one of the debut titles on the company's light novel and yuri manga production lines. An anime television series was produced in 2006 by Madhouse and is licensed by Media Blasters. A visual novel was produced in 2006 by MediaWorks for the PlayStation 2.\n\nThere is a slight difference in the title of the series between media and national affiliation. The original short stories, manga, light novels, and video game used the exclamation mark in the title; the anime excluded it. When the manga and light novel series were licensed for English language distribution, Seven Seas Entertainment did not use the exclamation mark in the title. The appearance of the logo for \"Strawberry Panic!\" has changed four times. The subtitle \"Girls' School in Fullbloom\" was added during the short stories stage, and later appeared on the Japanese covers of the light novels, manga, and video game version, but was excluded from the anime adaptation and the English covers of the light novels and manga.\n\nThe setting for \"Strawberry Panic!\" is , a very large hilltop where the three affiliated schools of Miator, Spica and Lulim, are located. Each school has its own student council, which governs the matters of each respective school. Periodically the three student councils, along with the Etoiles, meet in the Astraea Joint Student Council. The Astraea Hill school system employs the Scottish system of grade numbering. Students are ranged from grades one through six, the equivalent of the three years of junior-high and high school in Japan, and seventh through twelfth grade in North America.\n\nThe hill is known as a sacred area which no men are allowed to enter. A prominent feature is a very large Catholic church in the center of the hill near a small lake; the church can be seen from a long distance away. There is a horse ranch at Spica. The students may go and study for their classes at a library on the lake's shore. Although only implied in the anime, the manga explains that the library building has another name, \"The Secret Garden\". It is well-known on campus as a \"rendezvous\" for secret lovers.\n\nStudents living on campus occupy a dormitory referred to as the , although its correct name is \"Astraea Dormitory\", named after Astraea Hill. The building is a triangular shape, allowing for the segregation of students from the three schools; each section is about the same size. It was built about 100 years before the story begins, around the same time that Miator was established, for students whose homes are far away. Each student is assigned a roommate in their year until graduation. If there is an odd number of students enrolled in a given year, one of the new students must live alone until a student in their year transfers into their school.\n\nThe building's name is based on its similarity to the cross-section of a strawberry viewed from above. When \"Strawberry Panic!\" was initially created, the three schools were arranged in a triangle, with the Strawberry Dorms in the center, and the dormitory was not a single building but three separate dormitories also arranged in a triangle around a central courtyard.\n\nThe plot of \"Strawberry Panic!\" revolves around the lives of the adolescents who attend one of three affiliated all-girl schools which share a campus and dormitories. The schools are: St. Miator's Girls' Academy, St. Spica's Girls' Institute, and St. Lulim's Girls' School. There are twelve characters the story revolves around, four at each school. The story's main character is Nagisa Aoi, a young girl entering her fourth year at St. Miator after being transferred from another school. On first entering the campus grounds, she is overcome with joy by the overall appearance of the surrounding area, but her joy is soon turned to sorrow as she accidentally stumbles down a hill, causing her to be lost and disoriented. While walking around the grounds trying to work out where she is, Nagisa comes across an older student named Shizuma Hanazono, who happens to be Astraea Hill's Etoile, a very important person who acts as a representative between the different schools and has specific duties that she must fulfill. Nagisa is instantly overcome by Shizuma's beauty, and after Shizuma kisses her on the forehead, Nagisa loses consciousness and awakens in the school's infirmary. In an adjacent chair is another girl of the same age, Tamao Suzumi, who informs her that they are to be roommates in the dormitory.\n\nIn the ensuing story, Nagisa is introduced to other students from each of the three schools; some she admires, some she is intimidated by, and some are merely friends encountered while attending St. Miator. The series encompasses the relationships the characters build with each other, climaxing whenever two of the characters start dating. The central focuses of \"Strawberry Panic!\" are the lesbian relationships and friendships between the girls from the three schools and the Etoile position and competition; the anime is more relationship-heavy while the manga is more competition-heavy. The story of what happens to the other half of St. Miator's Etoile pairing is explored in the latter portion of the anime. Depending on the media type, the depiction of the relationships between the girls is variously presented, with more explicit fan service – appealing visuals of the girls in provocative situations – in the anime adaptation than in the manga or light novels. A hint of astronomical star imagery is seen throughout the series, as well as minor Catholic religious undertones including a St. Mary statue on campus and a large Catholic church in the center of Astraea Hill.\n\nAt each of the three schools, there are four main characters, who comprise the original twelve characters created for the short stories when the series began. Only those twelve appear in the subsequently adapted visual novel version. Other characters were introduced in the manga and light novel versions to create plotlines and conflict, and these additional characters are also featured in the anime adaptation.\n\n\n\n is a French word meaning \"star\". The Etoile system of Astraea Hill is employed as the internal politics between the schools and governs school operations. Little is shown as to the influence the teachers and sisters have on the inter-school politics. The system is designed for two Etoiles to be instated at the same time in order to work as a team. In the anime, Shizuma Hanazono is the sole Etoile, the other Etoile having died, which is explained in the latter part of the story. The two Etoiles are seen as figureheads for Astraea Hill. Although Astraea has three schools, both Etoiles must come from the same school. They have certain specific duties, such as greeting new students arriving at Astraea Hill, participating in important school events, and serving as mediator between disputes in student council meetings of the three schools, among others. They are given a private greenhouse in which to grow flowers for use during school events.\n\nThe Etoiles are elected after going through what is known as , which consists of three competitions in the light novels and the manga versions. The higher scoring pairs from the first two competitions carry on to the third competition, and the pair that wins the third competition becomes the Etoile Couple. In the anime, the competition aspect of the story is toned down. Still, it facilitates the culmination of the story in the finale, and thus serves an important purpose. Once the winners have been named, a special ceremony marks the end of the election, at which the president of the student council from the school that won the election presents two necklaces for the winners to wear during their tenure as Etoiles. They are both identical except for the colors of the pendants: one is red, the other is blue. The older student receives the blue pendant and the younger of the two is given the red pendant.\n\nSince the first issue of ASCII Media Works' \"Dengeki G's Magazine\" was published, the editors of the magazine have hosted reader participation games whose outcome is directly influenced by the people who read the magazine. \"Strawberry Panic!\"s origin was in the October 2003 issue of \"Dengeki G's Magazine\" where it was announced after the ending of Sakurako Kimino's previous work \"Sister Princess\" that a new reader participation project would start the following month. In the November 2003 issue, the first batch of characters from St. Miator were introduced (Nagisa, Shizuma, Tamao, and Chiyo) and it was revealed how readers could participate in the project. The initial system had the three main girls of Nagisa, Hikari, and Kizuna (given without surnames) who were sisters and at the same time younger sisters of the readers of the magazine, effectively putting the reader in the position of the elder brother. Each girl entered her respective school and became the main character of that school. It was explained that the coupling of the main characters could be to an upperclassman, a classmate, or an underclassman, but had to stay within the school they attended. For example, Nagisa, who attended Miator could not be coupled with another character from either Spica or Lulim at first. Playing the role of the elder brother, the reader gave advice to the younger sisters who were bewildered by their new lives at each of the schools. Thus, the readers had the ability to influence the coupling formations which would later be written by Kimino as short stories serialized in \"Dengeki G's Magazine\".\n\nIn December 2003, the characters from Spica (Hikari, Amane, Yaya, and Tsubomi) and Lulim (Kizuna, Chikaru, Remon, and Kagome) were introduced and in the January 2004 issue the first illustrations of the three schools and the Strawberry Dorms were published, drawn by Chitose Maki; the reader participation game began in this issue. Polls were posted in the January 2004 issue where the readers could vote on how the story would start and progress in the following months. Before the votes were counted, the first three short stories were written and published in the February 2004 issue of \"Dengeki G's Magazine\". Each story featured an illustration of the two girls who were the couple paired in each respective story.\n\nWhen the results of the polls were printed in the March 2004 issue, the rules of the game had been changed from the original concept, showing that readers wanted to focus on the relationships between the girls, and in this respect, the readers could vote on who they wanted to be coupled together. The number of votes for this first round were less than 2000. Noting this, the editorial staff lifted the restriction on only coupling within the same school, along with the restriction of only allowing the three main girls of Nagisa, Hikari, and Kizuna to couple. This resulted in a total of 66 different possibilities between the twelve characters in the series. In this issue, it was explained that four events were planned for the stories that followed: Easter, Athletic Carnival, Cultural Festival, and Christmas Bazaar. The \"Etoile\" title was born in this issue, which was initially used to crown the best couple voted first by the readers in each of the four events to follow. These events were going to be carried out by the three schools in cooperation. It became such that the planning of the schools resulted in them in a triangle position, having the dormitories at the center. The reader's position as the elder brother was canceled in this issue, and the game became a simple popularity vote for coupling. Due to this new system, Nagisa, Hikari, and Kizuna ceased to be sisters; surnames were later added to clarify this. After the first story arc of the short stories concluded, it was shown that the number of votes had increased sharply due to the new voting mechanisms. The Etoile voting was announced in the July 2004 issue to take place every month as opposed to every two months which had been the case beforehand. The deadline for voting was shifted to the middle of every month, and online voting was introduced. In September 2004, the voting for the next Etoile was shifted to be online-only; the voting for the \"Dormitory Panic\" arc became mail voting only.\n\nThe reader participation game ended after ten rounds of voting in the February 2005 issue of \"Dengeki G's Magazine\" where it was announced that the series would be continued in other forms, such as the light novels and manga that followed. The original short stories and the poll results of the reader participation game were used as a basis for subsequent releases of \"Strawberry Panic!\".\n\nThe first results of the polls from the reader participation project appeared in the form of the first three short stories which resulted from direct fan involvement in the March 2004 issue of \"Dengeki G's Magazine\". The stories were written by Sakurako Kimino and illustrated by Chitose Maki. Over the following months, the stories continued, producing the first story arc named the containing eighteen stories which ran between March and July 2004. Due to the concerns that there was not enough time between the Athletic Festival (an early summer event) and the Cultural Festival (an autumn event), the second, and last, story arc named the containing seven stories began the next month, running between August 2004 and January 2005. The second arc's stories, which were longer than the earlier pieces, involved taking one of the three main characters, performing coupling for them with one of the other eleven girls and presenting them in various situations. None of the original stories were ever published again in bound volumes. The stories themselves were more or less vignettes, in which each gave a brief glimpse into what was referred to as a \"yuri coupling\".\n\nBetween May and September 2005, a revised series of the short stories was produced; once per month, five more supplementary short stories were published during this time period, each of which was longer than any of the previous pieces. Although each individual story had its own title, the stories were under the collective title of \"The Girls, who art in heaven\". After the ending of this short compilation in September 2005, it was decided that the original illustrator, Chitose Maki, would be replaced by Namuchi Takumi for future \"Strawberry Panic!\" projects.\n\nBetween November 2005 and December 2006, Lantis Web Radio hosted a radio show entitled . The show was hosted by Mai Nakahara, who voiced Nagisa Aoi in the anime edition, and Ai Shimizu, who voiced both Tamao Suzumi and Kizuna Hyūga in the anime. The show contained sixty-one episodes, which were divided between three CDs; the first went on sale on March 8, 2006. The other two releases came out on July 5, 2006 and January 11, 2007 in Japan. The radio show included nine guests who had played other voice acting roles in the anime version, and Rino, singer of the opening theme \"Sweetest\" in the PlayStation 2 game version.\n\nThe \"Strawberry Panic!\" manga, written by Sakurako Kimino and illustrated by Namuchi Takumi, was serialized in \"Dengeki G's Magazine\" between September 30, 2005 and February 28, 2007 with a new chapter released once a month. Two bound volumes have been published in Japan under MediaWorks' \"Dengeki Comics\" label. The first went on sale on March 27, 2006 featuring Nagisa and Shizuma on the cover, and the second volume came out on October 27, 2006 featuring Nagisa and Tamao on the cover. While the manga's story is unfinished, \"Strawberry Panic!\" has not made an appearance in \"Dengeki G's Magazine\" since the publication of the April 2007 issue on February 28, 2007. Major differences between the anime and manga center around the plot and character interaction. Characters have vastly different character designs, such as Shion Tōmori and Kaname Kenjō. The manga introduces the Etoile election early on while the anime waits until the latter part of the series for dramatic effect. The first volume was released in English on December 23, 2007, the second in March 2008, and the omnibus with two additional chapters in October 2010, published by Seven Seas Entertainment.\n\nThe announcement that a \"Strawberry Panic!\" light novel series was to be written based on the original short stories appeared in the April 2005 issue of \"Dengeki G's Magazine\". Work on writing and illustrating the novels began in May 2005, by the same two people who worked on the manga. The announcement that the writing was finished appeared in the September 2005 issue of the same magazine, although the first novel was published by MediaWorks on their \"Dengeki Bunko\" publishing label, on March 10, 2006. The first volume had Shizuma and Nagisa on the cover and the second volume, released on August 9, 2006, had Amane and Hikari on the cover. The third and last volume, released on December 10, 2006, had Chikaru and Kizuna on the cover.\n\nSeven Seas Entertainment announced on September 13, 2006 that they had licensed the right to release the English translations of the \"Strawberry Panic!\" light novels and the manga series. After several delays, the English version of the first light novel was released in March 2008, and the second volume light novel was released on July 8, 2008. An omnibus volume containing the three light novels was released in June 2011.\n\nThe anime series, entitled \"Strawberry Panic\" (without the exclamation mark), was produced by the Japanese animation studio Madhouse and directed by Masayuki Sakoi. The series was composed by Tatsuhiko Urahata, and featured two other screenwriters Hideo Takayashiki and Kazuyuki Fudeyasu. The character design was done by Kyūta Sakai, working from the original designs by Chitose Maki and later Namuchi Takumi. The twenty-six episode anime aired in Japan between April 3 and September 25, 2006, and has a central yuri theme.\n\nThe anime series is mainly based on the short stories and manga which preceded it. The anime focuses on Nagisa Aoi and, to a slightly lesser extent, Hikari Konohana, and the three girls that they each are or become close to at their respective schools; some admire them or wish to be their friend, and others are vying for their affections. Of particular focus are the romantic relationships between Nagisa and Shizuma Hanazono and between Hikari and Amane Ōtori. The series culminates in the election of the new Etoile pairing, although this aspect of the story is downplayed compared to the manga. Fan service, or giving appealing visuals of the girls nude or in provocative situations, is seen in the anime, but only briefly.\n\nIn Japan, eight DVD compilations, in regular and special editions, were released containing three episodes each, between June 23, 2006, and January 25, 2007. The regular and special editions are similar in content, but the special editions are packaged in jacket sleeve, and contain an original booklet which includes additional merchandise such as portable plates and straps. The special edition includes different versions of the opening and closing themes, and deleted scenes. Media Blasters released five English-subtitled DVDs of \"Strawberry Panic\" between March 4, 2007 and November 11, 2008. The English-subtitled DVDs contain five episodes, except for its first release, which contains six. The series premiered on Toku in the United States in January 2016.\n\nThe original soundtrack for the anime adaptation was first released on September 6, 2006 by Lantis. On September 21, 2006, the soundtrack for the video game was released by the same company. The two opening themes for the anime, \"Shōjo Meiro de Tsukamaete\" and \"Kuchibiru Daydream\" were sung by Aki Misato. The \"Shōjo Meiro de Tsukamaete\" single was released on April 26, 2006, and reached an Oricon chart position of thirty-eight; \"Kuchibiru Daydream\" was released on August 9, 2006, and achieved forty-seven in the charts. The two main closing themes for the anime, \"Himitsu Dolls\" (released on May 24, 2006) and \"Ichigo Tsumi Monogatari\" (released on August 23, 2006), were sung by Mai Nakahara and Ai Shimizu as a duet. The final closing theme in the last episode was a slower remix version of \"Shōjo Meiro de Tsukamaete\", sung by Aki Misato.\n\nThere have been three drama CDs released based on the anime adaptation. The first, entitled \"Strawberry Panic Lyric 1 \"Miator volume\"\" was released in Japan on July 26, 2006. It featured the same voice actresses from the anime, and featured thirteen characters. It came with a CD containing twelve tracks of small scenes involving the characters in various situations. The second drama CD, \"Strawberry Panic Lyric 2 \"Spica volume\"\" was released on October 25, 2006 and a third was released on December 6, 2006 titled \"Strawberry Panic Lyric 3 \"Lulim volume\"\".\n\nA visual novel named \"Strawberry Panic! Girls' School in Fullbloom\" was released on the PlayStation 2 on August 24, 2006 in Japan by MediaWorks. Two versions of the game were released, a regular edition and a limited edition which included a drama CD; there is a different cover for each of the versions. The drama CD contained three tracks, one for students of each school.\n\nThere are three playable characters, one from each of the schools: Nagisa, Hikari, and Kizuna. They have no family names in the game, as when the series of short stories were first published. While Ai Shimizu maintained her role for Kizuna in the game, Miyuki Sawashiro performed the voice for Tamao Suzumi. The game features a \"boy mode\" and a \"girl mode\". Choosing the male version means that the story is told via emails from the player's younger sister; choosing the female version means that the story is told in the player's own diary. The player is given the chance to pair their chosen character with one of the other nine available girls, not including the other possible playable characters. There are twenty-seven different combinations depending on which girl the player chooses at the start of the game.\n\nThe game is played over the course of a school semester; the first day of school is on April 1. In \"boy mode\", each day concludes with a super deformed image of the heroine the player chose at the onset of the game slumped over her computer in her room; an email message from a girl that she interacted with during the day in on the monitor. As the heroine sleeps, the object of her affection appears in a thought bubble above her head. In \"girl mode\", she is seen writing in her diary instead. The first day in the game requires no interaction from the player. The player gets through the first day by reading the text and getting acquainted with the girls. The game uses an angel and devil system where miniature angel and devil versions of each girl float beside her when critical decisions have to be made; this is not restricted to the three playable characters. It also features a \"Strawberry chance\" system, where the outcome of some scenes changes if the player presses one of the analog sticks fast enough after the message is displayed in the upper right screen corner.\n\nDuring the reader participation game running in \"Dengeki G's Magazine\", voting polls were first posted in the January 2004 issue of \"Dengeki G's Magazine\", which were to determine who would be the subjects in the couplings between the characters of each respective school. The results were printed in the March 2004 issue, after about 1,979 votes had been cast. The three couples with the highest number of votes were Nagisa/Tamao at 481 votes, Hikari/Amane at 343 votes, and Kizuna/Chikaru at 260 votes. The results from the second round of voting were published in the May 2004 issue of the magazine which included the figures for the sixty-four different combinations between the twelve girls. The three couples with the highest number of votes this time were Nagisa/Tamao again at 150 votes, Nagisa/Amane at 114 votes, and Hikari/Amane for a second time at 102 votes. In the third round of voting in the July 2004 issue, the number of votes increased dramatically; the number one voted couple for the third time in a row was Nagisa/Tamao at 1,215 votes.\n\nThe \"Strawberry Panic!\" short stories were initially panned by Erica Friedman as being \"distinctly derivative of \"Maria-sama ga Miteru\"\". Friedman is the president of Yuricon, an anime convention geared towards fans of yuri anime and manga, and ALC Publishing, a publishing house dedicated to yuri. Friedman described the stories as, \"candy apples without the apples - all sugary, and gooey and sweet, with not much of anything else to support it\". After initially having this stance for the entire series, including an early opinion on the anime version, Friedman later changed her opinion slightly, writing that \"[the anime] turned out pretty good\". She went on to say, \"There's no denying that \"Strawberry Panic!\" wasn't brilliant, but considering that it was meant to be trashy, it pulled out a few moments of dignity and elegance out of the trash heap.\" Jason Thompson regarded the \"Strawberry Panic!\" manga as \"a nearly plotless cascade [where] everything seems rushed, and it is difficult to keep track of the characters and plot.\"\n\nThe five subtitled DVDs released by Media Blasters were reviewed by Anime News Network (ANN). The first DVD was declared rental-worthy by ANN, citing the characters as being \"a lot of fun\" and the series as being a \"very laid-back show\" that would work well as a relaxing watch over a weekend. The content, however, was described as getting the series off to a \"slow start\", with limitations of the first six episodes being the lack in fan service, humor, and that it \"struggles to find any other reason to be compelling\". The second DVD, containing episodes seven through eleven, was reviewed as failing to \"materialize much real plot\" and content of the episodes was described as existing \"only to appeal to otaku who can get excited about moe content\". The third DVD, compiling episodes twelve through sixteen, shows \"signs of an actual plot\" and contains a \"sudden explosion of fan service\", which are noted as \"noteworthy developments\" in the review. In the fourth DVD, containing episodes seventeen through twenty-one, \"the series' romantic side does finally pay off with a romantic arc that actually engages\". In the fifth and final DVD containing the last five episodes, the Hikari and Amane relationship is described as lacking chemistry, although the Nagisa and Shizuma pairing is regarded as satisfying.\n\n\"Strawberry Panic!\" was one of the premier titles in the Light Novel and Strawberry (for yuri manga) production lines when it was licensed for English language distribution by Seven Seas Entertainment. In an interview with Seven Seas Entertainment founder Jason DeAngelis, he was posed the question, \"How do you attract a fan base for a novel before its release in English?\" His response was, \"We try to choose titles that are already well-known, like \"Pita-Ten\", \"Shinigami no Ballad\" or \"Strawberry Panic!\"...In terms of attracting a fan base, though, in the end it's all about word-of-mouth. If the material is great, it will stand out on its own and find its audience. The small format that we're publishing these books in is frankly stunning, and it will definitely attract fans who may not have heard of the property otherwise.\"\n\n\"Strawberry Panic! Girls' School in Fullbloom\" received a total review score of 26/40 (out of the four individual review scores of 6, 7, 7, and 6) from the Japanese gaming magazine \"Famitsu\". The game is listed by MediaWorks as one of their most-popular game titles.\n\n"}
{"id": "18909133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18909133", "title": "The Dish (TV series)", "text": "The Dish (TV series)\n\nThe Dish is a satirical television series that aired on the Style Network in the United States. The show (first airing August 16, 2008), hosted by Danielle Fishel, skewers the latest in pop culture (television, movies, magazines, celebrities, etc.) in similar fashion to sister network E! Entertainment Television's series \"The Soup\". The show also aired on International E! channels alongside \"The Soup\". The show's final episode aired March 20, 2011, two months after the merger of NBCUniversal and Comcast was completed. The merger had brought former competitors Bravo and Oxygen under common NBCUniversal ownership with Style, nullifying much of the video material available to \"The Dish\", as many Bravo and Oxygen programs under NBC's ownership apart from Style had been used for satirical purposes for the show.\n\nAs with \"The Soup\", the show primarily consists of Fishel providing humorous commentary on content (such as clips of television programs), arranged in themed segments. Unlike \"The Soup\" however, the show places more emphasis on fashion and celebrity culture. A running gag throughout the series was Fishel's being typecast and being recognized solely for her most famous role as Topanga Lawrence from \"Boy Meets World\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47308456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47308456", "title": "The Karate Kid (franchise)", "text": "The Karate Kid (franchise)\n\nThe Karate Kid is an American martial arts drama multi-media franchise, created by screenwriter Robert Mark Kamen. The franchise began in 1984 with \"The Karate Kid\", and was followed by three film sequels: \"The Karate Kid Part II\" (1986), \"The Karate Kid Part III\" (1989) and \"The Next Karate Kid\" (1994). \"Cobra Kai\", a television series that serves as a sequel to the films, was released in 2018.\n\nThe success of the first two films spawned an animated television series that aired in 1989, while a remake film centered on kung fu was released in 2010, set outside of the main story and featuring a similar plot to the original.\n\nWhile the first film garnered critical acclaim, critics were less enthusiastic about its sequels. However, the \"Cobra Kai\" television series garnered critical and audience acclaim. Furthermore, the series has also had a lasting influence on both karate culture and teen film narratives in America.\n\n\n\n\nThe film spawned a franchise of related items and memorabilia such as action figures, head bands, posters, T-shirts, and a video game. A novelization was made by B.B. Hiller and published in 1984. The novel had a scene that was in the rehearsal when Daniel encounters Johnny during school at lunch. Also at the end, there was a battle between Miyagi and Kreese in the parking lot after the tournament which was the original ending for the film and used as the beginning of \"The Karate Kid Part II\".\n\nIn 2015, toy company Funko revived The Karate Kid action figures. Two versions of character Daniel Larusso, a version of character Johnny Lawrence and a version of Mr. Miyagi were part of the line. The toys were spotted at retailers Target and Amazon.com.\n\nThe series has been credited for popularizing Karate in the United States.\n\nThe music video for the song \"Sweep the Leg\" by No More Kings stars William Zabka (who also directed the video) as a caricature of himself and features references to \"The Karate Kid\", including cameo appearances by Zabka's former \"Karate Kid\" co-stars.\n\nMacchio and Zabka made a guest appearance as themselves in the \"How I Met Your Mother\" episode \"The Bro Mitzvah\". In the episode, Macchio is invited to Barney Stinson's bachelor party, leading to Barney shouting that he hates Macchio and that Johnny was the real hero of \"The Karate Kid\". Towards the end of the episode, a clown in the party wipes off his makeup and reveals himself as Zabka.\n\n"}
{"id": "16736415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16736415", "title": "The Mummy (franchise)", "text": "The Mummy (franchise)\n\nThe Mummy is the title of several horror-adventure film series centered on an ancient Egyptian priest who is accidentally resurrected, bringing with him a powerful curse, and the ensuing efforts of heroic archaeologists to stop him.\n\nThe original series of films consisted of six installments, which starred iconic horror actors such as Boris Karloff (only in the original one, as Imhotep); Tom Tyler and Lon Chaney Jr. as Kharis; and lastly Eddie Parker, who played Klaris, a cousin of Kharis. The series of films is part of the larger Universal Monsters series.\n\nIn 1959, the British Hammer Film Productions began its own \"The Mummy\" series of films. These include the following:\n\nOriginally a proposed remake of \"The Mummy\" would have been directed by horror filmmaker/writer Clive Barker. Barker’s vision for the film was violent, with the story revolving around the head of a contemporary art museum who turns out to be a cultist trying to reanimate mummies. Barker's take was \"dark, sexual and filled with mysticism\", and that, \"it would have been a great low-budget movie\".\n\nIn 1999, Stephen Sommers wrote and directed a remake of \"The Mummy\", loosely based on the original film of 1932. This film switches genres from the emphasis on horror to adventure, concentrating more on action sequences, special effects, comedy, and a higher element of Egyptian lore. The film became a box office success spawning two sequels, several video games, a spin-off series, and an animated television series. The first two films received mixed reviews, while the third one received mostly negative reviews.\n\n\nAfter \"\" was released, actress Maria Bello stated that another \"Mummy\" film will \"absolutely\" be made, and that she had already signed on. Actor Luke Ford was signed on for three films as well. But in 2012, Universal Pictures announced that they had cancelled the film and were focusing on a reboot.\n\nThis spin-off series follows the adventures of Mathayus, who would later be known as the Scorpion King and, eventually, become a foe in \"The Mummy Returns\". The films are as follows:\n\nOn April 4, 2012, Universal Studios announced that they are developing a reboot of the series, with Jon Spaihts to write the film and Sean Daniel who produced the three films, will be returning as producer. On May 1, 2012, Universal signed on with Roberto Orci and Alex Kurtzman a two-year deal to produce the \"Mummy\" reboot through their K/O Paper Products banner. On September 24, 2012, it was announced that Universal has set Len Wiseman to direct the film. In December 2012, it was being said that \"The Mummy\" reboot will be different from the classic trilogy, it'll be a completely new take on the mythology, and it will be set in present day. On February 14, 2013, Universal set \"The Hunger Games'\" writer Billy Ray to write a competitive draft for the \"Mummy\" reboot against Spaihts written script. On July 31, 2013, director Wiseman has left the film project due of schedule conflicts. On September 13, 2013, news reported that \"Mama\"'s director Andrés Muschietti is in talks to direct the film.\n\nIn October 2013, Orci spoke to IGN, hinted that both \"The Mummy\" and \"Van Helsing\" reboots will have a shared universe. On November 27, 2013, Universal has set the film for an April 22, 2016, release. On May 6, 2014, director Muschetti left the film due to creative differences, which Spaihts wrote the latest draft of the script, which reimagined \"The Mummy\" in modern-day with new characters not seen in previous iterations and a protagonist imbued with a human personality. On July 16, 2014, Universal announced that they had tapped Alex Kurtzman and Chris Morgan to develop all classic movie monsters which include Frankenstein, Dracula, The Wolf Man, Creature from the Black Lagoon, The Invisible Man, Bride of Frankenstein, and The Mummy. The first film they will develop together will be \"The Mummy\", for which they had begun the meetings. So on July 30, Kurtzman was set to direct the film. Next day, the film's release date was pushed back to March 27, 2017, when Universal announced the April 22 for its new film \"The Huntsman\". The film's plot is set in Iraq and follows a Navy SEAL and his team that battle mummies led by Ashurbanipal.\n\nOn October 14, 2015, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" reported that Kurtzman and Spaihts has two scripts with a male and a female mummy villain. On November 24, 2015, Variety reports that Tom Cruise is in talks to star in the film. Variety also reports that Cruise isn’t expected to produce, but he will play a major part in development. On December 8, 2015, The Hollywood Reporter has reported that Sofia Boutella is in talks for the female Mummy role in the reboot. It was announced that Cruise and Boutella will star in the reboot with a June 9, 2017, release date. In March 2016, Variety and The Hollywood Reporter has reported that Annabelle Wallis and Jake Johnson are in talks for a role of an archaeologist and a member of the military. The film began production in April 2016 located in Oxford, England.\n\n<div class=\"overflowbugx\" style=\"overflow:auto; width:100%;\">\n\nList indicator(s)\n\nTwo video game adaptations of \"The Mummy\" (1999) were developed by Rebellion Developments and published by Konami in 2000: an action-adventure game for the PlayStation and PC as well as a Game Boy Color puzzle game. Dreamcast version was announced but later cancelled in the late 2000. \"The Mummy Returns\" released in late 2001 for the PlayStation 2 and developed by Blitz Games, the Game Boy Color version was developed by GameBrains, both versions were published by Universal Interactive. \"\" was released in 2008, developed by Eurocom for the PlayStation 2 and the Wii, the Nintendo DS released was developed by A2M, all versions were published by Sierra Entertainment. In March 2012, a massive multiplayer online game known as \"The Mummy Online\" was released.\n\nIn May 2001, Chaos! Comics released the first of a three-issue series inspired by the film, titled \"The Mummy: Valley of the Gods\". The plot was supposed to take place between the first film and \"The Mummy Returns\". Rick and Evelyn are on their honeymoon in Egypt and end up embarking on yet another adventure where they must unravel the mysteries of the Orb of Destiny and discover the location of the Valley of the Gods hidden beneath the sands. However, the second and third issues were never published.\nThis was most likely due to Chaos later filing bankruptcy in 2002 and selling the rights to all their titles at that time.\nYears later in 2008, another Mummy comic series was released by IDW Publishing, spanning four issues. This series was titled \"The Mummy: The Rise and Fall of Xango's Ax\". Unlike the preceding comic series, all of the planned issues were published.\n\nFrom 2001 until 2003, an animated series simply titled \"The Mummy\" was made by Universal Animation Studios where it was based on the Stephen Sommers series of films. The series was later renamed in the second season as \"The Mummy: Secrets of the Medjai\".\n\nThe film also inspired a roller coaster ride named \"Revenge of the Mummy: The Ride\" in Universal Studios Theme Parks, Florida. Similar rides can also be found in Hollywood and Singapore.\n"}
{"id": "9947692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9947692", "title": "Titling", "text": "Titling\n\nThe word Titling, in the performing arts (opera, drama, audiovisual productions), defines the work of linguistic mediation encompassing subtitling and surtitling.\n\nSubtitling developed starting from 1917, during the silent film era, whereas surtitling has been used in the live performing arts since 1983 (at the dawning of digital systems).\nWith the appearance of new information systems, which opened the door to multilingual titling (DVD was launched on the market in 1986) terminological debate started, too.\nIn the audiovisual system, even when more than one language was used, subtitles maintained their position unchanged for many years. The newest software technologies for mobile devices, which came out as an alternative to subtitling in cinemas, or the possibilities opened up by head-mounted displays, such as subtitle glasses, have made a revision of the technical terminology necessary also in the field of those performing arts that are reproducible on electronic devices.\nEven more so, in the live performing arts, the presence of multilingual options on custom individual devices (Santa Fe Opera, 1998) or on mobile consumer devices (Teatro del Maggio Musicale Fiorentino, 2011) or on hybrid solutions (Royal Opera House Muscat, 2012), makes the spatial connotation of the term \"sur-titles\" inappropriate.\n\nIn both cases (performing arts that are reproducible on electronic devices and live performing arts), for a scientific approach the term \"titling\", broader and all-embracing, is preferable to define the work of linguistic mediation, without specifying whether the visualization is to be above (sur-titles) or below (sub-titles).\n\n"}
{"id": "21000608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21000608", "title": "Turkey bowling", "text": "Turkey bowling\n\nTurkey bowling is a sport which is based on ordinary bowling: a frozen turkey serves as a bowling ball and 10 plastic bottles of soft drinks or water are the bowling pins. The turkey is bowled down a smooth surface, for example, ice or a soap covered sheet of painters plastic (using a bar of soap). It is commonly associated with Thanksgiving.\nTurkey bowling is popular in minor league ice hockey in the United States and Canada.\n\nThe original variant involves turkey bowling in an aisle of a grocery store. A Derrick Johnson claims to have invented turkey bowling in 1988 when he worked as a grocery clerk at a Newport Beach Lucky's branch, while observing a manager slide a frozen turkey across the floor and accidentally topple a soda bottle.\n\nDerrick became a self-appointed commissioner of the \"Poultry Bowlers Association\" and codified the rules and terminology, such as \"the fowl line\" (cf. \"foul line\"), \"the gobbler\" (three strikes in a row; cf. turkey (bowling)), \"the Butterball\" (a gutterball) and \"the wishbone\" (a 7-10 split).\n\nTurkey bowling was featured in the 1995 novel \"Bloodsucking Fiends: A Love Story\" by Christopher Moore, where it was the favorite sport of \"The Animals\", a wild group of night grocery stockers (continued in the sequels \"You Suck: A Love Story\" and \"\").\n\nEpisode 14 of \"10 Items or Less\" TV series was \"Turkey Bowling\".\n\nThe \"Guy's Grocery Games\" episode \"Frozen Food Fight\" featured a round where two contestants bowled a frozen turkey at nine soda bottles; the combined number knocked down was the number of non-frozen items each was allowed to use in their next dish.\n\nEvery Thanksgiving morning, Cleveland's Fox affiliate WJW-TV does its annual Turkey Bowl from a Giant Eagle store in the Greater Cleveland, Ohio area. The WJW version of turkey bowling uses 15 cans of canned cranberry sauce, stacked in a pyramid shape, and uses a one-bowl-per-round knockout tournament format. In the 2010 edition it was hosted by morning features and man about town reporter Kenny Crumpton and morning meteorologist Angelica Campos. In WJW-TV's version people win prizes anything ranging from Giant Eagle Gift Cards to monetary prizes. The contest is broadcast on WJW live and streamed around the world on WJW's Web site, with the contests taking up the full closing segment (around 7 minutes) of each half-hour of WJW's morning newscast. The broadcast began in 1999.\n\nAnimal rights proponents, who oppose the use of animals in sports, claim that turkey bowling is disrespectful to animals and sends mixed messages which may encourage violence to animals or people. Another objection is perceived disrespect to the central attribute of Thanksgiving. In 2003, an upcoming event for the title of UK Great Turkey Bowling Champion at Manchester Evening News Arena was protested against by animal rights campaigners; as a result, plastic turkeys were used instead of real frozen turkeys. In 2007 an animal sanctuary rescued a live turkey, which was in a cage, from a turkey bowling event in New York State.\n"}
{"id": "27480647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27480647", "title": "Turkeys voting for Christmas", "text": "Turkeys voting for Christmas\n\nTurkeys voting for Christmas is an English idiom used as a metaphor or simile (in the construct \"like turkeys voting for Christmas\") in reference to an apparently suicidal (\"death-wish\") choice, especially a political vote against one's self-interest. In modern times, in the United Kingdom, turkeys are commonly eaten as part of the English Christmas dinner. Since 1573 they have been available in the UK at Christmas.\n\nThe \"Oxford Dictionary of Humorous Quotations\" writes that a commentator in the \"Independent Magazine\" traced the origin of the phrase to British Liberal Party politician David Penhaligon, who is quoted as saying: \"Us voting for the Pact is like a turkey voting for Christmas\" in reference to the 1977 Lib-Lab Pact which he opposed.\n\nThe phrase was soon borrowed by other politicians and public figures. In 1979 Labour Prime Minister James Callaghan was faced with a vote of no confidence called by Scottish nationalists, who were upset with Labour's treatment of a recent Scottish devolution referendum. In the resulting vote the Scottish nationalists sided with the Conservative opposition against the Labour government, despite the fact that the Conservatives opposed devolution. During his speech, Callaghan stated that \"If they win, there will be a general election. I am told that the current joke going around the House is that it is the first time in recorded history that turkeys have been known to vote for an early Christmas.\" The Scottish National Party ultimately lost most of its representation in the resulting election.\n\nin 2000 British MP Teresa Gorman, who opposed the Maastricht Treaty, stated; \"If the House of Commons voted for Maastricht it would be like 651 turkeys voting for Christmas.\"\n\nA prominent anecdotal example was displayed in the UK in 2016, whereby areas which were net beneficiaries of EU subsidies voted by a majority to leave the EU and then campaigned to preserve their EU funding afterwards: for example, Cornwall.\n\nIn the United States, the phrases \"turkeys voting for Thanksgiving\" (that being the holiday when turkey is more commonly served) and \"chickens voting for Colonel Sanders\" are often used. In Canada, the story of Mouseland has mice voting for cats.\n\nA similar German idiom is \"Only the most stupid calves would vote for their butchers\" (\"Nur die dümmsten Kälber wählen ihre Metzger selber\"). Bertold Brecht alluded to it in his \"Kälbermarsch\" (\"March of the calves\", 1933), a parody of the Nazi anthem \"Horst Wessel Song\", which was included in his play \"Schweik in the Second World War\" (1943). A similar photomontage of John Heartfield shows Hitler as a butcher with a chicken and the caption \"Don't panic! He's a vegetarian.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "946619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=946619", "title": "Visual pun", "text": "Visual pun\n\nA visual pun is a pun involving an image or images (in addition to or instead of language), often based on a rebus.\n\nVisual puns in which the image is at odds with the inscription are common in cartoons such as \"Lost Consonants\" or \"The Far Side\" as well as in Dutch gable stones. For instance the \"Batenburg\" stone from Prinsengracht, Amsterdam, shown here, puns on the words \"baten\" (to profit) and \"burg\" (castle) which together make up the name of a village near Nijmegen. European heraldry contains the technique of canting arms, which can be considered punning.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37497815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37497815", "title": "Woodward's Gardens", "text": "Woodward's Gardens\n\nWoodward's Gardens was a combination amusement park, museum, art gallery, zoo, and aquarium operating from 1866 to 1891 in the Mission District of San Francisco, California. The Gardens covered two city blocks, bounded by Mission, Valencia, 13th, and 15th Streets in San Francisco. The site currently has a brick building at 1700 Mission Street, built after the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, which features a California Historical Site plaque, and the \"Crafty Fox Alehouse\" on the ground floor (formerly a restaurant called \"Woodward's Garden\"). The former Gardens site also features the San Francisco Armory, completed in 1914.\n\nWoodward's Gardens was owned and operated by Robert B. Woodward (1824-1879), who became wealthy during the Gold Rush of 1849 and through his ownership the What Cheer House, a hotel and inn at 527-531 Sacramento Street at Leidesdorff Alley in San Francisco. Woodward opened the Gardens on the site of his four-acre estate after moving to Napa, California with his wife and four children \"(Napa home pictured)\". Early in his career, photographer Eadweard Muybridge took many photographs of the Gardens. Woodward had bought the property from U. S. Senator John C. Fremont.\n\nIn November 1889 Woodward's Gardens housed the famous bear \"Monarch\", a bear that was later memorialized on the Flag of California. Monarch was one of the last known wild grizzly bears captured in California and more than 20,000 people attended the opening day unveiling on November 10, 1889.\n\nThe venue would attract up to 10,000 people on major holidays such as May Day. The facility lost popularity after Woodward's death in 1879, and finally closed in 1891. When the Woodward family auctioned off the collection in 1894, much of it was purchased by San Francisco philanthropist Adolph Sutro. Sutro displayed some of the Woodward's Gardens collection at his Cliff House beginning in 1896, and at his Sutro Baths in the early part of the 20th century.\n\nA book by Marilyn Blaisdell, \"San Francisciana Photographs of Woodward's Gardens\", includes 100 photos of the site, was published in October 2012.\n\n\n"}
