{"id": "39246512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39246512", "title": "Administration of justice", "text": "Administration of justice\n\nThe administration of justice is the process by which the legal system of a government is executed. The presumed goal of such administration is to provide justice for all those accessing the legal system. The phrase is also used commonly to describe a University degree (as in: a BA in Administration of Justice), which can be a prerequisite for a job in law enforcement or government.\n\nIn \"Attorney General for New South Wales v Love\", the appellant argued that section 24 of the Act 9 Geo 4 c 83 did not have the effect applying the Nullum Tempus Act (9 Geo 3 c 16) (1768) to New South Wales. Counsel for the appellant said that \"Whicker v Hume\" decided that section 24 referred not to laws generally, but only to laws as to modes of procedure, and that the Nullum Tempus Act did not deal merely with procedure. The Lord Chancellor said that the Act 9 Geo 4 c 83 \"prima facie\" \"applied the Nullum Tempus Act to the Colony in question as much as if it had re-enacted it for that Colony.\" He then said:\n\nSection 92(14) of the Constitution Act, 1867, also known as the administration of justice power, grants the provincial legislatures of Canada the authority to legislate on:\n\nSection 1 of the Administration of Justice Act (RSO 1990 c A6) provides:\n\nThis provision was previously section 1 of the Administration of Justice Act (RSO 1980 c 6), which was previously section 1 of Administration of Justice Act (RSO 1970 c 6), which was previously section 1 of Administration of Justice Act 1968 (SO 1968 c 1) (17 Eliz 2 c 1). Queen's printer copies of the Statutes of the Province of Ontario 1968 describe this provision as \"new\". This statute replaced the Administration of Justice Expenses Act (RSO 1960 c 5).\n\n\"Offence against the administration of justice\" is defined by section 7 of the Criminal Procedure Act 2010.\n\nIn England, the administration of justice is a prerogative of the Crown. It may be exercised only through duly-appointed judges and courts.\n\nThe following matters and things pertain to the administration of justice: the organisation of the courts; the prerogative of justice, the prerogative of mercy, and any prerogative power to create new courts; nolle prosequi; the appointment, tenure and immunity of judges; the immunity of other participants in legal proceedings; contempt of court; the composition and availability of juries, any requirement that their verdict be unanimous, and the allowances they receive; the branches of the legal profession; and the provision of legal aid and advice.\n\nThe administration of justice is an act which is normally associated with the carrying on of the business of government. When a government does that act, it is thereby exercising its sovereignty. It would accordingly be a violation of British sovereignty for a foreign government to do that act in British territory without authorisation. Section 2 of the Visiting Forces Act 1952 authorises foreign service courts to exercise their jurisdiction in the United Kingdom.\n\nThere are offences against the administration of justice.\n\nFor the purpose of section 54 of the Criminal Procedure and Investigations Act 1996, the following are administration of justice offences:\n\nThe offence of perverting the course of justice has been referred to as \"interfering with the administration of justice\" and as \"obstructing the administration of justice\".\n\nSection 6(c) of the Contempt of Court Act 1981 provides that nothing in the foregoing provisions of that Act restricts liability for contempt of court in respect of conduct intended to impede or prejudice the administration of justice.\n\nAn arrestable offence, other than one specified in Schedule 5 to the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984, was serious for the purposes of that Act if it led to, or was intended or likely to lead to, amongst other things, serious interference with the administration of justice. An arrestable offence which consisted of making a threat was serious for the purposes of that Act if carrying out the threat would be likely to lead to, amongst other things, serious interference with the administration of justice.\n\nIn any legal proceedings held in public, the court may, where it appears to be necessary for avoiding a substantial risk of prejudice to the administration of justice in those proceedings, or in any other proceedings pending or imminent, order that the publication of any report of the proceedings, or any part of the proceedings, be postponed for such period as the court thinks necessary for that purpose.\n\nInformation which is not exempt information by virtue of section 30 of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 is exempt information if its disclosure under that Act would, or would be likely to, prejudice the administration of justice.\n\nRoscoe Pound said: \"Dissatisfaction with the administration of justice is as old as the law\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55504612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55504612", "title": "Body image law", "text": "Body image law\n\nBody image law is the developing area of law that, according to Dr Marilyn Bromberg of the University of Western Australia Law School and Cindy Halliwell, a law student at Deakin University, \"encompasses the bills, laws and government actions (such as establishing parliamentary inquiries and creating policies) that may help to improve the body image of the general public, and particularly of young people\".<ref name=\"mb/ch\"></ref> Among the reasons for implementing law in this area is to prevent the images of unhealthily thin women causing poor body image which can, along with other factors, lead to an eating disorder.\n\nThe Israeli government passed a body image law in 2012 which became operational the following year. The law requires models to have a minimum body mass index to work and if an image was photoshopped to make the model appear thinner, it must have a warning. The warning must state that the image was modified and it must take up at least seven percent of the image. Breaches can result in a civil lawsuit. \n\nThe French Government passed a similar law in 2015 which came into effect in 2017. This law requires that models provide their employers with a \"medical certificate, valid for up to two years, confirming their general physical well-being and the fact that they are not excessively underweight.\" The BMI of models older than 16 will also be taken into consideration, when determining their overall health. \n\nIn contrast to the Israeli law, breaching it attracts criminal sanctions. Additionally, any photo that has been digitally altered must be labeled as such; failure to label these photos will result in a \"fine of 37,500 euros, or more than $41,000,\" and hiring a model without the verified medical certificate and requirements \"carries a fine of €75,000 and six months in jail.\" The law dictates that digitally altered images must be labeled \"applies only to advertising, not to editorial images in magazines or newspapers.\" \n\nThe Greater London Authority banned advertisements that promote unhealthy body image on Transport for London public transport in 2016.<ref name=\"ap/mo\"></ref> Similarly, Trondheim in Norway banned advertisements that promote unhealthy body image in public places in 2017. \n\nThe Australian Government's position in this area is that it is up to industry to solve the problem of poor body image. Likewise, the previous Labor Government created a non-binding Voluntary Industry Code of Conduct on Body Image.\n"}
{"id": "39198876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39198876", "title": "Child pirate", "text": "Child pirate\n\nIn keeping with the Paris Principles definition of a child soldier, the Roméo Dallaire Child Soldiers Initiative defines a \"child pirate\"' as any person below 18 years of age who is or who has been recruited or used by a pirate gang in any capacity, including children - boys and/or girls - used as gunmen in boarding parties, hostage guards, negotiators, ship captains, messengers, spies or for sexual purposes, whether at sea or on land. It does not only refer to a child who is taking or has taken a direct part in kinetic criminal operations.\n\nChildren may volunteer to participate in piratical activities (usually on account of socioeconomic desperation, familial suggestion or peer influence) or they may be forcibly abducted by piratical gangs.\n\nThere are a number of reasons why an adult pirate commander would view children as being of significant tactical value. These perceptions render children vulnerable to abduction or forced recruitment. As noted by Carl Conradi:\n\nIn other cases, children may volunteer to participate in piratical activities. However, as asserted by the Canada-based Roméo Dallaire Child Soldiers Initiative, \"'voluntary' enlistment must be understood in terms of the limited choices and circumstances that may exist in the context of a particular country.\"’ If a child is extremely poor, has been displaced from his or her home, has been separated from his or her family, has limited educational opportunities or has been exposed to conflict, there is an increased likelihood that he or she will view piracy as a legitimate vehicle for social advancement.\n\nIn the absence of specific international legislation on juvenile maritime piracy, the precise age of a child’s criminal responsibility when committing piratical acts differs from country to country. There are, however, a number of international conventions pertaining to either maritime law or children’s rights that may provide some guidance as to the proper handling of child pirates.\n\nWhile the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS, 1982) does not discuss children’s involvement in maritime criminal activities, it does provide a clear definition of piracy. According to Article 101, piracy is:\n\nUNCLOS does recognise universal jurisdiction over the crime of piracy but it only applies to criminal acts that take place on international waters. If an act of piracy occurs within a country’s territorial waters, it is a matter of state jurisdiction and prosecution.\n\nArticle 3 of the International Labour Organisation’s (ILO) Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention (No. 182, 1999) stipulates that:\n\nInsofar as participation in any form of maritime criminality is dangerous (and indeed, potentially lethal), child piracy clearly constitutes a worst form of child labour.\n\nAccording to the Convention, a child is any person who is below the age of 18.\n\nAs of April 2013, eight countries had not signed ILO Convention No. 182. These include Cuba, Eritrea, India, the Marshall Islands, Myanmar, Palau, Somalia and Tuvalu. Two of these countries – India and Somalia – are currently detaining and prosecuting alleged child pirates.\n\nLike ILO Convention No. 182, Article 1 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (1990) specifies that a child is any human being below the age of 18 years. However, the same article adds a caveat to the effect that a country’s minimum age of criminal responsibility may be lower than 18, as stipulated by national law.\n\nOther sections that may have some bearing upon the status of child pirates include Article 6, in which, “States Parties recognize that every child has the inherent right to life,” and that, “States Parties shall ensure to the maximum extent possible the survival and development of the child.”\n\nArticle 19(1) affirms that, “States Parties shall take all appropriate legislative, administrative, social and educational measures to protect the child from all forms of physical or mental violence, injury or abuse, neglect or negligent treatment, maltreatment or exploitation, including sexual abuse, while in the care of parent(s), legal guardian(s) or any other person who has the care of the child.” This clause may be particularly relevant in cases where a child’s parents have forced him or her to participate in piratical activity, or where the State is responsible for detaining, interrogating, trying and/or incarcerating a captured child pirate.\n\nArticle 32(1) echoes ILO Convention No. 182 by stipulating that, “States Parties recognize the right of the child to be protected from economic exploitation and from performing any work that is likely to be hazardous or to interfere with the child’s education, or to be harmful to the child’s health or physical, mental, spiritual, moral or social development.”\n\nArticle 35 says that, “State Parties shall take all appropriate national, bilateral and multilateral measures to prevent the abduction of, the sale of or traffic in children for any purpose or in any form.” When a piratical gang permanently separates a child from his or her family, this may constitute an act of child trafficking.\n\nArticle 37(a) affirms that, “No child shall be subjected to torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Neither capital punishment nor life imprisonment without possibility of release shall be imposed for offences committed by persons below eighteen years of age.” Likewise, Article 37(c) states that, “Every child deprived of liberty shall be treated with humanity and respect for the inherent dignity of the human person, and in a manner which takes into account the needs of persons of his or her age. In particular, every child deprived of liberty shall be separated from adults unless it is considered in the child’s best interests not to do so and shall have the right to maintain contact with his or her family through correspondence and visits, save in exceptional circumstances.”\n\nLastly, Article 39 stipulates that, “State Parties shall take all appropriate measures to promote physical and psychological recovery and social reintegration of a child victim of: any form of neglect, exploitation or abuse; torture or any other form of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment; or armed conflicts. Such recovery and reintegration shall take place in an environment which fosters the health, self-respect and dignity of the child.”\n\nThe third version of the \"Best Management Practices to Deter Piracy off the Coast of Somalia and in the Arabian Sea Area\" (June 2010) recommends a sample follow-up report that should be filled by the captain of any vessel that has come under pirate attack. While the report does solicit certain details concerning the offending raiding party – such as the number of constituent pirate members, their physical appearance and the weapons that were used – it does not ask for the estimated ages of pirates.\n\nThe Regional Cooperation Agreement on Combating Piracy and Armed Robbery against Ships in Asia (ReCAAP) is a multilateral pact that facilitates information sharing between signatory countries. The reporting mechanism that it establishes does not specifically call for the collection of disaggregated data pertaining to the ages of captured pirates.\n\nAccording to the UN Office on Drugs and Crime, the UN Contact Group on Piracy off the Coast of Somalia is in the midst of drafting an apprehension and transfer protocol for juvenile pirates who are captured by international navies operating in the Horn of Africa region.\n\nAll three of the main Somali sub-regions (i.e., South-Central, Puntland and Somaliland) have signed memoranda of understanding (MoUs) with the governments of Mauritius and the Seychelles, allowing for the transfer of convicted pirates to prison facilities in Somalia. These MoUs, however, do not specify clear standard operating procedures for processing and/or transferring pirates who are determined to be under the age of 18. Kenya is also trying suspected Somali pirates but no prisoner transfer agreement is currently in place.\n\nAccording to UNICEF-Somalia, some 100 child pirates are currently being detained in a prison in Bosaso, Puntland. A second prison for juvenile pirates with a capacity of 100 is being built in Garoowe, while a 70-person prison for juvenile pirates is being built in Somaliland.\n\nThe Republic of Somaliland’s Juvenile Justice Law (2007) raised the age of criminal responsibility for 14 to 15 years and established separate judicial mechanisms for minors, such as child-specific courts of first instance and appellate courts. However, Somaliland’s Law on Combating Piracy (2012) does not make any specific reference to persons under the age of 18.\n\nThe Somali sub-region of Puntland does not have any specific legislation pertaining to child protection, though as of April 2013, a policy on orphans and other vulnerable children had been tabled in Parliament.\n\nIndia’s Piracy Bill (2012) does not make any specific reference to persons under the age of 18.\n\nAccording to the Roméo Dallaire Child Soldiers Initiative:\n\nOne of the most egregious instances of child maritime piracy off the coast of Somalia is recounted on the Canadian Naval Review’s Broadsides forum:\n\nThe \"Vega 5\" hijacking does not appear to be an isolated incident. The Broadsides article continues to report that:\n\nThe Roméo Dallaire Child Soldiers Initiative has determined that a significant proportion of those Somali pirates who are currently being tried internationally are actually under the age of 18. In India, 38 out of 61 pirates (62%) facing trial are juveniles; in Germany, 3 out of 10 (30%) are children; and in the United States of America, all three Somali pirates currently facing trial are under the age of 18.\n\nThe Roméo Dallaire Child Soldiers Initiative has noted that:\n"}
{"id": "56582267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56582267", "title": "Distributed ledger technology law", "text": "Distributed ledger technology law\n\nDistributed ledger technology law (\"DLT law\") (also called Blockchain law. or Lex Cryptographia) is not yet defined and recognized but an emerging field of law due to the recent dissemination of distributed ledger technology application in business and governance environment.\n\nUbiquitous dissemination of information technology and the Internet led to a discussion of two opposite legal theories of the regulation of cyberspace. According to The Law of the Horse theory proposed by Frank H. Easterbrook, general principles of law governing property, transactions and torts apply to any relationship whether in case of the horse or cyberspace and there is no reason to invent new fields of law designated for each. This theory was challenged by Lawrence Lessig, who argued that in case of cyberspace the code may be considered as another way of regulation and therefore the cyberspace may be treated more widely than just another area of relations regulated by conventional legal principles. Employing more liberal approach the DLT law may mean the body of law \"characterized by a set of rules administered through self-executing smart contracts and decentralized (and potentially autonomous) organizations\".\n\nAs of the beginning of 2018 the DLT law does not constitute a separate field of law rather it encompasses aspects of corporate, contract, investment, banking and finance law. According to conservative approach the DLT law may be considered as a part of existent area of law, which may be applied to regulate different aspects of DLT use and new kind of legal relations on blockchain, such as issue of authorisation (electronic signature), admissibility of blockchain evidence in court, status of cryptocurrency and regulation of initial coin offering, use of smart contracts, status of DAO (decentralized autonomous organization) and other.\n\nWhile in the UK and the EU at the beginning of 2018 the legislators are still silent about blockchain technology, in the United States several states already enacted legislation providing a framework for business and legal application of blockchain technology and enforceability of smart contracts.\n\nOn 2 June 2016 Vermont became the first state, which recognised blockchain-based records having legal bearing in a court under the Vermont Rules of Evidence and defined blockchain technology as \"mathematically secured, chronological, and decentralized consensus ledger or database, whether maintained via Internet interaction, peer-to-peer network, or otherwise\"\n\nIn March 2017, Arizona’s Electronic Transactions Act (the AETA) was amended by HB 2417 Act to clarify that “electronic records, electronic signatures, and smart contract terms secured through blockchain technology and governed under UCC Articles 2, 2A and 7 will be considered to be in an electronic form and to be an electronic signature under AETA.” HB 2417 Act also provides a definition of blockchain technology as a “distributed, decentralized, shared and replicated ledger, which may be public or private, permissioned or permissionless, or driven by tokenized crypto economics or tokenless” and definition of smart contract as \"event driven program, with state, that runs on a distributed, decentralized, shared and replicated ledger that can take custody over and instruct transfer of assets on that ledger\".\n\nThe State also identifies areas where blockchain technology should not be used. For instance, the new law adopted in 2017 prohibits the use of blockchain technology to locate or control firearms.\n\nIn June 2017 similar legislation has been enacted in Nevada. In addition, \"Nevada has become the first state to ban local governments from taxing blockchain use\". With regard to the definition of blockchain, the Nevada Senate defines it as \"an electronic record created by the use of a decentralized method by multiple parties to verify and store a digital record of transactions which is secured by the use of a cryptographic hash of previous transaction information\".\n\nOn August 1, 2017, Delaware's blockchain law became effective, which amends the Delaware General Corporation Law explicitly permitting the use of distributed ledger technology in the administration of Delaware corporate records, including records of stock and stockholders. \"Before this new law was adopted, there was nothing specifically stopping a Delaware corporation from using blockchain technology to keep track of its stockholders, but there was also a great deal of regulatory uncertainty.\"\n\nIn the legal context DLT and smart contracts are distinct and face their own problems and challenges. Issue of situs is an example which relates to DLT rather than smart contracts. International private law and legislation of various jurisdictions require to identify the location of an asset or place of an agreement in order to solve conflict of law problem and determine the applicable governing law. \"However, the distribution of the register across nodes in multiple jurisdictions raises a seemingly intractable problem – under current legal principles at least – as to where the situs should be.\" Holding something on DLT, including smart contract or title to an asset, does not isolate it from the legal system and laws of respective jurisdiction. \"Some blockchain enthusiasts may have misinterpreted the statement ‘code is law’ as implying that code can supersede the law or that decentralised networks create their own legal regimes.\"\n\nIn case of a dispute between the parties of the smart contract within the DLT, the issue arises where the distributed ledger is located in order to determine the place for dispute resolution. \"Blockchain also poses questions concerning the ability to identify the parties to a transaction, to the extent a system utilizing this technology remains anonymous, which may rise a host of additional issues related to dispute resolution.\"\n\nAn absence of legal compliance mechanism on DLT, self-executing nature of code on DLT and limited ability to update the code if the law changes create a number of legal issues. There are several possible solutions of addressing these issues. \"One method could be a system in which the relevant jurisdiction creates a publicly available database and application programming interface (API) of relevant legal provisions. These would be provisions related to the terms of the contract. The smart contract would call these terms and would be able to update those provisions terms in accord with the jurisdiction's update of the database.\"\n\nOn more conservative side of DLT and law interaction spectrum are two solutions proposed by Alexander Savelyev:\n\n\"(1) To introduce the concept of a ‘Superuser’ for government authorities, which will have a right to modify the content of Blockchain databases in accordance with a specified procedure in order to reflect the decisions of state authority.\n\n(2) To enforce decisions of state authorities in ‘offline’ mode by pursuing the specific users and forcing them to include changes in Blockchain themselves as well as by using traditional tort claims, unjust enrichment claims, and specific performance claims.\"\n\nSubject to ability of distributed ledger to have access to terms and conditions by which performance of obligations under the smart contract must be assessed the execution of contracts on distributed ledger may be automated. \"In the interest rate swap example, the distributed ledger must have access to assets of the parties' in order to fulfil the parties' payment obligations, and it must have access to a provider of interest rate information.\" The solutions to the issue of access to assets vary and may be solved through locking and release of assets in smart contract as it is performed through use of cryptocurrency Ether on Ethereum blockchain or by introducing new mechanism of access to assets like 'cash states' proposed by Corda distributed ledger. At the same time the solution to the issue of access to information may require use of so-called 'Oracles' - an external parties providing the judgement to determine whether or not respective conditions under the agreement have been met. \"Turning again to the interest rate swap example, an oracle could be used to provide interest rate information on a payment calculation date. The oracle's digital signature would be retained on the distributed ledger so that parties could review the payment process and confirm that payments were made correctly.\"\n"}
{"id": "43823562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43823562", "title": "Framework law", "text": "Framework law\n\nFramework laws are laws that are more specific than constitutional provisions. They lay down general obligations and principles but leave to governing authorities the task of enacting the further legislation and other specific measures, as may be required.\n"}
{"id": "35097397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35097397", "title": "Freemen on the land", "text": "Freemen on the land\n\nFreemen-on-the-land (also freemen-of-the-land, the freemen movement or simply freemen) are a loose group of individuals who believe that they are bound by statute laws only if they consent to those laws. They believe that they can therefore declare themselves independent of the government and the rule of law, holding that the only \"true\" law is their own interpretation of \"common law\". This belief has been described as a conspiracy theory. Freemen are active in English-speaking countries: the United Kingdom, Ireland, Canada, the United States, Australia, and New Zealand.\n\nIn the Canadian court case \"Meads v. Meads\", Alberta Court of Queen's Bench Associate Chief Justice John D. Rooke used the phrase \"Organised Pseudolegal Commercial Arguments\" (OPCA) to describe the techniques and arguments used by freemen in court, describing them as frivolous and vexatious. There is no recorded instance of freeman tactics being upheld in a court of law. In refuting each of the arguments used by Meads, Rooke concluded that \"a decade of reported cases, many of which he refers to in his ruling, have failed to prove a single concept advanced by OPCA litigants.\"\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in the United States classifies freemen as sovereign citizen extremists and domestic terrorists.\n\nFreemen believe that statute law is a contract, and that individuals can therefore opt out of statute law, choosing instead to live under what they call \"common\" (case) and \"natural\" laws. They believe natural laws require only that individuals do not harm others, do not damage the property of others, and do not use \"fraud or mischief\" in contracts. They say that all people have two parts to their existence: their body and their legal \"person\". The latter is represented by the individual's birth certificate; some freemen claim that it is entirely limited to the birth certificate. Under this theory, a \"strawman\" is created when a birth certificate is issued, and this \"strawman\" is the entity who is subject to statutory law. The physical self is referred to by a slightly different name, such as \"John of the family Smith\" instead of \"John Smith\".\n\nMany freemen beliefs are based on idiosyncratic interpretations of admiralty or maritime law, which the freemen claim govern the commercial world. These beliefs stem from fringe interpretations of various nautical-sounding words, such as ownership, citizenship, dock, or birth (berth) certificate. Freemen refer to the court as a \"ship\", the court's occupants as \"passengers\" and may claim that those leaving are \"men overboard\".\n\nFreemen will try to claim common law (as opposed to admiralty law) jurisdiction by asking \"Do you have a claim against me?\" This, they contend, removes their consent to be governed by admiralty law and turns the court into a common law court, so that proceedings would have to go forward according to their version of common law. This procedure has never been successfully used.\n\nFreemen will often not accept legal representation, believing that to do so would mean contracting with the state. They believe that the United Kingdom and Canada are now operating in bankruptcy and are therefore under admiralty law. They believe that since the abolition of the gold standard, UK currency is backed not by gold but by the people (or the \"legal fiction of their persons\"). They describe persons as creditors of the UK corporation. Therefore, a court is a place of business, and a summons is an invitation to discuss the matter at hand, with no powers to require attendance or compliance. They may believe that the government controls secret bank accounts in their name as part of this theory, which may be accessed to pay off debts.\n\nNone of the beliefs held by freemen have ever been supported by any judgments or verdicts in any criminal or civil court cases anywhere. An English solicitor, writing anonymously, commented:\n\nFreemen believe that since they exist in a common law jurisdiction where equality is paramount and mandatory, the people in the government and courts are not above the law, and that government and court personnel therefore must obtain the consent of the governed. Freemen believe that government employees who do not obtain consent of the governed have abandoned the rule of law. They believe this consent is routinely secured by way of people submitting applications and through acts of registration. They believe the public servants have deceived the population into abandoning their status as freemen in exchange for the status of a \"child of the province\" or \"ward of the state\", allowing those children to collect benefits such as welfare, unemployment insurance, and pension plans or old age security.\n\nFreemen believe that the government has to establish \"joinder\" to link oneself and one's legal person. If one is asked whether one is \"John Smith\" and one says that is so, one has established joinder and connected the physical and human persons. The next step is to obtain consent. Statutes are merely invitations to enter a contract, and are only legally enforceable if one enters into the contract consensually. Otherwise, statute laws are not applicable. Freemen believe that the government is constantly trying to trick people into entering into a contract with them, so they often return bills, notices, summons and so on with the message \"No contract—return to sender\".\n\nA \"notice of understanding and intent and claim of right\" is a document used by freemen to declare their sovereignty. The signed document, often notarised, is sent to the Queen and possibly other authorities such as the Prime Minister and police chiefs. It usually begins with the words \"Whereas it is my understanding\" and goes on to state their understanding of the law and their lack of consent to it.\n\nFreemen's beliefs are based on misunderstandings and wishful thinking and have not been successful in any courts anywhere.\n\n\nThe bluntly idiotic substance of Mr. Mead's argument explains the unnecessarily complicated manner in which it was presented. OPCA arguments are never sold to their customers as simple ideas, but instead are byzantine schemes which more closely resemble the plot of a dark fantasy novel than anything else. Latin maxims and powerful sounding language are often used. Documents are often ornamented with many strange markings and seals. Litigants engage in peculiar, ritual‑like in court conduct. All these features appear necessary for gurus to market OPCA schemes to their often desperate, ill‑informed, mentally disturbed, or legally abusive customers. This is crucial to understand the non-substance of any OPCA concept or strategy. The story and process of a OPCA scheme is not intended to impress or convince the Courts, \"but rather to impress the guru's customer\". \n\n\nThe whole process meant that a simple matter of driving without insurance took up hours of police time – and ultimately a stint behind bars after being convicted of contempt of court while defending himself. We hope this case acts as a warning that to obstruct the police and the courts is not a wise move.\n\n\nLawyers and notaries in British Columbia and Alberta, Canada, have been warned by their professional bodies about dealing with freemen as clients. In particular, lawyers have been advised to be careful not to stamp or notarise the pseudo-legal documents that freemen typically use, so as not to create a perception of authority for such documents.\n\nU.S. police, both speaking personally and as official guidance, have provided advice to law enforcement on dealing with the similar sovereign citizen movement. These have noted the need for caution after a case in which two policemen were murdered by a \"sovereign citizen\" during a traffic stop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48373223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48373223", "title": "Gender empowerment", "text": "Gender empowerment\n\nGender empowerment is the empowerment of people of any gender. While conventionally being reduced to its aspect of empowerment of women, the concept stresses the distinction between biological sex and gender as a role, also referring to other marginalized genders in a particular political or social context.\n\nGender empowerment has become a significant topic of discussion in regard to development and economics. Entire nations, businesses, communities, and groups can benefit from the implementation of programs and policies that adopt the notion of women empowerment. Empowerment is one of the main procedural concerns when addressing human rights and development. The Human Development and Capabilities Approach, The Millennium Development Goals, and other credible approaches/goals point to empowerment and participation as a necessary step if a country is to overcome the obstacles associated with poverty and development.\n\nGender empowerment can be measured through the Gender Empowerment Measure, or the GEM. The GEM shows women's participation in a given nation, both politically and economically. Gem is calculated by tracking \"the share of seats in parliament held by women; of female legislators, senior officials and managers; and of female profession and technical workers; and the gender disparity in earned income, reflecting economic independence.\" It then ranks countries given this information. Other measures that take into account the importance of female participation and equality include: the Gender Parity Index and the Gender Development Index (GDI).\n\n"}
{"id": "13831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13831", "title": "Human rights", "text": "Human rights\n\nHuman rights are moral principles or norms that describe certain standards of human behaviour and are regularly protected as natural and legal rights in municipal and international law. They are commonly understood as inalienable, fundamental rights \"to which a person is inherently entitled simply because she or he is a human being\" and which are \"inherent in all human beings\", regardless of their nation, location, language, religion, ethnic origin or any other status. They are applicable everywhere and at every time in the sense of being universal, and they are egalitarian in the sense of being the same for everyone. They are regarded as requiring empathy and the rule of law and imposing an obligation on persons to respect the human rights of others, and it is generally considered that they should not be taken away except as a result of due process based on specific circumstances; for example, human rights may include freedom from unlawful imprisonment, torture and execution.\n\nThe doctrine of human rights has been highly influential within international law, global and regional institutions. Actions by states and non-governmental organisations form a basis of public policy worldwide. The idea of human rights suggests that \"if the public discourse of peacetime global society can be said to have a common moral language, it is that of human rights\". The strong claims made by the doctrine of human rights continue to provoke considerable scepticism and debates about the content, nature and justifications of human rights to this day. The precise meaning of the term \"right\" is controversial and is the subject of continued philosophical debate; while there is consensus that human rights encompasses a wide variety of rights such as the right to a fair trial, protection against enslavement, prohibition of genocide, free speech or a right to education (including the right to comprehensive sexuality education, among others), there is disagreement about which of these particular rights should be included within the general framework of human rights; some thinkers suggest that human rights should be a minimum requirement to avoid the worst-case abuses, while others see it as a higher standard. In the light of emerging neurotechnologies, four new rights were identified: the right to cognitive liberty, the right to mental privacy, the right to mental integrity, and the right to psychological continuity.\n\nMany of the basic ideas that animated the human rights movement developed in the aftermath of the Second World War and the events of the Holocaust, culminating in the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Paris by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948. Ancient peoples did not have the same modern-day conception of universal human rights. The true forerunner of human rights discourse was the concept of natural rights which appeared as part of the medieval natural law tradition that became prominent during the European Enlightenment with such philosophers as John Locke, Francis Hutcheson and Jean-Jacques Burlamaqui and which featured prominently in the political discourse of the American Revolution and the French Revolution. From this foundation, the modern human rights arguments emerged over the latter half of the 20th century, possibly as a reaction to slavery, torture, genocide and war crimes, as a realisation of inherent human vulnerability and as being a precondition for the possibility of a just society.\n\nThe history of human rights has not been entirely progressive. Many established rights would be replaced by other less tolerant systems. Stable institutions may be uprooted such as in cases of conflict such as war and terrorism.\n\nThe earliest conceptualisation of human rights is credited to ideas about natural rights emanating from natural law.\n\nThe Northeast African civilization of Ancient Egypt supported basic human rights. For example, Pharaoh Bocchoris (725-720 BC) promoted individual rights, suppressed imprisonment for debt, and reformed laws relating to the transferral of property.\n\nThe first recording of human rights were inscribed by Cyrus the Great, the founder of the Achaemenid Empire, into the Cyrus Cylinder. The Cyrus Cylinder is a clay tablet created in 539 B.C. soon after the Achaemenid conquest of the Neo-Babylonian Empire. Additionally it stated the freedom to practice one's faith without persecution and forced conversions.\n\nThe Mauryan Emperor Ashoka, who ruled from 268 to 232 BCE, established the largest empire in South Asia. Following the reportedly destructive Kalinga War, Ashoka adopted Buddhism and abandoned an expansionist policy in favor of humanitarian reforms. The Edicts of Ashoka were erected throughout his empire, containing the 'Law of Piety'. These laws prohibited slavery, religious discrimination, and cruelty against both humans and animals.\nLater documents pertaining to human rights can be referenced in the Constitution of Medina (622), Al-Risalah al-Huquq (late 7th to early 8th century), Magna Carta (1215), the German Peasants' War Twelve Articles (1525), the English Bill of Rights (1689), the French Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen (1789), and the Bill of Rights in the United States Constitution (1791).\n\nThe statute of Kalisz (1264), bestowed privileges to the Jewish minority in the Kingdom of Poland such as protection from discrimination and hate speech. Samuel Moyn suggests that the concept of human rights is intertwined with the modern sense of citizenship, which did not emerge until the past few hundred years.\n\n17th-century English philosopher John Locke discussed natural rights in his work, identifying them as being \"life, liberty, and estate (property)\", and argued that such fundamental rights could not be surrendered in the social contract. In Britain in 1689, the English Bill of Rights and the Scottish Claim of Right each made illegal a range of oppressive governmental actions. Two major revolutions occurred during the 18th century, in the United States (1776) and in France (1789), leading to the United States Declaration of Independence and the French Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen respectively, both of which articulated certain human rights. Additionally, the Virginia Declaration of Rights of 1776 encoded into law a number of fundamental civil rights and civil freedoms.\n\nThese were followed by developments in philosophy of human rights by philosophers such as Thomas Paine, John Stuart Mill and G.W.F. Hegel during the 18th and 19th centuries. The term \"human rights\" probably came into use some time between Paine's \"The Rights of Man\" and William Lloyd Garrison's 1831 writings in \"The Liberator\", in which he stated that he was trying to enlist his readers in \"the great cause of human rights\". Although the term had been used by at least one author as early as 1742.\n\nIn the 19th century, human rights became a central concern over the issue of slavery. A number of reformers, notably British Member of Parliament William Wilberforce, worked towards the abolition of the Atlantic slave trade and abolition of slavery. This was achieved across the British Empire by the Slave Trade Act 1807, which was enforced internationally by the Royal Navy under treaties Britain negotiated with other nations, and the Slavery Abolition Act 1833. In the United States, all the northern states had abolished the institution of slavery between 1777 and 1804, although southern states clung tightly to the \"peculiar institution\". Conflict and debates over the expansion of slavery to new territories constituted one of the reasons for the southern states' secession and the American Civil War. During the reconstruction period immediately following the war, several amendments to the United States Constitution were made. These included the 13th amendment, banning slavery, the 14th amendment, assuring full citizenship and civil rights to all people born in the United States, and the 15th amendment, guaranteeing African Americans the right to vote. In Russia, the reformer Tsar Alexander II ended serfdom in 1861, although the freed serfs often faced restrictions of their mobility within the nation.\n\nMany groups and movements have achieved profound social changes over the course of the 20th century in the name of human rights. In Europe and North America, labour unions brought about laws granting workers the right to strike, establishing minimum work conditions and forbidding or regulating child labour. The women's rights movement succeeded in gaining for many women the right to vote. National liberation movements in many countries succeeded in driving out colonial powers. One of the most influential was Mahatma Gandhi's movement to free his native India from British rule. Movements by long-oppressed racial and religious minorities succeeded in many parts of the world, among them the civil rights movement, and more recent movements, on behalf of women and minorities in the United States.\n\nThe establishment of the International Committee of the Red Cross, the 1864 Lieber Code and the first of the Geneva Conventions in 1864 laid the foundations of International humanitarian law, to be further developed following the two World Wars.\n\nThe World Wars, and the huge losses of life and gross abuses of human rights that took place during them, were a driving force behind the development of modern human rights instruments. The League of Nations was established in 1919 at the negotiations over the Treaty of Versailles following the end of World War I. The League's goals included disarmament, preventing war through collective security, settling disputes between countries through negotiation and diplomacy, and improving global welfare. Enshrined in its charter was a mandate to promote many of the rights later included in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nAt the 1945 Yalta Conference, the Allied Powers agreed to create a new body to supplant the League's role; this was to be the United Nations. The United Nations has played an important role in international human-rights law since its creation. Following the World Wars, the United Nations and its members developed much of the discourse and the bodies of law that now make up international humanitarian law and international human rights law. Analyst Belinda Cooper argued that human rights organisations flourished in the 1990s, possibly as a result of the dissolution of the western and eastern Cold War blocs. Ludwig Hoffmann argues that human rights became more widely emphasised in the latter half of the twentieth century because it \"provided a language for political claim making and counter-claims, liberal-democratic, but also socialist and post colonialist.\n\nThe CDHR was signed by member states of the OIC in 1990 at the 19th Conference of Foreign Ministers held in Cairo, Egypt. It was seen as the answer to the UDHR. In fact, the CDHR was \"patterned after the UN-sponsored UDHR of 1948\". The object of the CDHR was to \"serve as a guide for member states on human rights issues. CDHR translated the Qur'anic teachings as follows: \"All men are equal in terms of basic human dignity and basic obligations and responsibilities, without any discrimination on the basis of race, colour, language, belief, sex, religion, political affiliation, social status or other considerations. True religion is the guarantee for enhancing such dignity along the path to human integrity. The CDHR referenced Islamic Sharia which includes Quran, Hadith, prophetic teachings and Islamic legal tradition.\n\nThe philosophy of human rights attempts to examine the underlying basis of the concept of human rights and critically looks at its content and justification. Several theoretical approaches have been advanced to explain how and why human rights have become a part of social expectations.\n\nOne of the oldest Western philosophies of human rights is that they are a product of a natural law, stemming from different philosophical or religious grounds. Other theories hold that human rights codify moral behaviour which is a human social product developed by a process of biological and social evolution (associated with Hume). Human rights are also described as a sociological pattern of rule setting (as in the sociological theory of law and the work of Weber). These approaches include the notion that individuals in a society accept rules from legitimate authority in exchange for security and economic advantage (as in Rawls) – a social contract. The two theories that dominate contemporary human rights discussion are the interest theory and the will theory. Interest theory argues that the principal function of human rights is to protect and promote certain essential human interests, while will theory attempts to establish the validity of human rights based on the unique human capacity for freedom. Other positions attempt to categorise rights into basic types, rather than make claims about the function or derivation of particular rights.\n\nThe claims made by human rights to universality have led to criticism. Philosophers who have criticised the concept of human rights include Jeremy Bentham, Edmund Burke, Friedrich Nietzsche and Karl Marx. Canadian political philosophy professor Charles Blattberg argues that discussion of human rights, being abstract, demotivates people from upholding the values that rights are meant to affirm. The Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy gives particular attention to two types of criticisms: the one questioning universality of human rights and the one denying them objective ground. Alain Pellet, a French scholar on international law, criticises \"human rightism\" approach as denying the principle of sovereignty and claiming a special place for human rights among the branches of international law; French journalist Alain de Benoist questions human rights premises of human equality. American scholar David Kennedy had listed pragmatic worries and polemical charges concerning human rights in 2002 in \"Harvard Human Rights Journal\".\n\nHuman rights can be classified and organised in several different ways. At an international level the most common categorisation of human rights has been to split them into civil and political rights, and economic, social and cultural rights.\n\nCivil and political rights are enshrined in articles 3 to 21 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR). Economic, social and cultural rights are enshrined in articles 22 to 28 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and in the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR).\n\nThe UDHR included both economic, social and cultural rights and civil and political rights because it was based on the principle that the different rights could only successfully exist in combination:\n\nThis is held to be true because without civil and political rights the public cannot assert their economic, social and cultural rights. Similarly, without livelihoods and a working society, the public cannot assert or make use of civil or political rights (known as the \"full belly thesis\").\n\nThe indivisibility and interdependence of all human rights has been confirmed by the 1993 Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action:\nThis statement was again endorsed at the 2005 World Summit in New York (paragraph 121).\n\nAlthough accepted by the signatories to the UDHR, most do not in practice give equal weight to the different types of rights. Some Western cultures have often given priority to civil and political rights, sometimes at the expense of economic and social rights such as the right to work, to education, health and housing. Similarly the ex Soviet bloc countries and Asian countries have tended to give priority to economic, social and cultural rights, but have often failed to provide civil and political rights.\n\nOpponents of the indivisibility of human rights argue that economic, social and cultural rights are fundamentally different from civil and political rights and require completely different approaches. Economic, social and cultural rights are argued to be:\nSimilarly civil and political rights are categorized as:\n\nAustralian politician Olivia Ball and British scholar Paul Gready argue that for both civil and political rights and economic, social and cultural rights, it is easy to find examples which do not fit into the above categorisation. Among several others, they highlight the fact that maintaining a judicial system, a fundamental requirement of the civil right to due process before the law and other rights relating to judicial process, is positive, resource-intensive, progressive and vague, while the social right to housing is precise, justiciable and can be a real 'legal' right.\n\nAnother categorisation, offered by Czech-French scholar Karel Vasak, is that there are \"three generations of human rights\": first-generation civil and political rights (right to life and political participation), second-generation economic, social and cultural rights (right to subsistence) and third-generation solidarity rights (right to peace, right to clean environment). Out of these generations, the third generation is the most debated and lacks both legal and political recognition. This categorisation is at odds with the indivisibility of rights, as it implicitly states that some rights can exist without others. Prioritisation of rights for pragmatic reasons is however a widely accepted necessity. American human rights scholar Philip Alston argues:\n\nHe, and others, urge caution with prioritisation of rights:\n\nSome human rights are said to be \"inalienable rights\". The term inalienable rights (or unalienable rights) refers to \"a set of human rights that are fundamental, are not awarded by human power, and cannot be surrendered.\"\n\nIn the aftermath of the atrocities of World War II, there was increased concern for the social and legal protection of human rights as fundamental freedoms. The foundation of the United Nations and the provisions of the United Nations Charter provided a basis for a comprehensive system of international law and practice for the protection of human rights. Since then, international human rights law has been characterised by a linked system of conventions, treaties, organisations, and political bodies, rather than any single entity or set of laws. However, American analyst Pierre Leval suggested that respect for fundamental human rights in the world today (in 2013) is \"dismal\" within some nations:\n\nThe provisions of the United Nations Charter provided a basis for the development of international human rights protection in the opinion of British barrister Ian Brownlie. The preamble of the charter provides that the members \"reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the equal rights of men and women\" and Article 1(3) of the United Nations charter states that one of the purposes of the UN is: \"to achieve international cooperation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural, or humanitarian character, and in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion\". Article 55 provides that:\n\nOf particular importance is Article 56 of the charter: \"All Members pledge themselves to take joint and separate action in co-operation with the Organization for the achievement of the purposes set forth in Article 55.\" This is a binding treaty provision applicable to both the organization and its members and has been taken to constitute a legal obligation for the members of the United Nations. Overall, the references to human rights in the charter are general and vague. The charter does not contain specific legal rights, nor does it mandate any enforcement procedures to protect these rights.\nAccording to Shaw, the importance of human rights on the global stage can be traced to the importance of human rights within the United Nations framework and the UN Charter can be seen as the starting point for the development of a broad array of declarations, treaties, implementation and enforcement mechanisms, UN organs, committees and reports on the protection of human rights. The rights espoused in the UN charter were codified and defined in a non-binding context within the International Bill of Human Rights, composing the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.\n\nThe Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948, partly in response to the atrocities of World War II. It is generally viewed as the preeminent statement of international rights and has been identified as being a culmination of centuries of thinking along both secular and religious lines. Although the UDHR is a non-binding resolution, it is now considered by some to have acquired the force of international customary law which may be invoked in appropriate circumstances by national and other tribunals. The UDHR urges member nations to promote a number of human, civil, economic and social rights, asserting these rights as part of the \"foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world.\" The declaration was the first international legal effort to limit the behaviour of states and press upon them duties to their citizens.\n\nThe UDHR was framed by members of the Human Rights Commission, with former First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt as Chair, who began to discuss an \"International Bill of Rights\" in 1947. The members of the Commission did not immediately agree on the form of such a bill of rights, and whether, or how, it should be enforced. The Commission proceeded to frame the UDHR and accompanying treaties, but the UDHR quickly became the priority.\nCanadian law professor John Humphrey and French lawyer René Cassin were responsible for much of the cross-national research and the structure of the document respectively, where the articles of the declaration were interpretative of the general principle of the preamble. The document was structured by Cassin to include the basic principles of dignity, liberty, equality and brotherhood in the first two articles, followed successively by rights pertaining to individuals; rights of individuals in relation to each other and to groups; spiritual, public and political rights; and economic, social and cultural rights. According to Cassin, the final three articles place rights in the context of limits, duties and the social and political order in which they are to be realised.\nHumphrey and Cassin intended the rights in the UDHR to be legally enforceable through some means, as is reflected in the third clause of the preamble:\n\nSome of the UDHR was researched and written by a committee of international experts on human rights, including representatives from all continents and all major religions, and drawing on consultation with leaders such as Mahatma Gandhi.\nThe inclusion of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights was predicated on the assumption that all human rights are indivisible and that the different types of rights listed are inextricably linked. This principle was not then opposed by any member states (the declaration was adopted unanimously, Byelorussian SSR, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Ukrainian SSR, Union of South Africa, USSR, Yugoslavia.); however, this principle was later subject to significant challenges.\n\nThe Universal Declaration was bifurcated into treaties, a Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and another on social, economic, and cultural rights, due to questions about the relevance and propriety of economic and social provisions in covenants on human rights. Both covenants begin with the right of people to self-determination and to sovereignty over their natural resources. This debate over whether human rights are more fundamental than economic rights has continued to the present day. The United States declared after the World Food Summit that a right to be free from hunger does not give rise to any international obligations which has been interpreted as a negative duty.\n\nThe drafters of the Covenants initially intended only one instrument. The original drafts included only political and civil rights, but economic and social rights were also proposed. The disagreement over which rights were basic human rights resulted in there being two covenants. The debate was whether economic and social rights are aspirational, as contrasted with basic human rights which all people possess purely by being human, because economic and social rights depend on wealth and the availability of resources. In addition, which social and economic rights should be recognised depends on ideology or economic theories, in contrast to basic human rights, which are defined purely by the nature (mental and physical abilities) of human beings. It was debated whether economic rights were appropriate subjects for binding obligations and whether the lack of consensus over such rights would dilute the strength of political-civil rights. There was wide agreement and clear recognition that the means required to enforce or induce compliance with socioeconomic undertakings were different from the means required for civil-political rights.\n\nThis debate and the desire for the greatest number of signatories to human-rights law led to the two covenants. The Soviet bloc and a number of developing countries had argued for the inclusion of all rights in a so-called \"Unity Resolution\". Both covenants allowed states to derogate some rights. Those in favour of a single treaty could not gain sufficient consensus.\n\nIn 1966, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) were adopted by the United Nations, between them making the rights contained in the UDHR binding on all states that have signed this treaty, creating human-rights law.\n\nSince then numerous other treaties (pieces of legislation) have been offered at the international level. They are generally known as \"human rights instruments\". Some of the most significant, referred to (with ICCPR and ICESCR) as \"the seven core treaties\", are:\n\nIn addition to protection by international treaties, customary international law may protect some human rights, such as the prohibition of torture, genocide and slavery and the principle of non-discrimination.\n\nThe Geneva Conventions came into being between 1864 and 1949 as a result of efforts by Henry Dunant, the founder of the International Committee of the Red Cross. The conventions safeguard the human rights of individuals involved in armed conflict, and build on the Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907, the international community's first attempt to formalise the laws of war and war crimes in the nascent body of secular international law. The conventions were revised as a result of World War II and readopted by the international community in 1949.\n\nUnder the mandate of the UN charter, and the multilateral UN human rights treaties, the United Nations (UN) as an intergovernmental body seeks to apply international jurisdiction for universal human-rights legislation. Within the UN machinery, human-rights issues are primarily the concern of the United Nations Security Council and the United Nations Human Rights Council, and there are numerous committees within the UN with responsibilities for safeguarding different human-rights treaties. The most senior body of the UN in the sphere of human rights is the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. The United Nations has an international mandate to:\n\nThe United Nations Security Council has the primary responsibility for maintaining international peace and security and is the only body of the UN that can authorise the use of force. It has been criticised for failing to take action to prevent human rights abuses, including the Darfur crisis, the Srebrenica massacre and the Rwandan Genocide. For example, critics blamed the presence of non-democracies on the Security Council for its failure regarding.\n\nOn April 28, 2006 the Security Council adopted resolution 1674 that reaffirmed the responsibility to protect populations from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity\" and committed the Security Council to action to protect civilians in armed conflict.\n\nThe United Nations General Assembly, under Article 13 of the UN Charter, has the power to initiate studies and make recommendations on human rights issues.\nUnder this provision, the general assembly passed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948, and since then a wide variety of other human rights instruments. The assembly has several subsidiary organs that deal with specific human rights issues, such as the Special Committee on Decolonisation and the Special Commission against Apartheid (no longer operational). In addition the general assembly has set up a number of subsidiary organs that consider human rights issues in a number of high-profile contexts: such as the UN Council on Namibia, the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practises in the Occupied territories and the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable rights of the Palestine People.\n\nThe United Nations Human Rights Council, created at the 2005 World Summit to replace the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, has a mandate to investigate violations of human rights.\nThe Human Rights Council is a subsidiary body of the General Assembly and reports directly to it. It ranks below the Security Council, which is the final authority for the interpretation of the United Nations Charter. Forty-seven of the one hundred ninety-one member states sit on the council, elected by simple majority in a secret ballot of the United Nations General Assembly. Members serve a maximum of six years and may have their membership suspended for gross human rights abuses. The Council is based in Geneva, and meets three times a year; with additional meetings to respond to urgent situations.\n\nIndependent experts (\"rapporteurs\") are retained by the Council to investigate alleged human rights abuses and to provide the Council with reports.\n\nThe Human Rights Council may request that the Security Council take action when human rights violations occur. This action may be direct actions, may involve sanctions, and the Security Council may also refer cases to the International Criminal Court (ICC) even if the issue being referred is outside the normal jurisdiction of the ICC.\n\nIn addition to the political bodies whose mandate flows from the UN charter, the UN has set up a number of \"treaty-based\" bodies, comprising committees of independent experts who monitor compliance with human rights standards and norms flowing from the core international human rights treaties. They are supported by and are created by the treaty that they monitor, With the exception of the CESCR, which was established under a resolution of the Economic and Social Council to carry out the monitoring functions originally assigned to that body under the Covenant, they are technically autonomous bodies, established by the treaties that they monitor and accountable to the state parties of those treaties - rather than subsidiary to the United Nations. Though in practice they are closely intertwined with the United Nations system and are supported by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights (UNHCHR) and the UN Centre for Human Rights.\n\nEach treaty body receives secretariat support from the Human Rights Council and Treaties Division of Office of the High Commissioner on Human Rights (OHCHR) in Geneva except CEDAW, which is supported by the Division for the Advancement of Women (DAW). CEDAW formerly held all its sessions at United Nations headquarters in New York but now frequently meets at the United Nations Office in Geneva; the other treaty bodies meet in Geneva. The Human Rights Committee usually holds its March session in New York City.\n\nInternational human rights regimes are in several cases \"nested\" within more comprehensive and overlapping regional agreements. These regional regimes can be seen as relatively independently coherent human rights sub-regimes. Three principal regional human rights instruments can be identified; the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights, the American Convention on Human Rights (the Americas) and the European Convention on Human Rights. The European Convention on Human Rights has since 1950 defined and guaranteed human rights and fundamental freedoms in Europe.\nAll 47 member states of the Council of Europe have signed the Convention and are therefore under the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg.\nHuman rights continue to be promoted around the world through governmental organisations and museums including the Canadian Museum for Human Rights in Winnipeg, Manitoba.\n\nInternational non-governmental human rights organisations such as Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, International Service for Human Rights and FIDH monitor what they see as human rights issues around the world and promote their views on the subject. Human rights organisations have been said to \"translate complex international issues into activities to be undertaken by concerned citizens in their own community\".\nHuman rights organisations frequently engage in lobbying and advocacy in an effort to convince the United Nations, supranational bodies and national governments to adopt their policies on human rights. Many human-rights organisations have observer status at the various UN bodies tasked with protecting human rights. A new (in 2009) non-governmental human-rights conference is the Oslo Freedom Forum, a gathering described by The Economist as \"on its way to becoming a human-rights equivalent of the Davos economic forum.\" The same article noted that human-rights advocates are more and more divided amongst themselves over how violations of human rights are to be defined, notably as regards the Middle East.\n\nThere is criticism of human-rights organisations who use their status but allegedly move away from their stated goals. For example, Gerald M. Steinberg, an Israel-based academic, maintains that NGOs take advantage of a \"halo effect\" and are \"given the status of impartial moral watchdogs\" by governments and the media.\nSuch critics claim that this may be seen at various governmental levels, including when human-rights groups testify before investigation committees.\n\nHuman rights defender are people who, individually or with others, act peacefully to promote or protect human rights. They can defend rights as part of their jobs or in a voluntary capacity and can act at local, national or international level. They can be journalists, environmentalists, whistle-blowers, trade unionists, lawyers, teachers, housing campaigners, and so on. As a result of their activities, they can sometimes be the subject of reprisals and attacks of all kinds, including smears, surveillance, harassment, false charges, arbitrary detention, restrictions on the right to freedom of association, and physical attacks.\n\nMultinational companies play an increasingly large role in the world, and have been responsible for numerous human rights abuses.\nAlthough the legal and moral environment surrounding the actions of governments is reasonably well developed, that surrounding multinational companies is both controversial and ill-defined. Multinational companies' primary responsibility is to their shareholders, not to those affected by their actions. Such companies may be larger than the economies of some of the states within which they operate, and can wield significant economic and political power. No international treaties exist to specifically cover the behaviour of companies with regard to human rights, and national legislation is very variable. Jean Ziegler, a Swiss professor and Special Rapporteur of the UN Commission on Human Rights on the right to food stated in a report in 2003:\n\nIn August 2003 the Human Rights Commission's Sub-Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights produced draft \"Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights\".\nThese were considered by the Human Rights Commission in 2004, but have no binding status on corporations and are not monitored.\n\nHuman rights violations occur when actions by state (or non-state) actors abuse, ignore, or deny basic human rights (including civil, political, cultural, social, and economic rights). Furthermore, violations of human rights can occur when any state or non-state actor breaches any part of the UDHR treaty or other international human rights or humanitarian law. In regard to human rights violations of United Nations laws, Article 39 of the United Nations Charter designates the UN Security Council (or an appointed authority) as the only tribunal that may determine UN human rights violations.\n\nHuman rights abuses are monitored by United Nations committees, national institutions and governments and by many independent non-governmental organisations, such as Amnesty International, International Federation of Human Rights, Human Rights Watch, World Organisation Against Torture, Freedom House, International Freedom of Expression Exchange and Anti-Slavery International. These organisations collect evidence and documentation of alleged human rights abuses and apply pressure to enforce human rights laws.\n\nWars of aggression, war crimes and crimes against humanity, including genocide, are breaches of International humanitarian law and represent the most serious of human rights violations.\n\nIn efforts to eliminate violations of human rights, building awareness and protesting inhumane treatment has often led to calls for action and sometimes improved conditions. The UN Security Council has interceded with peace keeping forces, and other states and treaties (NATO) have intervened in situations to protect human rights.\n\nThe right to life is the essential right that a human being has the right not to be killed by another human being. The concept of a right to life is central to debates on the issues of abortion, capital punishment, euthanasia, self defence and war. According to many human rights activists, the death penalty violates this right.\nThe United Nations has called on states retaining the death penalty to establish a moratorium on capital punishment with a view to its abolition. States which do not do so face considerable moral and political pressure.\n\nThroughout history, torture has been used as a method of political re-education, interrogation, punishment, and coercion. In addition to state-sponsored torture, individuals or groups may be motivated to inflict torture on others for similar reasons to those of a state; however, the motive for torture can also be for the sadistic gratification of the torturer, as in the Moors murders.\n\nSince the mid-20th century, torture is prohibited under international law and the domestic laws of most countries. It is considered to be a violation of human rights, and is declared to be unacceptable by Article 5 of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Signatories of the Geneva Conventions of 1949 and the Additional Protocols I and II of June 8, 1977 officially agree not to torture captured persons in armed conflicts, whether international or internal. Torture is also prohibited by the United Nations Convention Against Torture, which has been ratified by 157 countries.\n\nNational and international legal prohibitions on torture derive from a consensus that torture and similar ill-treatment are immoral, as well as impractical.\nDespite these international conventions, organisations that monitor abuses of human rights (e.g., Amnesty International, the International Rehabilitation Council for Torture Victims) report widespread use condoned by states in many regions of the world.\nAmnesty International estimates that at least 81 world governments currently practise torture, some of them openly.\n\nFreedom from slavery is internationally recognised as a human right. Article 4 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states:\nDespite this, the number of slaves today (in 2010) is higher than at any point in history, remaining as high as 12 million to 27 million,\nMost are debt slaves, largely in South Asia, who are under debt bondage incurred by lenders, sometimes even for generations.\nHuman trafficking is primarily for prostituting women and children into sex industries.\n\nGroups such as the American Anti-Slavery Group, Anti-Slavery International, Free the Slaves, the Anti-Slavery Society, and the Norwegian Anti-Slavery Society continue to campaign to rid the world of slavery.\n\nThe right to a fair trial has been defined in numerous regional and international human rights instruments. It is one of the most extensive human rights and all international human rights instruments enshrine it in more than one article.\nThe right to a fair trial is one of the most litigated human rights and substantial case law has been established on the interpretation of this human right.\nDespite variations in wording and placement of the various fair trial rights, international human rights instrument define the right to a fair trial in broadly the same terms.\nThe aim of the right is to ensure the proper administration of justice. As a minimum the right to fair trial includes the following fair trial rights in civil and criminal proceedings:\n\nFreedom of speech is the freedom to speak freely without censorship. The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously, but includes any act of seeking, receiving and imparting information or ideas, regardless of the medium used. In practice, the right to freedom of speech is not absolute in any country and the right is commonly subject to limitations, such as on libel, slander, obscenity, blasphemy, incitement to commit a crime, etc.\nThe right to freedom of expression is recognised as a human right under Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and recognised in international human rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR). Article 19 of the ICCPR states that \"[e]veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference\" and \"everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression; this right shall include freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in print, in the form of art, or through any other media of his choice\".\n\nFreedom of thought, conscience and religion are closely related rights that protect the freedom of an individual or community, in public or private, to think and freely hold conscientious beliefs and to manifest religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship, and observance; the concept is generally recognised also to include the freedom to change religion or not to follow any religion. The freedom to \"leave\" or discontinue membership in a religion or religious group—in religious terms called \"apostasy\"—is also a fundamental part of religious freedom, covered by Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nHuman rights groups such as Amnesty International organises campaigns to protect those arrested and or incarcerated as a prisoner of conscience because of their conscientious beliefs, particularly concerning intellectual, political and artistic freedom of expression and association. In legislation, a conscience clause is a provision in a statute that excuses a health professional from complying with the law (for example legalising surgical or pharmaceutical abortion) if it is incompatible with religious or conscientious beliefs.\n\nFreedom of movement asserts that a citizen of a state in which that citizen is present has the liberty to travel, reside in, and/or work in any part of the state where one pleases within the limits of respect for the liberty and rights of others, and to leave that state and return at any time.\n\nEvents and new possibilities can affect existing rights or require new ones. Advances of technology, medicine, and philosophy constantly challenge the status quo of human rights thinking.\n\nRight to education\n\nUN agencies, such as UNESCO, promote the right to education as a fundamental right. Education encompasses several thematic areas, including comprehensive sexuality education, which is also considered to be relevant for human rights.\n\nThe right to keep and bear arms for defence is described in the philosophical and political writings of Aristotle, Cicero, John Locke, Machiavelli, the English Whigs and others. In countries with an English common law tradition, a long-standing common law right to keep and bear arms has long been recognised, as pre-existing in common law, prior even to the existence of national constitutions.\n\nIn 1997, UNESCO adopted the \"Declaration on the Responsibilities of the Present Generation Towards the Future Generation\". The Declaration opens with the words:\n\nArticle 1 of the declaration states \"the present generations have the responsibility of ensuring that the needs and interests of present and future generations are fully safeguarded\". The preamble to the declaration states that \"at this point in history, the very existence of humankind and its environment are threatened\" and the declaration covers a variety of issues including protection of the environment, the human genome, biodiversity, cultural heritage, peace, development, and education. The preamble recalls that the responsibilities of the present generations towards future generations has been referred to in various international instruments, including the Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage (UNESCO 1972), the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Convention on Biological Diversity (Rio de Janeiro, 1992), the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development (UN Conference on Environment and Development, 1992), the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action (World Conference on Human Rights, 1993) and a number of UN General Assembly resolutions relating to the protection of the global climate for present and future generations adopted since 1990.\n\nSexual orientation and gender identity rights relate to the expression of sexual orientation and gender identity based on the right to respect for private life and the right not to be discriminated against on the ground of \"other status\" as defined in various human rights conventions, such as article 17 and 26 in the United Nations International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and article 8 and article 14 in the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nAs of 2011, homosexual behaviour is illegal in 76 countries and punishable by execution in seven countries.\nThe criminalisation of private, consensual, adult sexual relations, especially in countries where corporal or capital punishment is involved, is one of the primary concerns of LGBT human rights advocates.\n\nOther issues include: government recognition of same-sex relationships, LGBT adoption, sexual orientation and military service, immigration equality, anti-discrimination laws, hate crime laws regarding violence against LGBT people, sodomy laws, anti-lesbianism laws, and equal age of consent for same-sex activity.\n\nA global charter for sexual orientation and gender identity rights has been proposed in the form of the 'Yogyakarta Principles', a set of 29 principles whose authors say they apply International Human Rights Law statutes and precedent to situations relevant to LGBT people's experience.\nThe principles were presented at a United Nations event in New York on November 7, 2007, co-sponsored by Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay.\n\nThe principles have been acknowledged with influencing the French proposed UN declaration on sexual orientation and gender identity, which focuses on ending violence, criminalisation and capital punishment and does not include dialogue about same-sex marriage or right to start a family.\nThe proposal was supported by 67 of the then 192 member countries of the United Nations, including all EU member states and the United States. An alternative statement opposing the proposal was initiated by Syria and signed by 57 member nations, including all 27 nations of the Arab League as well as Iran and North Korea.\n\nAlthough both the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights emphasise the importance of a right to work, neither of these documents explicitly mention free trade as a mechanism for ensuring this fundamental right. And yet trade plays a key role in providing jobs.\n\nSome experts argue that trade is inherent to human nature and that when governments inhibit international trade they directly inhibit the right to work and the other indirect benefits, like the right to education, that increased work and investment help accrue.\nOthers have argued that the ability to trade does not affect everyone equally—often groups like the rural poor, indigenous groups and women are less likely to access the benefits of increased trade.\n\nOn the other hand, others think that it is no longer primarily individuals but companies that trade, and therefore it cannot be guaranteed as a human right. Additionally, trying to fit too many concepts under the umbrella of what qualifies as a human right has the potential to dilute their importance. Finally, it is difficult to define a right to trade as either \"fair\" or \"just\" in that the current trade regime produces winners and losers but its reform is likely to produce (different) winners and losers.\n\nThe right to water has been recognised in a wide range of international documents, including treaties, declarations and other standards. For instance, the 1979 Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) requires State parties to ensure to women the right to \"enjoy adequate living conditions, particularly in relation to … water supply\". The 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) requires States parties to combat disease and malnutrition \"through the provision of adequate nutritious foods and clean drinking-water\".\n\nThe most clear definition of the human right to water has been issued by the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. This treaty body interpreting legal obligations of State parties to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) issued in 2002 a non-binding interpretation affirming that access to water was a condition for the enjoyment of the right to an adequate standard of living and inextricably related to the right to the highest attainable standard of health (see ICESCR Art. 11 & 12) and therefore a human right:\n\nOn July 28, 2010, the United Nations General Assembly declared water and sanitation as human rights. Since then, all States have at least ratified one human rights convention which explicitly or implicitly recognises the right, and they all have signed at least one political declaration recognising this right.\n\nHuman rights include women's rights and sexual and reproductive rights. Sexual and reproductive rights are part of a continuum of human rights, which includes the rights to life, health and education, the rights to equality and non-discrimination, and the right to decide the timing, number and spacing of one's children.\n\nReproductive and sexual rights as part of human rights was affirmed internationally at the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) in Cairo in 1994. It was the first among international development frameworks to address issues related to sexuality, sexual and reproductive health, and reproductive rights.\n\nThe ICPD Programme of Action in paragraph 7.2 \"defines an individual's sexual and reproductive health as complete well-being related to sexual activity and reproduction. Sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR) encompass both entitlements and freedoms. This includes the definition of reproductive rights in paragraph 7.3 of the ICPD PoA, which clarifies that these are not a new set of rights but human rights in existing human rights instruments related to sexual and reproductive autonomy and the attainment of sexual and reproductive health. Additionally, the 1995 Beijing Platform for Action (PfA) expands this definition to cover both sexuality and reproduction by affirming in paragraph 96 the right to exercise control over and make decisions about one’s sexuality, including sexual and reproductive health, free of coercion, discrimination and violence.\"\n\nReproductive rights were first established as a subset of human rights at the United Nations 1968 International Conference on Human Rights. The sixteenth article of the resulting Proclamation of Teheran states, \"Parents have a basic human right to determine freely and responsibly the number and the spacing of their children.\"\n\nReproductive rights may include some or all of the following rights: the right to legal or safe abortion, the right to control one's reproductive functions, the right to quality reproductive healthcare, and the right to education and access in order to make reproductive choices free from coercion, discrimination, and violence.\n\nReproductive rights may also be understood to include education about contraception and sexually transmitted infections, and freedom from coerced sterilisation and contraception, protection from gender-based practices such as female genital cutting (FGC) and male genital mutilation (MGM).\n\nIn October 2009, Finland's Ministry of Transport and Communications announced that every person in Finland would have the legal right to Internet access.\nSince July 2010, the government has legally obligated telecommunications companies to offer broadband Internet access to every permanent residence and office. The connection must be \"reasonably priced\" and have a downstream rate of at least 1 Mbit/s.\n\nIn March 2010, the BBC, having commissioned an opinion poll, reported that \"almost four in five people around the world believe that access to the internet is a fundamental right\". The poll, conducted by the polling company GlobeScan for the BBC World Service, collated the answers of 27,973 adult citizens across 26 countries to find that 79% of adults either strongly agreed or somewhat agreed with the statement: \"access to the internet should be a fundamental right of all people\".\n\nNon-refoulement is the right not to be returned to a place of persecution and is the foundation for international refugee law, as outlined in the 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees. Both the right to non-refoulement and the right to asylum have taken centre stage in recent debates over the treatment of refugees. A central worry about the right to asylum is that it can limit a state's power to handle a mass influx of refugees. Processing asylum applications can take a considerable amount of time, and this amount rises with the number of refugees applying. This creates an incentive for more refugees to apply, since they are allowed to stay in the country during the application process. One potential solution to the problem of mass influx is proposed by U.S.-based political philosopher Andy Lamey. Lamey proposes a portable procedural model that focuses on the right to non-refoulement. Crucially, the procedural rights defended by this model can be applied outside national borders, within any rights respecting country; this allows the burden of mass influx to be shared by a plurality of countries without violating the procedural rights of the refugee.\n\nThere are two basic conceptions of environmental human rights in the current human rights system. The first is that the right to a healthy or adequate environment is itself a human right (as seen in both Article 24 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights, and Article 11 of the San Salvador Protocol to the American Convention on Human Rights).\nThe second conception is the idea that environmental human rights can be derived from other human rights, usually – the right to life, the right to health, the right to private family life and the right to property (among many others). This second theory enjoys much more widespread use in human rights courts around the world, as those rights are contained in many human rights documents.\n\nThe onset of various environmental issues, especially climate change, has created potential conflicts between different human rights. Human rights ultimately require a working ecosystem and healthy environment, but the granting of certain rights to individuals may damage these. Such as the conflict between right to decide number of offspring and the common need for a healthy environment, as noted in the tragedy of the commons.\nIn the area of environmental rights, the responsibilities of multinational corporations, so far relatively unaddressed by human rights legislation, is of paramount consideration.\n\nEnvironmental rights revolve largely around the idea of a right to a livable environment both for the present and the future generations.\n\nWith the exception of non-derogable human rights (international conventions class the right to life, the right to be free from slavery, the right to be free from torture and the right to be free from retroactive application of penal laws as non-derogable), the UN recognises that human rights can be limited or even pushed aside during times of national emergency – although\n\nRights that cannot be derogated for reasons of national security in any circumstances are known as peremptory norms or \"jus cogens\". Such United Nations Charter obligations are binding on all states and cannot be modified by treaty.\n\nExamples of national security being used to justify human rights violations include the Japanese American internment during World War II,\nStalin's Great Purge, and the modern-day abuses of terror suspects rights by some countries, often in the name of the War on Terror.\n\nThe UDHR enshrines universal rights that apply to all humans equally, whichever geographical location, state, race or culture they belong to. However, in academia there is a dispute between scholars that advocate moral relativism and scholars that advocate moral universalism. Relativists do not argue against human rights, but concede that human rights are socially constructed and are shaped by cultural and environmental contexts. Universalists argue that human rights have always existed, and apply to all people regardless of culture, race, sex, or religion.\n\nMore specifically, proponents of cultural relativism argue for acceptance of different cultures, which may have practices conflicting with human rights. Relativists caution that universalism could be used as a form of cultural, economic or political imperialism. The White Man's Burden is used as an example of imperialism and the destruction of local cultures justified by the desire to spread Eurocentric values.\nIn particular, the concept of human rights is often claimed to be fundamentally rooted in a politically liberal outlook which, although generally accepted in Europe, Japan or North America, is not necessarily taken as standard elsewhere.\n\nOpponents of relativism argue that some practices exist that violate the norms of all human cultures. A common example is female genital mutilation, which occurs in different cultures in Africa, Asia and South America. It is not mandated by any religion, but has become a tradition in many cultures. It is considered a violation of women's and girl's rights by much of the international community, and is outlawed in some countries.\n\nThe former Prime Ministers of Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew, and of Malaysia, Mahathir bin Mohamad both claimed in the 1990s that \"Asian values\" were significantly different from Western values and included a sense of loyalty and foregoing personal freedoms for the sake of social stability and prosperity, and therefore authoritarian government is more appropriate in Asia than democracy. Lee Kuan Yew argued that:\n\nIn response, critics have pointed out that cultural relativism could be used as a justification for authoritarianism. An example is in 1981, when the Iranian representative to the United Nations, Said Rajaie-Khorassani, articulated the position of his country regarding the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by saying that the UDHR was \"a secular understanding of the Judeo-Christian tradition\", which could not be implemented by Muslims without trespassing the Islamic law.\nThe Asian Values argument was criticised by Mahathir's former deputy:\n\nand by Singapore's opposition leader Chee Soon Juan, who states that it is racist to assert that Asians do not want human rights.\n\nDefenders of moral universalism argue that relativistic arguments neglect the fact that modern human rights are new to all cultures, dating back no further than the UDHR in 1948. They argue that the UDHR was drafted by people from many different cultures and traditions, including a US Roman Catholic, a Chinese Confucian philosopher, a French zionist and a representative from the Arab League, amongst others, and drew upon advice from thinkers such as Mahatma Gandhi. Michael Ignatieff has argued that cultural relativism is almost exclusively an argument used by those who wield power in cultures which commit human rights abuses, and that those whose human rights are compromised are the powerless.\nThis reflects the fact that the difficulty in judging universalism versus relativism lies in who is claiming to represent a particular culture.\n\nAlthough the argument between universalism and relativism is far from complete, it is an academic discussion in that all international human rights instruments adhere to the principle that human rights are universally applicable. The 2005 World Summit reaffirmed the international community's adherence to this principle:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51261471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51261471", "title": "Impact litigation", "text": "Impact litigation\n\nImpact litigation or strategic litigation is the practice of bringing lawsuits intended to effect societal change. Impact litigation cases may be class action lawsuits or individual claims with broader significance, and may rely on statutory law arguments or on constitutional claims. Such litigation has been widely and successfully used to influence public policy, especially by left-leaning groups, and often attracts significant media attention.\n\nIn the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, the American Civil Liberties Union and National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (at times though its Legal Defense Fund) both pursued legal action to advance and protect civil rights in the United States. The ACLU followed a primarily \"defensive\" strategy, fighting individual violations of rights when they were identified. The NAACP, in contrast, developed a more coordinated plan to actively file suits to challenge discrimination, known as \"affirmative\" or \"strategic\" litigation. The NAACP's model became the pattern for \"impact litigation\" strategies, which applied similar tactics in contexts other than racial discrimination.\n\nImportant early impact litigation cases included \"Brown v. Board of Education\" and \"Roe v. Wade\". \"Brown\", a 1954 U.S. school desegregation decision, was carefully prepared by Thurgood Marshall and other NAACP lawyers so that the eventual Supreme Court ruling invalidated official racial discrimination throughout the U.S. government. Many cases since then have closely imitated it, in the course of seeking greater protections for other disadvantaged groups.\n\nImpact litigation has played a major role in the development of American desegregation, abortion, tobacco regulation policy and gay marriage. \n\nSince the 1980s, impact litigation has been used to seek reform in the reform of U.S. child welfare law, following earlier work which involved the courts in jail and mental hospital reforms and in school desegregation.\n\nStrategic impact litigation has also been used in Nigeria, among other things to push for convictions of perpetrators of police brutality and to defeat legal attacks on the freedom of the press.\n\nIn a few jurisdictions where attorneys are prohibited from bringing class action lawsuits, citizens have filed \"grassroots impact litigation\" cases and successfully represented their own claims.\n\nImpact litigation has been criticized by legal scholars and politicians on the bases of judicial legitimacy and competence.\n\nThe legitimacy argument holds that, in countries with a constitutional separation of powers, societal changes are to be enacted by democratically elected bodies and are outside the purview of individual judges. The competence argument claims that institutional limitations on the amount and quality of information that can be made available in a court proceeding make the courts poorly prepared to handle complex policy issues. Another version of this argument points out that courts are limited in the scope of their responses, relative to legislative bodies. These debates overlap with those concerning so-called \"judicial activism\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25389252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25389252", "title": "Index of law articles", "text": "Index of law articles\n\nThis collection of lists of law topics collects the names of topics related to law. Everything related to law, even quite remotely, should be included on the alphabetical list, and on the appropriate topic lists. All links on topical lists should also appear in the main alphabetical listing. The process of creating lists is ongoing – these lists are neither complete nor up-to-date – if you see an article that should be listed but is not (or one that shouldn't be listed as legal but is), please update the lists accordingly. You may also want to include talk page banners on the relevant pages.\n\n\"a posteriori\" –\n\"ab extra\" –\n\"ab initio\" –\nAbandoned property –\nAbandonment (legal) –\nAbduction –\nAbet –\nAbeyance –\nAbolitionism in the United States –\nAbolitionism –\nAbortion –\nAbortion, legal and moral issues –\nAbrogate –\nAbstention doctrine –\nAbstract –\nAbstract of judgment –\nAbstract of title –\nAbuse of discretion –\nAbuse of process –\nAbut –\nAcceleration clause –\nAccept –\nAcceptance –\nAcceptance of service –\nAccessory –\nAccommodation –\nAccomplice –\nAccord and satisfaction –\nAccount stated –\nAccountability –\nAccounting period –\nAccounting reference date –\nAccounts payable –\nAccounts receivable –\nAccrue –\nAccusation –\nAccused –\nAcknowledge –\nAcknowledgement of service –\nAcknowledgment –\nAcquis –\nAcquit –\nAcquittal –\nAct of God –\nAct of Parliament –\nAction –\nActionable –\nActual controversy –\nActual malice –\nActual notice –\n\"actus reus\" –\n\"ad colligenda bona\" –\n\"ad hoc\" –\n\"ad idem\" –\n\"ad infinitum\" –\n\"ad litem\" –\n\"ad quod damnum\" –\n\"ad seriatim\" –\n\"ad valorem\" –\nAddendum –\nAdeem –\nAdemption –\nAdequate remedy –\nAdhesion contract –\nAdjourn –\nAdjournment sine die –\nAdjournment in contemplation of dismissal –\nAdjudication –\nAdjusted basis –\nAdjuster –\nAdminister –\nAdministration –\nadministration order –\nAdministrative hearing –\nAdministrative law –\nAdministrative law judge –\nAdministrative Procedure Act (Japan) –\nAdministrative Procedure Act (United States) –\nAdministrator –\nAdministrator –\nAdmiralty –\nAdmiralty actions –\nAdmiralty court –\nAdmiralty law –\nAdmissible evidence –\nAdmission against interest –\nAdmission of evidence –\nAdmission (law) –\nAdmission to bail –\nAdmission to the bar –\nAdopt –\nAdoption –\nAdultery –\nAdvance directive –\nAdversary system –\nAdverse –\nAdverse interest –\nAdverse party –\nAdverse possession –\nAdverse witness –\nAdvisory opinion –\nAdvocate –\nAffiant –\nAffidavit –\nAffirm –\nAffirmative action –\nAffirmative defense –\nAffix –\nAffreightment –\nAfter-acquired property –\nAge discrimination –\nAge of consent –\nAge of majority –\nAgency –\nAgency agreement –\nAgent –\nAgent for acceptance of service –\nAggravated assault –\nAgreed statement –\nAid and abet –\nAleatory –\nAlias –\nAlibi –\nAlien –\nAlienation –\nAlienation of affections –\nAlimony –\nAll the estate I own –\nAllegation –\nAllege –\nAllocation questionnaire –\nAllocatur –\nAllocution –\nAllodial –\nAlluvion –\nAlodium –\n\"alter ego\" –\nAlternate director –\nAlternative dispute resolution –\nAlternative Minimum Tax –\nAlternative pleading –\nALWD Citation Manual –\nAmbiguity –\nAmbulance chasing –\nAmelioration Act 1798 –\nAmended complaint –\nAmended pleading –\nAmerican Academy of Appellate Lawyers –\nAmerican Arbitration Association –\nAmerican Bar Association –\nAmerican Civil Liberties Union –\nAmerican Civil Rights Movement –\nAmerican Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man –\nAmerican Depositary Receipt –\nAmerican Law Institute –\n\"amicus curiae\" –\nAmnesty –\nAmnesty International –\nAmortization –\nAn eye for an eye –\nAncillary administration –\nAncillary jurisdiction –\nAncillary relief –\nAnimal rights –\n\"animus nocendi\" –\n\"Animus revertendi\" –\nannual general meeting –\nAnnul –\nAnnulment –\nAnomie –\nAnswer (law) –\nAntecedent (law) –\nAntenuptial (prenuptial) agreement –\n\"Antejuramentum\" –\nAnticipatory breach –\nAntidisestablishmentarianism –\nAntinomianism –\nAntitrust –\nAntitrust laws –\nApartheid –\nApparent authority –\nAppeal –\nAppeal bond –\nAppeals court –\nAppear –\nAppellant –\nAppellate court –\nAppellate review –\nAppellee –\nAppraiser –\nAppreciate –\nAppreciation –\nApprenticeship \nApproach the bench \nAppurtenances \nAppurtenant \nArbitrary \nArbitration –\nArbitration award –\nArbitrator –\n\"arguendo\" –\nArgumentative –\nArm's length –\nArraign –\nArraignment –\nArrears –\nArrest –\nArrest warrant –\nArson –\nArticle I and Article III tribunals –\nArticles of Association –\nArticles of impeachment –\nArticles of Incorporation –\nArticles of War –\nAs is –\nAsharite –\nAssault –\nAsset –\nAssignment (law) –\nAssigned risk –\nAssignee –\nAssignment for benefit of creditors –\nAssigns –\nAssisted person –\nAssize Court –\nAssociate justice –\nAssociation –\nAssumption of risk –\nAsylum and Immigration Tribunal –\nAsylum seeker –\nAt will –\nAt will employment –\nAttachment –\nAttachment of earnings –\nAttempt –\nAttestation clause –\nAttorney at law (or attorney-at-law) –\nAttorney general –\nAttorney of record –\nAttorney's advertising –\nAttorney's fee –\nAttorney's work product –\nAttorney–client privilege –\nAttorney-in-fact –\nAttractive nuisance doctrine –\nAudit –\nAuditor –\nAustralian Constitution –\nAustralian Constitutional history –\nAustralian copyright law –\nAuthorised share capital –\nAuthoritarianism –\nAuthorities –\nAuthority –\nAuthorize –\nAutomatic stay –\nAutrefois acquit –\nAvulsion –\nAyatollah\n\nB.C.L. –\nBabylonian law –\nBachelor of Civil Law –\nBachelor of Laws –\nBachelor of Legal Letters –\nBack-to-back life sentences –\nBad debt –\nBad faith –\nBail –\nBail bond –\nBail bondsman –\nBail schedule –\nBailee –\nBailiff –\nBailment –\nBailor –\nBait and switch –\nBalance due –\nBalance sheet –\nBan –\nBank –\nBankrupt –\nBankruptcy –\nBankruptcy court –\nBankruptcy proceedings –\nBankruptcy remote –\nBar –\nBar association –\nBar council –\nBar examination –\nBare trust –\nBargain and sale deed –\nBarratry (admiralty law) –\nBarratry (common law) –\nBarrister –\nBasic Law of various jurisdictions –\nBattery –\nBeach bum trust provision –\nBearer paper –\nBelief –\nBench –\nBench memorandum –\nBench trial –\nBench warrant –\nBeneficial interest –\nBeneficial use –\nBeneficiary –\nBeneficiary (trust) –\nBenefit of counsel –\nBequeath –\nBequest –\nBerne three-step test –\nBest evidence rule –\nBest Interests of the Child –\nBestiality –\nBeyond a reasonable doubt –\nBFP –\nBias –\nBifurcate –\nBifurcation –\nBigamy –\nBilateral contract –\nBill –\nBill of attainder –\nBill of costs –\nBill of exchange –\nBill of indictment –\nBill of lading –\nBill of particulars –\nBill of rights –\nBill of sale –\nBind over –\nBind over for sentence –\nBinding arbitration –\nBioethics –\nBlack's Law Dictionary –\nBlackmail –\nBlank endorsement –\nBlood libel –\nBlue law –\nBlue laws –\nBlue ribbon jury –\nBlue Sky Laws –\nBluebook –\nBoard of directors –\n\"bona fide\" –\nBona fide purchaser –\n\"bona vacantia\" –\nBond –\nBond for deed –\nBooby trap –\nBook account –\nBook value –\nBootleg recording –\nBorder control –\nBottomry –\nBoycott –\nBreach of contract –\nBreach of promise –\nBreach of the peace –\nBreach of warranty –\nBreaking and entering –\nBribery –\nBride price –\nBrief –\nBritish constitution –\nBritish constitutional law –\nBritish nationality law –\nBroker –\nBrought to trial –\nBuilding and loan –\nBulk sale –\nBulk sales acts –\nBulk transfer –\nBurden –\nBurden of proof –\nBurgage –\nBurglary –\nBusiness –\nBusiness ethics –\nBusiness invitee –\nBut for rule –\nBuy-sell agreement –\nBylaw –\nBylaws –\nBypass trust\n\nCadastral map –\n\"cadit quaestio\" –\nCalendar call –\nCaliphate –\nCall to the bar –\nCalumny –\nCampaign finance reform –\nCanadian Bill of Rights –\nCanadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms –\nCaning –\nCanon –\nCanon law –\nCape (writ) –\n\"capital\" –\nCapital account –\nCapital assets –\nCapital expenditure –\nCapital gain –\nCapital gain tax –\nCapital gains –\nCapital investment –\nCapital loss –\nCapital offense –\nCapital punishment –\nCapital punishment in the United States –\nCapital stock –\nCapitalized value –\nCapricious –\nCarjacking –\nCarnal knowledge –\nCarrier –\nCarrying for hire –\nCartel –\nCase –\nCase conference –\nCase law –\nCase law in the United States –\nCase number –\nCase of first impression –\nCase-based reasoning –\nCashier's check –\nCasualty insurance –\nCasualty loss –\nCasuistry –\nCatechism –\nCategorical Imperative –\nCatholic Emancipation –\n\"cause\" –\nCause of action –\n\"caveat emptor –\nCease and desist order –\nCensorship –\nCertificate of deposit –\nCertificate of incorporation –\nCertificate of legal aid costs –\nCertificate of title –\nCertified check –\n\"certiorari\" –\nWrit of Certiorari –\nCessate –\nCestui que trust –\nCestui que use –\n\"ceteris paribus\" –\nChain of title –\nChairman –\nChallenge for cause –\nChamperty –\nChancellor –\nChancery –\nChancery division –\nChange of venue –\nCharacter witness –\nCharge –\nCharging lien –\nCharging order –\nCharitable contribution –\nCharitable organization –\nCharitable remainder trust –\nCharitable trust –\nCharter –\nChattel –\nChattel mortgage-- Checks and balances –\nCheque –\nChief Justice –\nChief Justice of Canada –\nChief Justice of the United States –\nChild –\nChild abandonment –\nChild abuse –\nChild custody –\nChild endangerment –\nChild neglect –\nChild pornography –\nChild sexual abuse –\nChild support –\nChinese law –\nChurning –\nCircuit courts –\nCircumcision –\nCircumstantial evidence –\nCitation –\nCite –\nCitizen –\nCitizen's dividend –\nCitizenship –\nCivil action –\nCivil and social disobedience –\nCivil calendar –\nCivil code –\nCivil Code of Quebec –\nCivil commitment –\nCivil death –\nCivil disobedience –\nCivil disorder –\nCivil justice reforms –\ncivil law –\nCivil law notary –\nCivil liability –\nCivil liberties –\nCivil penalties –\nCivil procedure –\nCivil rights –\nCivil union –\nClaim against a governmental agency –\nClaim against an estate –\nClaim form –\nClaim in bankruptcy –\nClaimant –\nClass –\nClass action –\nClass action suit –\nClean hands doctrine –\nCleanup clause –\nClear and convincing evidence –\nClear and present danger –\nClear title –\nClerk –\nClose corporation –\nClosed shop –\nClosing –\nClosing argument –\nCloud on title –\nCo-trustee –\nCode –\nCode of Hammurabi –\nCode of professional responsibility –\nCodefendant –\nCodex –\nCodicil –\nCodification –\nCodify –\nCoercion –\nCohabitation –\nCohabitation agreement –\nCoinsurance –\nCollateral –\nCollateral attack –\nCollateral descendant –\nCollateral estoppel –\nCollateral Warranty –\nCollective agreement –\nCollective bargaining agreement –\nCollective rights –\nCollective trade marks – –\nCollusion –\nCollusive action –\nColor of law –\nColor of title –\nComaker –\nComity –\nCommencement of action –\nCommentaries on the Laws of England –\nCommercial frustration –\nCommercial law –\nCommingling –\nCommission of rebellion -\nCommissioner of oaths –\nCommittal –\nCommon area –\nCommon carrier –\nCommon counts –\nCommon law –\nCommon property –\nCommon purpose –\nCommon stock –\nCommon-law marriage –\nCommons –\nCommunity patent –\nCommunity property –\nCommutation –\nCompany –\nCompany seal –\nComparative law –\nComparative negligence –\nComparative responsibility –\nCompensatory damages –\nCompetence –\nComplainant –\nComplaint –\nComplete contract –\nCompound interest –\nCompound question –\nCompounding a felony –\nCompounding treason –\nCompromise –\nCompromise verdict –\nConcealed weapon –\nConciliation –\nConclusion of fact –\nConclusion of law –\nConcubinage –\nConcurrent sentence –\nConcurrent sentences –\nConcurrent writ –\nCondemnation action –\nCondition precedent –\nCondition subsequent –\nConditional bequest –\nConditional discharge –\nConditional dismissal –\nConditional sale –\nCondominium –\nConduct money –\nConfederate States Constitution –\nConfession (law) –\nConfession and avoidance –\nConfession of judgment –\nConfidence game –\nConfidential communication –\nConfidential information –\nConfidentiality –\nConfiscate –\nConflict of interest –\nConflict of law –\nConflict of laws –\nConfucianism –\nConfusingly similar –\nCongregation for the Doctrine of the Faith –\nCongressional-executive agreement –\nConscientious objector –\nConscious parallelism –\nConscription –\nConsecutive sentence –\nConsecutive sentences –\nCounsul of Force –\nConsensu –\nConsensual crime –\nConsensus –\nConsensus ad idem –\nConsensus decision-making –\nConsent –\nConsent decree –\nConsent judgment –\nConsequential damages –\nConsequentialism –\nConservatee –\nConservative Judaism –\nConservator (law) –\nConsideration –\nConsign –\nConsignee –\nConsignment –\nConsortium –\nConspiracy –\nConspirator –\nConstable –\nConstitution –\nConstitution of France –\nConstitution of Spain –\nConstitutional amendment –\nConstitutional charter –\nConstitutional Convention (Australia) –\nConstitutional Convention (United States) –\nConstitutional law –\nConstitutional monarchy –\nConstitutional rights –\nConstruction –\nConstructive –\nConstructive dismissal –\nConstructive eviction –\nConstructive fraud –\nConstructive notice –\nConstructive possession –\nConstructive trust –\nConstrue –\nConsuetudinary –\nConsultancy –\nConsultant –\nConsumer protection –\nContact –\nContemplation of death –\nContempt of court –\nContingency –\nContingency fee –\nContingent beneficiary –\nContingent fee –\nContingent interest –\nContingent remainder –\nContinuance –\nContinuing objection –\nContinuing trespass –\n\"contra bonos mores\" –\n\"contra legem\" –\nContraband –\nContract –\nContract of adhesion –\nContract of sale –\nContract theory –\nContractor –\n\"Contramandatio placiti\" -\nContributory negligence –\nControlled substance –\nControlling law –\nControversy –\nConversion –\nConveyancing –\nConvict –\nConviction –\nCooperative –\nCooperative housing –\nCop a plea –\nCopartner –\nCopyhold –\nCopyleft –\nCopyright –\nCopyright infringement –\nCopyright law of the European Union –\nCopyright misuse –\n\"coram nobis\" –\n\"coram non judice\" –\nCoroner –\nCorporate governance –\nCorporate haven –\nCorporate opportunity –\nCorporate personhood –\nCorporate state –\nCorporation –\nCorporations law –\n\"corpus delicti\" –\n\"corpus juris\" –\n\"corpus juris civilis\" –\n\"corpus juris secundum\" –\nCorrelative rights doctrine –\nCorroborate –\nCorroborating evidence –\nCorroboration –\nCost bill –\nCotenancy –\nCotenant –\nCouncil Tax –\nCounsel –\nCounsellor –\nCount –\nCounter offer –\nCounterclaim –\nCounterfeit –\nCounty court –\nCoup d'état –\nCour de cassation –\nCourse of employment –\nCourt –\nCourt calendar –\nCourt costs –\nCourt docket –\nCourt of appeal –\nCourt of Appeal of England and Wales –\nCourt of Appeal (France) –\nCourt of Appeals –\nCourt of customs and patent appeals –\nCourt of equity –\nCourt of last resort –\nCourt of law –\nCourt of protection –\nCourt of record –\nCourt of Session –\nCourt order –\nCourt trial –\nCourt-martial –\nCourtesy –\nCourtroom –\nCourts of England and Wales –\nCourts of the United Kingdom –\nCovenant (law) –\nCovenant not to compete –\nCovenant that runs with the land –\nCovenants, conditions and restrictions –\nCreature of statute –\nCredibility –\nCredible witness –\nCreditor –\nCreditor's claim –\nCreditor's rights –\nCrime –\nCrime against humanity –\nCrime against nature –\nCrime against peace –\nCrime of passion –\nCriminal –\nCriminal attorney –\nCriminal calendar –\nCriminal conversion –\nCriminal justice –\nCriminal law –\nCriminal negligence –\nCriminal procedure –\nCritical legal studies –\nCross examination –\nCross-complaint –\nCross-examination –\nCrown copyright –\nCrown corporation –\nCrown Court –\nCrown entity –\nCrown land –\nCruel and unusual punishment –\nCruelty –\nCruelty to animals –\n\"cui bono\" –\n\"cuius regio, eius religio\" –\nCulpability –\nCumis counsel –\nCumulative sentence (disambiguation) –\nCumulative voting –\nCurfew –\nCustomary estate –\nCustomary law –\nCustoms –\n\"custos morum\" –\nCut a check –\nCy pres doctrine –\nCyber law –\nCybersquatting\n\nD.A. –\nD.B.A. –\nD.U.I. –\nD.W.I. –\nDamages –\nDamnation –\nDangerous weapon –\nData protection –\nDate rape –\nDaubert standard –\nDay in court –\n\"de bonis asportatis\" –\n\"de bonis non administratis\" –\n\"de facto\" –\nDe facto corporation –\n\"de futuro\" –\n\"de integro\" –\n\"de jure\" –\nDe jure corporation –\n\"de lege ferenda\" –\n\"de lege lata\" –\n\"de minimis\" –\n\"de novo\" –\nDeadlock –\nDeadlock provision –\nDeadly weapon –Death tax –\nDeath penalty –\nDeath row –\nDeath duty –\nDebenture –\nDebt –\nDebt bondage –\nDebtor –\nDebtor in possession –\nDecapitation –\nDeceased –\nDeceit –\nDeception –\nDecide! –\nDecision –\nDecisory oath -\nDeclarant –\nDeclaration of Arbroath –\nDeclaration of independence –\nDeclaration of mailing –\nDeclaration of the Independence of New Zealand –\nDeclaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen –\nDeclaration of trust –\nDeclaration of war –\nDeclaration of war by the United States –\nDeclaratory judgment –\nDeclaratory relief –\nDeclared death \"in absentia\" –\nDecree –\nDecree absolute –\nDecree nisi –\nDecriminalization –\nDedication –\nDeduction –\nDeed –\nDeed poll –\n\"defalcation\" –\nDefamation –\nDefault (law) –\nDefault judgment –\nDefault rule –\nDefeasance –\nDefective title –\nDefendant –\nDefense –\nDefense attorney – –\nDefense of infancy –\nDeficiency judgment –\nDefined benefit plan –\nDefined contribution plan –\nDeforce –\nDefraud –\nDegree of kinship –\nDelegate –\nDeliberate –\nDeliberation –\nDeliberative body –\nDelict –\nDemand –\nDemand note –\nDemesne –\nDemise –\nDemocracy –\nDemonstrative evidence –\nDemurrer –\nDenial –\nDeobandi –\nDeontology –\nDepartment for Constitutional Affairs –\nDependent –\nDeportation –\nDeposition –\nDepreciate –\nDepreciation –\nDepreciation reserve –\nDerivative action –\nDerivative work –\nDerivatives law -\nDescent and distribution –\nDesert –\nDesertion –\nDetailed Assessment –\nDevi –\nDevil's Advocate –\nDevisee –\nDevolution –\nDevolve –\nDevolved government –\n\"dicta\" –\n\"dictum\" –\nDigital signature –\nDiligence –\nDiminished capacity –\nDiminished responsibility –\nDiminished responsibility in English law –\nDiminution in value –\nDiplomatic immunity –\nDiplomatic recognition –\nDirect and proximate cause –\nDirect evidence –\nDirect examination –\nDirected verdict –\nDirectors register –\nDisability –\nDisbar –\nDisbarment –\nDischarge in bankruptcy –\nDisciplinary procedure –\nDisclaimer –\nDiscovery –\nDiscovery of documents –\nDiscretion –\nDiscretionary trust –\nDiscrimination –\nDisembowelment –\nDisfigure –\nDishonor –\nDisinheritance –\nDisjunctive allegations –\nDismissal –\nDismissal with prejudice –\nDismissal without prejudice –\nDisobbedienti –\nDisorderly conduct –\nDisorderly house – –\nDisposing mind and memory –\nDisposition –\nDispossess –\nDispute resolution –\nDissent –\nDissenting opinion –\nDissolution (law) –\nDissolution of corporation –\nDissolution of the Monasteries –\nDistinguish –\nDistribute –\nDistribution of property –\nDistributive justice –\nDistrict attorney –\nDistrict court –\nDiversity of citizenship –\nDivestiture –\nDivestment –\nDividend –\nDividend tax –\nDivine Right of Kings –\nDivision of property –\nDivisional court (disambiguation) –\nDivorce –\nDNA –\nDocument –\nDocumentary evidence –\n\"doli incapax\" –\nDomestic partner –\nDomestic partners –\nDomestic relations –\nDomestic violence –\nDominant estate –\nDominant tenement –\n\"Donatio mortis causa\" –\nDonation –\nDonative intent –\nDonee –\nDoom book –\nDouble jeopardy –\nDouble taxation –\nDower –\nDowry –\nDraft document –\nDrainage law –\nDram shop rule –\nDrawer –\nDrawing and quartering –\nDreyfus affair –\nDriver's license –\nDriving under the influence –\nDriving while intoxicated –\nDroit du seigneur –\nDrop dead date –\nDrug –\nDubitante –\n\"duces tecum\" –\nDue and owing –\nDue care –\nDue diligence –\nDue process –\nDue process of law –\nDue, owing and unpaid –\nDuress –\nDuress in English law –\nDuty –\nDuty of care –\nDuty of care in English law –\nDuty to warn –\nDying declaration\n\nEarly Muslim philosophy –\nEarned income tax credit –\nEarnest payment –\nEasement –\nEcclesia –\nEcclesiastical court –\nEcumenical council –\nEdict –\nEdict of Fontainebleau –\nEdict of Milan –\nEdict of Nantes –\nEdict of Worms –\n\"ei incumbit probatio qui\" –\nEither –\nEjectment –\n\"ejusdem generis\" –\nElder law –\nElection of remedies –\nElection under the will –\nElective share –\nElectoral reform –\nElectric chair –\nEmancipation –\nEmancipation Proclamation –\nEmbezzlement –\nEmbezzler –\nEmblements –\nEmergency –\nEminent domain –\nEmolument –\nEmployee –\nEmployer –\nEmployers' liability –\nEmployment –\nEmployment contract –\nEmployment law –\nEn banc –\nEnabling clause –\nEnclosure –\nEncumbrance –\nEnd user license agreement –\nEndowment –\nEnfeoff –\nEnfeoffment –\nEnforcement –\nEnglish Bill of Rights –\nEnglish law –\nEnjoin –\nEnjoyment –\nEnrolled Bill doctrine –\nEntail –\nEnter a judgment –\nEntertainment law –\nEntity –\nEntrapment –\nEntry of judgment –\nEnvironmental Impact Report –\nEnvironmental impact statement –\nEnvironmental law –\nEphebophilia –\nEqual Access Act –\nEqual opportunity –\nEqual Protection Clause –\nEquitable distribution –\nEquitable estoppel –\nEquitable lien –\nEquitable remedy –\nEquity (law) –\nEquity of redemption –\nEquivalent –\n\"erga omnes\" –\n\"erratum\" –\nError –\nEscalator clause –\nEscape clause –\nEscheat –\nEscrow –\nEscrow account –\nEscrow agent –\nEscrow instructions –\nEspionage –\nEsquire –\nEssential facilities doctrine –\nEstablishment clause –\nEstate –\nEstate by entirety –\nEstate in land –\nInheritance tax –\n\"estoppel\" –\n\"et al.\" –\n\"et cetera\" –\n\"et seq\" –\nEthical calculus –\nEthical code –\nEthics –\nEthics in religion –\nEthnic cleansing –\nEuropean Convention on Human Rights –\nEuropean Court of Human Rights –\nEuropean Court of Justice –\nEuropean Patent Convention –\nEuropean Patent Organisation –\nEuropean Union directive –\nDirective (EU) –\nEuropean Union Law –\nEuropean Union regulation –\nRegulation (EU) –\nEuthanasia –\nEvasion of tax –\nEvasion of the law –\nEviction –\nEvidence –\n\"ex aequo et bono\" –\n\"ex cathedra\" –\n\"ex delicto\" –\n\"ex facie\" –\n\"ex gratia\" –\n\"ex officio\" –\n\"ex parte\" –\n\"ex post facto\" –\nEx post facto law –\n\"ex rel\" –\nExamination –\nException in deed –\nExcessive bail –\nExcise –\nExclusionary rule –\nExcommunication –\nExculpatory –\nExcusable neglect –\nExcuse –\nExecution –\nExecution –\nExecution warrant –\nExecutioner –\nExecutive –\nExecutive clemency –\nExecutive privilege –\nExecutor –\nExecutory contract –\nExecutory interest –\n\"executrix\" –\nExegesis –\nExemplary damages –\nExempt –\nExempt employees –\nExempt property –\nExemption –\nExhibit –\nexigent circumstances –\nExile –\nExpectancy –\nExpense –\nExpert determination –\nExpert testimony –\nExpert witness –\nExpress contract –\nExpress warranty –\nExtension –\nExtenuating circumstances –\nExtinguishment –\nExtortion –\nExtradition –\nExtrajudicial –\nExtraordinary General Meeting –\nExtraordinary resolution –\nExtreme cruelty –\nExtrinsic fraud\n\nFOB (shipping) –\nFabrica –\nFabricate –\nFabula –\nFace –\nFacere –\nFacies –\nFacile –\nFact –\nFacto –\nFactory –\nFactum –\nFaculties, Court of –\nFaculty (instrument) –\nFaculty of a college – –\nFaculty of Advocates –\nFaggot voter –\nFail –\nFailure –\nFailure of consideration –\nFailure of issue –\nFaint action –\nFair –\nFair Play Men –\nFair pleader –\nFaith –\nFalang –\nFalda –\nFaldstool –\nFalesia –\nFalk-land –\nFall –\nFallo\nFalse action –\nFalse imprisonment –\nFalse pretenses –\nFalse swearing –\nFalsehood –\nFalsify –\nFalsing –\nFalsum –\nFalsus in uno, falsus in omnibus –\nFamilia –\nFamily –\nFamosus –\nFamosus libelus –\nFanatics –\nFakir –\nFarm –\nFarmer –\nFaro –\nFarrier –\nFasti –\nFather –\nFather-in-law –\nFathom –\nFatuity –\nFatuus –\nFaubourg –\nFautor –\nFealty –\nFear –\nFeciales –\nFederal government –\nFee –\nFee-simple –\nFenian –\nFeodal –\nFeodal system –\nFeodary –\nFeodum –\nFeoffee –\nFeoffment –\nFeoh –\nFeria –\nFeriae –\nFerling –\nFerry –\nFerryman –\nFeu (land tenure) –\nFeud –\nFishing law –\nFlag –\nFlag of the United States –\nFlagrante delicto –\nFlem –\nFleta –\nFlight –\nFloating capital –\nFloor –\nFlorin –\nFlotsam –\nFluctus –\nFace amount –\nFace value –\nFact –\nFactum –\nFaculty of law –\nFailure of consideration –\nFailure of issue –\nFair comment –\nFair dealing –\nFair market value –\nFair trade laws –\nFair use –\nFairness Doctrine –\nFalse arrest –\nFalse Claims Law –\nFalse imprisonment –\nFalse pretenses –\nFamily –\nFamily law –\nFamily court –\nFamily law –\nFamily patrimony –\nFamily purpose doctrine –\nFatwa –\nFault auto insurance system –\nFederal Communications Commission –\nFederal Constitutional Court (Germany) –\nUnited States federal courts –\nFederal judge –\nFederal jurisdiction (United States) –\nFederal law –\nFederal question –\nFederal tort claims act –\nFederalism –\nFee –\nFee simple –\nFee tail –\nFelicific calculus –\nFelony –\nFelonious –\nFelony –\nFelony murder rule –\nFeme covert –\nFeoff –\nFeoffee –\nFeoffment –\nFertile octogenarian –\nFeud –\nFeudal land tenure –\nFeudal system –\nFeudalism –\nFiat –\nFictitious defendants –\n\"fiduciary\" –\nFiduciary duty –\nFiduciary relationship –\nFief –\nFieri –\n\"fieri facias\" –\nFighting words –\nFile –\nFinal judgment –\nFinder of fact –\nFindings of fact –\nFine –\nFiqh –\nFirm offer –\nFirst degree murder –\nFirst impression –\nFirst to file and first to invent –\nFixture –\nFixtures –\nFlight –\nFloating charge –\nFloating easement –\nFOB –\nFostering –\nFoujdar –\nFour corners –\nFourierism –\nFox's Libel Act –\nFrais –\nFranc –\nFrancia –\nFrancus –\nFrank-marriage –\nFranking privilege –\nFraternity –\nFratricide –\nFraud –\nFraus –\nFraxinetum –\nFree-bench –\nFree and clear –\nFree socage –\nFree warren –\nFreedman –\nFreedom –\nFreedom of speech –\nFreedom of the press –\nFree on board –\nFreight –\nFreighter –\nFrenchman –\nFrequent –\nFrere –\nFresca –\nFresh pursuit –\nFretum Britannicum –\nFriend of the court –\nFriendly societies –\nFriendly suit –\nFrigidity –\nFrith –\nFrivolous –\nFrontage –\nFrontier –\nFructus industriales –\nFructus naturales –\nFruges –\nFruit –\nFolkways –\nFor value received –\nForbearance –\nForce majeure –\nForced heirship –\nForced sale –\nForcible entry –\nForeclosure –\nForeclosure sale –\nForeign corporation –\nForensic –\nForensic medicine –\nForensic testimony –\nForensics –\nForeseeability –\nForeseeable risk –\nForfeit –\nForger –\nForgery –\nFormal contract –\nFornication –\n\"forum conveniens\" –\n\"forum non conveniens\" –\nForum shopping –\nFoster child –\nFour Cardinal Virtues –\nFour corners of an instrument –\nFranc-tireur –\nFranchise –\nFranchise tax –\nFranchising –\nFraud –\nFraud in the inducement –\nFraudulent conveyance –\nFraudulent trading –\nFree and clear –\nFree economic zone –\nFree on board –\nFree port –\nFree software license –\nFree speech –\nFree will –\nFreedom of assembly –\nFreedom of association –\nFreedom of expression –\nFreedom of Information Act –\nFreedom of religion –\nFreedom of speech –\nFreedom of speech by country –\nFreedom of the press –\nFreedom of thought –\nFreehold –\nFrench law on secularity and conspicuous religious symbols in schools –\nFresh pursuit –\nFriendly suit –\nFrisking –\nFrivolous –\nFrivolous lawsuit –\nFructus naturales –\nFruit of the poisonous tree –\nFrustration of purpose –\nFugitive from justice –\nFull faith and credit –\nFully paid –\n\"functus officio\" –\nFundamental justice –\nFundamentalism –\nFungible things –\nFuture interest –\nFutuwa –\nFyrd\n\nGag order –\nGallows –\nGame law –\nGaps and gores –\nGarnish –\nGarnishee –\nGarnishment –\nGas chamber –\nGasoline tax –\nGemara –\nGender bias –\nGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade –\nGeneral appearance –\nGeneral assignment –\nGeneral Counsel –\nGeneral damages –\nGeneral denial –\nGeneral meeting –\nGeneral order –\nGeneral partnership –\nGeneral plan –\nGeneral strike –\nGeneral Synod –\nGeneration skipping –\nGeneva Conventions –\nGenocide –\nGerman town law –\nGibbet –\nGift –\nGift in contemplation of death –\nGift tax –\nGlasnost –\nGo bail –\nGoing concern –\nGood cause –\nGood faith –\nGood governance –\nGood samaritan rule –\nGood title –\nGoods –\nGoseibai Shikimoku –\nGovernment –\nGovernment-granted monopoly –\nGovernmental immunity –\nGrace period –\nGrand Inquisitor –\nGrand jury –\nGrand larceny –\nGrand theft –\nGrandfather clause –\nGrandfathered in –\nGrandparent visitation –\nGrant –\nGrant deed –\nGrantor-grantee index –\nGratuitous –\n\"gravamen\" –\nGreen card –\nGross income –\nGross negligence –\nGrounds for divorce –\nGroup boycott –\nGroup Litigation Order –\nGuanxi –\nGuarantee –\nGuarantees –\nGuarantor –\nGuaranty –\nGuardian –\nGuardian \"ad litem\" –\nGuest statute –\nGuild –\nGuillotine –\nGuilt –\nGuilty\n\nHabeas corpus –\nHabeas corpus ad deliberandum et recipiendum –\nHabeas corpus ad faciendum et recipiendum –\nHabeas corpus ad prosequendum –\nHabeas corpus ad respondendum –\nHabeas corpus ad satisfaciendum –\nHabeas corpus ad subjiciendum –\nHabeas corpus ad testificandum –\nHabeas corpus cum causa –\nHabilis –\nHabitant –\nHabitation (see Dwelling) –\nHabitual Criminals Act –\nHable –\nHacienda –\nHabitable – –\nHabitual criminal –\nHadith –\nHague Convention –\nHague-Visby Rules –\nHalaal –\nHalakha (Jewish law) –\nJewish law (Halakha) –\nHalf blood –\nHalsbury's Laws of England –\nHanafi –\nHanbali –\nHanging –\nHaram –\nHarass –\nHarassment –\nHarm reduction –\nHarmless error –\nHate speech –\nHead of household –\nHeadnote –\nHeadright –\nHeads of loss -\nHealth care proxy –\nHearing –\nHearsay –\nHearsay rule –\nHeat of passion –\nHeir –\nHeir apparent –\nHeiress –\nHeirs –\nHeirs of the body –\nHell or high water clause –\nHereditament –\nHerem (censure) –\nHerem (priestly gift) –\nHerem (war or property) –\nHeresy –\nHidden asset –\nHigh court judge –\nHigh Court of Australia –\nRoyal High Court of Bhutan –\nHigh Court of Justice (England and Wales) –\nCourt of High Commission (ecclesiastical court in England) –\nHigh Court of Fiji –\nHigh Court (Hong Kong) –\nHigh Courts of India, several courts –\nHigh Court (Ireland) –\nHigh Court (Isle of Man) –\nHigh Court of Malaya –\nHigh Court of New Zealand –\nHigh Court of Cassation and Justice (Romania) –\nHigh Court of Justiciary (Scotland) –\nHigh Court of Sabah and Sarawak –\nHigh Court of Singapore –\nHigh Court of South Africa –\nHighway –\nHighwayman –\nHima –\nHimalaya clause –\nHit and run –\nHobby loss –\nHold harmless –\nHolder in due course –\nHolding –\nHolding company –\nHoldover tenancy –\nHolographic will –\nHome Rule –\nHome Secretary –\nHomestead Act –\nHomestead exemption –\nHomestead principle –\nHometowned –\nHomicide –\nHong Kong trademark law –\nHornbook law –\nHostile environment sexual harassment –\nHostile possession –\nHostile witness –\nHot pursuit –\nHotch-pot –\nHouse counsel –\nHouse of Lords –\nHousehold –\nHousing tenure –\nHuman rights –\nHuman Rights Committee –\nHuman rights issues in the United States –\nHumanism –\nHung jury –\nHypothecate\n\nIdea-expression divide –\n\"idem\" –\n\"ignorantia juris non excusat\" –\nIjma –\nIjtihad –\nIllegal combatant –\nIllegal drug trade –\nIllegal immigrant –\nIllegitimacy –\nIllusory promise –\nIlm ar-Rijal –\nImam –\nImmediately –\nImmigrant visa –\nImmigration –\nImmigration Appellate Authority –\nImmunity –\nImpanel –\nImpaneling –\nImpeach –\nImpeachment –\nImpleader –\nImplied Bill of Rights –\nImplied consent –\nImplied contract –\nImplied covenant of good faith and fair dealing –\nImplied terms –\nImplied warranty –\nImplied warranty of fitness for a particular purpose –\nImplied warranty of habitability –\nImplied warranty of merchantability –\nImportation right –\nImpossibility –\nImpotence –\nImputation –\n\"in camera\" –\nIn chambers –\n\"in curia\" –\n\"in delicto\" –\n\"in esse\" –\nIn fee simple –\n\"in flagrante delicto\" –\n\"in forma pauperis\" –\n\"in haec verba\" –\nIn kind –\nIn lieu –\n\"in limine\" –\n\"in loco parentis\" –\n\"in pari delicto\" –\n\"in personam\" –\nin pro per –\n\"in prope persona\" –\n\"in propria persona\" –\n\"in re\" –\n\"in rem\" –\n\"in situ\" –\n\"in terrorem\" –\n\"in terrorem clause\" –\n\"in toto\" –\nIncapacity –\nIncest –\nInchoate offense –\nIncidental beneficiary –\nIncome –\nIncome tax –\nIncompetent evidence –\nIncontrovertible evidence –\nIncorporation (business) –\nIncorporate by reference –\nIncorporation (business) –\nIncorporeal –\nIncriminate –\nIncumbrance –\nIndecent exposure –\nIndefeasible –\nIndefeasible estate –\nIndemnify –\nIndemnity –\nIndenture –\nIndentured servant –\nIndependent contractor –\nIndeterminacy debate in legal theory –\nIndeterminate sentence –\nIndictable offence –\nIndictable offense –\nIndictment –\nIndigent –\nIndispensable party –\nIndividual capital –\nIndividual rights –\nIndorse –\nIndustrial design rights –\nIndustrial tribunal –\nInfancy –\nInfant –\nInfanticide Act –\nInference –\nInformation –\nInformation and belief –\nInformed consent –\nInfraction –\nInfractions –\nInfringement –\nIngress –\nInherit –\nInheritance –\nInheritance tax –\nInjunction –\nInjunctive relief –\nInjury –\nInkan –\nInnocence –\nInnocent –\nInns of Court –\n\"innuendo\" –\nInquest –\nInquisition –\nInquisitor –\nInquisitorial system –\nInsanity –\nInsanity defense –\nInsider –\nInsider trading –\nInsolvency –\nInsolvent –\nInspection of documents –\nInstallment contract –\nInstruction –\nInstructional capital –\nInsufficient evidence –\nInsurance –\nInsured –\nInsurer –\nIntangible property –\nIntegrated criminal justice information system –\nIntegration –\nIntellectual capital –\nIntellectual property –\nIntellectual rights –\nIntendant of New France –\nIntent –\n\"inter alia\" –\n\"inter se\" –\n\"inter vivos\" –\nInter vivos trust –\nInterest –\nInterference proceeding –\nInterim order –\nInterlineation –\n\"interlocutory\" –\nInternational Business Companies Act –\nInterlocutory decree –\nInterlocutory order –\nIntermediate sanctions –\nInternal affairs doctrine –\nInternational Business Companies Act –\nInternational constitutional law –\nInternational Court of Justice –\nInternational Covenant on Civil and Political Rights –\nInternational crime –\nInternational Criminal Court –\nInternational Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda –\nInternational Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia –\nInternational environmental law –\nInternational human rights instruments –\nInternational human rights law –\nInternational law –\nInternational relations –\nInternational trade –\nInternational trade law –\nInternment –\nInterpleader –\nInterrogation –\nInterrogatories –\nInterstate commerce –\nIntertemporal Law –\nIntervene –\nIntervening cause –\nIntervention –\nIntestacy –\nIntestate –\nIntestate succession –\nIntoxication –\n\"intra\" –\n\"intra fauces terra\" –\n\"intra vires\" –\nIntrinsic fraud –\nInure –\nInvasion of privacy –\nInventor –\nInventor's notebook –\nInverse condemnation –\nInvest –\nInvestiture –\nInvestment –\nInvitation to treat –\nInvitee –\nInvoluntary commitment –\n\"ipse dixit\" –\n\"ipsissima verba\" –\n\"ipso facto\" –\nIrreconcilable differences –\nIrrelevant –\nIrreparable damage or injury –\nIrresistible impulse –\nIslamic Law (Sharia) –\nSharia (Islamic law) –\nIslamic philosophy –\nIsnad –\nIssue –\nIssue preclusion –\nIssued shares\n\nJuris Doctor (J.D.) –\nJafari –\nJane Doe –\nJaywalking –\nJeopardy –\nJewish principles of faith –\nJewish Theological Seminary of America –\nJim Crow laws –\nJohn Doe –\nJoinder –\nJoinder of issue –\nJoint –\nJoint adventure –\nJoint and several –\nJoint and several liability –\nJoint custody –\nJoint liability –\nJoint property –\nJoint tenancy –\nJoint tortfeasors –\nJoint venture –\nJointure –\nJones act –\nJourneyman –\nJoyride –\nJudge –\nJudge advocate –\nJudge Advocate General –\nJudgment –\nJudgment by default –\nJudgment debtor –\nJudgment in Berlin –\nJudgment non obstante veredicto –\nJudgment notwithstanding the verdict –\nJudgment notwithstanding verdict –\nJudicial –\nJudicial Committee of the Privy Council –\nJudicial discretion –\nJudicial economy –\nJudicial foreclosure –\nJudicial functions of the House of Lords –\nJudicial independence –\nJudicial interference –\nJudicial notice –\nJudicial review –\nJump bail –\nJunior barrister –\n\"jurat\" –\nJurisdiction –\nJurisdictional amount –\nJurisprudence –\nJurist –\nJuror –\nJury –\nJury box –\nJury charge –\nJury fees –\nJury instructions –\nJury nullification –\nJury of one's peers –\nJury panel –\nJury selection –\nJury stress –\nJury tampering –\nJury trial –\n\"jus ad bellum\" –\n\"jus ad bellum\" –\n\"jus civile\" –\n\"jus cogens\" –\n\"jus commune\" –\n\"jus gentium\" –\n\"jus inter gentes\" –\n\"jus naturale\" –\n\"jus primae noctis\" –\n\"jus sanguines\" –\n\"jus sanguinis\" –\n\"jus soli\" –\nJust cause –\nJust compensation –\nJust war –\nJustice –\nJustice of the Peace –\nJusticiable –\nJustifiable homicide –\nJustification –\nJuvenile –\nJuvenile court –\nJuvenile delinquent\n\nKangaroo court –\nKaraites –\nKarma –\nKosher law –\nKellogg-Briand Pact –\nKidnapping –\nKing's Bench –\nKnow-how –\nKollel\n\nLabor and materials –\nLabor law –\nlabor union –\nLaches –\n\"lacunae\" –\nLand use –\nLand value tax –\nLandlady –\nLandlocked –\nLandlord –\nLandlord and tenant –\nLandlord and Tenant Act –\nLandlord's lien –\nLapse –\nLarceny –\nLast antecedent rule –\nLast clear chance –\nLast will and testament –\nLatent defect –\nLaw –\nLaw and economics –\nLaw and literature –\nLaw and motion calendar –\nLaw basic topics –\nLaw book –\nLaw dictionary –\nLaw French –\nLaw lords –\nLaw of admiralty –\nLaw of Canada –\nLaw of costs –\nLaw of Ireland –\nLaw library –\nLaw of obligations –\nLaw of the case –\nLaw of the land –\nLaw of the Russian Federation –\nLaw of the Sea –\nLaw of the Soviet Union –\nLaw of the United Kingdom –\nLaw of the United States –\nLaw of treaties –\nLaw school –\nLaw Society –\nLaws of war –\nLawsuit –\nLawyer –\nLay a foundation –\nLay assessor –\nLaïcité –\nLeading –\nLeading question –\nLeading the witness –\nLease –\nLease and release –\nLeasehold –\nLegal –\nLegal abuse –\nLegal action –\nLegal advertising –\nLegal age –\nLegal aid –\nLegal Aid Society –\nLegal code –\nLegal consequences of marriage and civil partnership in the United Kingdom –\nLegal custody –\nLegal debate –\nLegal dualism –\nLegal entity –\nArtificial person –\nLegal fiction –\nLegal formalism –\nLegal history –\nLegal instrument –\nLegal Latin –\nLegal lexicography –\nLegal personal representative –\nLegal positivism –\nLegal pluralism –\nLegal realism –\nLegal separation –\nLegal technicality –\nLegal tender –\nLegal translation –\nLegalese –\nLegalism (Western philosophy) –\nLegalism (Chinese philosophy) –\nLegalism (theology) –\nLegalization –\nLegatee –\nLegislation –\nLegislature –\nLegitimacy (family law) –\nLegitimacy (political science) –\n\"legitime\" –\nLemon law –\nLessee –\nLesser crime –\nLesser included offenses –\nLesser-included offense –\nLet –\nLethal injection –\nLetter of credit –\nLetter of marque –\nLetter of wishes –\nLetters –\nLetters of administration –\nLetters patent –\nLetters testamentary –\nLeverage –\nLeviticus –\n\"lex lata\" –\n\"lex scripta\" –\nLiable –\nLibel –\nLibel per se –\nLibertarian theories of law –\nLiberty –\nLicence –\nLicense –\nLicensee –\nLie detector test –\nLien –\nLienor –\nLife –\nLife estate –\nLife without possibility of parole –\nLimitation of actions –\nLimitations clause, Constitution of Canada –\nLimited company –\nLimited jurisdiction –\nLimited liability –\nLimited liability company –\nLimited partner –\nLimited partnership –\nLine of succession –\nLineal descendant –\nLineup –\nLiquidate –\nLiquidated damages –\nLiquidation –\nLiquidator (law) –\n\"lis pendens\" –\nList of Roman laws –\nListed building –\nLiterary property –\nLitigant –\nLitigation –\nLitigious –\nLiturgy –\nLivery –\nLivery of seizin –\n\"living trust\" –\nLiving will –\nLL.B. –\nLL.M. –\nLoanshark –\nLockout –\n\"locus delicti\" –\n\"locus in quo\" –\nLoiter (law) –\nLong cause –\nLong vacation –\nLong-arm statute –\nLord Chancellor –\nLord Chancellor's Department –\nLord Chief Justice –\nLord Chief Justice of England and Wales –\nLord Justice General –\nLord Justice of appeal –\nLord Keeper of the Great Seal –\nLord President of the Council –\nLord Steward –\nLoss of consortium –\nLoss of use –\nLost volume seller –\nLower court –\nLübeck law\n\nM'Naghten Rules –\nMadhhab –\nMadrassa –\nMagdeburg rights –\nMagdeburg law –\nMagistrate –\n\"magna carta\" –\nMail box rule –\nMaim –\nMaintenance –\nMaintenance –\nMaintenance –\nMajority –\nMala fides –\n\"male fide\" –\nMalfeasance –\nMalice aforethought –\nMalicious prosecution –\nMaliki –\nMalpractice –\n\"malum in se\" –\n\"malum prohibitum\" –\n\"mandamus\" –\nWrit of mandamus –\nMandate (criminal law) –\nMandate (international law) –\nMandate of Heaven –\nMandatory joinder –\nMandatory sentence –\nMann act –\nManorialism –\nManslaughter –\nManslaughter in English law –\nManumission –\nManusmriti –\n\"mare clausum\" –\n\"mare liberum\" –\nMarital deduction –\nMarital life estate –\nMarital rights –\nMaritime law –\nMarked for identification –\nMarket value –\nMarketable title –\nMarriage –\nMarriageable age –\nMarshal –\nMartial law –\nMask work –\nMasoretes –\nMasoretic Text –\nMasorti –\nMassachusetts trust –\nMaster –\nMaster and servant –\nMaster of Laws –\nMaster of the Rolls –\nMaster of the Rolls in Ireland –\nMateriality –\nMaterial witness –\nMatrimonial regime –\nMatter –\nMaturity –\nMaxims –\nMaxims of equity –\nMaxims of law –\nMay –\nMayhem –\nMechanic's lien –\nMechanics lien –\nMediation –\nMediator –\nMedical directive –\nMedical ethics –\nMedieval Inquisition –\nMeet and confer –\nMeeting of the minds –\nMeforshim –\nMegan's Law –\nMemorandum –\nMemorandum of Association –\n\"mens rea\" –\nMental cruelty –\nMental health law –\nMental suffering –\nMercantile law –\nMerchantable –\nMerger –\nMesne –\n\"mesne assignment\" –\nMesne profits –\nMessuage –\nMetes and bounds –\nMilitary alliance –\nMilitary dictatorship –\nMilitary law –\nMilitary tribunal –\nMilitia –\nMining claim –\nMinisterial act –\nminor –\nMinutes –\nMiranda warning –\nMirror wills –\nMisappropriation –\nMischief –\nMisdemeanor –\nMisfeasance –\nMishnah Berurah –\nMishnah –\nHebrew law (Mishpat Ivri) –\nMishpat Ivri (Hebrew law) –\nMisjoinder –\nMisnomer –\nMisprision of a felony –\nMisprision of treason –\nMisrepresentation –\nMistake of law –\nMistrial –\nMitigating circumstances –\nMitigating factors –\nMitzvah –\nMock trial –\nModern Islamic philosophy –\n\"modus operandi\" –\nMoiety title –\nMonarch –\nMoney laundering –\nMonopoly –\nMonopoly on the legitimate use of physical force –\nMonth-to-month –\nMonument –\nMoot court –\nMoot point –\nMootness –\nMopery –\nMoral absolutism –\nMoral certainty –\nMoral code –\nMoral core –\nMoral relativism –\nMoral rights –\nMoral turpitude –\nMoral universalism –\nMorality –\nMoratorium –\nMores –\nMorganatic marriage –\nMortgage law –\nMortgagee –\nMortgagor –\nMotion –\nMotion for a summary judgment –\nMotion for more definite statement –\nMotion for directed verdict –\nMotion for dismissal –\nMotion for summary judgment –\n\"motion in limine\" –\nMotion to dismiss –\nMotion to Strike –\nMotion to suppress –\nMotion to suppress evidence –\nMotive –\nMotor vehicle exception--Motor vehicle theft –\nMovant –\nMujtahid –\nMullah –\nMultiple citizenship –\nMultiplicity of suits –\nMunicipal –\nMuniment of title –\nMurder –\nMurder in English law –\nMuslim dietary laws –\nMutation –\n\"mutatis mutandis\" –\nMutiny –\nMutual wills\n\nN.O.V. –\nName change –\nNamed plaintiffs –\nNapoleonic code –\nNarcotic –\nNational Insurance contributions –\nNational Labor Relations Board –\nNational trade union center –\nNationality –\nNatural law –\nNatural person –\nNatural resource law –\n\"ne exeat\" –\nNecessary party –\nNegative pledge –\nNegative pregnant –\nNegligence –\nNegligence \"per se\" –\nNegligent –\nNegotiable instrument –\nNegotiation –\n\"nemo dat quod non habet\" –\n\"nemo judex in sua causa\" –\nNeutral country –\nNext friend –\nNext of kin –\nNight and Fog prisoner –\n\"nihil dicit\" –\n\"nisi prius\" –\nNo contest –\nNo fault divorce –\nNo fault insurance –\nNo-par stock –\nNoble Eightfold Path –\n\"nolle prosequi\" –\n\"nolo contendere\" –\nNominal damages –\nNominal party –\nNominal value –\nNominee –\n\"non compos mentis\" –\n\"non constat\" –\n\"non est factum\" –\n\"non liquet\" –\n\"non obstante verdicto\" –\nNon-binding arbitration –\nNon-conforming use –\nNon-contestability clause –\nNon-disclosure agreement –\nNon-executive director –\nNon-feasance –\nNon-profit corporation –\nNon-profit organization –\nNon-suit –\nNonimmigrant visa –\nNonviolence –\nNot guilty –\nNot guilty by reason of insanity –\nNot-for-profit corporation –\n\"nota bene\" –\nNotary public –\nNotice –\nNotice of appeal –\nNotice of default –\nNotice to quit –\nNotorious possession –\nNotwithstanding clause (Canadian Constitution) –\nNovation –\nNuisance –\n\"nulla bona\" –\n\"nulla poena sine lege\" –\nNullity (conflict) –\n\"nullum crimen, nulla poena sine praevia lege poenali\" –\n\"nunc pro tunc\" –\nNuremberg Code –\nNuremberg Trials\n\nO.R. –\nO.S.C. –\nOath –\n\"obiter dicta\" is plural; see the singular \"obiter dictum\" –\nObject –\nObjectivist philosophy –\nObligation –\nObligations of confidentiality –\nObligee –\nObligor –\nObscene –\nObscenity –\nObstruction of justice –\nOccupancy –\nOccupant –\nOccupational disease –\nOccupational hazard –\nOccupy the field –\nOf counsel –\nOffender –\nOffer of proof –\nOfferee –\nOfferor –\nOfficer of the court –\nOfficers of a corporation –\nOfficial –\nOfficial misconduct –\nOfficial receiver –\nOfficial Solicitor –\nOfficious intermeddler –\nOffshore corporation –\nOmbudsman –\nOmission –\nOmnibus clause –\nOn all fours –\n\"onus probandi\" –\nOpen adoption –\nOpen court –\nOpen-source license –\nOpening statement –\nOperation of law –\n\"opinio juris sive necessitatis\" –\nOpinion –\nOppression remedy –\nOral argument –\nOral contract –\nOral examination –\nOral law –\nOrder –\nOrder in Council –\nOrder to show cause –\nOrdinary (officer) –\nOrdinary course of business –\nOrdinary resolution –\nOrdinary shares –\nOrganized crime –\nOriginal jurisdiction –\nOriginal sin –\nOriginating application –\nOrphan –\nOstensible agent –\nOstensible authority –\nOut of court –\nOut-of-pocket expenses –\nOutlaw –\nOutput contract –\nOver-the-counter drug –\nOvercharge –\nOvert act –\nOwe –\nOwn –\nOwn recognizance –\nOwner –\nOwner-occupier –\nOwnership\n\n\"pacta sunt servanda\" –\nPain and suffering –\nPalimony –\nPanderer –\n\"par delictum\" –\nParalegal –\nParamount title –\nParaphilia –\nPardon –\n\"parens patriae\" –\nParent –\nParent company –\nPari delicto –\nPari passu –\nParis Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property –\nParish –\nParliament –\nParliamentary procedure –\nParliamentary supremacy –\nParliamentary system –\nParody –\nParol –\nParol evidence rule –\nParole –\nParquet –\nPartial breach –\nPartial verdict –\nParticulars –\nPartition –\nPartner –\nPartnership –\nParty –\nParty of the first part –\nParty of the second part –\nParty wall –\nPassenger –\nPassing off –\nPatent –\nPatent ambiguity –\nPatent Cooperation Treaty –\nPatent infringement –\nPatent pending –\nPatentability –\nPatently unreasonable –\nPaternity –\nPaternity suit –\nPatient –\nPatrimony of affectation –\nPatronage –\nPay as you earn (paye) –\nPayable –\nPayee –\nPayor –\nPeace bond –\nPeaceable possession –\nPeculation –\nPecuniary –\nPedophilia –\nPeeping tom –\nPeer group –\nPeerage –\nPeer review –\nPenal –\nPenal code –\nPenal colony –\nPenal law –\nPenal notice –\nPenal transportation –\nPenalty phase –\nPenance –\nPendent jurisdiction –\n\"pendente lite\" –\nPension plan –\nPension scheme –\nPeople's Republic of China's trademark law –\n\"per capita\" –\n\"per curiam\" –\n\"per diem\" –\n\"per minas\" –\n\"per pro\" –\n\"per quod\" –\n\"per stirpes\" –\nPeremptory challenge –\nPeremptory challenges –\nPeremptory norm –\nPeremptory writ of mandate –\nPerfect –\nPerfection (law) –\nPerform –\nPerformance –\nPerjurer –\nPerjury –\nPermanent Court of Arbitration –\nPermanent injunction –\nPermissive –\nPerpetuity –\nPerson –\nPerson having ordinary skill in the art –\n\"persona non grata\" –\nPersonal effects –\nPersonal jurisdiction –\nPersonal property –\nPersonal recognizance –\nPersonal representative –\nPersonal service –\nPersonality rights –\nPersonalty –\nPerversion –\nPetit jury –\nPetition –\nPetition for probate –\nPetition to make special –\nPetitioner –\nPetty larceny –\nPetty offenses –\nPhilosophy of law –\nPhysical custody –\nPhysician-patient privilege –\nPicketing –\nPierce the corporate veil –\nPiercing the corporate veil –\nPilferage –\nPillory –\nPimp –\nPiracy –\nPlagiarism –\nPlain error –\nPlain view doctrine –\nPlaint note –\nPlaint number –\nPlaintiff –\nPlc –\nPlea –\nPlea bargain –\nPlea in abatement –\nPlead –\nPleading –\nPleadings –\nPlenary authority –\nPolice –\nPolice brutality –\nPolice oppression –\nPolice powers (United States constitutional law) –\nPolice state –\nCorruption –\nPolitical prisoner –\nPolitical question –\nPolitical science –\nPoll tax (disambiguation) –\nPolyandry –\nPolygamy –\nBigamy –\nPolygraph –\nPornography –\nPort of entry –\nPositive law –\nPossession –\nPossession of stolen goods –\nPossession proceedings –\nPossessory –\nPossessory interest –\nPossibility of a reverter –\n\"post mortem\" –\nPostdated check –\nPot –\nPour over will –\nPoverty law –\nPower –\nPower of appointment –\nPower of arrest –\nPower of attorney –\nPractice –\nPractice Direction –\nPractice of law –\nPraemunire –\n\"praetor peregrinus\" –\nPre-emption rights –\nPrecedent –\nPreemption of state and local laws in the United States –\nPreemptive right –\nPreference –\nPreferential creditor –\nPreferred dividend –\nPreferred stock –\nPregnant denial –\nPreliminary hearing –\nPreliminary injunction –\nPremeditation –\nPremises –\nPrenuptial agreement –\nPreponderance of the evidence –\nPrerogative writ –\nPrescription drug –\nPrescriptive easement –\nPresident of the family division –\nPresiding judge –\nPresumption –\nPresumption of innocence –\nPretermitted heir –\nPretrial discovery –\nPrice fixing –\n\"prima facie\" –\nPrima facie case –\nPrima impressionis –\nPrime suspect –\n\"primogeniture\" –\nPrior restraint –\nPrison –\nPrisoner of war –\nPrivacy –\nPrivate bill –\nPrivate carrier –\nPrivate company –\nPrivate Express Statutes –\nPrivate international law –\nPrivate law –\nPrivate nuisance –\nPrivate parts –\nPrivate property –\nPrivate road –\nPrivateer –\nPrivilege (evidence) –\nPrivilege (legal ethics) –\nPrivilege against self incrimination –\nPrivileged communication –\nPrivity –\nPrivy Council –\nPrivy Council of Sweden –\n\"pro bono\" –\n\"pro bono publico\" –\n\"pro forma\" –\n\"pro hac vice\" –\n\"pro per\" –\n\"pro se\" –\n\"pro tanto\" –\n\"pro tem\" –\n\"pro tempore\" –\nProbable cause –\nProbate –\nProbation –\nProbative –\nProbative value –\nProcedendo –\nProcedural defense –\nProcedural justice –\nProcedural law –\nProcedure –\nProceeding –\nProcess –\nProcess server –\nProctor –\nProduct liability –\nProfessional corporation –\nProfessional negligence –\nProffer –\nProhibition –\nWrit of prohibition –\nPromise –\nPromissory estoppel –\nPromissory note –\nProperty –\nProperty damage –\nProperty law –\nProperty tax –\n\"propria persona\" –\nProprietary rights –\nProprietor –\nProsecute –\nProsecution –\nProsecutor –\nProstitute –\nProstitution –\nProtective custody –\nProtective order –\nProtest –\nProtocol –\nProvisional remedy –\nProximate cause –\nPrudent man rule –\nPublic –\nPublic administrator –\nPublic benefit corporation –\nPublic company –\nPublic corporation (disambiguation) –\nPublic defender –\nPublic domain –\nPublic figure –\nPublic limited company –\nPublic nuisance –\nPublic order –\nPublic property –\nPublic record –\nPublic trust doctrine –\nPublic trustee –\nPublic use –\nPublic utility –\nPublication –\nPublici juris –\nPublish –\nPuffery –\nPuisne judge –\nPunitive damages –\nPutative father –\nPutative father registry\n\n\"quaere\" –\n\"quantum meruit\" –\nQuash –\n\"quasi\" –\nQuasi community property –\nQuasi contract –\nQuasi corporation –\nQuasi in rem –\nQuasi-contract –\nQuasi-criminal –\nQuasi-delict –\nQuasi-judicial –\nQueen's bench –\nQueen's Privy Council for Canada –\nQueens bench division –\nQueen's counsel –\nQuestion of fact –\nQuestion of law –\n\"qui tam action\" –\n\"quid pro quo\" –\n\"quid pro quo sexual harassment\" –\nQuiet enjoyment –\nQuiet title action –\nQuitclaim deed –\nQuitrent –\n\"quo warranto\" –\nQuorum –\nQuotient verdict –\nQur'an\n\nRabbi –\nRabbinic literature –\nRabbinical Assembly –\nRace to the courthouse –\nRacial discrimination –\nRacial segregation –\nRacism –\nRacketeer influenced corrupt organization (RICO) statute –\nRacketeering –\nRadical transparency –\nRansom –\nRape –\nRatification –\nRatify –\n\"ratio decidendi\" –\n\"ratio scripta\" –\nRational basis –\nReal estate –\nReal estate investment trust –\nReal party in interest –\nReal property –\nRealty –\nReasonable –\nReasonable care –\nReasonable doubt –\nReasonable man doctrine –\nReasonable time –\nRebbe –\n\"rebus sic stantibus\" –\nRebuttable presumption –\nRebuttal –\nRecapture –\nReceipt –\nReceivership –\nRecharacterisation –\nRecidivist –\nReciprocal discovery –\nReckless –\nReckless disregard –\nReckless driving –\nRecklessness –\nRecognisance –\nReconstructionist Judaism –\nReconveyance –\nRecorder –\nRecording acts –\nRecoupment –\nRecover –\nRecoverable –\nRecusal –\nRectification (law) –\nRecuse –\nRedemption (bonds) –\nRedemption of shares –\nRedemption value –\nRedetermination –\nRedirect examination –\nRedundancy –\nReentry –\nReferee –\nReferendum –\nReform Judaism –\nRefugee –\nRefundable tax credit –\nRegistered office –\nRegistered trade mark –\nRegistration statement –\nRegistry of deeds –\nRegulation –\nRegulations –\nRegulatory taking –\nRehearing –\nReichstag Fire Decree –\nReid technique –\nRelease –\nRelease on one's own recognizance –\nRelevancy –\nRelief –\nReligion and heterosexuality –\nReligion and homosexuality –\nReligious law –\nRemainder –\nRemainderman –\nRemand (court procedure) –\nRemittitur –\nRent –\nRent control –\nRental value –\nReorganization –\nRepair –\nRepeal –\nRepentance –\nReplevin –\nReply brief –\nReports –\nRepossess –\nRepresent –\nRepresentation –\nReprisal –\nReputation –\nRequirements contract –\n\"res adjudicata\" –\n\"res gestae\" –\n\"res ipsa loquitur\" –\n\"res judicata\" –\n\"res nulis\" –\n\"res publica christiana\" –\nResale –\nRescind –\nRescission –\nRescue doctrine –\nReservation –\nReserved decision –\nResident –\nResident alien –\nResiduary bequest –\nResiduary estate –\nResiduary legatee –\nResidue –\nResistance movement –\nResisting arrest –\nResolution –\nResolution of disputes –\n\"respondeat superior\" –\nResponsa –\nResponsibility –\nRestatement of the law –\nRestitution –\nRestorative justice –\nRestraining order –\nRestraint of trade –\nRestraint on alienation –\nRestrictive covenant –\nResult –\nResulting trust –\nRetaining lien –\nRetention of title clause –\nRetire –\nRetraction –\nRetrial –\nRetributive justice –\nReturn of service –\nRevenue ruling –\nReversible error –\nReversion –\nReview –\nRevocable living trust –\nRevocation –\nRevoke –\nRICO –\nRight of audience –\nRight of eminent domain –\nRight of survivorship –\nRight of the first night –\nRight-of-way –\nRight to privacy –\nRight to silence –\nRight-to-work laws –\nRights –\nRiot –\nRiot control agent –\nRiparian –\nRiparian rights –\nRisk –\nRisk of loss –\nRitual –\nRoadside test –\nRobbery –\nRobert's Rules of Order –\nRocket docket –\nRogatory letters –\nRoman Forum –\nRoman Inquisition –\nRoman law –\nRoom –\nRoyal Assent –\nRoyal Charter –\nRoyal Commission –\nRoyal Courts of Justice –\nRoyal Prerogative –\nRoyal Warrant –\nRoyalties –\nRule –\nRule against perpetuities –\nRule by decree –\nRule in Allhusen v Whittell –\nRule in Re Atkinson –\nRule in Bartlett v Barclays Bank –\nRule in Clayton's Case –\nRule in Dearle v Hall –\nRule in Dumpor's Case –\nRule in Howe v Earl of Dartmouth –\nRule in Saunders v Vautier –\nRule in Shelley's Case –\nRule in Wild's Case –\nRule of law –\nRulemaking –\nRules of evidence –\nRuling –\nRum-running –\nRunning with the land –\nRuse of war\n\nSabotage –\nSacred text –\nSalafi –\nSales tax –\nSamaritan Pentateuch –\nSame-sex marriage –\nSanctions –\nSanhedrin –Sasine –\nSatyagraha –\nSave harmless –\nSavings and loan –\nScapegoat –\nSchool of law –\nSciens –\n\"scienter\" –\n\"scire facias\" –\nScope of employment –\nScots law –\nScrivener –\nScutage –\n\"se defendendo\" –\nSeal –\nSealed verdict –\nSealing of records –\nSearch and seizure –\nSearch warrant –\nSecond degree murder –\nSecondary boycott –\nSecret police –\nSecret rebate –\nSecret tribunal –\nSecret trust –\nSecretary of State for the Home Department –\nSecularism –\nSecured creditor –\nSecured transaction –\nSecurity –\nSecurity agreement –\nSecurity deposit –\nSecurity for costs –\nSecurity interest –\nSecurity of tenure –\nSedition –\nSeduction –\nSeigniorage –\nSeised –\nSeisin –\nSeized –\nSeizure –\nSelf-dealing –\nSelf-defense –\nSelf-determination –\nSelf-help –\nSelf-incrimination –\nSeller –\nSemble –\nSemicha –\nSenior lien –\nSentence (law) –\nSeparate property –\nSeparation –\nSeparation of church and state –\nSeparation of powers –\nSeparatism –\nSeptuagint –\nSerf –\n\"seriatim\" –\nServant –\nService –\nService by fax –\nService by mail –\nService by publication –\nService mark –\nService of process –\nServices –\nServient estate –\nSet-aside –\nSet-off –\nSetting –\nSettle –\nSettlement –\nSettlement agreement –\nSettlor –\nSeven deadly sins –\nSeverable contract –\nSeveral liability –\nSex offender –\nSex offender registries in the United States –\nSex tourism –\nSex worker –\nSex-related court cases –\nSexual abuse –\nSexual assault –\nSexual discrimination –\nSexual harassment –\nSexual morality –\nSexual norm –\nShafi'i –\nShaikh –\nShall –\nShame –\nShare –\nShare capital –\nShare certificate –\nShareholder –\nShareholders agreement –\nShareholders' agreement –\nShareholders' derivative action –\nShareholders' meeting –\nSharia law –Sharp practice –\nShepardize –\nSheriff –\nSheriff's sale –\nShield laws –\nShifting the burden of proof –\nShoplifting –\nShort cause –\nShortening time –\nShow cause order –\nShulkhan Arukh –\nSick pay –\nSidebar –\nSign –\nSignature –\nSigning bonus –\nSilk –\nSimple trust –\nSimultaneous death act –\nSin –\nSin-offering –\n\"sine die\" –\n\"sine qua non\" –\nSingle life annuity –\nSituated ethics –\nSituational ethics –\n\"situs (law)\" –\nSlander –\nSlander of title –\nSlavery –\nSlavery at common law –\nSmall claims court –\nSmall claims track –\nSmuggling –\nSocage –\nSocial capital –\nSocial control –\nSocial justice –\nSocialist law –\nSodomy –\nSodomy law –\nSoftware license –\nSoftware patent –\nCopyright infringement of software –\nSole proprietorship –\nSolicitation –\nSolicitor –\nSolitary confinement –\nSolvency –\nSolvent –\nSound mind and memory –\nSounds in –\nSouthern Poverty Law Center –\nSovereign immunity –\nSovereignty –\nSpanish Constitution of 1978 –\nSpanish Inquisition –\nSpeaking demurrer –\nSpecial administrator –\nSpecial appearance –\nSpecial damages –\nSpecial master –\nSpecial prosecutor –\nSpecial resolution –\nSpecial verdict –\nSpecific bequest –\nSpecific devise –\nSpecific finding –\nSpecific legacy –\nSpecific performance –\nSpeculative damages –\nSpeed limit –\nSpeed trap –\nSpeedy trial –\nSpendthrift clause –\nSpendthrift trust –\nSpoliation of evidence –\nSpontaneous exclamation –\nSpot zoning –\nSpousal abuse –\nSpousal support –\nSpringing interest –\nSquatter –\nSquatting –\nStakeholder –\nStamp duty –\nStandard form contract –\nStandard of care –\nStanding –\nStar Chamber –\nStar chamber proceedings –\n\"stare decisis\" –\nState action –\nState of domicile –\nState of Emergency –\nState religion –\nState-owned enterprise –\nStationhouse bail –\nStatism –\nStatus conference –\nStatute –\nStatute of frauds –\nStatute of limitations –\nStatutes of fraud –\nStatutes of limitations –\nStatutory Instrument –\nStatutory law –\nStatutory offer of settlement –\nStatutory rape –\nStay away order –\nStay of execution –\nStay of proceedings –\nStet –\nStipendiary magistrate –\nStipulation –\nStock –\nStock certificate –\nStock in trade –\nStock option –\nStockholder –\nStockholders' derivative action –\nStoning –\nStop and frisk –\nStrata title –\nStrategic lawsuits against public participation –\nStraw deed –\nStraw man –\nStreet –\nStrict construction –\nStrict liability –\nStrike –\nStrike action –\nStructure –\n\"sua sponte\" –\n\"sub judice\" –\n\"sub modo\" –\n\"sub nomine\" –\n\"sub silentio\" –\nSub-tenant –\nSubchapter S corporation –\nSubcontractor –\nSublease –\nSublet –\nSubmitted –\nSubordination –\nSubordination agreement –\nSubornation of perjury –\n\"subpoena\" –\n\"subpoena ad testificum\" –\n\"subpoena duces tecum\" –\nSubrogation –\nSubrogee –\nSubrogor –\nSubscribe –\nSubscribers –\nSubsidiary company –\nSubstantial performance –\nSubstantive law –\nSubstituted service –\nSubstitution of attorney –\nSuccession –\nSuccessive sentences –\nSuffering –\nSuffrage –\nSuggestion of death -\n\"sui generis\" –\nSuicide –\nSuitor –\nSum certain –\nSummary adjudication of issues –\nSummary assessment –\nSummary dismissal –\nSummary judgment –\nSummary offence –\nSummation –\nSumming –\nSummons –\nSunnah –\nSuperior court –\n\"supersedeas\" –\nSuperseding cause –\nSuppression of evidence –\nSupremacy clause –\nSupreme court –\nSupreme Court of Canada –\nSupreme Court of India –\nSupreme Court of judicature –\nSupreme Court of New Zealand –\nSurety –\nSurplusage –\nSurrebutal –\nSurrender –\nSurrogate court –\nSurvivorship –\nSuspended sentence –\nSustain –\nSyndicate –\nSynod –\nSynthetic lease\n\nT.R.O. –\nTable A –\nTacking (law) –\nTainted evidence –\nTaking the fifth –\nTallage –\nTalmud –\nTangible personal property –\nTangible property –\nTaqlid –\nTargeting civilians –\nTargum –\nTax –\nTax avoidance –\nTax costs –\nTax credit –\nTax deduction –\nTax evasion –\nTax haven –\nTax law –\nTax sale –\nTax treaty –\nTaxation in the United States –\nTaxation of costs –\nTemporary injunction –\nTemporary insanity –\nTen Commandments –\nTenancy –\nTenancy at sufferance –\nTenancy at will –\nTenancy by the entirety –\nTenancy in common –\nTenement –\nTentative trust –\nTenure –\nTerms and conditions of employment –\nTerms and conditions of purchase –\nTerms and conditions of sale –\nTerms of disparagement –\n\"terra nullius\" –\nTerritorial integrity –\nTerrorism –\nTest Act –\nTestacy –\nTestamentary –\nTestamentary capacity –\nTestamentary disposition –\nTestamentary trust –\nTestate –\nTestator –\nTestatrix –\nTestify –\nTestimony –\nTexas Declaration of Independence –\nCrown –\nOld Bailey –\nThe problem of evil –\nTheft –\nTheocracy –\nThird-party beneficiary –\nThirty-day notice –\nThree strikes law –\nThree theological virtues –\nTide lands –\nTime is of the essence –\nTime served –\nTimeshare –\nTipstaff –\nTithe –\nTitle –\nTitle abstract –\nTitle insurance –\nTitle report –\nTitle search –\nToll –\nToll bridge –\nToll road –\nTontine –\nTools of trade –\nTorah –\nTorah study –\nTorrens title –\nTort –\nTort claims act –\nTortfeasor –\nTortious –\nTorture –\nTosafists –\nTosefta –\nTotal depravity –\nTotalitarian democracy –\nTotalitarianism –\nTotten doctrine –\nTotten trust –\nTracing (law) –\nTrade –\nTrade fixture –\nTrade name –\nTrade secret –\nTrade union –\nTrade-Related aspects of Intellectual Property rights –\nTrademark –\nTrademarks registry –\nTragedy of the commons –\nTransfer agent –\nTransfer in contemplation of death –\nTransfer of shares –\nTransferred intent –\nTransparency –\nTreason –\nTreasure trove –\nTreasury security –\nTreasury stock –\nTreaty –\nTreaty of Waitangi –\nTreble damages –\nTrespass –\nTrial –\nTrial advocacy –\nTrial by combat –\nTrial by ordeal –\nTrial court –\nTrial de novo –\nTrial \"in absentia\" –\nTribunal –\nTribute –\nTrier of fact –\n\"trinoda necessitas\" –\nTriple net lease –\nTruancy –\nTrue bill –\nTrust law –\nTrust fund –\nTrust instrument –\nTrustee –\nTrustee in bankruptcy –\nTrustor –\nTrusts and estates –\nTruth in Lending Act –\nTry title –\nTurn state's evidence –\nTwelve Tables –\nTwinkie defense\n\nUberrima fides –\nUCC-1 –\nUlema –\nUltimate fact –\n\"ultra vires\" –\nUltrahazardous activity –\nUnclean hands –\nUnconscionable –\nUnconstitutional –\nUnder the influence –\nUnderground Railroad –\nUnderwrite –\nUnderwriter –\nUnderwriting agreement –\nUndisclosed principal –\nUndivided interest –\nUndue influence –\nUnfair competition –\nUnfair dismissal –\nUnfree labour –\nUnified estate and gift tax –\nUniform Code of Military Justice –\nUniform Commercial Code –\nUniform reciprocal enforcement of support act –\nUnilateral contract –\nUninsured motorist clause –\nUnissued stock –\nUnitary state –\nUnited Nations Charter –\nUnited Nations Convention Against Torture –\nUnited States bankruptcy court –\nUnited States Bill of Rights –\nUnited States Code –\nUnited States Constitution –\nUnited States constitutional law –\nUnited States court of appeals –\nUnited States Declaration of Independence –\nUnited States Department of Justice –\nUnited States district court –\nUnited States Federal Income Tax Personal Exemption –\nUnited States federal judicial circuit –\nUnited States federal judicial district –\nUnited States Office of the Independent Counsel –\nUnited States Patent and Trademark Office –\nUnited States prison population –\nUnited States Supreme Court –\nUnited States tax reform –\nTrademark Law (United States) –\nUniversal Declaration of Human Rights –\nUniversal jurisdiction –\nUnjust enrichment –\nUnjust taking –\nUnlawful –\nUnlawful assembly –\nUnlawful detainer –\n\"uno flatu\" –\nUnofficial law –\nUnreasonable search and seizure –\nUnspecified claim –\nUse tax –\nUsucaption –\nUsufruct –\nUsurious –\nUsury –\n\"uti possidetis\" –\nUtilitarianism –\nUtility (patent)\n\nVacate –\n\"Vacatio legis\" –\nValid claim –\nValuable consideration –\nVariance –\nVehicular manslaughter –\n\"vel non\" –\nVendee –\nVendor –\n\"venire\" –\nVenue (law) –\nVerdict –\nVest –\nVested –\nVested remainder –\nVested right –\nVexatious litigation –\nVicarious liability –\nVice-Chancellor (UK legal system) –\n\"vice versa\" –\n\"vide\" –\n\"videlicet\" –\nVienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations –\nVienna Convention on the Law of Treaties –\nVigilante –\nViolence –\nVirginia Declaration of Rights –\nVirtue ethics –\nVirtue jurisprudence –\nVisitation right –\n\"viz.\" –\nVoid –\nVoid for vagueness –\nVoid marriage –\nVoidable –\nVoidable marriage –\nVoir dire –\nVolens –\nVoluntary association –\nVoluntary bankruptcy –\nVoting trust –\nVulgate\n\nWage execution –\nWahhabism –\nWaive –\nWaiver –\nWalking possession –\nWaqf –\nWar crime –\nWar Crimes Law (Belgium) –\nWar on Drugs –\nWar Powers Resolution –\nWar reparations –\nWard (legal) –\nWard of court –\nWardship –\nWarrant (legal) –\nWarrant of committal –\nWarrant of delivery –\nWarrant of execution –\nWarrant of possession –\nWarranty –\nWarranty deed –\nWaste –\nWatered stock –\nWeimar constitution –\nWest American Digest System –\nWet reckless –\nWhiplash (medicine) –\nWhistleblower –\nWhite collar crime –\nWidow –\nWidow's election –\nWidower –\nWill –\nWill contest –\nWillful –\nWillfully –\nWinding up –\nWindow tax –\nWiretap –\nWitchhunt –\nWitness –\nWitness stand –\nWitness statement –\nWords of art –\nWork stoppage –\nWorkers' compensation –\nWorkers' compensation acts –\nWorkmen's compensation –\nWorld Intellectual Property Organization –\nWorld Trade Organization –\nWrit –\nWrit of attachment –\nWrit of coram nobis –\nWrit of execution –\nWrit of mandate –\nWrongful death –\nWrongful discharge –\nWrongful dismissal –\nWrongful termination –\nWrongful trading\n\nNothing Law related seems to begin with X, if you find something please add it!\n\nYellow Dog contract –\nYeshiva –\nYour honor –\nYouthful offender\n\nZoning\n"}
{"id": "59122740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59122740", "title": "Jury sentencing", "text": "Jury sentencing\n\nJury sentencing is the practice of having juries decide penalties for criminal offenses. As of 2018, Arkansas, Kentucky, Missouri, Oklahoma, Texas, and Virginia have sentencing by jury. Alabama, Georgia, Indiana, Illinois, Mississippi, Montana, Tennessee, and West Virginia had jury sentencing in times past, but then abandoned it.\n\nThe impetus for introducing jury sentencing was that in the late 18th century, punishment options expanded beyond shaming sanctions and the mandatory death penalty and came to include various ranges and modes of imprisonment, creating more room for case-by-case decisionmaking to which juries were thought to be well-suited.\n\nVirginia was the first state to adopt jury sentencing. The state's first constitution was enacted in 1776, and shortly thereafter, in 1779, Thomas Jefferson proposed to the Virginia General Assembly a revised criminal code that would have eliminated pardons and benefit of clergy, abolished capital punishment for most offenses, and allowed juries to decide punishments when the penalty was discretionary. This bill failed, however, both in 1779 and 1786, after James Madison had reintroduced it while Jefferson was in France.\n\nSentencing by jury was, however, successfully enacted in Virginia's 1796 penal code, which like the 1779 bill replaced capital punishment with terms of imprisonment for most felony offenses. Kentucky adopted a penal reform bill introduced by John Breckenridge that implemented sentencing by jury in 1798. While in Virginia, magistrates continued to have misdemeanor sentencing power (possibly because of the political influence of magistrates who served in the General Assembly), in Kentucky, this power was given to juries. Kentucky juries even decided cases involving prison discipline, imposing punishments such as flagellation or solitary confinement for infractions. Georgia and Tennessee adopted sentencing by jury in 1816 and 1829, respectively.\n\nIn contrast, northern states such as Pennsylvania, Maryland, New Jersey, and New York allowed judges to determine penalties, with Pennsylvania also allowing judges to pardon prisoners who, in their view, had evidenced sincere reformation. One hypothesis is that Virginia opted for jury sentencing because Federalists like George Keith Taylor distrusted the Republican district court judges; while in Pennsylvania, the Constitutionalists sought (over the objections of Republicans) to put sentencing power in the hands of the judges because the bench was populated by Constitutionalists. North Carolina and South Carolina, which did not establish penitentiaries until after the American Civil War, also left sentencing to judges' discretion.\n\nThe adoption of jury sentencing happened at the same time that the movement for an elective judiciary gathered speed, with at least four states, Alabama, Mississippi, Montana, and North Dakota switching to judicial elections around the same time that they adopted jury sentencing. Both reforms may have been due to a mistrust of unelected judges.\n\nDuring the ten years of the Republic of Texas, judges determined sentences. The \nchange to jury determination of the penalty was brought about by one of the first laws passed by the first legislature of the State of Texas in 1846, which empowered the jury to sentence the defendant in all criminal cases except capital cases and cases for which punishment was fixed by law.\n\nIndiana, Illinois, Arkansas, Oklahoma, and West Virginia adopted jury sentencing later in the 19th century. Oklahoma adopted jury sentencing upon reaching statehood in 1907, likely as part of its decision to model its laws after those of Arkansas.\n\nThe 1895 U.S. Supreme Court ruling in \"Sparf v. United States\" reflected growing concern that letting juries decide whether or how the law should be applied in particular cases could be detrimental to the rule of law. By 1910, the role of juries in determining penalties was being eroded by the professionalization of sentencing, as many states passed laws that created parole and probation systems. Probation officers gathered and analyzed information about the defendant's character and prepared a presentence report that served as the basis for the ultimate sentence. Parole commissioners, trained in penology and insulated from political pressures, determined when prisoners had been rehabilitated and could be reintegrated into society.\n\nGeorgia and Tennessee both had periods (from 1937-1939, and from 1913-1923, respectively) in which they briefly abandoned jury sentencing while experimenting with indeterminate sentencing. By 1919, fourteen states gave juries sentencing powers in non-capital cases, although by 1960, that number had dropped to thirteen.\n\nBy the 1970s and 1980s, determinate sentencing, a new intellectual current that repudiated the rehabilitative model with its focus on using mathematical models and grids to determine sentences, had made inroads, making jury sentencing seem like more of an anachronism. Georgia permanently abandoned jury sentencing in 1974 and Tennessee did the same in 1982. By the 1980s, Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Montana, and North Dakota had also abandoned jury sentencing, and Mississippi was using jury sentencing only in rape and statutory rape cases. Oklahoma abolished jury sentencing but reinstated it in 1999.\n\nAccording to some commentators, the time is ripe for a revival of jury sentencing, because flaws in the determinate sentencing systems are becoming increasingly apparent. Lawmakers drafting legislation such as the Sentencing Reform Act have had difficulty mustering the political will to make clear choices among opposing moral and ideological viewpoints, instead delegating these decisions to agencies that lack the representativeness and democratic origin of legislatures. Prosecutors have routinely circumvented the sentencing guidelines through their charging and plea bargaining decisions, creating a new set of disparities, despite the intent of the guidelines to curtail disparities.\n\nAlso, some juries have been acquitting guilty defendants to save them from what they regard as overly harsh mandatory minimum sentences, such as those imposed by the Rockefeller Drug Laws and California's three-strikes law. There have been movements to abolish sentencing commissions and guideline systems and inform jurors of their right to nullify. Decisions like \"Apprendi v. New Jersey\" and \"Ring v. Arizona\" have also signaled a willingness by the judiciary to expand the role of the jury in the legal process. Jury sentencing has been seen as a way to in many cases render moot the questions raised by \"Apprendi\" about the differences between elements of an offense and sentencing factors by letting the jury decide all the facts.\n\nIn Virginia, under the 1796 act, capital punishment remained mandatory for first-degree murder, but the penalty for second-degree murder was any term between five and eighteen years in the penitentiary. The 1796 act gave the court in murder cases the authority to \"determine the degree of the crime, and to give sentence accordingly\" when a defendant was \"convicted by confession.\" The judge's discretion to set sentences in cases of confession did not exist in Kentucky.\n\nIn Missouri, informing juries of sentences of defendants in similar cases or the sentences of co-participants in the crime on trial is strictly prohibited under the rules of evidence.\" Similarly, the Kentucky truth in sentencing statute, which generally increases the information available to sentencing juries, does not provide for sentencing guidelines and statistics. Kentucky courts have also held parole eligibility statistics inadmissible. The military at one time provided jurors with sentencing statistics and guidelines was the military, but this practice ended in the late 1950s as the military's judicial philosophy shifted its emphasis away from sentencing uniformity and towards individualized judgments. The United States Court of Military Appeals held that jurors were not to consider sentences in similar cases or to consult the sentencing manual.\n\nUnder Virginia's current system, jurors are controversially not allowed access to the Commonwealth's sentencing guidelines or to information about whether sentences will run consecutively or concurrently, and until 2000 were also not informed that parole had been abolished in Virginia. A judge must justify any departure from the jury's recommendation in writing to the Virginia Criminal Sentencing Commission. Less than one-quarter of jury-recommended sentences are modified by judges. Due to concerns about juries' imposing higher sentences than what the sentencing guidelines would suggest, many defendants opt either for bench trials or plea bargains.\n\nStates with jury sentencing have often allowed judges to intervene in the sentencing process, e.g. by reducing the sentence imposed by the jury, imposing hard labor or solitary confinement in addition to the jury's assessment of fines, or determining the place of confinement imposed by the jury. In Alabama, judges were allowed to override juries' recommendations of life imprisonment and impose capital punishment instead, until a 2017 law took that power away. All jury sentencing states except Texas allow the judge to fix the punishment in case the jury fails to agree on a sentence, making it impossible for there to be a mistrial due to a hung jury at sentencing.\n\nArkansas, Kentucky, Texas, and Virginia laws provide for bifurcated trials with separate proceedings for assessment of guilt and sentencing. Missouri requires a bifurcated jury trial for first-time offenders and does not allow juries to sentence defendants with prior offenses. Under Oklahoma law, however, the jury decides guilt and innocence in a single proceeding. In all of the jury sentencing states except Arkansas, if the defendant pleads guilty or chooses a bench trial, the judge decides the sentence. In Arkansas, the defendant can request jury sentencing after a guilty plea with the consent of the prosecutor and the court.\n\nThe states differ as to whether jury sentencing is mandatory or elective when a defendant exercises the right to a jury trial on guilt. In Missouri, a defendant can opt out of jury sentencing prior to voir dire. In Texas, the judge sentences as a rule, unless the defendant requests jury sentencing before voir dire. In Arkansas, a defendant, with the permission of the prosecutor and the court, may waive jury sentencing after the jury returns a guilty verdict. In Oklahoma, where the jury decides guilt and punishment in the same proceeding, a defendant may also waive his right to jury sentencing if the prosecutor and judge consent. In Virginia and Kentucky, a jury must decide the defendant's sentence if the defendant exercises his or her right to a jury trial on guilt.\n\nArguments that have been raised for sentencing by jury are that judges can be arbitrary (depending, e.g., on their mood at the time of sentencing) and partisan, and that putting the same person in charge of both deciding sentences and extending leniency (e.g. through pardons) centralizes too much power in one person. Also, different judges may be inconsistent in the judgments they render. Another argument in favor of jury sentencing is that the punishment equitably due is best determined by the particular circumstances of the case, rather than by legal technicalities; and that a jury is well-equipped for this purpose. Also, if juries have power to give a lenient sentence, they may be less likely to engage in jury nullification by acquitting a guilty defendant whom they believe is undeserving of severe punishment.\n\nArguments that have been raised against sentencing by jury are that juries are not as accountable as judges; that putting them in charge of determining both guilt and the sentence concentrates too much power in one body; and that different juries may differ widely in the sentences they impose. Counterarguments are that the lack of accountability of jurors to a higher authority preserves their judicial independence, and that judges are also capable of differing from other judges in the sentences they impose. Judges may even deviate from their own usual sentencing practices if the case is high-profile or a judicial election is coming up. Also, disparities are not always a sign of arbitrariness; sometimes they may reflect geographical differences in public attitudes toward a given crime, or a jury's taking proper account of the individual circumstances of each offender.\n\nIt is sometimes argued that an unreasonable juror may force the rest of the jury into an undesirable compromise to find the defendant guilty but impose an overly light sentence. A counter-argument is that whether this is bad or good is a matter of perception since \"one juror's principled holdout is another juror's irrational nullification. One jury's 'compromise' is another jury's perfectly appropriate give-and-take deliberations.\"\n\nAccording to University of Chicago Law School lecturer Jenia Iontcheva, sentencing decisions are well-suited to being made through a process of deliberative democracy rather than by experts such as judges, since they involve deeply contested moral and political issues rather than scientific or technical issues. She argues that since sentencing requires individualized, case-by-case assessments, sentences should be decided through small-scale deliberation by juries, as opposed to having lawmakers codify general policies for mechanical application by judges.\n\nAn advantage Iontcheva cites of having juries come together to deliberate on sentences is that the jurors may alter their preferences in the light of new perspectives, and perhaps reach solutions that would not have occurred to them individually. She argues that the hearing and consideration of diverse opinions will give the sentencing decisions greater legitimacy, and that engaging ordinary citizens in government through this process of deliberative democracy will give these citizens confidence about their ability to influence political decisions and thus increase their willingness to participate in politics even after the end of their jury service. Racial and other minorities may also benefit from having greater representation among jurors than among judges.\n\nIn jurisdictions that do not have any statutory provisions formally allowing jury sentencing, judges have sometimes consulted with the jury on sentencing anyway. At the federal level, the practice of polling the jury and using their input in sentencing was upheld on appeal by the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. The judge in that case, James S. Gwin, has argued that querying the jury helps to demonstrate that War on Crime-era sentencing guidelines are draconian when measured against the normative beliefs of the community, represented by the jury.\n\nSentencing is said to be more time-consuming for jurors than the relatively easy task of ascertaining guilt or innocence, which means an increase in jury fees and in the amount of productivity lost to jury duty. In New South Wales, a 2007 proposal by Chief Justice Jim Spigelman to involve juries in sentencing was rejected after District Court Chief Judge Reg Blanch cited \"an expected wide difference of views between jurors about questions relating to sentence\" and said juries were not interested in sentencing, and that many would not return to the court for the sentencing proceedings, which frequently require psychiatric reports and are conducted six to eight weeks after the trial. Concerns about jury tampering through intimidation by defendants were also raised.\n\nGermany and many other continental European countries have a system in which professional judges and lay judges deliberate together at both the trial and sentencing stages; such systems have been praised as a superior alternative because the mixed court dispenses with most of the time‐consuming practices of jury control that characterize Anglo‐American trial procedure, yet serves the purposes of a jury trial better than plea bargaining and bench trials, which have displaced the jury from routine American practice.\n"}
{"id": "18949668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18949668", "title": "Law", "text": "Law\n\nLaw is a system of rules that are created and enforced through social or governmental institutions to regulate behavior. It has been defined both as \"the Science of Justice\" and \"the Art of Justice\". Law is a system that regulates and ensures that individuals or a community adhere to the will of the state. State-enforced laws can be made by a collective legislature or by a single legislator, resulting in statutes, by the executive through decrees and regulations, or established by judges through precedent, normally in common law jurisdictions. Private individuals can create legally binding contracts, including arbitration agreements that may elect to accept alternative arbitration to the normal court process. The formation of laws themselves may be influenced by a constitution, written or tacit, and the rights encoded therein. The law shapes politics, economics, history and society in various ways and serves as a mediator of relations between people.\n\nA general distinction can be made between (a) civil law jurisdictions, in which a legislature or other central body codifies and consolidates their laws, and (b) common law systems, where judge-made precedent is accepted as binding law. Historically, religious laws played a significant role even in settling of secular matters, and is still used in some religious communities. Islamic Sharia law is the world's most widely used religious law, and is used as the primary legal system in some countries, such as Iran and Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe adjudication of the law is generally divided into two main areas. Criminal law deals with conduct that is considered harmful to social order and in which the guilty party may be imprisoned or fined. Civil law (not to be confused with civil law jurisdictions above) deals with the resolution of lawsuits (disputes) between individuals or organizations.\n\nLaw provides a source of scholarly inquiry into legal history, philosophy, economic analysis and sociology. Law also raises important and complex issues concerning equality, fairness, and justice.\n\nNumerous definitions of \"law\" have been put forward over the centuries. The \"Third New International Dictionary\" from Merriam-Webster defines law as: \"Law is a binding custom or practice of a community; a rule or mode of conduct or action that is prescribed or formally recognized as binding by a supreme controlling authority or is made obligatory by a sanction (as an edict, decree, rescript, order, ordinance, statute, resolution, rule, judicial decision, or usage) made, recognized, or enforced by the controlling authority.\"\n\nThe \"Dictionary of the History of Ideas\" published by Scribner's in 1973 defined the concept of law accordingly as: \"A legal system is the most explicit, institutionalized, and complex mode of regulating human conduct. At the same time, it plays only one part in the congeries of rules which influence behavior, for social and moral rules of a less institutionalized kind are also of great importance.\"\n\nThere have been several attempts to produce \"a universally acceptable definition of law\". In 1972, one source indicated that no such definition could be produced. McCoubrey and White said that the question \"what is law?\" has no simple answer. Glanville Williams said that the meaning of the word \"law\" depends on the context in which that word is used. He said that, for example, \"early customary law\" and \"municipal law\" were contexts where the word \"law\" had two different and irreconcilable meanings. Thurman Arnold said that it is obvious that it is impossible to define the word \"law\" and that it is also equally obvious that the struggle to define that word should not ever be abandoned. It is possible to take the view that there is no need to define the word \"law\" (e.g. \"let's forget about generalities and get down to cases\").\n\nThe history of law links closely to the development of civilization. Ancient Egyptian law, dating as far back as 3000 BC, contained a civil code that was probably broken into twelve books. It was based on the concept of Ma'at, characterised by tradition, rhetorical speech, social equality and impartiality. By the 22nd century BC, the ancient Sumerian ruler Ur-Nammu had formulated the first law code, which consisted of casuistic statements (\"if … then ...\"). Around 1760 BC, King Hammurabi further developed Babylonian law, by codifying and inscribing it in stone. Hammurabi placed several copies of his law code throughout the kingdom of Babylon as stelae, for the entire public to see; this became known as the Codex Hammurabi. The most intact copy of these stelae was discovered in the 19th century by British Assyriologists, and has since been fully transliterated and translated into various languages, including English, Italian, German, and French.\n\nThe Old Testament dates back to 1280 BC and takes the form of moral imperatives as recommendations for a good society. The small Greek city-state, ancient Athens, from about the 8th century BC was the first society to be based on broad inclusion of its citizenry, excluding women and the slave class. However, Athens had no legal science or single word for \"law\", relying instead on the three-way distinction between divine law (\"thémis\"), human decree (\"nomos\") and custom (\"díkē\"). Yet Ancient Greek law contained major constitutional innovations in the development of democracy.\n\nRoman law was heavily influenced by Greek philosophy, but its detailed rules were developed by professional jurists and were highly sophisticated. Over the centuries between the rise and decline of the Roman Empire, law was adapted to cope with the changing social situations and underwent major codification under Theodosius II and Justinian I. Although codes were replaced by custom and case law during the Dark Ages, Roman law was rediscovered around the 11th century when medieval legal scholars began to research Roman codes and adapt their concepts. Latin legal maxims (called brocards) were compiled for guidance. In medieval England, royal courts developed a body of precedent which later became the common law. A Europe-wide Law Merchant was formed so that merchants could trade with common standards of practice rather than with the many splintered facets of local laws. The Law Merchant, a precursor to modern commercial law, emphasised the freedom to contract and alienability of property. As nationalism grew in the 18th and 19th centuries, the Law Merchant was incorporated into countries' local law under new civil codes. The Napoleonic and German Codes became the most influential. In contrast to English common law, which consists of enormous tomes of case law, codes in small books are easy to export and easy for judges to apply. However, today there are signs that civil and common law are converging. EU law is codified in treaties, but develops through the precedent laid down by the European Court of Justice.\n\nAncient India and China represent distinct traditions of law, and have historically had independent schools of legal theory and practice. The \"Arthashastra\", probably compiled around 100 AD (although it contains older material), and the \"Manusmriti\" (c. 100–300 AD) were foundational treatises in India, and comprise texts considered authoritative legal guidance. Manu's central philosophy was tolerance and pluralism, and was cited across Southeast Asia. This Hindu tradition, along with Islamic law, was supplanted by the common law when India became part of the British Empire. Malaysia, Brunei, Singapore and Hong Kong also adopted the common law. The eastern Asia legal tradition reflects a unique blend of secular and religious influences. Japan was the first country to begin modernising its legal system along western lines, by importing bits of the French, but mostly the German Civil Code. This partly reflected Germany's status as a rising power in the late 19th century. Similarly, traditional Chinese law gave way to westernisation towards the final years of the Qing Dynasty in the form of six private law codes based mainly on the Japanese model of German law. Today Taiwanese law retains the closest affinity to the codifications from that period, because of the split between Chiang Kai-shek's nationalists, who fled there, and Mao Zedong's communists who won control of the mainland in 1949. The current legal infrastructure in the People's Republic of China was heavily influenced by Soviet Socialist law, which essentially inflates administrative law at the expense of private law rights. Due to rapid industrialisation, today China is undergoing a process of reform, at least in terms of economic, if not social and political, rights. A new contract code in 1999 represented a move away from administrative domination. Furthermore, after negotiations lasting fifteen years, in 2001 China joined the World Trade Organization.\n\nThe philosophy of law is commonly known as (general) jurisprudence. Normative jurisprudence asks \"what should law be?\", while analytic jurisprudence asks \"what is law?\" John Austin's utilitarian answer was that law is \"commands, backed by threat of sanctions, from a sovereign, to whom people have a habit of obedience\". Natural lawyers on the other side, such as Jean-Jacques Rousseau, argue that law reflects essentially moral and unchangeable laws of nature. The concept of \"natural law\" emerged in ancient Greek philosophy concurrently and in connection with the notion of justice, and re-entered the mainstream of Western culture through the writings of Thomas Aquinas, notably his \"Treatise on Law\".\n\nHugo Grotius, the founder of a purely rationalistic system of natural law, argued that law arises from both a social impulse—as Aristotle had indicated—and reason. Immanuel Kant believed a moral imperative requires laws \"be chosen as though they should hold as universal laws of nature\". Jeremy Bentham and his student Austin, following David Hume, believed that this conflated the \"is\" and what \"ought to be\" problem. Bentham and Austin argued for law's positivism; that real law is entirely separate from \"morality\". Kant was also criticised by Friedrich Nietzsche, who rejected the principle of equality, and believed that law emanates from the will to power, and cannot be labelled as \"moral\" or \"immoral\".\n\nIn 1934, the Austrian philosopher Hans Kelsen continued the positivist tradition in his book the \"Pure Theory of Law\". Kelsen believed that although law is separate from morality, it is endowed with \"normativity\", meaning we ought to obey it. While laws are positive \"is\" statements (e.g. the fine for reversing on a highway \"is\" €500); law tells us what we \"should\" do. Thus, each legal system can be hypothesised to have a basic norm (\"Grundnorm\") instructing us to obey. Kelsen's major opponent, Carl Schmitt, rejected both positivism and the idea of the rule of law because he did not accept the primacy of abstract normative principles over concrete political positions and decisions. Therefore, Schmitt advocated a jurisprudence of the exception (state of emergency), which denied that legal norms could encompass all of political experience.\n\nLater in the 20th century, H. L. A. Hart attacked Austin for his simplifications and Kelsen for his fictions in \"The Concept of Law\". Hart argued law is a system of rules, divided into primary (rules of conduct) and secondary ones (rules addressed to officials to administer primary rules). Secondary rules are further divided into rules of adjudication (to resolve legal disputes), rules of change (allowing laws to be varied) and the rule of recognition (allowing laws to be identified as valid). Two of Hart's students continued the debate: In his book \"Law's Empire\", Ronald Dworkin attacked Hart and the positivists for their refusal to treat law as a moral issue. Dworkin argues that law is an \"interpretive concept\", that requires judges to find the best fitting and most just solution to a legal dispute, given their constitutional traditions. Joseph Raz, on the other hand, defended the positivist outlook and criticised Hart's \"soft social thesis\" approach in \"The Authority of Law\". Raz argues that law is authority, identifiable purely through social sources and without reference to moral reasoning. In his view, any categorisation of rules beyond their role as authoritative instruments in mediation are best left to sociology, rather than jurisprudence.\n\nOne definition is that law is a system of rules and guidelines which are enforced through social institutions to govern behaviour. In \"The Concept of Law\" Hart argued law is a \"system of rules\"; Austin said law was \"the command of a sovereign, backed by the threat of a sanction\"; Dworkin describes law as an \"interpretive concept\" to achieve justice in his text titled \"Law's Empire\"; and Raz argues law is an \"authority\" to mediate people's interests. Holmes said \"The prophecies of what the courts will do in fact, and nothing more pretentious, are what I mean by the law.\" In his \"Treatise on Law\" Aquinas argues that law is a rational ordering of things which concern the common good that is promulgated by whoever is charged with the care of the community. This definition has both positivist and naturalist elements.\n\nIn the 18th century Adam Smith presented a philosophical foundation for explaining the relationship between law and economics. The discipline arose partly out of a critique of trade unions and U.S. antitrust law. The most influential proponents, such as Richard Posner and Oliver Williamson and the so-called Chicago School of economists and lawyers including Milton Friedman and Gary Becker, are generally advocates of deregulation and privatisation, and are hostile to state regulation or what they see as restrictions on the operation of free markets.\n\nThe most prominent economic analyst of law is 1991 Nobel Prize winner Ronald Coase, whose first major article, \"The Nature of the Firm\" (1937), argued that the reason for the existence of firms (companies, partnerships, etc.) is the existence of transaction costs. Rational individuals trade through bilateral contracts on open markets until the costs of transactions mean that using corporations to produce things is more cost-effective. His second major article, \"The Problem of Social Cost\" (1960), argued that if we lived in a world without transaction costs, people would bargain with one another to create the same allocation of resources, regardless of the way a court might rule in property disputes. Coase used the example of a nuisance case named \"Sturges v Bridgman\", where a noisy sweetmaker and a quiet doctor were neighbours and went to court to see who should have to move. Coase said that regardless of whether the judge ruled that the sweetmaker had to stop using his machinery, or that the doctor had to put up with it, they could strike a mutually beneficial bargain about who moves that reaches the same outcome of resource distribution. Only the existence of transaction costs may prevent this. So the law ought to pre-empt what \"would\" happen, and be guided by the most efficient solution. The idea is that law and regulation are not as important or effective at helping people as lawyers and government planners believe. Coase and others like him wanted a change of approach, to put the burden of proof for positive effects on a government that was intervening in the market, by analysing the costs of action.\n\nSociology of law is a diverse field of study that examines the interaction of law with society and overlaps with jurisprudence, philosophy of law, social theory and more specialised subjects such as criminology. The institutions of social construction, social norms, dispute processing and legal culture are key areas for inquiry in this knowledge field. Sociology of law is sometimes seen as a sub-discipline of sociology, but its ties to the academic discipline of law are equally strong, and it is best seen as a transdisciplinary and multidisciplinary study focused on the theorisation and empirical study of legal practices and experiences as social phenomena. In the United States the field is usually called law and society studies; in Europe it is more often referred to as socio-legal studies. At first, jurists and legal philosophers were suspicious of sociology of law. Kelsen attacked one of its founders, Eugen Ehrlich, who sought to make clear the differences and connections between positive law, which lawyers learn and apply, and other forms of 'law' or social norms that regulate everyday life, generally preventing conflicts from reaching barristers and courts. Contemporary research in sociology of law is much concerned with the way that law is developing outside discrete state jurisdictions, being produced through social interaction in many different kinds of social arenas, and acquiring a diversity of sources of (often competing or conflicting) authority in communal networks existing sometimes within nation states but increasingly also transnationally.\n\nAround 1900 Max Weber defined his \"scientific\" approach to law, identifying the \"legal rational form\" as a type of domination, not attributable to personal authority but to the authority of abstract norms. Formal legal rationality was his term for the key characteristic of the kind of coherent and calculable law that was a precondition for modern political developments and the modern bureaucratic state. Weber saw this law as having developed in parallel with the growth of capitalism. Another leading sociologist, Émile Durkheim, wrote in his classic work \"The Division of Labour in Society\" that as society becomes more complex, the body of civil law concerned primarily with restitution and compensation grows at the expense of criminal laws and penal sanctions. Other notable early legal sociologists included Hugo Sinzheimer, Theodor Geiger, Georges Gurvitch and Leon Petrażycki in Europe, and William Graham Sumner in the U.S.\n\nLaw is complex from a methodological viewpoint. Its peculiar features make its unique against the background of other sciences and disciplines.\n\nFirst, it is not only of a normative but also of a prescriptive nature. Law says how people ought to behave or not, what they may or may not require from others, and what they have to or have not to do if someone ask for that. But normative statements in law are deprived of a descriptive or causal character as opposed to normative statements in empirical science (as a law of gravity) or even social science (as a law of demand and supply in economics).\n\nSecond, there is no possibility of empirical verification of the contents of law. Whether the law should or should not comprise precepts of such-and-such import remains far beyond empirical proof. It is a matter of choice.\n\nThird, law is dependent on the shape of the physical world and the limitations inherent in it. It cannot mandate behaviours which are unattainable or force people to do things which are beyond their capabilities.\n\nFourth, law is fully contingent on humans and their minds. Without humans and their mental operations it would be very difficult to speak about the law, its enforcement and application.\n\nFifth, law agents, such as judges, advocates and officials, are unspecialized in the sense that they lack some complex theories as to good and evil, empirical and social science or justice (proper distribution of goods/privileges and burdens in a society).\n\nSixth, the role of authority is prominent in law, while at the same time in law there are not means which enable us to check the correctness of authoritative statements (be they comprised in judicial opinions or scholarly literature).\n\nSeventh, the procedure in which law is authoritatively applied is very specific. It is rigorous, precise, complex, casuistic and often very formal. The outcome of such procedure is obligatory in the sense that a judge cannot free himself or herself from passing his/her decision. There are also very limited means for re-opening such procedure when its being once completed.\n\nThere are distinguished methods of legal reasoning (applying the law) and methtods of interpreting (construing) the law.\nThe former are legal syllogism, which holds sway in civil law legal systems, analogy, which is present in common law legal systems, especially in the US, and argumentative theories that occur in both systems. The latter are different rules (directives) of legal interpretation such as directives of linguistic interpretation, teleological interpretation or systemic interpretation as well as more specific rules, for instance, golden rule or mischief rule. There are also many other arguments and cannons of interpretation which altogether make statutory interpretation possible.\n\nIn general, legal systems can be split between civil law and common law systems. The term \"civil law\" referring to a legal system should not be confused with \"civil law\" as a group of legal subjects distinct from criminal or public law. A third type of legal system—accepted by some countries without separation of church and state—is religious law, based on scriptures. The specific system that a country is ruled by is often determined by its history, connections with other countries, or its adherence to international standards. The sources that jurisdictions adopt as authoritatively binding are the defining features of any legal system. Yet classification is a matter of form rather than substance, since similar rules often prevail.\n\nCivil law is the legal system used in most countries around the world today. In civil law the sources recognised as authoritative are, primarily, legislation—especially codifications in constitutions or statutes passed by government—and custom. Codifications date back millennia, with one early example being the Babylonian \"Codex Hammurabi\". Modern civil law systems essentially derive from the legal practice of the 6th-century Eastern Roman Empire whose texts were rediscovered by late medieval Western Europe. Roman law in the days of the Roman Republic and Empire was heavily procedural, and lacked a professional legal class. Instead a lay magistrate, \"iudex\", was chosen to adjudicate. Decisions were not published in any systematic way, so any case law that developed was disguised and almost unrecognised. Each case was to be decided afresh from the laws of the State, which mirrors the (theoretical) unimportance of judges' decisions for future cases in civil law systems today. From 529–534 AD the Byzantine Emperor Justinian I codified and consolidated Roman law up until that point, so that what remained was one-twentieth of the mass of legal texts from before. This became known as the \"Corpus Juris Civilis\". As one legal historian wrote, \"Justinian consciously looked back to the golden age of Roman law and aimed to restore it to the peak it had reached three centuries before.\" The Justinian Code remained in force in the East until the fall of the Byzantine Empire. Western Europe, meanwhile, relied on a mix of the Theodosian Code and Germanic customary law until the Justinian Code was rediscovered in the 11th century, and scholars at the University of Bologna used it to interpret their own laws. Civil law codifications based closely on Roman law, alongside some influences from religious laws such as canon law, continued to spread throughout Europe until the Enlightenment; then, in the 19th century, both France, with the \"Code Civil\", and Germany, with the \"Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch\", modernised their legal codes. Both these codes influenced heavily not only the law systems of the countries in continental Europe (e.g. Greece), but also the Japanese and Korean legal traditions. Today, countries that have civil law systems range from Russia and China to most of Central and Latin America. With the exception of Louisiana's Civil Code, the United States follows the common law system described below.\n\nIn common law legal systems, decisions by courts are explicitly acknowledged as \"law\" on equal footing with statutes adopted through the legislative process and with regulations issued by the executive branch. The \"doctrine of precedent\", or \"stare decisis\" (Latin for \"to stand by decisions\") means that decisions by higher courts bind lower courts, and future decisions of the same court, to assure that similar cases reach similar results. In contrast, in \"civil law\" systems, legislative statutes are typically more detailed, and judicial decisions are shorter and less detailed, because the judge or barrister is only writing to decide the single case, rather than to set out reasoning that will guide future courts.\n\nCommon law originated from England and has been inherited by almost every country once tied to the British Empire (except Malta, Scotland, the U.S. state of Louisiana, and the Canadian province of Quebec). In medieval England, the Norman conquest the law varied-shire-to-shire, based on disparate tribal customs. The concept of a \"common law\" developed during the reign of Henry II during the late 12th century, when Henry appointed judges that had authority to create an institutionalized and unified system of law \"common\" to the country. The next major step in the evolution of the common law came when King John was forced by his barons to sign a document limiting his authority to pass laws. This \"great charter\" or \"Magna Carta\" of 1215 also required that the King's entourage of judges hold their courts and judgments at \"a certain place\" rather than dispensing autocratic justice in unpredictable places about the country. A concentrated and elite group of judges acquired a dominant role in law-making under this system, and compared to its European counterparts the English judiciary became highly centralized. In 1297, for instance, while the highest court in France had fifty-one judges, the English Court of Common Pleas had five. This powerful and tight-knit judiciary gave rise to a systematized process of developing common law.\n\nHowever, the system became overly systematized—overly rigid and inflexible. As a result, as time went on, increasing numbers of citizens petitioned the King to override the common law, and on the King's behalf the Lord Chancellor gave judgment to do what was equitable in a case. From the time of Sir Thomas More, the first lawyer to be appointed as Lord Chancellor, a systematic body of equity grew up alongside the rigid common law, and developed its own Court of Chancery. At first, equity was often criticized as erratic, that it varied according to the length of the Chancellor's foot. Over time, courts of equity developed solid principles, especially under Lord Eldon. In the 19th century in England, and in 1937 in the U.S., the two systems were merged.\n\nIn developing the common law, academic writings have always played an important part, both to collect overarching principles from dispersed case law, and to argue for change. William Blackstone, from around 1760, was the first scholar to collect, describe, and teach the common law. But merely in describing, scholars who sought explanations and underlying structures slowly changed the way the law actually worked.\n\nReligious law is explicitly based on religious precepts. Examples include the Jewish Halakha and Islamic Sharia—both of which translate as the \"path to follow\"—while Christian canon law also survives in some church communities. Often the implication of religion for law is unalterability, because the word of God cannot be amended or legislated against by judges or governments. However a thorough and detailed legal system generally requires human elaboration. For instance, the Quran has some law, and it acts as a source of further law through interpretation, \"Qiyas\" (reasoning by analogy), \"Ijma\" (consensus) and precedent. This is mainly contained in a body of law and jurisprudence known as Sharia and Fiqh respectively. Another example is the Torah or Old Testament, in the Pentateuch or Five Books of Moses. This contains the basic code of Jewish law, which some Israeli communities choose to use. The Halakha is a code of Jewish law which summarises some of the Talmud's interpretations. Nevertheless, Israeli law allows litigants to use religious laws only if they choose. Canon law is only in use by members of the Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox Church and the Anglican Communion.\n\nUntil the 18th century, Sharia law was practiced throughout the Muslim world in a non-codified form, with the Ottoman Empire's Mecelle code in the 19th century being a first attempt at codifying elements of Sharia law. Since the mid-1940s, efforts have been made, in country after country, to bring Sharia law more into line with modern conditions and conceptions. In modern times, the legal systems of many Muslim countries draw upon both civil and common law traditions as well as Islamic law and custom. The constitutions of certain Muslim states, such as Egypt and Afghanistan, recognise Islam as the religion of the state, obliging legislature to adhere to Sharia. Saudi Arabia recognises Quran as its constitution, and is governed on the basis of Islamic law. Iran has also witnessed a reiteration of Islamic law into its legal system after 1979. During the last few decades, one of the fundamental features of the movement of Islamic resurgence has been the call to restore the Sharia, which has generated a vast amount of literature and affected world politics.\n\nThe main institutions of law in industrialised countries are independent courts, representative parliaments, an accountable executive, the military and police, bureaucratic organisation, the legal profession and civil society itself. John Locke, in his \"Two Treatises of Government\", and Baron de Montesquieu in \"The Spirit of the Laws\", advocated for a separation of powers between the political, legislature and executive bodies. Their principle was that no person should be able to usurp all powers of the state, in contrast to the absolutist theory of Thomas Hobbes' \"Leviathan\".\n\nMax Weber and others reshaped thinking on the extension of state. Modern military, policing and bureaucratic power over ordinary citizens' daily lives pose special problems for accountability that earlier writers such as Locke or Montesquieu could not have foreseen. The custom and practice of the legal profession is an important part of people's access to justice, whilst civil society is a term used to refer to the social institutions, communities and partnerships that form law's political basis.\n\nA judiciary is a number of judges mediating disputes to determine outcome. Most countries have systems of appeal courts, answering up to a supreme legal authority. In the United States, this authority is the Supreme Court; in Australia, the High Court; in the UK, the Supreme Court; in Germany, the \"Bundesverfassungsgericht\"; and in France, the \"Cour de Cassation\". For most European countries the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg can overrule national law, when EU law is relevant. The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg allows citizens of the Council of Europe member states to bring cases relating to human rights issues before it.\nSome countries allow their highest judicial authority to overrule legislation they determine to be unconstitutional. For example, in \"Brown v. Board of Education\", the United States Supreme Court nullified many state statutes that had established racially segregated schools, finding such statutes to be incompatible with the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nA judiciary is theoretically bound by the constitution, just as all other government bodies are. In most countries judges may only interpret the constitution and all other laws. But in common law countries, where matters are not constitutional, the judiciary may also create law under the doctrine of precedent. The UK, Finland and New Zealand assert the ideal of parliamentary sovereignty, whereby the unelected judiciary may not overturn law passed by a democratic legislature.\n\nIn communist states, such as China, the courts are often regarded as parts of the executive, or subservient to the legislature; governmental institutions and actors exert thus various forms of influence on the judiciary. In Muslim countries, courts often examine whether state laws adhere to the Sharia: the Supreme Constitutional Court of Egypt may invalidate such laws, and in Iran the Guardian Council ensures the compatibility of the legislation with the \"criteria of Islam\".\n\nProminent examples of legislatures are the Houses of Parliament in London, the Congress in Washington D.C., the Bundestag in Berlin, the Duma in Moscow, the Parlamento Italiano in Rome and the \"Assemblée nationale\" in Paris. By the principle of representative government people vote for politicians to carry out \"their\" wishes. Although countries like Israel, Greece, Sweden and China are unicameral, most countries are bicameral, meaning they have two separately appointed legislative houses.\n\nIn the 'lower house' politicians are elected to represent smaller constituencies. The 'upper house' is usually elected to represent states in a federal system (as in Australia, Germany or the United States) or different voting configuration in a unitary system (as in France). In the UK the upper house is appointed by the government as a house of review. One criticism of bicameral systems with two elected chambers is that the upper and lower houses may simply mirror one another. The traditional justification of bicameralism is that an upper chamber acts as a house of review. This can minimise arbitrariness and injustice in governmental action.\n\nTo pass legislation, a majority of the members of a legislature must vote for a bill (proposed law) in each house. Normally there will be several readings and amendments proposed by the different political factions. If a country has an entrenched constitution, a special majority for changes to the constitution may be required, making changes to the law more difficult. A government usually leads the process, which can be formed from Members of Parliament (e.g. the UK or Germany). However, in a presidential system, the government is usually formed by an executive and his or her appointed cabinet officials (e.g. the United States or Brazil).\n\nThe executive in a legal system serves as the centre of political authority of the State. In a parliamentary system, as with Britain, Italy, Germany, India, and Japan, the executive is known as the cabinet, and composed of members of the legislature. The executive is led by the head of government, whose office holds power under the confidence of the legislature. Because popular elections appoint political parties to govern, the leader of a party can change in between elections.\n\nThe head of state is apart from the executive, and symbolically enacts laws and acts as representative of the nation. Examples include the President of Germany (appointed by members of federal and state legislatures), the Queen of the United Kingdom (an hereditary office), and the President of Austria (elected by popular vote). The other important model is the presidential system, found in the United States and in Brazil. In presidential systems, the executive acts as both head of state and head of government, and has power to appoint an unelected cabinet. Under a presidential system, the executive branch is separate from the legislature to which it is not accountable.\n\nAlthough the role of the executive varies from country to country, usually it will propose the majority of legislation, and propose government agenda. In presidential systems, the executive often has the power to veto legislation. Most executives in both systems are responsible for foreign relations, the military and police, and the bureaucracy. Ministers or other officials head a country's public offices, such as a foreign ministry or defence ministry. The election of a different executive is therefore capable of revolutionising an entire country's approach to government.\n\nWhile military organisations have existed as long as government itself, the idea of a standing police force is a relatively modern concept. For example, Medieval England's system of traveling criminal courts, or assizes, used show trials and public executions to instill communities with fear to maintain control. The first modern police were probably those in 17th-century Paris, in the court of Louis XIV, although the Paris Prefecture of Police claim they were the world's first uniformed policemen.\n\nMax Weber famously argued that the state is that which controls the monopoly on the legitimate use of force. The military and police carry out enforcement at the request of the government or the courts. The term failed state refers to states that cannot implement or enforce policies; their police and military no longer control security and order and society moves into anarchy, the absence of government.\n\nThe etymology of \"bureaucracy\" derives from the French word for \"office\" (\"bureau\") and the Ancient Greek for word \"power\" (\"kratos\"). Like the military and police, a legal system's government servants and bodies that make up its bureaucracy carry out the directives of the executive. One of the earliest references to the concept was made by Baron de Grimm, a German author who lived in France. In 1765 he wrote,\n\nThe real spirit of the laws in France is that bureaucracy of which the late Monsieur de Gournay used to complain so greatly; here the offices, clerks, secretaries, inspectors and \"intendants\" are not appointed to benefit the public interest, indeed the public interest appears to have been established so that offices might exist.\n\nCynicism over \"officialdom\" is still common, and the workings of public servants is typically contrasted to private enterprise motivated by profit. In fact private companies, especially large ones, also have bureaucracies. Negative perceptions of \"red tape\" aside, public services such as schooling, health care, policing or public transport are considered a crucial state function making public bureaucratic action the locus of government power.\n\nWriting in the early 20th century, Max Weber believed that a definitive feature of a developed state had come to be its bureaucratic support. Weber wrote that the typical characteristics of modern bureaucracy are that officials define its mission, the scope of work is bound by rules, and management is composed of career experts who manage top down, communicating through writing and binding public servants' discretion with rules.\n\nA corollary of the rule of law is the existence of a legal profession sufficiently autonomous to invoke the authority of the independent judiciary; the right to assistance of a barrister in a court proceeding emanates from this corollary—in England the function of barrister or advocate is distinguished from legal counselor. As the European Court of Human Rights has stated, the law should be adequately accessible to everyone and people should be able to foresee how the law affects them.\n\nIn order to maintain professionalism, the practice of law is typically overseen by either a government or independent regulating body such as a bar association, bar council or law society. Modern lawyers achieve distinct professional identity through specified legal procedures (e.g. successfully passing a qualifying examination), are required by law to have a special qualification (a legal education earning the student a Bachelor of Laws, a Bachelor of Civil Law, or a Juris Doctor degree. Higher academic degrees may also be pursued. Examples include a Master of Laws, a Master of Legal Studies, a Bar Professional Training Course or a Doctor of Laws.), and are constituted in office by legal forms of appointment (being admitted to the bar). There are few titles of respect to signify famous lawyers, such as Esquire, to indicate barristers of greater dignity, and Doctor of law, to indicate a person who obtained a PhD in Law.\n\nMany Muslim countries have developed similar rules about legal education and the legal profession, but some still allow lawyers with training in traditional Islamic law to practice law before personal status law courts. In China and other developing countries there are not sufficient professionally trained people to staff the existing judicial systems, and, accordingly, formal standards are more relaxed.\n\nOnce accredited, a lawyer will often work in a law firm, in a chambers as a sole practitioner, in a government post or in a private corporation as an internal counsel. In addition a lawyer may become a legal researcher who provides on-demand legal research through a library, a commercial service or freelance work. Many people trained in law put their skills to use outside the legal field entirely.\n\nSignificant to the practice of law in the common law tradition is the legal research to determine the current state of the law. This usually entails exploring case-law reports, legal periodicals and legislation. Law practice also involves drafting documents such as court pleadings, persuasive briefs, contracts, or wills and trusts. Negotiation and dispute resolution skills (including ADR techniques) are also important to legal practice, depending on the field.\n\nThe Classical republican concept of \"civil society\" dates back to Hobbes and Locke. Locke saw civil society as people who have \"a common established law and judicature to appeal to, with authority to decide controversies between them.\" German philosopher Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel distinguished the \"state\" from \"civil society\" (\"bürgerliche Gesellschaft\") in \"Elements of the Philosophy of Right\".\n\nHegel believed that civil society and the state were polar opposites, within the scheme of his dialectic theory of history. The modern dipole state–civil society was reproduced in the theories of Alexis de Tocqueville and Karl Marx. Nowadays in post-modern theory civil society is necessarily a source of law, by being the basis from which people form opinions and lobby for what they believe law should be. As Australian barrister and author Geoffrey Robertson QC wrote of international law,\n\n... one of its primary modern sources is found in the responses of ordinary men and women, and of the non-governmental organizations which many of them support, to the human rights abuses they see on the television screen in their living rooms.\n\nFreedom of speech, freedom of association and many other individual rights allow people to gather, discuss, criticise and hold to account their governments, from which the basis of a deliberative democracy is formed. The more people are involved with, concerned by and capable of changing how political power is exercised over their lives, the more acceptable and legitimate the law becomes to the people. The most familiar institutions of civil society include economic markets, profit-oriented firms, families, trade unions, hospitals, universities, schools, charities, debating clubs, non-governmental organisations, neighbourhoods, churches, and religious associations.\nAll legal systems deal with the same basic issues, but jurisdictions categorise and identify its legal subjects in different ways. A common distinction is that between \"public law\" (a term related closely to the state, and including constitutional, administrative and criminal law), and \"private law\" (which covers contract, tort and property). In civil law systems, contract and tort fall under a general law of obligations, while trusts law is dealt with under statutory regimes or international conventions. International, constitutional and administrative law, criminal law, contract, tort, property law and trusts are regarded as the \"traditional core subjects\", although there are many further disciplines.\n\nInternational law can refer to three things: public international law, private international law or conflict of laws and the law of supranational organisations.\n\nConstitutional and administrative law govern the affairs of the state. Constitutional law concerns both the relationships between the executive, legislature and judiciary and the human rights or civil liberties of individuals against the state. Most jurisdictions, like the United States and France, have a single codified constitution with a bill of rights. A few, like the United Kingdom, have no such document. A \"constitution\" is simply those laws which constitute the body politic, from statute, case law and convention. A case named \"Entick v Carrington\" illustrates a constitutional principle deriving from the common law. Mr Entick's house was searched and ransacked by Sheriff Carrington. When Mr Entick complained in court, Sheriff Carrington argued that a warrant from a Government minister, the Earl of Halifax, was valid authority. However, there was no written statutory provision or court authority. The leading judge, Lord Camden, stated that,\n\nThe great end, for which men entered into society, was to secure their property. That right is preserved sacred and incommunicable in all instances, where it has not been taken away or abridged by some public law for the good of the whole ... If no excuse can be found or produced, the silence of the books is an authority against the defendant, and the plaintiff must have judgment.\n\nThe fundamental constitutional principle, inspired by John Locke, holds that the individual can do anything except that which is forbidden by law, and the state may do nothing except that which is authorised by law. Administrative law is the chief method for people to hold state bodies to account. People can sue an agency, local council, public service, or government ministry for judicial review of actions or decisions, to ensure that they comply with the law, and that the government entity observed required procedure. The first specialist administrative court was the \"Conseil d'État\" set up in 1799, as Napoleon assumed power in France.\n\nCriminal law, also known as penal law, pertains to crimes and punishment. It thus regulates the definition of and penalties for offences found to have a sufficiently deleterious social impact but, in itself, makes no moral judgment on an offender nor imposes restrictions on society that physically prevent people from committing a crime in the first place. Investigating, apprehending, charging, and trying suspected offenders is regulated by the law of criminal procedure. The paradigm case of a crime lies in the proof, beyond reasonable doubt, that a person is guilty of two things. First, the accused must commit an act which is deemed by society to be criminal, or \"actus reus\" (guilty act). Second, the accused must have the requisite malicious intent to do a criminal act, or \"mens rea\" (guilty mind). However, for so called \"strict liability\" crimes, an \"actus reus\" is enough. Criminal systems of the civil law tradition distinguish between intention in the broad sense (\"dolus directus\" and \"dolus eventualis\"), and negligence. Negligence does not carry criminal responsibility unless a particular crime provides for its punishment.\nExamples of crimes include murder, assault, fraud and theft. In exceptional circumstances defences can apply to specific acts, such as killing in self defence, or pleading insanity. Another example is in the 19th-century English case of \"R v Dudley and Stephens\", which tested a defence of \"necessity\". The \"Mignonette\", sailing from Southampton to Sydney, sank. Three crew members and Richard Parker, a 17-year-old cabin boy, were stranded on a raft. They were starving and the cabin boy was close to death. Driven to extreme hunger, the crew killed and ate the cabin boy. The crew survived and were rescued, but put on trial for murder. They argued it was necessary to kill the cabin boy to preserve their own lives. Lord Coleridge, expressing immense disapproval, ruled, \"to preserve one's life is generally speaking a duty, but it may be the plainest and the highest duty to sacrifice it.\" The men were sentenced to hang, but public opinion was overwhelmingly supportive of the crew's right to preserve their own lives. In the end, the Crown commuted their sentences to six months in jail.\n\nCriminal law offences are viewed as offences against not just individual victims, but the community as well. The state, usually with the help of police, takes the lead in prosecution, which is why in common law countries cases are cited as \"\"The People\" v ...\" or \"\"R\" (for Rex or Regina) v ...\". Also, lay juries are often used to determine the guilt of defendants on points of fact: juries cannot change legal rules. Some developed countries still condone capital punishment for criminal activity, but the normal punishment for a crime will be imprisonment, fines, state supervision (such as probation), or community service. Modern criminal law has been affected considerably by the social sciences, especially with respect to sentencing, legal research, legislation, and rehabilitation. On the international field, 111 countries are members of the International Criminal Court, which was established to try people for crimes against humanity.\n\nContract law concerns enforceable promises, and can be summed up in the Latin phrase \"pacta sunt servanda\" (agreements must be kept). In common law jurisdictions, three key elements to the creation of a contract are necessary: offer and acceptance, consideration and the intention to create legal relations. In \"Carlill v Carbolic Smoke Ball Company\" a medical firm advertised that its new wonder drug, the smokeball, would cure people's flu, and if it did not, the buyers would get £100. Many people sued for their £100 when the drug did not work. Fearing bankruptcy, Carbolic argued the advert was not to be taken as a serious, legally binding offer. It was an invitation to treat, mere puffery, a gimmick. But the Court of Appeal held that to a reasonable man Carbolic had made a serious offer, accentuated by their reassuring statement, \"£1000 is deposited\". Equally, people had given good consideration for the offer by going to the \"distinct inconvenience\" of using a faulty product. \"Read the advertisement how you will, and twist it about as you will\", said Lord Justice Lindley, \"here is a distinct promise expressed in language which is perfectly unmistakable\".\n\n\"Consideration\" indicates the fact that all parties to a contract have exchanged something of value. Some common law systems, including Australia, are moving away from the idea of consideration as a requirement. The idea of estoppel or \"culpa in contrahendo\", can be used to create obligations during pre-contractual negotiations. In civil law jurisdictions, consideration is not required for a contract to be binding. In France, an ordinary contract is said to form simply on the basis of a \"meeting of the minds\" or a \"concurrence of wills\". Germany has a special approach to contracts, which ties into property law. Their 'abstraction principle' (\"Abstraktionsprinzip\") means that the personal obligation of contract forms separately from the title of property being conferred. When contracts are invalidated for some reason (e.g. a car buyer is so drunk that he lacks legal capacity to contract) the contractual obligation to pay can be invalidated separately from the proprietary title of the car. Unjust enrichment law, rather than contract law, is then used to restore title to the rightful owner.\n\nTorts, sometimes called delicts, are civil wrongs. To have acted tortiously, one must have breached a duty to another person, or infringed some pre-existing legal right. A simple example might be accidentally hitting someone with a cricket ball. Under the law of negligence, the most common form of tort, the injured party could potentially claim compensation for their injuries from the party responsible. The principles of negligence are illustrated by \"Donoghue v Stevenson\". A friend of Mrs Donoghue ordered an opaque bottle of ginger beer (intended for the consumption of Mrs Donoghue) in a café in Paisley. Having consumed half of it, Mrs Donoghue poured the remainder into a tumbler. The decomposing remains of a snail floated out. She claimed to have suffered from shock, fell ill with gastroenteritis and sued the manufacturer for carelessly allowing the drink to be contaminated. The House of Lords decided that the manufacturer was liable for Mrs Donoghue's illness. Lord Atkin took a distinctly moral approach, and said,\n\nThe liability for negligence ... is no doubt based upon a general public sentiment of moral wrongdoing for which the offender must pay ... The rule that you are to love your neighbour becomes in law, you must not injure your neighbour; and the lawyer's question, Who is my neighbour? receives a restricted reply. You must take reasonable care to avoid acts or omissions which you can reasonably foresee would be likely to injure your neighbour.\n\nThis became the basis for the four principles of negligence: (1) Mr Stevenson owed Mrs Donoghue a duty of care to provide safe drinks (2) he breached his duty of care (3) the harm would not have occurred but for his breach and (4) his act was the proximate cause of her harm. Another example of tort might be a neighbour making excessively loud noises with machinery on his property. Under a nuisance claim the noise could be stopped. Torts can also involve intentional acts, such as assault, battery or trespass. A better known tort is defamation, which occurs, for example, when a newspaper makes unsupportable allegations that damage a politician's reputation. More infamous are economic torts, which form the basis of labour law in some countries by making trade unions liable for strikes, when statute does not provide immunity.\n\nProperty law governs ownership and possession. Real property, sometimes called 'real estate', refers to ownership of land and things attached to it. Personal property, refers to everything else; movable objects, such as computers, cars, jewelry or intangible rights, such as stocks and shares. A right \"in rem\" is a right to a specific piece of property, contrasting to a right \"in personam\" which allows compensation for a loss, but not a particular thing back. Land law forms the basis for most kinds of property law, and is the most complex. It concerns mortgages, rental agreements, licences, covenants, easements and the statutory systems for land registration. Regulations on the use of personal property fall under intellectual property, company law, trusts and commercial law. An example of a basic case of most property law is \"Armory v Delamirie\" [1722]. A chimney sweep's boy found a jewel encrusted with precious stones. He took it to a goldsmith to have it valued. The goldsmith's apprentice looked at it, sneakily removed the stones, told the boy it was worth three halfpence and that he would buy it. The boy said he would prefer the jewel back, so the apprentice gave it to him, but without the stones. The boy sued the goldsmith for his apprentice's attempt to cheat him. Lord Chief Justice Pratt ruled that even though the boy could not be said to own the jewel, he should be considered the rightful keeper (\"finders keepers\") until the original owner is found. In fact the apprentice and the boy both had a right of \"possession\" in the jewel (a technical concept, meaning evidence that something \"could\" belong to someone), but the boy's possessory interest was considered better, because it could be shown to be first in time. Possession may be nine tenths of the law, but not all.\n\nThis case is used to support the view of property in common law jurisdictions, that the person who can show the best claim to a piece of property, against any contesting party, is the owner. By contrast, the classic civil law approach to property, propounded by Friedrich Carl von Savigny, is that it is a right good against the world. Obligations, like contracts and torts, are conceptualised as rights good between individuals. The idea of property raises many further philosophical and political issues. Locke argued that our \"lives, liberties and estates\" are our property because we own our bodies and mix our labour with our surroundings.\n\nEquity is a body of rules that developed in England separately from the \"common law\". The common law was administered by judges and barristers. The Lord Chancellor on the other hand, as the King's keeper of conscience, could overrule the judge-made law if he thought it equitable to do so. This meant equity came to operate more through principles than rigid rules. For instance, whereas neither the common law nor civil law systems allow people to split the ownership from the control of one piece of property, equity allows this through an arrangement known as a 'trust'. 'Trustees' control property, whereas the 'beneficial' (or 'equitable') ownership of trust property is held by people known as 'beneficiaries'. Trustees owe duties to their beneficiaries to take good care of the entrusted property. In the early case of \"Keech v Sandford\" [1722] a child had inherited the lease on a market in Romford, London. Mr Sandford was entrusted to look after this property until the child matured. But before then, the lease expired. The landlord had (apparently) told Mr Sandford that he did not want the child to have the renewed lease. Yet the landlord was happy (apparently) to give Mr Sandford the opportunity of the lease instead. Mr Sandford took it. When the child (now Mr Keech) grew up, he sued Mr Sandford for the profit that he had been making by getting the market's lease. Mr Sandford was meant to be trusted, but he put himself in a position of conflict of interest. The Lord Chancellor, Lord King, agreed and ordered Mr Sandford should disgorge his profits. He wrote,\n\nOf course, Lord King LC was worried that trustees might exploit opportunities to use trust property for themselves instead of looking after it. Business speculators using trusts had just recently caused a stock market crash. Strict duties for trustees made their way into company law and were applied to directors and chief executive officers. Another example of a trustee's duty might be to invest property wisely or sell it. This is especially the case for pension funds, the most important form of trust, where investors are trustees for people's savings until retirement. But trusts can also be set up for charitable purposes, famous examples being the British Museum or the Rockefeller Foundation.\n\nLaw spreads far beyond the core subjects into virtually every area of life. Three categories are presented for convenience, though the subjects intertwine and overlap.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2296282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2296282", "title": "Lawlessness", "text": "Lawlessness\n\nLawlessness is a lack of law, in any of the various senses of that word. Lawlessness may describe various conditions.\nAnomie is a breakdown of social bonds between an individual and their community, in which individuals do not feel bound by the moral strictures of society. The term was popularized by French sociologist Émile Durkheim in his influential 1897 book \"Suicide\".\n\nAnarchy (meaning \"without leadership\") is a condition in which a person or group of people reject societal hierarchies, laws, and other institutions. It often entails the dissolution of government.\n\nAnarchism is a political philosophy that advocates self-governed societies based on voluntary institutions.\n\nCivil disorder, or civil unrest, refers to public disturbances generally involving groups of people, and resulting in danger or damage to persons or property. Civil disorder is a breakdown of civil society, and may be a form of protest. It may take various forms, such as illegal parades, sit-ins, riots, sabotage, and other forms of crime.\n\nRandomness is the lack of pattern or predictability in events.\n\nAntinomianism, in Christianity, is a theological position which takes the principle of salvation by faith and divine grace to the point of asserting that the saved are not bound to follow the Law of Moses.\n\n"}
{"id": "764323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=764323", "title": "Lawmaking", "text": "Lawmaking\n\nLawmaking is the process of crafting legislation. In its purest sense, it is the basis of governance. \nThis form of law making is also applied in India. It is a process which works in India on the basis of Indian Constitution.\nLawmaking in modern democracies is the work of legislatures, which exist at the local, regional, and national levels and make such laws as are appropriate to their level, and binding over those under their jurisdictions. These bodies are influenced by lobbyists, pressure groups, sometimes partisan considerations, but ultimately by the voters who elected them and to which they are responsible, if the system is working as intended. Even the expenditure of governmental funds is an aspect of lawmaking, as in most jurisdictions the budget is a matter of law.\n\nIn dictatorships and absolute monarchies the leader can make law essentially by the stroke of a pen, one of the main objections to such an arrangement. However, a seemingly-analogous event can occur even in a democracy where the executive can make executive orders which have the force of law. In some instance, even regulations issued by executive departments can have the force of law. Libertarians, in particular, are known for denouncing such actions as being anti-democratic, but they have become such a salient feature of modern governance that it is hard to picture a system in which they no longer exist, because it is hard to picture the time involved in every regulation being debated prior to becoming law. That, say libertarians, is precisely the point: if such executive orders and regulations do not stand up to legislative scrutiny, they should never be implemented. In response to this, limits on regulatory authority have been made legislatively, and libertarians still contend for, if not the abolition of executive orders altogether, then their automatic sunset after a fixed period if not legislatively reviewed and confirmed; this policy has been adopted in some jurisdictions.\n"}
{"id": "9895310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9895310", "title": "Legal anthropology", "text": "Legal anthropology\n\nLegal anthropology, also known as the anthropology of laws, is a sub-discipline of anthropology which specializes in \"the cross-cultural study of social ordering\". The questions that Legal Anthropologists seek to answer concern how is law present in cultures? How does it manifest? How may anthropologists contribute to understandings of law?\n\nEarlier legal anthropological research focused more narrowly on conflict management, crime, sanctions, or formal regulation. Bronisław Malinowski's 1926 work, \"Crime and Custom in Savage Society\", explored law, order, crime, and punishment among the Trobriand Islanders. The English lawyer Sir Henry Maine is often credited with founding the study of Legal Anthropology through his book \"Ancient Law\" (1861), and although his evolutionary stance has been widely discredited within the discipline, his questions raised have shaped the subsequent discourse of the study. This ethno-centric evolutionary perspective was pre-eminent in early Anthropological discourse on law, evident through terms applied such as ‘pre-law’ or ‘proto-law’ and applied by so-called armchair anthropologists. However, a turning point was presented in the 1926 publication of \"Crime and Custom in Savage Society\" by Malinowski based upon his time with the Trobriand Islanders. Through emphasizing the order present in acephelous societies, Malinowski proposed the cross-cultural examining of law through its established functions as opposed to a discrete entity. This has led to multiple researchers and ethnographies examining such aspects as order, dispute, conflict management, crime, sanctions, or formal regulation, in addition (and often antagonistically) to law-centred studies, with small-societal studies leading to insightful self-reflections and better understanding of the founding concept of law.\n\nLegal anthropology remains a lively discipline with modern and recent applications including issues such as human rights, legal pluralism, Islamophobia and political uprisings.\n\nLegal Anthropology provides a definition of law which differs from that found within modern legal systems. Hoebel (1954) offered the following definition of law: \"“A social norm is legal if its neglect or infraction is regularly met, in threat or in fact, by the application of physical force by an individual or group possessing the socially recognized privilege of so acting”\"\n\nMaine argued that human societies passing through three basic stages of legal development, from a group presided over by a senior agnate, through stages of territorial development and culminating in an elite forming normative laws of society, stating that \"“what the juristical oligarchy now claims is to monopolize the knowledge of the laws, to have the exclusive possession of the principles by which quarrels are decided”\"\n\nThis evolutionary approach, as has been stated, was subsequently replaced within the anthropological discourse by the need to examine the manifestations of law’s societal function. As according to Hoebel, law has four functions:\n\n1) to identify socially acceptable lines of behaviour for inclusion in the culture. \n2) To allocate authority and who may legitimately apply force.\n3) To settle trouble cases.\n4) To redefine relationships as the concepts of life change.\n\nLegal theorist H. L. A. Hart, however, stated that law is a body of rules, and is a union of two sets of rules: \n\nWithin modern English Theory, law is a discrete and specialized topic. Predominantly positivist in character, it is closely linked to notions of a rule-making body, the judiciary and enforcement agencies. The centralized state organisation and isolates are essentials to the attributes of rules, courts and sanctions. To learn more on this view, see Hobbes. 1651 Leviathan, part 2, chapter 26 or Salmond, J. 1902 Jurisprudence.\n\nHowever, this view of law is not applicable everywhere. There are many acephelous societies around the world where the above control mechanisms are absent. There are no conceptualized and isolated set of normative rules – these are instead embodied in everyday life. Even when there may be a discrete set of legal norms, these are not treated similarly to the English Legal System’s unequivocal power and unchallenged pre-eminence. Shamans, fighting and supernatural means are all mechanisms of superimposing rules within other societies. For example, within Rasmussen’s work of Across Arctic America (1927) he recounts Eskimo nith-songs being used as a public reprimand by expressing the wrongdoing of someone guilty.\n\nThus, instead of focusing upon the explicit manifestations of law, legal anthropologists have taken to examining the functions of law and how it is expressed. A view expressed by Leopold Pospisil and encapsulated by Bronislaw Malinowski:\n\n\"“In such primitive communities I personally believe that law ought to be defined by function and not by form, that is we ought to see what are the arrangements, the sociological realities, the cultural mechanisms which act for the enforcement of law”\"\n\nThus, law has been studied in ways that may be categorized by as:\n\n1) prescriptive rules\n2) observable regularities\n3) Instances of dispute.\n\nOrder and regulatory behaviour are required if social life is to be maintained. The scale and shade of this behaviour depends on the values and beliefs held by a society deriving from implicit understandings of the norm developed through socialization. There are socially constructed norms with varying degrees of explicitness and levels of order. Conflict may not be interpreted as an extreme pathological event but as a regulatory acting force.\n\nThis processual understanding of conflict and dispute became apparent and subsequently heavily theorized upon by the anthropological discipline within the latter half of the nineteenth century as a gateway to the law and order of a society. Disputes have become to be recognised as necessary and constructive over pathological whilst the stated rules of law only explain some aspects of control and compliance. The context and interactions of a dispute are more informative about a culture than the rules.\n\nClassic studies deriving theories of order from disputes include Evans-Pritchard work Witchcraft, Oracles and Magic among the Azande which focused upon functional disputes surrounding sorcery and witchcraft practices, or Comaroff and Roberts (1981) work among the Tswana which examine the hierarchy of disputes, the patterns of contact and the effect norms affect the course of dispute as norms important to dispute are rarely \"“especially organised for jural purpose”\" \n\nOther examples include:\n\nLeach, 1954. Political Systems of Highland Burma.\nBarth, 1959. Political Leadership among Swat Pathans.\n\nWithin the history of Legal Anthropology there have been various methods of data gathering adopted; ranging from literature review of traveller/missionary accounts, consulting informants and lengthy participant observation.\n\nFurthermore, when evaluating any research it is appropriate to have a robust methodology capable of scientifically analysing the topic at hand.\n\nThe broad method of study by legal anthropologists prevails upon the Case Study Approach first developed by Llewellyn and Hoebel in The Cheyenne Way (1941) not as \"“a philosophy but a technology”\" \n\nThis methodology is applied to situations of cross-cultural conflict and the correlating resolution, which can have sets of legal notions and jural regularities extracted from them \n\nThis method may be safe-guarded against accusations of imposing western ideological structures as it is often an emic sentiment: for example,\n\n\"“The Tiv drove me to the case method…what they were interested in. They put a lot of time and effort into cases”\"\n\nRegarding law, in Anthropology’s characteristically self-conscious manner, the comparative analysis inherent to Legal Anthropology has been speculated upon and most famously debated by Paul Bohannan and Max Gluckman. The discourse highlights one of the primary differences between British and American Anthropology regarding fieldwork approaches and concerns the imposition of Western terminology as ethnological categories of differing societies.\n\nEach author’s uses the Case Study Approach, however, the data’s presentation in terms of achieving comparativeness is a point of contention between them.\n\nPaul Bohannan promotes the use of native terminology presented with ethnographic meaning as opposed to any Universal categories, which act as barriers to understanding the true nature of a culture’s legal system.\n\nAdvocating that it is better to appreciate native terms in their own medium, Bohannan critiques Gluckman’s work for its inherent bias.\n\nGluckman has argued that Bohannan’s excessive use of native terminology creates barriers when attempting to achieve comparative analysis. He in turn has suggested that in order to further the cross-cultural comparative study of law, we should use English terms and concepts of law which will aid in the refinement of dispute facts and interrelations Thus, all native terms should be described and translated into an Anglo-American conceptual equivalent for the purpose of comparison.\n\nAs disputes and order began to be recognised as categories worthy of study, interest in the inherent aspects of conflicts emerged within legal anthropology. The processes and actors involved within the events became an object of study for ethnographers as they embraced conflict as a data-rich source.\n\nOne example of such an interest is expressed by Philip Gulliver, 1963, Social Control in an African Society in which the intimate relations between disputes are postulated as being important. He examines the patterns of alliance between actors of a dispute and the strategies that develop as a result, the roles of mediators and the typologies for intervention.\n\nSee \"Lyon, 2002 Local arbitration and conflict deferment in Punjab, Pakistan\" or \"Engel, D. 1980. Legal pluralism in an American community: perspectives on a civil trial court.\"\n\nPolitical anthropologists have had much to say about the UDHR(Universal Declaration of Human Rights). Original critiques, most notably by the AAA(American Anthropological Association), argued that cultural ideas of rights and entitlement differ between societies. They warned that any attempt to endorse one set of values above all others amounted to a new western imperialism, and would be counter to ideas of cultural relativism. Most anthropologists now agree that universal human rights have a useful place in today's world. Zechenter (1997) argues there are practices, such as Indian 'sati' (the burning of a widow on her husband's funeral pyre) that can be said to be wrong, despite justifications of tradition. This is because such practices are about much more than a culturally established world view, and frequently develop or revive as a result of socio-economic conditions and the balance of power within a community. As culture is not bounded and unchanging, there are multiple discourses and moral viewpoints within any community and among the various actors in such events (Merry 2003). Cultural relativists risk supporting the most powerfully asserted position at the expense of those who are subjugated under it.\n\nMore recent contributions to the question of universal human rights include analysis of their use in practice, and how global discourses are translated into local contexts (Merry 2003). Anthropologists such as Merry (2006) note how the legal framework of the UNDHR is not static but is actively used by communities around the globe to construct meaning. As much as the document is a product of western Enlightenment thinking, communities have the capacity to shape its meaning to suit their own agendas, incorporating its principles in ways that empower them to tackle their own local and national discontents.\n\nFemale genital cutting (FGC), also known as female circumcision or female genital mutilation remains a hotly debated, controversial issue contested particularly among legal anthropologists and human rights activists. Through her ethnography (1989) on the practice of pharonic circumcision among the Hofriyat of Sudan (1989) Boddy maintains that understanding local cultural norms is of crucial importance when considering intervention to prevent the practice. Human rights activists attempting to eradicate FGC using the legal framework of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UNDHR) as their justification, run the risk of imposing a set of ideological principles, alien to the culture attempting to be helped, potentially facing hostile reactions. Moreover, the UNDHR as a legal document, is contested by some as being restrictive in its prescription of what is and is not deemed a violation of a human right (Ross 2003) and overlooks local customary justifications which operate outside of an international legalistic framework (Ross 2003). Increasingly (FGC) is becoming a global issue due to increased mobility. What was once deemed a largely African practice has seen a steady increase in European countries such as Britain. Although made illegal in 1985 there have as yet been no convictions and girls as old as nine continue to have the procedure. Legislation has now also been passed in Sweden, the United States and France where there have been convictions. Black, J. A. and Debelle, G. D. (1995) \"Female Genital Mutilation in Britain\" \"British Medical Journal\".\n\nThere are a number of useful introductions to the field of legal anthropology, Sally Falk Moore, a leading legal anthropologist, held both a law degree and a PhD in anthropology. An increasing number of legal anthropologists hold both JDs and advanced degrees in anthropology, and some teach in law schools while maintaining scholarly connections within the field of legal anthropology; examples include Rebecca French, John Conley, Elizabeth Mertz, and Annelise Riles. Such combined expertise has also been turned to more applied anthropological pursuits such as tribal advocacy and forensic ethnography by practitioners. There is a growing interest in the intersection of legal and linguistic anthropology.\n\nIf looking for Anthropology departments with faculty specializing in legal anthropology in North America, try the following schools and professors:\nUniversity of California, Berkeley (Laura Nader), University of California, Irvine (Susan Bibler Coutin, Bill Maurer), University of Chicago (Justin B. Richland), Duke University (William M. O'Barr), Princeton University (Lawrence Rosen, Carol J. Greenhouse), State University of New York at Buffalo (Rebecca French), New York University (Sally Engle Merry), Harvard University (Jean Comaroff and John Comaroff) and Cornell University (Annelise Riles), and George Mason University (Susan Hirsch).\n\nIn Europe, the following scholars and schools will be good resources:\nVanja Hamzić (SOAS University of London), Jane Cowan (University of Sussex), Ann Griffiths and Toby Kelly (University of Edinburgh), Sari Wastell (Goldsmiths, University of London), Harri Englund and Yael Navaro (University of Cambridge), and Richard Rottenburg (Martin-Luther Universität).\n\nThe Association for Political and Legal Anthropology (APLA), a section of the American Anthropological Association, is the primary professional association in the U.S. for legal anthropologists and also has many overseas members. It publishes \"PoLAR: Political and Legal Anthropology Review\", the leading U.S. journal in the field of legal anthropology, which is accessible via http://polarjournal.org/ or http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/10.1111/(ISSN)1555-2934\n\n'Allegra: a Virtual Laboratory of Legal Anthropology' is an online experiment by a new generation of legal anthropologists designated to facilitate scholarly collaboration and awareness of the sub-discipline.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46273308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46273308", "title": "Legal archaeology", "text": "Legal archaeology\n\nLegal archaeology is an area of legal scholarship \"involving detailed historical reconstruction and analysis of important cases.\" \n\nWhile most legal scholars confine their research to published opinions of court cases, legal archaeologists examine the historical and social context in which a court case was decided. These facts may show what social and cultural forces were at work in a particular case. Professors can use legal archaeology to \"sensitize students as to how inequality, specifically with regard to race, gender and class affects what occurs throughout the cases they study.\" A legal archaeologist might also research biographical material on the judges, attorneys, and parties to a court case. Such information might show whether a judge held particular biases in a case, or if one party had superior legal representation that caused the party to prevail in a case. \n\n"}
{"id": "1704112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1704112", "title": "Legal case", "text": "Legal case\n\nA legal case is a dispute between opposing parties resolved by a court, or by some equivalent legal process. A legal case may be either civil or criminal law. In each legal case there is an accuser and one or more defendants.\n\nA civil case, more commonly known as a lawsuit or controversy, begins when a plaintiff files a document called a complaint with a court, informing the court of the wrong that the plaintiff has allegedly suffered because of the defendant, and requesting a remedy. The remedy sought may be money, an injunction, which requires the defendant to perform or refrain from performing some action, or a declaratory judgment, which determines that the plaintiff has certain legal rights. The remedy will be prescribed by the court if the plaintiff wins the case. A civil case can also be arbitrated through arbitration, which may result in a faster settlement, with lower costs, than could be obtained by going through a trial. \n\nThe plaintiff must make a genuine effort to inform the defendant of the case through service of process, by which the plaintiff delivers to the defendant the same documents that the plaintiff filed with the court.\n\nAt any point during the case, the parties can agree to a settlement, which will end the case, although in some circumstances, such as in class actions, a settlement requires court approval in order to be binding.\n\nCases involving separation including asset division, support (a.k.a. maintenance or alimony), and matters related to children are handled differently in different jurisdictions. Often, the court's procedure for dealing with family cases is very similar to that of a civil case (it requires service and disclosure, and will issue judgments).\n\nDivorce and separation from a spouse is one of the most stressful situations, as rated by the Holmes and Rahe Stress Scale, and so family proceedings are increasingly being \"divorced\" from the often very formal and impersonal process of civil proceedings, and given special treatment.\n\nA criminal case, in common law jurisdictions, begins when a person suspected of a crime is indicted by a grand jury or otherwise charged with the offense by a government official called a prosecutor or district attorney.\n\nA criminal case may in some jurisdictions be settled before a trial through a plea bargain. Typically, in a plea bargain, the defendant agrees to plead guilty to a lesser charge than that which was originally brought by the grand jury or prosecuter. A defendant who goes to trial risks greater penalties than would normally be imposed through a plea bargain.\n\nLegal cases, whether criminal or civil, are premised on the idea that a dispute will be fairly resolved when a legal procedure exists by which the dispute can be brought to a factfinder not otherwise involved in the case, who can evaluate evidence to determine the truth with respect to claims of guilt, innocence, liability, or lack of fault. Details of the procedure may depend on both the kind of case and the kind of system in which the case is brought - whether, for example, it is an inquisitorial system or a solo\n\nIn most systems, the governing body responsible for overseeing the courts assigns a unique number/letter combination or similar designation to each case in order to track the various disputes that are or have been before it. The outcome of the case is recorded, and can later be reviewed by obtaining a copy of the documents associated with the designation previously assigned to the case.\n\nHowever, it is often more convenient to refer to casesparticularly landmark and other notable casesby a title of the form \"Claimant v Defendant\" (e.g. \"Arkell v Pressdram\"). Where a legal proceeding does not have formally designated adverse parties, a form such as \"In re\", \"Re\" or \"In the matter of\" is used (e.g. \"In re Gault\"). The \"v\" separating the parties is an abbreviation of the Latin versus, but, when spoken in Commonwealth countries, it is normally rendered as \"and\" or \"against\" (as in, for example, Charles Dickens' \"Jarndyce and Jarndyce\"). Where it is considered necessary to protect the anonymity of a natural person, some cases may have one or both parties replaced by a standard pseudonym (Jane Roe in \"Roe v. Wade\") or by an initial (\"D v D\"). In titles such as \"R v Adams\", however, the initial \"R\" is usually an abbreviation for the Latin Rex or Regina, i.e. for the Crown. (For an explanation of other terms that may appear in case titles, see the Glossary of legal terms.)\n\n"}
{"id": "44683200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44683200", "title": "Legal consciousness", "text": "Legal consciousness\n\nLegal consciousness is a \"collection\" of understood and/or imagined to have understood, legal awareness of ideas, views, feelings and traditions imbibed through legal socialization; which reflects as legal culture among given individual, or a group, or a given society at large. The legal consciousness evaluates the existing law and also bears in mind an image of the desired or ideal law.\n\nConsciousness is not an individual trait nor solely ideational; legal consciousness is a type of social practice reflecting and forming social structures. The study of legal Consciousness documents the forms of participation and interpretation through which act or sustain, reproduce, or amend the circulating contested or hegemonic structures of meanings concerning law. Legal consciousness is the way in which law is experienced and interpreted by specific individuals as they engage, avoid, resist or just assume the law and legal meanings.\n\nLegal consciousness is a state of being, legal socialisation is the process to Legal consciousness; where as legal awareness & legal mobilisation are means to achieve the same.\n\nThe Great Soviet Encyclopaedia (1979) defined legal consciousness as \" \"the sum of views and ideas expressing the attitude of people toward law, legality, and justice and their concept of what is lawful and unlawful. Legal consciousness is a form of social consciousness. Legal ideology, the system of legal views based on certain social and scientific viewpoints, is a concentrated expression of legal consciousness. The customs and feelings of people in relation to legal phenomena constitute the psychological aspect of legal consciousness; among these are a sense of justice and a loathing of crimes and illegal actions\" \"\n\nLegal consciousness is defined by Ewick and Silbey as the process by which people make sense of their experiences by relying on legal categories and concepts. People do this even when they are not familiar with the details and minutia of law or the legal system. They explain that there are cultural schemas provided by law that people use to make sense of their experiences. They refer to this as legality. The concept of legality includes \"the meanings, sources, authority and cultural practices that are commonly recognized as legal, regardless of who employs them or for what ends.\" These meanings and sources and different ways of knowing and understanding enable people to make sense of what happens to them and what that might mean in terms of their rights and options. This process of understanding legal experiences occurs within a larger ecosystem in which there are disputes over meaning and values. Seron and Munger explain that \"\"in addition, class may affect legal consciousness: Law may mean different things depending on an individual's location in the various hierarchies of status, prestige, and knowledge associated with membership in a social class.\n\nlegal consciousness narratives\n\n"}
{"id": "1134298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1134298", "title": "Legal risk", "text": "Legal risk\n\nBasel II classified legal risk as a subset of operational risk in 2003. This conception is based on a business perspective, recognizing that there are threats entailed in the business operating environment. The idea is that businesses do not operate in a vacuum and that, in the exploitation of opportunities and their engagement with other businesses, their activities tend to become subjects of legal liabilities and obligations.\n\nOne of the primary reasons why legal risk is associated with operational risk involves fraud since it is recognized as the most significant category of operational loss events and considered to be a legal issue as well. These, however, do not mean that legal risk is only confined to this conceptualization because it is defined in more than way. For instance, there are specific sets of legal risks that are defined by the European Union (EU) Law. In 2005, the European Central Bank declared that it will develop its own legal risk definition to help \"facilitate proper risk assessment and risk management, as well as ensure a consistent approach between EU credit institutions.\"\n\nThere is no standard definition, but there are at least two primary/secondary definition sets in circulation.\n\nMcormick, R. 2004\nLegal risk is the risk of loss to an institution which is primarily caused by:<br>\n(a) a defective transaction; or<br>\n(b) a claim (including a defense to a claim or a counterclaim) being made or some other event occurring which results in a liability for the institution or other loss (for example, as a result of the termination of a contract) or;<br>\n(c) failing to take appropriate measures to protect assets (for example, intellectual property) owned by the institution; or<br>\n(d) change in law.\n\nMcormick, R. 2004\nManagement of legal risk is not a precise science and subjective to the situation of the institution, and primarily caused by the lack of proper communication channel, undefined institutional objectives (such as the lack of policies and regulations), unclarified information flow between different personnel and department, lack of delegation of power to specify task on mitigation of risks.\n\nThe expenses of litigation of a company.\n\nLegal risk is the risk of financial or reputational loss that can result from lack of awareness or misunderstanding of, ambiguity in, or reckless indifference to, the way law and regulation apply to your business, its relationships, processes, products and services.\n\nThe cost and loss of income caused by legal uncertainty, multiplied by possibility of the individual event or legal environment as a whole.\n\nOne of the most obvious legal risks of doing business not mentioned in the above definitions is the risk of arrest and prosecution.\n\nAll definitions contain more detail.\n"}
{"id": "18342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18342", "title": "Outline of law", "text": "Outline of law\n\nLaw (\"article link\") is the set of rules and principles (laws) by which a society is governed, through enforcement by governmental authorities. Law is also the field which concerns the creation and administration of laws, and includes any and all legal systems.\n\nLaw can be described as all of the following:\n\n\n\n\nPublic law\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHistory of law\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSources of law\n\nLegislatures\n\nCourts\n\nPrisons\n\n\n"}
