{"id": "1629442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1629442", "title": "1949 World Federalist California Resolution", "text": "1949 World Federalist California Resolution\n\nThe 1949 World Federalist California Resolution was a measure passed by the California legislature that called on the United States Congress to amend the United States Constitution to allow for U.S. participation in a federal world government. It was introduced at the request of United World Federalists leaders Alan Cranston and Bob Walker.\n"}
{"id": "35489594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35489594", "title": "ADI 3510", "text": "ADI 3510\n\nADI 3510 (April 29, 2008), is a landmark Brazil Supreme Court case. The minister relator Carlos Ayres Britto voted in favor of embryonic stem cell research (Biosecurity Law).\n\n"}
{"id": "53000611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53000611", "title": "Access to public information in Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "Access to public information in Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nAccess to public information and freedom of information (FOI) refer to the right to access information held by public bodies also known as \"right to know\". Access to public information is considered of fundamental importance for the effective functioning of democratic systems, as it enhances governments' and public officials' accountability, boosting people participation and allowing their informed participation into public life. The fundamental premise of the right to access public information is that the information held by governmental institutions is in principle public and may be concealed only on the basis of legitimate reasons which should be detailed in the law. \n\nBosnia and Herzegovina was one of the first countries in the Balkans to adopt the Freedom of Access to Information Act, at the State level in 2000, and then in 2001 in both of its entities, namely the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska. However, according to some experts the law requires changes to address a series of shortcomings that have been identified over the years.\n\nDue to the specific circumstances and the way in which it was created, the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, annex IV of Dayton Peace Agreement did not pay much attention to the right to information. The development of freedom of information legislation was initiated with a decision of the High Representative in 1999. The Decision asked the State and the Entities to adopt such a legislation. The consultation process for drafting the law involved the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)’s legal experts and extensive public discussions with citizens and civil society groups. The Act was adopted by the Bosnia and Herzegovina State Government in October 2000, and the Republika Srpska Government in May 2001.\n\nThe laws establish a general right of the public to access the information held by public authorities/organs “to the greatest extent possible consistent with the public interest”. Therefore, the laws establish a general obligation of making all relevant information public, except for some cases falling under the exceptions defined by the law. Access to public information applies to information held by all public organs (legislative, judiciary, executive and administrative) and regardless of their format (written documents, digital data, audio or video records, etc.) as well as to legal persons owner or controlled by public bodies, such as public enterprises, public schools, universities, state agencies, etc. On the contrary, it does not apply to private organisations, private companies and the commercial sector. The laws entitle every person, regardless of his or her citizenship, nationality, ethnicity, or place of residence, the right to access to public information. Journalists and media outlet do not have more rights compared with other requesters. The prescribed period of time for obtaining the requested information is 15 days from the submission of the request. Under the FOI laws, public authorities are both obliged to provide access to documents and records and to publish the most important information without a request (proactive disclosure). Rules for proactive publication apply to information on institutions’ budget, regular activities and decision-making.\n\nIn line with international standards, access to information laws in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Republika Srpska establish that in some cases public information can be withheld on a legal basis. Specifically, three cases of exceptions are foreseen: first, when there is the possibility that disclosing information can cause a significant damage to legitimate functions of the government (national security, defence, monetary policy issues, prevention of crime, etc.); second, the exceptions can be applied to protect commercial interests; and, third, to protect personal interests and privacy of a third party. The application of these exceptions is not automatic: in effect, in order to reject the application on the basis of the exceptions established in the law, authorities have to make the public interest test, meaning considering whether and how the disclosure of information is harming other protected interests.The public interest test is inspired by the most advanced international standards on the right of access to public information. Compared with similar laws in the Western Balkans, only the laws of Serbia and Croatia prescribe such a test. Exceptions are applied only after a case-by-case analysis of every case and specific circumstances related to each request. Labeling a whole category of information as exemption is forbidden.\n\nIn Bosnia and Herzegovina some NGOs contribute to enforce the law on access to public information as well as to monitor its application and collect relevant data through the submission of FOI requests and the start of appeal procedures. This is the case, for instance, of the Balkan Investigative Reporting Network (BIRN), Transparency International (Bosnia and Herzegovina), or the Sarajevo-based Center for Investigative Journalism (CIN).\n\nAccording to a report prepared by the Association of journalists of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the country’s Press Council, the vast majority of Bosnians (around 93%) believe that there are several limitations to the right of access to public information in practice. At the same, public opinion in Bosnia and Herzegovina is largely not fully aware of their rights with regard to access to public information.\n\nWhen it comes to the application of the law, problems range from inconsistent interpretation of the law by different public bodies, unwillingness to apply it, to non-harmonisation of FOI laws with other laws.\n\nSpecifically, one of the major deficiency of freedom of information laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the weakness of the provisions concerning the appeal procedures in case the request is rejected. The FOI law of the Republika Srpska does not stipulate an appeal procedure at all. Another problem concerns the lack of compliance with other existing laws that exclude or significantly reduce the right to free access to information in practice both in the Federation and in the Republika Srpska. Also, experts have identified among the shortcomings hindering the application of FOI laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina the lack of an effective system for monitoring their application. Only a small number of public bodies comply with the obligation to publish the information on the number of received questions related to freedom of information on a regular basis.\n\nIn 2013-16 in order to test the implementation of FOI laws, the Balkan Investigative Reporting Network (BIRN) submitted a series of requests for accessing documents to different public bodies in the country at all level. Half of BIRN’s requests for information were rejected, while the remaining 50 per cent were only partially granted.\n\nAlso, according to Transparency International - Bosnia and Herzegovina only 40% of public enterprises in Republika Srpska and 27% in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina provides the requested information within the timeframe established by the law. In 37% of cases examined by Transparency International the fulfillment of the procedure lasts more than one month, even if the law stipulates that the information requested must be provided in maximum 15 days.\n\n"}
{"id": "53125280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53125280", "title": "Access to public information in Bulgaria", "text": "Access to public information in Bulgaria\n\nAccess to public information and freedom of information (FOI) refer to the right of access to information held by public bodies also known as \"right to know\". Access to public information is considered of fundamental importance for the effective functioning of democratic systems, as it enhances governments' and public officials' accountability, boosting people participation and allowing their informed participation into public life. The fundamental premise of the right of access to public information is that the information held by governmental institutions is in principle public and may be concealed only on the basis of legitimate reasons which should be detailed in the law.\n\nAccess to Public Information in Bulgaria is a right guaranteed by the 1991 Constitution. It is regulated by the Access to Public Information Act first introduced in 2000 and amended in December 2015. The amendments enhanced proactive disclosure, encouraged electronic requests and facilitate re-use of information, in line with Directive 2013/37/EU on the Re-Use of Public Sector Information.\n\nIn 2014, a public consultation on the amendments to be introduced in the access to information legislation was initiated. In the Summer of 2014, a working group was set up at the Ministry of Transport Information Technologies and Communications with the mandate of drafting amendments to the Bulgarian legislation regarding the introduction of the revised Directive 2013/37/EU on the Re-use of Public Sector Information of the European Parliament and the Council of 26 June 2013. The amended Directive enlarged the scope of the re-use of public sector information by including archives, libraries and museums.\n\nThe initiative of amending the Bulgarian law on access to public information was also prepared in the framework of drafting and discussing the National Plan under the Open Government Partnership initiative.\n\nIn November 2015, the Bulgarian National Assembly adopted amendments to the Access to Public Information Act to enhance proactive disclosure, encourage electronic requests and facilitate re-use of information.\n\nAccording to Professor Georgi Lozanov, a former member of the Council for Electronic Media, the introduction of the Access to Information Law could help in making more transparent the media sector, in particular media ownership and sources of funds which are largely opaque in Bulgaria.\n\nArticle 41 of the Bulgarian Constitution of 1991 states that everyone shall be entitled to seek, receive and impart information, provided that this right shall not be exercised to the detriment of national security, public order, public health and morality. Article 41 entitles citizens to obtain information from state bodies and agencies on any matter of legitimate public interest which is not a state or other secret prescribed by law and does not affect the rights of other.\n\nIn Bulgaria access to public information is regulated by the Access to Public Information Act enacted in 2000, and amended in 2008 and 2015. The Law entitles any person or legal entity to the right of access to public information in any form held by state institutions and other entities financed by state budget and exercising public functions.\n\nThe amended legal framework on access to public information introduced an extended the list of categories of information which are subject to proactive disclosure. Also, amendments introduced an explicit duty to publish any information that have been provided on requests more than three times, along with a broader obligation to publish online information of public interest.\n\nThe amendments also aimed at encouraging the submission of electronic requests, which can be sent with no need of electronic signature.\n\nAnother novelty concerns the presumption of third-party consent, meaning that if a public authority asks for a third-party consent for the disclosure of requested information affecting it, the lack of response within 14 days will be presumed as consent and the information should be completely provided, Thanks to the amendment, thus, the requested information is not considered, as it was before the amendment, a dissent by the third party which obliged the public body to provide only partial access.\n\nThe amendments also introduced the Directive 2013/37/UE, revising the first Directive on the Re-Use of Public Sector Information (2003) which was transposed in 2007 in the access to Public Information Act. In line with the revised directive, the amended law extended the re-use regime by prohibiting any exclusive clauses in giving rights to use whole databases coherently with the Directive provision that obliges any public body in the EU to provide equal availability of such databases on equal conditions and with costs for accessing calculated in transparent way.\n\nThe new legal framework adopts a broader definition of the \"public law organizations\" that are subject to both access to information requests and information re-use. Libraries, museums and archives have been included among the institutions that have to disclose information for re-use. According to the amended law, public sector bodies are obliged to make their documents available in a user-friendly manner and in open and machine-readable format, together with their metadata in a government Open Data Portal.\n\nUnder the Bulgarian law on Access to Public Information, all state bodies, including their directorates/regional/local offices/territorial units, etc. are subject to access to information. Also, the law applies to local government authorities, including mayors and municipal councils. Moreover, other entities are subject to the access to information law, in particular all authorities which perform public functions prescribed by the law, named \"public law entities\", for instance the Electronic Media Council, the National Health Insurance Fund and the like, and individuals and legal entities financed with funds from the state budget or the European Union (both subsidies and EU projects and programmes).\n\nThe law applies to any information generated or held by state authorities, local authorities and other entities obliged under the law. The right of access to public information is restricted in case of information:\n\n\nHowever, according to the law, even if there is a reason for refusal, information shall be disclosed if there is an overriding public interest which disclosure contributes to enhance.\n\nInformation requests may be submitted either orally or in written form. According to the law, each authority is obliged to appoint for its office an official with the responsibility of handling the requests.\n\nIn line with international best practices, access to information in Bulgaria is free of charge. Paying a fee can only be required to cover the actual costs of reproducing the document (copies, prints, etc.)\n\nUnder the Bulgarian law, in case requesters do not receive the information sought they may appeal to the court. The law does not establish an institution in charge of overseeing the implementation of the law in access to public information.\n\nAccording to a study conducted by the NGO Access to Information Program (AIP) in 2015, every third institution in Bulgaria does not make public its regulatory acts and half of them do not do this with regard to the general administrative acts. Among the institutions which fail to publish their regulatory acts there are the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and many municipalities.\n\nThe study also finds out there is a bit more transparency in relation to the publication of databases and registers. The same holds good for the publication of programs and strategic documents, such as development strategies, and the like.\n\nAs for financial transparency, the report acknowledges an improvement since 2013, but still about half of the institutions do not publish their budgets on the Internet as required by the law.A good level of transparency has been registered on disclosure of information for public procurement tenders: 94% of institutions scrutinized by the AIP has a dedicated section on their websites.\n\nThe report found out that Bulgarian institutions do not comply with the new requirements of the Access to Public Information Act when it establishes that they are obliged to publish the information that they have provided to citizens more than three times on the grouds of freedom of information applications. According to the AIP survey, only 4% out of 565 institutions scrutinized had complied with this requirement at the time the survey was conducted during 2015. However, almost all institutions, around 97%, complied with the new requirement that introduced electronic applications for freedom of information requests.\n\nThe 2015 AIP survey revealed that the Ministry of Education and Science is the most transparent ministry in Bulgaria, while the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the least transparent.\n\n"}
{"id": "53033394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53033394", "title": "Access to public information in Kosovo", "text": "Access to public information in Kosovo\n\nAccess to public information and freedom of information (FOI) refer to the right of access to information held by public bodies also known as \"right to know\". Access to public information is considered of fundamental importance for the effective functioning of democratic systems, as it enhances governments' and public officials' accountability, boosting people participation and allowing their informed participation into public life. The fundamental premise of the right of access to public information is that the information held by governmental institutions is in principle public and may be concealed only on the basis of legitimate reasons which should be detailed in the law.\n\nIn the Republic of Kosovo, the Law on Access to Official Documents was enacted in 2010. The law repealed and superseded various other legislation and administrative orders that were previously in force. The right of access to public information is guaranteed by the Constitution. Several secondary acts aims at realizing the right and implement the 2010 Law. However, full implementation is lacking, the courts are slow to respond to appeals due to persistent backlogs in the judicial system. Even when the appeals process work, the institutions appear willing to ignore the rulings of the court when it comes to transparency and access to public information. Currently, in 2016, the law on access to public documents is undergoing a procedure of amendment together with other laws to which it should be harmonized.\n\nIn Kosovo access to public information is a right guaranteed by Article 41 of the Constitution which establishes that every person is entitled of the right of access to public information and that documents held by public institutions and organs of state authorities are public, except for information that can be concealed by law for reasons due to privacy, business trade secrets or public security.\n\nAlso, the right of access to official documents is guaranteed by many international agreements and declarations, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Protocols which are directly applicable in the Republic of Kosovo and have priority in case of conflict of applicable laws.\n\nThere are also special laws regulating the application of the right of access to public information, such as the Law on Administrative procedure and the Law on Civil Service of the Republic of Kosovo.\n\nSpecifically, to implement the constitutional right of every person to have access, upon request, to documents of public interest held by public authorities, in 2010 the Assembly of the Republic of Kosovo approved the Law no. 03/L-215 on Access to Public Documents (LAPD). The LAPD Law applies to all documents maintained, drafted and received by public institutions and is based on ten principles:\n\nRequesting and obtaining public information is free of charge. A fee may only be charged to applicants for copies of the document requested and have to be reasonable and aiming at only covering the actual costs of reproduction and document delivery. Exceptions to the right of access to public information can be applied and are defined by law.\n\nAccording to the relevant law, access to public information may be restricted only for the purpose of protecting the public legitimate interests of life or other legitimate private interests, such as the right to privacy and for public security reasons. Other reasons for exceptions include: defence and international relations; detection and investigation of criminal activities, disciplinary investigations, atc.\n\nThe request can be made in writing or orally.\n\nPublic institutions have to respond to citizens' requests within seven days with their decision to fully or partially grant the access. The deadline for review may be exceptionally extended to 15 days.\n\nThe respect of the right of access to public information is guaranteed by the Ombudsperson Institution, an independent body supporting citizens to realize the right of access to documents that have been denied, according to the Law on Ombudsperson.\n\nIn case of rejection of the applicant's request, and non-response by the relevant authority within the deadline, the applicant can start an appeal procedure in front of the Ombudsperson Institutions or the competent courts, in accordance with applicable law.\n\nThe implementation of the laws on access to public information is problematic. According to the 2016 European Commission Progress Report, in practice the right of access to public information is “undermined by the authorities’ fragmented and unclear approach”.\n\nMoreover, according to the Balkan Investigative Reporting Network (BIRN) the realization of the right is hindered by a secretive mentality and culture of many public authorities in the country. Also, According to the news portal Kosovo 2.0, institutions tend to disclose information on less important issues and when lower level institutions, such as municipalities, are involved. Other flaws in the application of the law consists in its misinterpretation, for instance in distinguishing between what to consider private and what a public interest, and the application of \"ad hoc\" administrative measures by certain institutions. According to Kosovo 2.0, even when the law is very clear in specifying procedures, certain institutions have created their own procedures which are not always in line with the law, resulting in barriers for interested applicants. For instance, there are numerous institutions requiring the payment of 1 euro when filling a freedom of information request, which is in contradiction with the law. Another problem concerns the officials who are responsible for receiving and processing freedom of information requests. According to Kosovo 2.0 in many cases they are not properly trained to effectively execute the law.\n\nIn Kosovo, the majority of requests for accessing public information are submitted by journalists, activists and civil society organizations, and very few by citizens that are not fully aware of their right of access to public information. According to a survey carried out in 2012, the level of knowledge about the content of the law on access to public information among citizens was extremely deficient, as well as their interest in making requests for access to public documents.\n\nTo test and monitor the implementation of the law, BIRN has submitted a series of requests for information to the majority of public institutions, at all levels, in Kosovo. From June 2013 to May 2014, it submitted a total of 125 official requests: of the requests submitted, 68 were denied, 50 approved and 7 partially denied, meaning that requested documents were received in only 40 per cent of cases. This result is considered as “rather poor” by the organisation. During the same monitoring period, one of the major problems observed by BIRN concerned access to courts information, in particular indictments. Another common problem highlighted by the organization is that, in practice and despite the law’s provisions, the institution that does not have the information requested usually rejects the requests, rather than forwarding it to another institution that may have it as required by the law. According to another test, implemented between October 2013 to April 2016, only 25 per cent of BIRN’s requests were approved and 38 were rejected.\n\n"}
{"id": "595031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=595031", "title": "Acknowledgment (law)", "text": "Acknowledgment (law)\n\nIn law, an acknowledgment is a declaration or avowal of one's own act, used to authenticate legal instruments, which may give the instrument legal validity, and works to prevent the recording of false instruments or fraudulent executions. Acknowledgement involves a public official, frequently a notary public. The party executing the legal instrument orally declares that the instrument is his or her act or deed, and the official prepares a certificate attesting to the declaration. \"Acknowledgments\" are distinct from \"jurats\", \"verifications\", and \"attestations\". A jurat differs from an acknowledgement in that a jurat lacks the statement that the instrument is the act or deed of the party executing it. A verification is distinct in that it seeks to verify the factual contents of the instrument, rather than the instrument itself. Finally, an attestation occurs where a third person gives his or her name as a witness to the actual execution of an instrument. Normally, acknowledgments only serve evidentiary purposes, but some jurisdictions have made acknowledgement a requirement for recording of instruments.\n\n"}
{"id": "8914770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8914770", "title": "American Society for Political and Legal Philosophy", "text": "American Society for Political and Legal Philosophy\n\nThe American Society for Political and Legal Philosophy (ASPLP) is a learned society founded in 1955 by political theorist Carl Friedrich. The ASPLP's annual thematic conferences form the foundation for the \"Nomos\" series. The ASPLP operates according to a distinctive three-discipline structure. Its annual meetings rotate on a three-year cycle, meeting in conjunction with the Association of American Law Schools, the American Political Science Association, and the American Philosophical Association (Eastern Division). Its presidency rotates among the three disciplines, with vice-presidents always representing the other two. And its conferences consist of three lead papers, one from each discipline, each with two commentators from the other two disciplines. \n\n\"Nomos\", now published by New York University Press, has published work by some of the leading political and legal theorists of the twentieth century, from a wide range of ideological and methodological perspectives, including Hannah Arendt, Isaiah Berlin, Lon Fuller, John Rawls, Robert Nozick, Michael Walzer, Judith Shklar, Cass Sunstein, Martha Nussbaum, Richard Posner, Sheldon Wolin, James Buchanan, Catharine MacKinnon, Jules Coleman, Jean Hampton, Jon Elster, George Kateb, and Richard Epstein. The series was edited by Friedrich for volumes I-IX, coedited by J. Roland Pennock and John Chapman for volumes IX-XXXI, and edited by Chapman alone for XXXI-XXXV. Since then, series editors have included Ian Shapiro, Stephen Macedo, Melissa Williams, Sanford Levinson, and James Fleming. The series is currently co-edited by Andrew Rehfeld (Washington University Political Science) and Jack Knight (Duke Law School).\n\nPresidents of the ASPLP have included:\n\n\nThe volumes in the series, and their publishers, have been:\n\nforthcoming from New York University Press: \n\nLVI. American Conservative Thought\n\nThe volumes originally published by Atherton, Aldine-Atherton, and Lieber-Atherton are being republished by Transaction Press (starting in 2007).\n\n"}
{"id": "41289094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41289094", "title": "Animo", "text": "Animo\n\nAnimo is a Latin term used in the law that means with intention or with purpose.\n"}
{"id": "34581876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34581876", "title": "Burial Act", "text": "Burial Act\n\nBurial Act is a stock short title used in the United Kingdom for legislation relating to burials.\n\n\nThe Burial Acts 1852 to 1885 is the collective title of the following Acts:\n\nThe Burial (Ireland) Acts 1824 to 1868 is the collective title of the following Acts:\n\nThe Burial Grounds (Scotland) Acts 1855 to 1886 was the collective title of the following Acts:\n\n"}
{"id": "4455409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4455409", "title": "Burying in Woollen Acts", "text": "Burying in Woollen Acts\n\nThe Burying in Woollen Acts 1666-80 were Acts of the Parliament of England (citation \"18 & 19 Cha. II c. 4\" (1666), \"30 Cha. II c. 3\" (1678) and \"32 Cha. II c. 1\" (1680) ) which required the dead, except plague victims and the destitute, to be buried in pure English woollen shrouds to the exclusion of any foreign textiles.\n\nIt was a requirement that an affidavit be sworn in front of a Justice of the Peace (usually by a relative of the deceased), confirming burial in wool, with the punishment of a £5 fee for noncompliance. Burial entries in parish registers were marked with the word \"affidavit\" or its equivalent to confirm that affidavit had been sworn; it would be marked \"naked\" for those too poor to afford the woollen shroud. \n\nThe legislation was in force until 1814, but was generally ignored after 1770. The 1666 Act was repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1863.\n\nBurial records so annotated can be a source of genealogical information, providing evidence of economic status and relationships that may be otherwise unavailable or ambiguous.\n"}
{"id": "463084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=463084", "title": "Canada Gazette", "text": "Canada Gazette\n\nThe Canada Gazette () is the official newspaper of the Government of Canada. It was first published on October 2, 1841. While originally it published all acts of the Parliament of Canada, it later also published treaties, hearing and tribunals, proclamations and regulations, and various other official notices as required. At one time it contained information on bankruptcies. It has been administered by Public Works and Government Services Canada and the Queen's Printer since 1841. The \"Gazette\" is most often read to find new acts, regulations and proclamations.\n\nWhile not always widely read by the public, publication in the \"Gazette\" is considered official notice to all Canadians. After a regulation has been approved by the Privy Council Office and then the Cabinet of Canada, the regulation is published in the \"Gazette\". If a regulation has not been published in the \"Gazette\", a person cannot be convicted of the offence.\n\nCanada's provinces all have their own equivalents of the \"Gazette\".\n\nFrom inception in 1841 until 1998, the \"Gazette\" was published in print. From 1998 until 1 April 2014, it was published in print and online, with the online version having the same official status as the printed version starting in 2003. From 1 April 2014 onwards, it will only be published online to satisfy a Government of Canada requirement to make \"electronic publishing its new standard for all documents\". Structurally, the \"Gazette\" is published in three parts:\n\nPart I is published each Saturday. It contains public notices, official appointments and proposed regulations, as well as miscellaneous notices from the private sector that are required to be published by federal statute or by regulations. The proposed regulations are published in Part I as a way for the public to comment on them. Once the regulations are pre-published, the department that sponsored the legislation collects public comments to allow for any changes to be made to the regulation. Recently, Notices of Vacancies for senior positions in Government are published here too.\n\nPart II is published every second Wednesday and it contains all regulations that have been enacted as well as statutory instruments and other documents, such as orders in council, orders and proclamations. It has a consolidated index of regulations dating since January 1, 1955.\n\nPart III is published with the text of any new laws immediately after they have received Royal Assent and was first published in 1974. Starting from January 1998 all publications other than Part III are available in HTML and are not official. From April 1, 2003, the PDF version is an official version, as it is marked up from the same file as the printed version. It also contains a list of the proclamations of Canada and orders in council relating to the coming into force of federal acts.\n\nCertain types of regulations do not need to be published in the \"Gazette\". These include regulations that affect only a limited number of people, their publication would be contrary to national defense or international relations, or if their publication would violate personal privacy, such as notices of paroles and pardons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27363382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27363382", "title": "Charter of Alliance", "text": "Charter of Alliance\n\nThe Charter of Alliance (), also known as Deed of Agreement was a treaty between the grand vizier of the Ottoman Empire and a number of powerful local rulers signed in 1808, in an attempt to regulate their power and relations with the central Ottoman government.\n\nIn the Ottoman Empire, agricultural land was considered to be the sultan's private estate. These estates () were granted to cavalrymen (, \"timariot sipahis\") in return for their military services during war. The system was similar to the fief system of Medieval Europe, except that the land was non-inheritable, precluding the rise of feudalism in the Ottoman Empire. However during the Empire's decline in the 18th century, two factors provoked a kind of feudalism:\n\nThe cavalrymen were replaced by the tax collectors and local military rulers who were called derebeys (\"river lords\") or ayan. These powerful local leaders formed de facto local dynasties supported by considerable military power. By the end of the 18th century, the authority of the sultan had become almost non-existent outside the capital Istanbul, and the empire had become highly decentralized.\n\nAlemdar Mustafa Pasha an ayan in Rusçuk (Ruse, Bulgaria) was supporting the reformist Sultan Selim III (reigned 1789–1807). After Selim III was dethroned, Alemdar marched to Istanbul to reenthrone Selim III. However Selim had been killed by the new Sultan Mustafa IV. Alemdar dethroned Mustafa IV and enthroned his brother Mahmut II (reigned 1808–1839). To show gratitude, Mahmut II appointed Alemdar as his grand vizier.\n\nOriginally one of the ayans himself, Alemdar tried to end the chaos in the empire by a treaty. He invited other ayans to Istanbul. Although only four of them showed up, Alemdar and they signed a document called the \"Charter of Alliance\" () on 29 September 1808. The terms were\n\nAccording to some historians, the Charter of Alliance was a form of Turkish Magna Carta. Others, however; point out that the Charter, signed in the first half of the 19th century, can't be compared to the Magna Carta of the 13th century.\n\nIn any case, the Charter was short-lived. According to the treaty, Alemdar's successors would also sign the treaty. But after Alemdar's death no Grand Vizier ratified the treaty, probably due to the sultan's only half-hearted support to it. The Sultan saw this treaty as a challenge to his prestige. In the following years however the energetic Sultan fought against the ayans and was able subdue most of them.\n\n"}
{"id": "356035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=356035", "title": "Chief justice", "text": "Chief justice\n\nThe chief justice is the presiding member of a supreme court in any of many countries with a justice system based on English common law, such as the Supreme Court of Bangladesh, the Supreme Court of Canada, the Supreme Court of Singapore, the Court of Final Appeal of Hong Kong, the Supreme Court of Japan, the Supreme Court of India, the Supreme Court of Pakistan, the Supreme Court of Nigeria, the Supreme Court of Nepal, the Constitutional Court of South Africa, the Supreme Court of Ireland, the Supreme Court of New Zealand, the High Court of Australia, the Supreme Court of the United States, and provincial or state supreme courts. \n\nThe situation is slightly different in the three legal jurisdictions within the United Kingdom. The courts of England and Wales are headed by the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales; in Northern Ireland's courts, the equivalent position is the Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland, and in the courts of Scotland the head of the judiciary of Scotland is the Lord President of the Court of Session, who is also Lord Justice General of Scotland. These three judges are not, though, part of the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom, which operates across all three jurisdictions and is headed by the President of the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom.\nThe chief justice can be selected in many ways, but, in many nations, the position is given to the most senior justice of the court, while, in the United States, it is often the President's most important political nomination, subject to approval by the United States Senate. Although the title of this top American jurist is, by statute, Chief Justice of the United States, the term \"Chief Justice of the Supreme Court\" is often used unofficially.\n\nIn some courts, the chief justice has a different title, e.g. president of the supreme court. In other courts, the title of chief justice is used, but the court has a different name, e.g. the Supreme Court of Judicature in colonial (British) Ceylon, and the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia (in the US state of West Virginia).\n\nThe Chief Justice's personal ruling is equal in weight to the rulings of any associate judges on the court.\n\nIn several countries, the chief justice is second in line to the office of president or governor general (or third in line, if there is a president or governor lieutenant governor general), should the incumbent die or resign. For example, if the Governor General of Canada is unable to perform his or her duties, the Chief Justice of Canada performs the duties of the governor general.\n\nApart from their intrinsic role in litigation, they may have additional responsibilities, such as swearing in high officers of state; for instance, the Chief Justice of the United States traditionally administers the oath of office at the inauguration ceremony of the President of the United States, as does the Chief Justice of South Africa at the inauguration of the President of South Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "45314374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45314374", "title": "Clèmerson Merlin Clève", "text": "Clèmerson Merlin Clève\n\nClèmerson Merlin Clève (born November 21, 1958) is a Brazilian jurist, Law school professor, and lawyer.\n\nOne of the most respected constitutionalists in Brazil, he is a full professor of constitutional law at the Federal University of Paraná (UFPR) (undergraduate, LL.M, and J.S.D.). Clève is also a full professor of constitutional law and president at the Autonomous University Center of Brazil (UniBrasil), and a visiting professor at Universidad Pablo de Olavide – Máster Universitario en Derechos Humanos, Interculturalidad y Desarrollo (LL.M) and Doctorado en Ciencias Jurídicas y Políticas (J.S.D.) (Sevilla, España). Clève also works as the institutional leader of the UFPR's 'Center of Constitutional Investigations' ().\n\nClève completed the graduation at Federal University of Paraná Law School in 1980 and his LLM at the Federal University of Santa Catarina in 1983, and his JSD in public law at the Faculté de Droit of the Université catholique de Louvain in Belgium in 1985, and at the Pontifical Catholic University of São Paulo in 1992. He became the first full professor of constitutional law at the Federal University of Paraná in 1992, with the thesis entitled \"The judicial review in the Brazilian Law\". Nowadays, this work is a classic in the Brazilian juridical literature.\nClève is also a member of the Academy of Juridical Literature of Paraná (Chair n. 40), and a member of the International Association of Constitutional Law. Clève is member of several editorial boards on specialized constitutional law reviews. Acting as an attorney and a legal adviser, his firm is based on the city of Curitiba, Paraná, Brazil.\n\nIn February, March, April, June 2015, and in January, 2017 his name showed up several times in the Brazilian press as one of the most remembered to a chair on the Supreme Federal Court.\n\nIn 2017, Clève was quoted in the press as the academic supervisor of Sérgio Moro and João Pedro Gebran Neto, judges on cases of Operation Car Wash, at Master in Constitutional Law of Federal University of Paraná Graduate Program.\n\nClève was indicated to Prêmio Jabuti in Juridical Literature 2015 by his book \"Fundamental Rights and Constitutional Jurisdiction\".\n\nClève was Professor of Public International Law at UFPR (1986–89); Public Attorney of the State of Paraná (1986–2009); Chair's Legal Adviser of Constituent Process of the State Constitution of Paraná (1989); Republic's Public Prosecutor (1990–92); Coordinator (1992–94), and Vice-Director (1992–96) of the Federal University of Paraná Law School; and Substitute Judge of the Regional Electoral Court of Paraná (1999–2000).\n\nSome main cases which he promoted or participated:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5086709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5086709", "title": "Comparative criminal justice", "text": "Comparative criminal justice\n\nComparative criminal justice is a subfield of the study of Criminal Justice that compares justice systems worldwide. Such study can take a descriptive, historical, or political approach. It studies the similarities and differences in structure, goals, punishment and emphasis on rights as well as the history and political stature of different systems. It is common to broadly categorize the functions of a criminal justice system into policing, adjudication (i.e.: courts), and corrections, although other categorization schemes exist. Comparativists study the four different types of societies, their methods of enforcement and their different types of punishment such as capital punishment, and imprisonment. Within these societies they study different types of legal tradition and analyze the issues they solve and create. They use their information in order to learn effective ways of enforcing laws, and to identify and solve problems that may arise within a system due to its methods.\n\nComparativists in criminal justice study four different kinds of societies: Folk-communal, Urban-commercial, Urban-industrial, and bureaucratic. Folk-communal societies are often seen as primitive and barbaric, they have little specialization among law enforcers, and let many problems go unpunished to avoid over-criminalization however, once tempers “boil over” and the situation becomes a larger issue, harsh and unusual punishment may be administered. Examples are African or Middle Eastern Tribes, or early puritan settlements of America. Urban-commercial societies have few written laws and some specialized enforcement for religious or king’s law enforcement. Punishments are inconsistent and usually harsh. Urban-industrial societies enforce laws that prescribe good behavior and give incentives and disincentives for behavior and police are specialized in property crimes such as theft. Finally, bureaucratic societies are today’s modern society. They feature fully developed laws, lawyers, and police forces trained for multiple types of crime. Different “side effects” of these societies include over-criminalization, overcrowding, and even juvenile delinquency due to the extended age of adolescence these societies bring on.\n\nLegal traditions play an important role in the development of international law and justice. Comparativists for criminal justice study these traditions with the intent of finding a way to combine the views of different traditions towards a single view that allows for the successful development of international law. Many comparativists believe that the more states with similar legal views the more likely it is to be able to create international laws that please all.\nReichel (2005) identifies four major legal traditions that each have their own respective body of laws:\n\nPeople who study comparative criminal justice study different forms and use of punishment across societies, including capital punishment. Fifty-nine countries retain the death penalty as reported in 2007. Comparativists study the different ways in which execution is carried out across the world including hanging, shooting, beheading, injection, electrocution, and even stoning. Comparativists find that in many developing countries such as Iran, Indonesia, Belarus, and many others, that violent methods of execution such as hanging beheading, shooting, and stoning are much more common ways of carrying out the death penalty, and in many cases the only ways. However in western culture as well as developed countries such as the United States less brutal execution such as lethal injection is utilized. Even prison sentences can come harshly. In many countries such as Burma a person can be sentenced to prison for merely disagreeing with the government. Presumably ridiculous sentences such as multiple life sentences or sentences of hundreds, even thousands of years are meant to prohibit the chance of parole in the future. Although it may seem preposterous, western cultures carry out the same type of sentencing.\nEven though similar sentences are used across the globe leniency is varied widely between societies. Many governments such as the one mentioned above in Burma provide swift and heavy punishment to assert their roles of power.\n\n"}
{"id": "51246211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51246211", "title": "CourtWeb", "text": "CourtWeb\n\nIn order to facilitate access to written legal opinions, some U.S. court systems provide them on CourtWeb, which, unlike PACER, does not require registration.\n\nAs of August 2016, CourtWeb has records from only 30 courts:\n\n"}
{"id": "51745104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51745104", "title": "Decemviri stlitibus judicandis", "text": "Decemviri stlitibus judicandis\n\nThe decemviri stlitibus judicandis was a civil court of ancient origin, traditionally attributed to Servius Tullius, which originally dealt with cases concerning whether an individual was free.\n\nOriginally these decemvirs were a jury of ten men, serving under the presidency of a magistrate, but later this court became the magistratus minores, or lower judiciary of the Roman Republic, and was included among the vigintisexviri, or twenty-six magistrates elected by the \"comitia tributa\". According to Suetonius and Cassius Dio, Augustus assigned the presidency of the court of the centumviri to the decemviri stlitibus judicandis. In imperial times, the decemvirs also had jurisdiction in capital crimes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1782914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1782914", "title": "Directors register", "text": "Directors register\n\nIn corporate law, the directors register is a list of the directors elected by the shareholders, generally stored in the company's minute book. By law, companies are required to keep this list up to date to remove those directors who are deceased or resign, and to add those who have been elected by the shareholders. However, the register must also list any person who had been a director indefinitely. The record must indicate the dates a director started and stopped holding office. As directors carry certain personal legal obligations to a corporation (for example, being responsible for any money held in trust for another person, e.g. sales taxes not remitted to a government), those seeking recourse against directors are allowed to rely on the directors register as proof that a director held office on any particular day.\n\nIn many jurisdictions, corporations are required to keep the list of directors up to date with the corporate affairs office where the corpororation was incorporated. This is so that both government agencies and interested third parties may be aware of the name and address of directors (for example, in order to serve a statement of claim on the corporation).\n\nPublicly traded corporations are usually required to notify the appropriate securities and exchange commission about any change to their directors register.\n"}
{"id": "3013293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3013293", "title": "Doctrine of colourability", "text": "Doctrine of colourability\n\nThe doctrine of colourability is the idea that when a legislature wants to do something that it cannot do within the constraints of its government's constitution, it colours the law with a substitute purpose, allowing it to accomplish its original goal.\n\nUnder the constitution of India, exclusive jurisdiction for the Union and the State has been conferred regarding subject matters of legislation. This has been provided by Article 246, which has demarcated the legislative jurisdiction of the parliament and the state assemblies by outlining the different subjects under List I for the Union, List II for the State, and List III for both, as given in the seventh schedule to the Indian Constitution. As a consequence, conflicts of jurisdiction arise due to the fact there exist separate lists for the Union and the State to legislate upon. It often happens that strict constitutional boundaries are transgressed in legislation, inviting judicial review of the said bill/act.\n\nThe enactment of legislation is a function of the legislative power. In order to decide whether particular legislation is unconstitutional for breaching the constitutional limitations of distribution of powers, the Court examines the enactment with some strictness. The legislature can only make laws within its legislative competence. The legislative competence may be limited by specific List entries, or be restricted by other constitutional limitations and prohibitions. It cannot over-step the area of its legislative capability. A simple rule is followed in this regard, which is to find out if the legislating body had the power to legislate directly. If not, then the legislature cannot legislate indirectly. What it cannot do directly, it cannot attempt to do indirectly. Therefore, the substance of the legislation must be articulated for the purpose of determining whether what it enacted, it could really do. \n\nThe question of colourable legislation was fully discussed by the Supreme Court in K.C. Gajapati Narayan Deo v. Orissa, a decision which has been treated as settling the law on the subject. This ruling was confirmed in the Supreme Court decision of Sonapur Tea Co. v. Deputy Commissioner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28442598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28442598", "title": "Engineering law", "text": "Engineering law\n\nEngineering law (or law in engineering) is the empirical study of the application of laws and legal strategy in engineering. Applied law aims to explain how law interacts with industry. The current school of thought within the academic community of lawyers and engineers is the pragmatic paradigm. Commonly, professionals have a Bachelors in Engineering and a Bachelors in Law, and increasingly commonly a Masters of Business Administration. Pragmatic application of laws means the empirical study of how a corporate legal framework should be adopted.\n\nThe requirements from the perspective of the Washington Accord are for engineering graduates to attain the following knowledge and skill: \n'WA6: Apply reasoning informed by contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to professional engineering practice and solutions to complex engineering problems.'\n\nKey topic areas for engineering law are: \nPatent Law, which are to help people do patent on any goods.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10263", "title": "Executive (government)", "text": "Executive (government)\n\nThe executive is the organ exercising authority in and holding responsibility for the governance of a state. The executive executes and enforces law.\n\nIn political systems based on the principle of separation of powers, authority is distributed among several branches (executive, legislative, judicial)—an attempt to prevent the concentration of power in the hands of a small group of people. In such a system, the executive does not pass laws (the role of the legislature) or interpret them (the role of the judiciary). Instead, the executive enforces the law as written by the legislature and interpreted by the judiciary. The executive can be the source of certain types of law, such as a decree or executive order. Executive bureaucracies are commonly the source of regulations.\n\nIn the Westminster political system, the principle of separation of powers is not as entrenched. Members of the executive, called ministers, are also members of the legislature, and hence play an important part in both the writing and enforcing of law.\n\nIn this context, the executive consists of a leader(s) of an office or multiple offices. Specifically, the top leadership roles of the executive branch may include:\n\nIn a presidential system, the leader of the executive is both the \"head of state and head of government\". In a parliamentary system, a cabinet minister responsible to the legislature is the head of government, while the head of state is usually a largely ceremonial monarch or president.\n\n"}
{"id": "20992394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20992394", "title": "False designation of origin", "text": "False designation of origin\n\nIn consumer law, false designation of origin occurs when the manufacturer or seller lies about the country of origin or maker of its products. For example, if a manufacturer makes a product and then claims that it is a high end name brand product.\n\nIn U.S. law, false designation of origin is defined by .\n"}
{"id": "6202342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6202342", "title": "Family purpose doctrine", "text": "Family purpose doctrine\n\nIn law, the family purpose doctrine is a rule that holds the owner of an automobile liable for damages to others while a member of the family is driving the vehicle, regardless of whether or not the owner gave permission. The underlying theory is that the vehicle is owned for family purposes.\n\nIn the US, this is primarily a state-level rule with considerable variation in its application. For example, in Arizona, the family purpose doctrine is applied very broadly and holds parents liable even for the negligence of a child driving a motor vehicle in defiance of driving restrictions placed upon him. In Georgia, the 'family purpose' liability extends to third parties allowed by the teenage driver to operate the car. Georgia also extends the rule to adult children in some cases and explicitly extends the rule to family boats.\n\nIn Colorado, on the other hand, the same term is used to describe joint and several liability for household bills.\n"}
{"id": "7729436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7729436", "title": "Global Justice or Global Revenge?", "text": "Global Justice or Global Revenge?\n\nGlobal Justice or Global Revenge? International Criminal Justice at the Crossroads (2003) is a book by Austrian philosopher Hans Köchler, who was appointed by the United Nations as observer of the Lockerbie bombing trial in the Netherlands (2000-2002). Turkish and Indian editions of the book were published in 2005, an Arabic edition was published in 2011.\n\nThe book deals with the evolving concept of universal jurisdiction, the doctrine of humanitarian intervention, legal questions of international terrorism, and whether international criminal justice can at all be practiced in the absence of a global balance of power. The book analyzes the various international criminal courts since Nuremberg and provides a critical assessment of the prospects of the International Criminal Court. It challenges the assumption of established legal theory in which the normative framework of criminal justice can be abstracted from actual power relations and offers elements of a new doctrine on the \"dialectical relationship\" between power and law.\n\nThe gradual assertion of the International Criminal Court's authority will be the test case for the \"separation of powers\", which is the indispensable requirement of the rule of law, whether at the national or international level. Only a fully independent international court will guarantee that a system of \"global justice\", associated with universal jurisdiction, will not turn into a system of \"global revenge\" where political interests, not the principles of impartiality and fairness, determine the practice of international criminal law.\n\nI. The Developing Idea and Practice of International Criminal Justice in the Context of State Sovereignty and Individual Responsibility\n\n\nII. Humanitarian Intervention in the Context of Modern Power Politics\n\n\nIII. The United Nations, the International Rule of Law and Terrorism\n\n\nIV. Annex\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26365840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26365840", "title": "Index of philosophy of law articles", "text": "Index of philosophy of law articles\n\nThis is an index of articles in jurisprudence.\n\n"}
{"id": "9864780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9864780", "title": "Institute for Law, Science and Global Security", "text": "Institute for Law, Science and Global Security\n\nThe Institute for Law, Science and Global Security in the Department of Government at Georgetown University was established to promote teaching and research in the area of intersection between international law and international relations. The Institute sponsors undergraduate and graduate courses and runs a Master's Program in International Law and Global Security . The Institute seeks to inform the public policy debate about the nature, role and importance of international law as it connected to issues of science and global security. To this end, it sponsors a series of specific programs including the Program on Non-Proliferation Law and Policy , which is jointly run with the James Martin Center of the Monterey Institute of International Studies. \n\nMost recently, the Institute has begun a special initiative in the area of cyber security . Among the participants in this initiative have been former Director of the Central Intelligence Agency General Michael Hayden, Siobhan Gorman, national security correspondent of \"The Wall Street Journal\", and Suzanne Spaulding, former General Counsel for the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Since its creation, the Institute has also sponsored events with a variety of other speakers, including Paul D. Clement, former Solicitor General of the United States, Bill Richardson, the Governor of New Mexico, Neal Katyal, Deputy Solicitor General of the United States and legal counsel to former detainee Salim Hamdan, and David H. Remes, a former partner at Covington & Burling and currently representing detainees in the Guantanamo Bay detention camps. \n\nThe Institute was founded by Professors Christopher C. Joyner and Anthony Clark Arend, and was initially called The Institute for International Law and Politics. It is currently directed by Professor Joyner, and Professor Catherine Lotrionte serves as the Associate Director of the Institute. Amit Yoran, former Chief of the National Cyber Security Division at the Department of Homeland Security and Phillip A. Karber serve on the Board of Advisers of the Institute. From 2007 to 2009, Brendan P. Geary--previously an Associate Attorney at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP and currently an Attorney in the Department of Justice's National Security Division--served as the Institute's William V. O'Brien Fellow.\n"}
{"id": "59038609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59038609", "title": "Ivor Llewellyn Brace", "text": "Ivor Llewellyn Brace\n\nSir Ivor Llewellyn Brace (died October 1952) was a British colonial judge. In 1951, he became the first Chief Justice of the combined judiciary of Sarawak, North Borneo and Brunei. He served in this position until his death. \n\nBrace was the younger of two sons of William Brace and Nellie Humphreys.\n\n"}
{"id": "534412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=534412", "title": "Law degree", "text": "Law degree\n\nA law degree is an academic degree conferred for studies in law. Such degrees are generally preparation for legal careers; but while their curricula may be reviewed by legal authority, they do not themselves confer a license. A legal license is granted (typically by examination) and exercised locally; while the law degree can have local, international, and world-wide aspects- e.g., in Britain the Legal Practice Course is required to become a British solicitor or the Bar Professional Training Course (BPTC) to become a barrister.\n\nThe first academic degrees were all law degrees-and the first law degrees were doctorates. The foundations of the first universities in Europe were the glossators of the 11th century, which were schools of law. The first European university, that of Bologna, was founded as a school of law by four famous legal scholars in the 12th century who were students of the glossator school in that city. It is from this history that it is said that the first academic title of doctor applied to scholars of law. The degree and title were not applied to scholars of other disciplines until the 13th century. And at the University of Bologna from its founding in the 12th century until the end of the 20th century the only degree conferred was the doctorate, usually earned after five years of intensive study after secondary school. The rising of the doctor of philosophy to its present level is a modern novelty. At its origins, a doctorate was simply a qualification for a guild—that of teaching law.\n\nThe University of Bologna served as the model for other law schools of the medieval age. While it was common for students of law to visit and study at schools in other countries, such was not the case with England because of the English rejection of Roman law (except for certain jurisdictions such as the Admiralty Court) and although the University of Oxford and University of Cambridge did teach canon law until the English Reformation, its importance was always superior to civil law in those institutions.\n\nIn the medieval Islamic madrasahs, there was a doctorate in the Islamic law of the Sharia, called the \"ijazat attadris wa 'l-ifta'\" (\"license to teach and issue legal opinions\").\n\nThe type of law degree conferred differs according to the jurisdiction. Some examples include;\n\n\n"}
{"id": "894300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=894300", "title": "Law firm", "text": "Law firm\n\nA law firm is a business entity formed by one or more lawyers to engage in the practice of law. The primary service rendered by a law firm is to advise clients (individuals or corporations) about their legal rights and responsibilities, and to represent clients in civil or criminal cases, business transactions, and other matters in which legal advice and other assistance are sought.\n\nLaw firms are organized in a variety of ways, depending on the jurisdiction in which the firm practices. Common arrangements include:\n\nIn many countries, including the United States, there is a rule that only lawyers may have an ownership interest in, or be managers of, a law firm. Thus, law firms cannot quickly raise capital through initial public offerings on the stock market, like most corporations. They must either raise capital through additional capital contributions from existing or additional equity partners, or must take on debt, usually in the form of a line of credit secured by their accounts receivable.\n\nIn the United States this complete bar to nonlawyer ownership has been codified by the American Bar Association as paragraph (d) of Rule 5.4 of the Model Rules of Professional Conduct and has been adopted in one form or another in all U.S. jurisdictions, except the District of Columbia. However, D.C.'s rule is narrowly tailored to allow equity ownership only by those nonlawyer partners who actively assist the firm's lawyers in providing legal services, and does not allow for the sale of ownership shares to mere passive nonlawyer investors. The U.K. had a similar rule barring nonlawyer ownership, but under reforms implemented by the Legal Services Act of 2007 law firms have been able to take on a limited number of non-lawyer partners and lawyers have been allowed to enter into a wide variety of business relationships with non-lawyers and non-lawyer owned businesses. This has allowed, for example, grocery stores, banks and community organizations to hire lawyers to provide in-store and online basic legal services to customers.\n\nThe rule is controversial. It is justified by many in the legal profession, notably the American Bar Association which rejected a proposal to change the rule in its Ethics 20/20 reforms, as necessary to prevent conflicts of interest. In the adversarial system of justice, a lawyer has a duty to be a zealous and loyal advocate on behalf of the client, and also has a duty to not bill the client excessively. Also, as an officer of the court, a lawyer has a duty to be honest and to not file frivolous cases or raise frivolous defenses. Many in the legal profession believe that a lawyer working as a shareholder-employee of a publicly traded law firm might be tempted to evaluate decisions in terms of their effect on the stock price and the shareholders, which would directly conflict with the lawyer's duties to the client and to the courts. Critics of the rule, however, believe that it is an inappropriate way of protecting clients' interests and that it severely limits the potential for the innovation of less costly and higher quality legal services that could benefit both ordinary consumers and businesses.\n\nLaw firms operating in multiple countries often have complex structures involving multiple partnerships, particularly in jurisdictions such as Hong Kong and Japan which restrict partnerships between local and foreign lawyers. One structure largely unique to large multinational law firms is the Swiss Verein, pioneered by Baker & McKenzie in 2004, in which multiple national or regional partnerships form an association in which they share branding, administrative functions and various operating costs, but maintain separate revenue pools and often separate partner compensation structures. Other multinational law firms operate as single worldwide partnerships, such as British or American limited liability partnerships, in which partners also participate in local operating entities in various countries as required by local regulations.\n\nThree financial statistics are typically used to measure and rank law firms' performance:\n\nLaw firms are typically organized around partners, who are joint owners and business directors of the legal operation; associates, who are employees of the firm with the prospect of becoming partners; and a variety of staff employees, providing paralegal, clerical, and other support services. An associate may have to wait as long as 11 years before the decision is made as to whether the associate \"makes partner.\" Many law firms have an \"up or out policy\" (pioneered around 1900 by partner Paul Cravath of Cravath, Swaine & Moore): associates who do not make partner are required to resign and join another firm, do it alone as a solo practitioner, go to work in-house in a corporate legal department, or change professions (burnout rates are very high in law).\n\nMaking partner is very prestigious at large or midsized firms, due to the competition that naturally results from higher associate-to-partner ratios. Such firms may take out advertisements in professional publications to announce who has made partner. Traditionally, partners shared directly in the profits of the firm, after paying salaried employees, the landlord, and the usual costs of furniture, office supplies, and books for the law library (or a database subscription). Partners in a limited liability partnership can largely operate autonomously with regard to cultivating new business and servicing existing clients within their book of business. \n\nPartner compensation methods vary greatly among law firms. At major United States law firms, the \"compensation spread\" (ratio between the highest partner salary and lowest partner salary) among firms disclosing information ranges from 3:1 to 24:1. Higher spreads are intended to promote individual performance, while lower spreads are intended to promote teamwork and collegiality.\n\nMany large law firms have moved to a two-tiered partnership model, with equity and non-equity partners. Equity partners are considered to have ownership stakes in the firm, and share in the profits (and losses) of the firm. Non-equity partners are generally paid a fixed salary (albeit much higher than associates), and they are often granted certain limited voting rights with respect to firm operations.\n\nThe oldest continuing partnership in the United States is that of Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft, founded in 1792 in New York City. The oldest law firm in continuous practice in the United States is Rawle & Henderson LLP, founded in 1783 in Philadelphia.\n\nIt is rare for a partner to be forced out by fellow partners, although that can happen if the partner commits a crime or malpractice, experiences disruptive mental illness, or is not contributing to the firm's overall profitability. However, some large firms have written into their partnership agreement a forced retirement age for partners, which can be anywhere from age 65 on up. In contrast, most corporate executives are at much higher risk of being fired, even when the underlying cause is not directly their fault, such as a drop in the company's stock price. Worldwide, partner retirement ages can be difficult to estimate and often vary widely, particularly because in many countries it is illegal to mandate a retirement age.\n\nIn the United States, Canada and Japan, many large and midsize firms have attorneys with the job title of \"counsel\", \"special counsel\" or \"of counsel.\" As the Supreme Court of California has noted, the title has acquired several related but distinct definitions which do not easily fit into the traditional partner-associate structure. These attorneys are people who work for the firm, like associates, although some firms have an independent contractor relationship with their counsel. But unlike associates, and more like partners, they generally have their own clients, manage their own cases, and supervise associates. These relationships are structured to allow more senior attorneys to share in the resources and \"brand name\" of the firm without being a part of management or profit sharing decisions. The title is often seen among former associates who do not make partner, or who are laterally recruited to other firms, or who work as in-house counsel and then return to the big firm environment. At some firms, the title \"of counsel\" is given to retired partners who maintain ties to the firm. Sometimes \"of counsel\" refers to senior or experienced attorneys, such as foreign legal consultants, with specialized experience in particular aspects of law and practice. They are hired as independent contractors by large firms as a special arrangement, which may lead to profitable results for the partnership. In certain situations \"of counsel\" could be considered to be a transitional status in the firm.\n\nMergers, acquisitions, division and reorganizations occur between law firms as in other businesses. The specific books of business and specialization of attorneys as well as the professional ethical structures surrounding conflict of interest can lead to firms splitting up to pursue different clients or practices, or merging or recruiting experienced attorneys to acquire new clients or practice areas. Results often vary between firms experiencing such transitions. Firms that gain new practice areas or departments through recruiting or mergers that are more complex and demanding (and typically more profitable) may see the focus, organization and resources of the firm shift dramatically towards those new departments. Conversely, firms may be merged among experienced attorneys as partners for purposes of shared financing and resources, while the different departments and practice areas within the new firm retain a significant degree of autonomy.\n\nLaw firm mergers tend to be assortative, in that only law firms operating in similar legal systems are likely to merge. For example, U.S. firms will often merge with English law firms, or law firms from other common law jurisdictions. A notable exception is King & Wood Mallesons, a multinational law firm that is the result of a merger between an Australian law firm and a Chinese law firm.\n\nThough mergers are more common among better economies, slowing down a bit during recessions, big firms sometimes use mergers as a strategy to boost revenue during a recession. Nevertheless, data from Altman Weil indicates that only four firms merged in the first half of 2013, as compared to eight in the same period in 2012, and this was taken by them as indicating a dip in morale regarding the legal economy and the amount of demand.\n\nLaw firms can vary widely in size. The smallest law firms are lawyers practicing alone, who form the vast majority of lawyers in nearly all countries.\n\nSmaller firms tend to focus on particular specialties of the law (e.g. patent law, labor law, tax law, criminal defense, personal injury); larger firms may be composed of several specialized practice groups, allowing the firm to diversify their client base and market, and to offer a variety of services to their clients.\n\nLarge law firms usually have separate litigation and transactional departments. The transactional department advises clients and handles transactional legal work, such as drafting contracts, handling necessary legal applications and filings, and evaluating and ensuring compliance with relevant law; while the litigation department represents clients in court and handles necessary matters (such as discovery and motions filed with the court) throughout the process of litigation.\n\nLawyers in small cities and towns may still have old-fashioned general practices, but most urban lawyers tend to be highly specialized due to the overwhelming complexity of the law today. Thus, some small firms in the cities specialize in practicing only one kind of law (like employment, antitrust, intellectual property, investment funds, telecommunications or aviation) and are called boutique law firms.\n\nA 21st Century development has been the appearance of the virtual law firm, a firm with a virtual business address but no brick & mortar office location open to the public, using modern telecommunications to operate from remote locations and provide its services to international clients, avoiding the costs of maintaining a physical premises with lower overheads than traditional law firms. This lower cost structure allows virtual law firms to bill clients on a contingency basis rather than by billable hours paid in advance by retainer.\n\nThe largest law firms have more than lawyers. These firms, often colloquially called \"megafirms\" or \"biglaw\", generally have offices on several continents, bill US$750 per hour or higher, and have a high ratio of support staff per attorney. Because of the localized and regional nature of firms, the relative size of a firm varies.\n\nThe largest firms like to call themselves \"Big-Law\" firms because they have sections specializing on each category of legal work, which in the U.S. usually means mergers and acquisitions transactions, banking, and certain types of high-stakes corporate litigation. These firms rarely do plaintiffs' personal injury work. However the largest law firms are not very large compared to other major businesses (or even other professional services firms). In 2008, the largest law firm in the world was the British firm Clifford Chance, which had revenue of over US$2 billion. This can be compared with $404 billion for the world's largest firm by turnover Exxon Mobil and $28 billion for the largest professional services firm Deloitte.\n\nThe largest law firms in the world are headquartered primarily in the United Kingdom and the United States. However, large firms of more than 1,000 lawyers are also found in Australia (Minter Ellison (1,500 attorneys), China (Dacheng 2,100 attorneys) and Spain (Garrigues, 2,100 attorneys). The American system of licensing attorneys on a state-by-state basis, the tradition of having a headquarters in a single U.S. state and a close focus on profits per partner (as opposed to sheer scale) has to date limited the size of most American law firms. Thus, whilst the most profitable law firms in the world remain in New York, four of the six largest firms in the world are based in London in the United Kingdom. But the huge size of the United States results in a larger number of large firms overall – a 2003 paper noted that the United States alone had 901 law firms with more than 50 lawyers, while there were only 58 such firms in Canada, 44 in Great Britain, 14 in France, and 9 in Germany. There is an increasing tendency towards globalisation of law firms.\n\nDue to their size, the U.S.- and U.K.-based law firms are the most prestigious and powerful in the world, and they tend to dominate the international market for legal services. A 2007 research paper noted that firms from other countries merely pick up their leftovers: \"[M]uch of the competition is relatively orderly whereby predominantly Australian, New Zealand, and Canadian firms compete for business not required by English or American law firms.\"\n\nAs a result of the U.S. recession in 2008 and 2009 many U.S. law firms have downsized staff considerably, and some have closed. The \"Denver Post\" reported that major law firms have cut more than 10,000 jobs nationwide in 2009. On February 12, 2009, Bloomberg reported that 700 jobs were cut that one day at law firms across the country. Among the firms closed included Heller Ehrman, a San Francisco-based firm established in 1890 and Halliwells of the UK. Among those that survived, law firm layoffs became so common that trade publications like American Lawyer produced an ongoing “Layoff List” of the law firms nationwide that cut jobs.\n\nLaw firm salary structures typically depend on firm size. Small-firm salaries vary widely within countries and from one country to the next, and are not often publicly available. Because most countries do not have unified legal professions, there are often significant disparities in income among the various legal professions within a particular country. Finally, the availability of salary data also depends upon the existence of journalists and sociologists able to collect and analyze such data. The Association of Legal Administrators (ALA) produces an annual study on Law Firm Compensation and Benefits, and can be found at http://alanet.org/compsurvey\n\nThe U.S. is presently the only country with enough lawyers, as well as journalists and sociologists who specialize in studying them, to have widely available data on salary structures at major law firms.\n\nIn 2006, median salaries of new graduates ranged from US$50,000 per year in small firms (2 to 10 attorneys) to US$160,000 per year in very large firms (more than 501 attorneys). The distribution of these salaries was highly bimodal, with the majority of new lawyers earning at either the high end or the low end of the scale, and a median salary of US$62,000. In the summer of 2016, New York law firm Cravath, Swaine & Moore raised its first-year associate salary to $180,000. Many other high-end New York-based and large national law firms soon followed. Two years later, in the summer of 2018, the Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy raised its first-year associated salary to $190,000, with other major firms following shortly thereafter.\n\nThe traditional salary model for law firm associates is lockstep compensation, in which associate salaries go up by a fixed amount each year from the associate's law school graduation. However, many firms have switched to a level-based compensation system, in which associates are divided into three (or sometimes four) levels based on skills mastered. In 2013, the median salaries for the three associate levels were $152,500, $185,000 and $216,000 among large firms (more than 700 lawyers), and $122,000, $143,500 and $160,000 among all firms.\n\nSome prominent law firms, like Goodwin Procter and Paul Hastings, give generous signing bonuses (e.g., $20k) to incoming first-year associates who hold JD/MBA degrees.\n\nAnother way law firm associates increase their earnings or improve their employment conditions is through a lateral move to another law firm. \nA recent survey by LexisNexis, indicated that over 95% of law firms consulted intended to hire lateral attorneys within the next two years. Though the success for both the attorney and the law firms in lateral hiring has been questioned. The National Law Review reported that the cost of recruiting, compensating, and integrating a lateral attorney can be upwards of $600,000 and that 60% of lateral attorney hires fail to thrive at their new law firms.\n\nBritish firms typically practise lockstep compensation. In London, entry-level solicitor salaries (NQ - Newly Qualified) are typically: (i) £38,000-54,500 at niche and boutique firms (ii) £61,000-65,500 at national firms (iii) £65,000-105,000 at international firms.\n\nA senior associate with six years' experience may make £68,000-120,000 at a national firm or upwards of £160,000 at a global firm. Salary levels are lower in areas outside London.\n\nAustralia has regional variation in lawyer salaries, with the highest salary levels in Sydney, followed by Melbourne, Perth, Brisbane, then Adelaide. Salaries vary between top-tier, mid-size, and small firms. At top-tier firms in Sydney, salaries of lawyers who have been admitted to practice range from $75,000 to $92,000 and partners make on average $1,215,000. In Sydney, mid-tier starting salaries for admitted lawyers range from between $65,000 and $82,000 Most Australian lawyers are not admitted until 10 months into their time at their law firm, since the initial period involves supervised legal training before admission is granted.\n\nTypically in Australian firms lawyers are in a lock-step system for the first two years of practice, following which pay increases are dependent on performance assessed, in large measure, by satisfaction of billable hour targets.\n\nNewly qualified associates at leading firms in Hong Kong typically make HK$840,000 to HK$948,000, with partners in the HK$1.6 million to HK$4 million+ range; many firms pay New York salaries with cost of living adjustments.\n\nAt local firms in Singapore, associates in their first three years typically make $60,000 to $100,000, while midlevel (4–7 years) associates make $110,000 to $180,000 and senior (8+ years) associates make $160,000 or more. International firms pay significantly more, with senior associates often making more than $250,000.\n\nThere is more information available for entry level soups. First year lawyers earn anywhere between INR 25,000 to INR 1,10,000 a month. Tier 1 law firms provide the best pay package, of about INR 15,00,000 a year. There is wide difference in the salary range in big cities like Chennai and Delhi as opposed to other cities like Mumbai and Kolkata.\n\nMost law firms are located in office buildings of various sizes, ranging from modest one-story buildings to some of the tallest skyscrapers in the world (though only in 2004, Paul Hastings was the first firm to put its name on a skyscraper).\n\nIn late 2001, it was widely publicized that John C. Dearie's personal injury plaintiffs' firm in the state of New York has been experimenting with bus-sized \"mobile law offices.\" The firm insists that it does not \"chase ambulances.\" It claims that a law office on wheels is more convenient for personal injury plaintiffs, who are often recovering from severe injuries and thus find it difficult to travel far from their homes for an intake interview.\n\nAs legal practice is adversarial, law firm rankings are widely relied on by prospective associates, lateral hires and legal clients. Substantive rankings typically cover practice areas such as The American Lawyer's Corporate Scorecard and Top IP Firms. Work place rankings are directed toward lawyers or law students, and cover such topics as quality of life, hours, family friendliness and salaries. Finally, statistical rankings generally cover profit-related data such as profits per partner and revenue per lawyer. Third party attorney ranking services such as Chambers and Partners and Martindale-Hubbell are generally very competitive and can help raise an individual attorney's professional profile, and to catch this marketing advantage, over 1,200 attorney ranking and or awards have sprung up in the U.S. Various state bar associations have taken notice of the prolific growth of attorney honor awards and have determined that lawyers may refer to such honors in advertising “only when the basis for comparison can be verified” and the organization providing the award “has made adequate inquiry into the fitness of the individual lawyer.” \n\nIn an October 2007 press conference reported in \"The Wall Street Journal\" and \"The New York Times\", the law student group Building a Better Legal Profession released its first annual ranking of top law firms by average billable hours, \"pro bono\" participation, and demographic diversity. Most notably, the report ranked the percentages of women, African-Americans, Hispanics, Asian-Americans, and gays & lesbians at America's top law firms. The group has sent the information to top law schools around the country, encouraging students to take this demographic data into account when choosing where to work after graduation. As more students choose where to work based on the firms' diversity rankings, firms face an increasing market pressure in order to attract top recruits.\n\nA number of television shows, movies and books have revolved around relationships occurring in fictional law firms, highlighting both public fascination with and misperception of the lives of lawyers in high-powered settings. \n\nOne popular American legal drama television series is called Suits.There is one popular American dramedy, also known as, comedy-drama called Boston Legal which was created by David E. Kelley and produced in association with 20 Century Fox Television for ABC. It is a spin-off of another long running Kelly series, The Practice, following the exploits of former character Alan Shore at the legal firm of Crane, Poole & Schmidt. \n\nOne famous legal movie is called The Firm, which was adapted from a book written by John Grisham.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2207614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2207614", "title": "Law library", "text": "Law library\n\nA law library is a special library used by law students, lawyers, judges and their law clerks, historians and other scholars of legal history in order to research the law. Law libraries are also used by people who draft or advocate for new laws, e.g. legislators and others who work in state government, local government, and legislative counsel offices or the U.S. Office of Law Revision Counsel and lobbying professionals. Self-represented litigants also known as pro se litigants (parties to a civil lawsuit or criminal defendants who do not have a licensed attorney representing them) will also use law libraries.\n\nA law library may contain print, computer assisted legal research, and microform collections of laws in force, session laws, superseded laws, foreign and international law, and other research resources, e.g. continuing legal education resources and legal encyclopedias (e.g. Corpus Juris Secundum among others), legal treatises, and legal history. A law library may also have law librarians who help legal researchers navigate law library collections and who teach legal research. Some law libraries serve scholars from around the world, e.g. Institute of Advanced Legal Studies in London and the New York City Bar Association Law Library.\n\nLaw libraries in the United States are usually classified as a type of special library because of their focus on providing specialized resources, as well as their specialized and limited user base.\n\nMost law schools around the world have a law library, or in some universities, at least a section of the university library devoted to law. In the United States, law school libraries may be subject to accreditation review by the American Bar Association Standards of Legal Education.\n\nLaw libraries may be found in courts, legislatures (e.g. the Law Library of Congress), prison libraries, government departments, private law firms, and barristers chambers.\n\nOutside of the United States, the largest and most extensive law libraries are those found in countries that follow the English common law which spread throughout the world with the expansion of the British Empire. These countries include but are not limited to Australia, Canada, India, and New Zealand. Law libraries in these countries can be found in law schools, courts, government, private law firms, and barristers chambers.\n\nThe largest law library in the United Kingdom is the Bodleian Law Library with a collection of over 550,000 volumes. Outside of England, the largest law library in the Commonwealth of Nations is Osgoode Hall Law School's at York University in Canada, with more than 500,000 print volumes. The earliest common law law libraries were founded in the late 15th century in London and include Gray's Inn and Lincoln's Inn.\n\nSpecial collections of legal literature in university and research libraries in England include the Viner collection at the Bodleian Library, University of Oxford (the personal library of Charles Viner, bequeathed to the Radcliffe Library in 1756); a collection of English legal manuscripts at Cambridge University Library; the Smuts collection on Commonwealth law, the Maitland collection on legal history, and the Clark, Roby and Buckland collections relating to Roman law, all in the Squire Law Library, a department of the Cambridge University Library; and the Slade-Baker collection of correspondence accumulated by the Slade-Baker firm of solicitors in Bewdley which is in Birmingham University Library.\n\nThe largest law libraries in the world are found in the United States. The world's largest law library is the Law Library of Congress, which holds over 2.9 million volumes. The world's largest academic law library is the library of Harvard Law School, which holds over 2 million volumes. By way of contrast, the largest law library in the United Kingdom is the Bodleian Law Library with a collection of over 550,000 volumes.\n\nBroadly speaking, there are three categories of law libraries in the United States. Every law school accredited by the American Bar Association houses a law library. Public law libraries are available in many states, often in the local courthouses. Some larger law firms maintain a private library for their own attorneys, but many firms in college towns and larger cities with universities simply dispatch their attorneys to local law schools to do legal research.\n\nA typical law library holds a large number of works not seen in other libraries, including a full set of \"United States Reports\", one or both of the unofficial U.S. Supreme Court reporters, the West National Reporter System, the West American Digest System, official reporters from various states, the \"Federal Register\", volumes of \"American Jurisprudence\", bound volumes containing issues of prominent law reviews from around the country, federal and state statutes and regulations (such as the United States Code and Code of Federal Regulations), and a variety of treatises, encyclopedias, looseleaf services, and practice guides.\n\nLarge law libraries may contain many additional materials covering topics such as: legal education, research, and writing; the history of the American legal system and profession; the history behind certain high-profile cases; techniques of oral argument; and the legislative history of important federal and state statutes.\n\nSmaller law libraries usually hold, at a minimum, one unofficial Supreme Court reporter, selected West national reporters and digests specific to the state in which the library is located, the United States Code, a few state-specific reporters and statutory compilations (if they exist for a particular state), and several state-specific treatises and practice guides. Most academic law library websites also contain legal research guidelines on numerous legal topics that are available to the public.\n\nIn recent years, the advent of online legal research outlets such as FindLaw, Westlaw, LexisNexis, Bloomberg Law, and HeinOnline (or in Canada, CanLII) has reduced the need for some types of printed volumes like reporters and statutory compilations. A number of law libraries have therefore reduced the availability of printed works that can easily be found on the Internet, and have increased their own Internet availability. On the other hand, some university law libraries retain extensive historical collections going back to the earliest English reports. Many law libraries also participate in the Federal Depository Library Program which provides access to government information and documents to the public at no cost. This is particularly true of law school libraries as the library at any accredited law school is automatically eligible to become a depository library under the Program.\n\nMost law libraries are members of the American Association of Law Libraries (AALL). As of 2010, the association has over 5,000 member libraries. Another important association for law libraries is the Special Libraries Association.\n\nEvery accredited American law school is required by the American Bar Association to have a law library meeting certain minimum specifications with respect to quantity and quality of materials available. Some law school libraries are kept in the same building as the general library, but many are either in the law school's building, or in a separate facility altogether.\n\nAs of 2015, the American Bar Association has propounded rules requiring each law school's law library to include among its holdings the following \"core collection\":\n\nThe ABA also requires a library's collection to meet the academic needs of the students and research and teaching needs of the faculty.\n\nThe ABA further sets forth additional requirements, including the requirement that the law library have a full-time director who holds a law degree and a degree in library or information science or equivalent with extensive experience in librarianship. The ABA also requires that the library have sufficient staff and facilities to attend to the needs of the institution.\n\nMany academic law librarians participate in the AALL and specifically the Academic Law Libraries special interest section.\n\nPublic law libraries in the United States exist in many states and in federal jurisdictions, such as federal agencies; many courthouses also have a law library. Public law libraries are publicly funded but may or may not be open to the public.\n\nU.S. federal agencies have libraries and librarians who serve the legal research and other research needs of their employees and contractors, but these libraries are not open to the general public without an appointment. The Law Librarians' Society of Washington D.C. has a Special Interest Section, Federal Law Librarians. Some state and federal agencies maintain law libraries focusing on their regulatory areas. One prominent example is the United States Environmental Protection Agency, which runs a National Library Network providing access to specialized material to agency researchers and the general public.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court Building houses one of the most extensive federal public law libraries in the world, rivaled by the Law Library of Congress. Strictly speaking, neither the U.S. Supreme Court Library nor the Law Library of Congress is a public access law library; both, however, are government libraries funded by taxpayers, and accountable to the U.S. Supreme Court or to the U.S. Congress respectively. The Law Library of Congress does serve the public through various means, e.g. websites, social media services, and a physically accessible library.\n\nNew York and California are examples of states that have statutes requiring all their counties to maintain a public law library. While New York public access law libraries have remained relatively small, the LA Law Library in Los Angeles County is currently second in size behind the Law Library of Congress among U.S. public law libraries, with a collection at just under 1 million volumes, not including digital resources. Public law libraries are available, and in some cases are required, to offer law library and legal research services to the legal community consisting of legislators and other public officials, judges, and lawyers and to the general public, students, and to self-represented litigants. These public law libraries may be affiliated state or local courts. Some academic law libraries provide public access as well, especially in public universities.\n\nMany public law librarians are members of the American Association of Law Libraries professional association, and specifically in the Government Law Libraries special interest section.\n\nPublic law librarians who have written books about providing legal research services to the public and managing public law libraries include Anthony Aycock, Roy Balleste, Joel Fishman, Paul D. Healey, Ellyssa Kroski, Laurie Selwyn, and Virginia Tucker.\n\nSome law firms and corporate legal departments maintain in-house libraries, the size and content of which vary depending on the practice area and needs of the organization. These libraries would rarely, if ever, be available to individuals outside the organization, although in some locales law firm librarians have informal lending agreements between firms. Private law libraries often participate in the AALL's Private Law Librarians & Information Professionals Special Interest Section.\n\n"}
{"id": "4205386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4205386", "title": "Legal naturalism", "text": "Legal naturalism\n\nLegal naturalism is a term coined by Olufemi Taiwo to describe a current in the social philosophy of Karl Marx which can be interpreted as one of Natural Law. Taiwo considered it the manifestation of Natural Law in a dialectical materialist context.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55591926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55591926", "title": "Legal status of ayahuasca by country", "text": "Legal status of ayahuasca by country\n\nThis is a list of the legality of ayahuasca by country.\n"}
{"id": "25043250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25043250", "title": "Lenz v. Universal Music Corp.", "text": "Lenz v. Universal Music Corp.\n\nLenz v. Universal Music Corp., 801 F.3d 1126 (2015), is a decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, affirming the ruling in 2008 of the US District Court for the Northern District of California, holding that copyright holders must consider fair use in good faith before issuing a takedown notice for content posted on the Internet.\n\nStephanie Lenz posted on YouTube a home video of her child dancing to Prince's song \"Let's Go Crazy\". Universal Music Corporation (Universal) sent YouTube a takedown notice pursuant to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) claiming that Lenz's video violated their copyright in the \"Let's Go Crazy\" song.\n\nLenz claimed fair use of the copyrighted material and sued Universal for misrepresentation of a DMCA claim. In a decision rejecting a motion to dismiss the misrepresentation claim, the district court held that Universal must consider fair use when filing a takedown notice, but noted that to prevail a plaintiff would need to show bad faith by a rights holder.\n\nIn February 2007, Stephanie Lenz posted on YouTube a twenty nine second clip, of her 13 month old son dancing to Prince's song \"Let's Go Crazy\". The audio was of poor quality, and the song was audible for about twenty seconds of the twenty nine seconds. In June 2007, Universal, the copyright holder for \"Let's Go Crazy\", sent YouTube a takedown notice in compliance with DMCA requirements, claiming the video was a copyright violation. YouTube removed the video, and notified Lenz of the removal and the alleged infringement.\n\nIn the end of June 2007, Lenz sent YouTube a counter-notification, claiming fair use and requesting the video be reposted. Six weeks later, YouTube reposted the video. In July 2007, Lenz sued Universal for misrepresentation under the DMCA, and sought a declaration from the court that her use of the copyrighted song was non infringing.\n\nAccording to the DMCA 17 U.S.C. § 512(c)(3)(A)(v), the copyright holder must consider whether use of the material was allowed by the copyright owner or the law. In September 2007, Prince released statements that he intended to \"reclaim his art on the internet\". In October 2007, Universal released a statement that Prince and Universal intended to remove all user-generated content involving Prince from the Internet, as a matter of principle.\n\nBased on Prince's and Universal's statements, Lenz argued that Universal was issuing takedown notices in bad faith, as they attempted to remove all Prince related content rather than considering whether each posting violated copyright, and in particular was a non infringing fair use. Universal expressed concerns over the fact-intensive investigation and subjective results of determining whether a potentially infringing use falls under the general fair use doctrine.\n\nThe district court held that copyright owners must consider fair use before issuing DMCA takedown notices. Thus, the district court denied Universal's motion to dismiss Lenz's claims, and declined to dismiss Lenz's misrepresentation claim as a matter of law. The district court believed that Universal's concerns over the burden of considering fair use were overstated, as mere good faith consideration of fair use, not necessarily an in depth investigation, is sufficient defense against misrepresentation.\n\nThe court also explained that liability for misrepresentation is crucial in an important part of the balance in the DMCA. On February 25, 2010, Judge Fogel issued a ruling rejecting several of Universal's affirmative defenses, including the defense that Lenz suffered no damages, though the court did suggest that at that stage in the proceedings, Lenz's damages seemed nominal.\n\nIn January 2013, Judge Fogel denied both parties' motions for summary judgment.\n\nBoth parties cross appealed to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. Oral argument was held July 7, 2015. On September 14, 2015, the 9th Circuit affirmed the District Court, holding that while fair use arises procedurally as an affirmative defense, copyright holders have a \"duty to consider—in good faith and prior to sending a takedown notification—whether allegedly infringing material constitutes fair use\".\n\nImportantly, the court viewed fair use not as a valid excuse to otherwise infringing conduct but rather as not infringement in the first place. \"Because 17 U.S.C. § 107 created a type of non-infringing use, fair use is 'authorized by the law' and a copyright holder must consider the existence of fair use before sending a takedown notification under § 512(c).\"\n\nLenz appealed to the US Supreme Court asking the question:\n\nThe US Supreme Court declined to grant certiorari in this case on June 19, 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16102540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16102540", "title": "Libertarian anarchism", "text": "Libertarian anarchism\n\nLibertarian anarchism may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "57237751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57237751", "title": "Local self-government in Azerbaijan", "text": "Local self-government in Azerbaijan\n\nThe local self-government system is a non-governmental system organizing the activities of citizens in Azerbaijan, which was proclaimed in December 1999 and has the right to freely and independently solve local issues within the law. This right is implemented by collegial bodies (municipalities) that consisting of representatives elected on the basis of universal, direct and equal elections by secret and individual ballot in the manner prescribed by law. Municipalities may establish permanent executive structures for executing their authority.\n\nAzerbaijani citizens carry out the right of local self-government to say an independent opinion, make suggestions by the municipal elections. Citizens may carry out self-governmental bodies both directly or through freely chosen representatives regardless of race, nationality, religion, sex, origin, convictions, property status, social position, political party, trade union organization. Azerbaijanies have the right to elect and be elected to local self-governmental bodies. Each citizen has the right to apply to the municipalities, municipal bodies and their officials. Municipalities, municipal bodies and their officials must provide citizens with documents and materials directly to related to human and civil rights and freedoms, as well as they must inform about activities of municipalities.\n\nLegislation on local self-government regulated with Constitution and Laws of Azerbaijan and acts of the appropriate executive bodies of the Republic (and in Nakhchivan, Constitution, and laws of Nakhchivan AR, acts of the appropriate executive bodies of the Nakhchivan).\n\nThe charter of the municipality is passed by the meeting of municipalities or citizens. The composition and borders of the municipality, names, structure, terms of officials, the procedure of adoption and entry into force of municipal statutes, guarantees for the rights of officials of municipalities were stated in the content of charter.\n\nNational Assembly of Azerbaijan\n\nCabinet of Azerbaijan\n"}
{"id": "7879939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7879939", "title": "Metaconstitution", "text": "Metaconstitution\n\nA metaconstitution is a set of pre-constitutional rules. It is in lieu of a formalized constitution and consists of accepted axiomatic policy. The constitution is similar to or developed from this. A metaconstitution is also less binding, and can be used to a less rigid form of government. To many nations, the metaconstitution provides an \"exit-option\", where they may variate from the written document. A metaconstitution, unlike formal constitutions, never needs to be written. Its creation results from the morality and judgment of the people. To be formulated, the people must be generally opposed to anarchy and must desire some form of governing force.\n\nAlthough vague in concept, the metaconstitution almost always creates the basic roles of leader v. follower. The purpose of the document, however, prevents the placement of total power on the leader. The populace is trusted to self-govern except in severe cases. Such theory does not differ much from salutary neglect or laissez faire.\n\nMany prominent political philosophers have discoursed on the subject of metaconstitutionalism, though not directly. Some address the topic as a looser constitution in which the government's singular duty is to protect the people and vice versa. Per Alexis de Tocqueville: \n\nThe concept of metaconstitutionalism received light during the Constitutional Convention, as a possible replacement to the Articles of Confederation. Per the Federalist, Number 51: \n\nA metaconstitution is constructed to provide a looser equivalent for government. However, a metaconstitutionalistic society is more likely to suffer from domestic disorder. This is because the government cannot wield any power to control the outbreak. Lack of trade and corruption are also major difficulties for a metaconstitution. Again, the governments legal inability to enforce powerful law prevents it from containing situations. In this usage of \"metaconstitution\", it can also mean a constitution with a nearly non-existent executive branch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42314", "title": "Naturalization", "text": "Naturalization\n\nNaturalization (or naturalisation) is the legal act or process by which a non-citizen in a country may acquire citizenship or nationality of that country. It may be done by a statute, without any effort on the part of the individual, or it may involve an application and approval by legal authorities. The rules of naturalization vary from country to country and typically include a minimum legal residency requirement, and may specify other requirements such as knowledge of the national dominant language or culture, a promise to obey and uphold that country's laws. An oath or pledge of allegiance is also sometimes required. Some countries also require that the person renounce any other citizenship that they currently hold, forbidding dual citizenship, but whether this renunciation actually causes loss of the person's original citizenship, as seen by the host country and by the original country, will again depend on the laws of the countries involved.\n\nThe massive increase in population flux due to globalization and the sharp increase in the numbers of refugees following World War I created a large number of stateless persons, people who were not citizens of any state. In some rare cases, laws for mass naturalization were passed. As naturalization laws had been designed to cater for the relatively few people who had voluntarily moved from one country to another (expatriates), many western democracies were not ready to naturalize large numbers of people. This included the massive influx of stateless people which followed massive denationalizations and the expulsion of ethnic minorities from newly created nation states in the first part of the 20th century, but they also included the mostly aristocratic Russians who had escaped the 1917 October Revolution and the war communism period, and then the Spanish refugees. As Hannah Arendt pointed out, internment camps became the \"only nation\" of such stateless people, since they were often considered \"undesirable\" and were stuck in an illegal situation, wherein their country had expelled them or deprived them of their nationality, while they had not been naturalized, thus living in a judicial no man's land.\n\nSince World War II, the increase in international migrations created a new category of refugees, most of them economic refugees. For economic, political, humanitarian and pragmatic reasons, many states passed laws allowing a person to acquire their citizenship after birth, such as by marriage to a national – \"jus matrimonii\" – or by having ancestors who are nationals of that country, in order to reduce the scope of this category. However, in some countries this system still maintains a large part of the immigrated population in an illegal status, albeit with some massive regularizations, for example, in Spain by José Luis Zapatero's government and in Italy by Berlusconi's government.\n\nThe People's Republic of China gives citizenship to persons with one or two parents with Chinese nationality who have not taken residence in other countries. The country also gives citizenship to people born on its territory to stateless people who have settled there. Furthermore, individuals may apply for nationality if they have a near relative with Chinese nationality, if they have settled in China, or if they present another legitimate reason. In practice, only few people gain Chinese citizenship; as of 2010, China had only 1,448 naturalised Chinese in total.\n\nThe naturalization process starts with a written application. Applicants must submit three copies, written with a ball-point or fountain pen, to national authorities, and to provincial authorities in the Ministry of Public Security and the Public Security Bureau. Applicants must also submit original copies of a foreign passport, a residence permit, a permanent residence permit, and four two-and-a-half inch long pictures. According to the conditions outlined in the Nationality Law of the People's Republic of China, authorities may also require \"any other material that the authority believes are related to the nationality application\".\n\nThe Indian citizenship and nationality law and the Constitution of India provides single citizenship for the entire country. The provisions relating to citizenship at the commencement of the Constitution are contained in Articles 5 to 11 in Part II of the Constitution of India. Relevant Indian legislation is the Citizenship Act 1955, which has been amended by the Citizenship (Amendment) Act 1986, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act 1992, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act 2003, and the Citizenship (Amendment) Ordinance 2005. The Citizenship (Amendment) Act 2003 received the assent of the President of India on 7 January 2004 and came into force on 3 December 2004. The Citizenship (Amendment) Ordinance 2005 was promulgated by the President of India and came into force on 28 June 2005.\n\nFollowing these reforms, Indian nationality law largely follows the \"jus sanguinis\" (citizenship by right of blood) as opposed to the \"jus soli\" (citizenship by right of birth within the territory).\n\nThe Italian Government grants Italian citizenship for the following reasons.\n\n\n\n\nIndonesian nationality is regulated by Law No. 12/2006 (UU No. 12 Tahun 2006). The Indonesian nationality law is based on jus sanguinis and jus soli. The Indonesian nationality law does not recognize dual citizenship except for persons under the age of 18 (single citizenship principle). After reaching 18 years of age individuals are forced to choose one citizenship (limited double citizenship principle).\n\nA foreign citizen can apply to become an Indonesian citizen with the following requirements:\n\nAny application for citizenship is granted by the President of Indonesia.\nIsrael's Declaration of Independence was made on 14 May 1948, the day before the British Mandate was due to expire as a result of the United Nations Partition Plan. The Israeli parliament created two laws regarding immigration, citizenship and naturalization: the Law of Return and the Israeli nationality law. The Law of Return, enacted on July 15, 1950, gives Jews living anywhere in the world the right to immigrate to Israel. This right to immigrate did not and still does not grant citizenship. In fact, for four years after Israel gained independence, there were no Israeli citizens.\n\nOn July 14, 1952, the Israeli parliament enacted the Israeli Nationality Law. The Nationality Law naturalized all citizens of Mandated Palestine, the inhabitants of Israel on July 15, 1952, and those who had legally resided in Israel between May 14, 1948, and July 14, 1952. The law further clarified that naturalization was available to immigrants who had arrived before Israel's creation, immigrants who arrived after statehood was granted, and those who did not come to Israel as immigrants but have since expressed desire to settle in Israel, with restriction. Naturalization applicants must also meet the following requirements: be over 18 years of age, have resided in Israel for three out of the five preceding years, have settled or intend to settle permanently in Israel, have some knowledge of Hebrew, and have renounced prior nationality or demonstrated ability to renounce nationality after becoming a citizen of Israel.\n\nBecause of Israel's relatively new and culturally mixed identity, Israel does not grant citizenship to persons born on Israeli soil. Instead, the government chose to enact a jus sanguinis system, with the naturalization restrictions listed above. There is currently no legislation on second-generation immigrants (those born in Israel to immigrant parents). Furthermore, foreign spouses can apply for citizenship through the Minister of the Interior, but have a variety of restrictions and are not guaranteed citizenship.\n\nNaturalisation in Malaysia is guided by the 1964 Malaysian Constitution. According to the law, those who want to be the country citizen should live in the country for a period of 10–12 years. The would-be-citizens are required to speak the Malay language as well submitting the identity cards of two Malaysians who recommend the applicant for citizenship. As the Government of Malaysia does not recognise dual citizenship, those who seek naturalisation are needed to reside permanently in the country and renouncing their former country citizenship.\n\nThe requirements are as follows:\n\nThe Article 16 of 1957 Malaysian Constitution also stated a similar condition previously.\n\nCommonwealth Act No. 473, the Revised Naturalization Law, approved June 17, 1939, provided that persons having certain specified qualifications may become a citizen of the Philippines by naturalization. Republic Act No. 9139, approved June 8, 2001, provided that aliens under the age of 18 who were born in the Philippines, who have resided in the Philippines and have resided therein since birth, and who possess other specified qualifications may be granted Philippines citizenship by administrative proceeding subject to certain requirements.\nNaturalization in Russia is guided by articles 13 and 14 of the federal law “About Citizenship of Russian Federation” passed on May 31, 2002. Citizenship of Russia can be obtained in general or simplified order. To become a citizen in general order, one must be 18 years of age or older, continuously live in Russia as a permanent resident for at least five years (this term is limited to one year for valued specialists, political asylum seekers and refugees), have legal means of existence, promise to obey the laws and Constitution of Russia and be fluent in the Russian language.\n\nThere is also a possibility to naturalize in a simplified order, in which certain requirements will be waived. Eligible for that are persons, at least one parent of whom is a Russian citizen living on Russian territory; persons, who lived on the territories of the former Soviet republics but never obtained citizenships of those nations after they gained independence; persons, who were born on the territory of RSFSR and formerly held Soviet citizenship; persons married to Russian citizens for at least 3 years; persons, who served in Russian Armed Forces under contract for at least 3 years; parents of mentally incapacitated children over 18 who are Russian citizens; participants of the State Program for Assisting Compatriots Residing Abroad; and some other categories.\nChapter 2 of the South African Citizenship Act, enacted on October 6, 1995, defines who is considered a naturalized citizen at the time of the act and also outlines the naturalization process for future immigrants.\n\nAny person who immediately prior to the commencement of the act had been a South African citizen via naturalization, had been deemed to be a South African citizen by registration, or had been a citizen via naturalization of any of the former states now composing South Africa is now considered to be a naturalized citizen of South Africa.\n\nThose wishing to apply for naturalization in the future must apply to the Minister of Home Affairs and must meet a slew of requirements. First, naturalization applicants must be over the age of 18 and must have been a permanent resident of South Africa for one year prior to application and for four out of the eight years prior to application. Applicants must also demonstrate good character and knowledge of the basic responsibilities and privileges of a South African citizen. The ability to communicate in one of the official languages of South Africa is also required. Applicants must show the intention to reside in South Africa after naturalization, and they are required to make a declaration of allegiance.According to Article 3, subsection 3 of the South African constitution, national legislation must provide for the acquisition, loss and restoration of citizenship. \n\nBeing a naturalized South African citizen is a privilege, not a right. Even after meeting all the requirements and going through the naturalization process, the minister holds the right to deny citizenship. Foreign spouses of South African citizens can apply for naturalization after two years of marriage, but is subject to potential denial of the minister. The minister can also grant citizenship to minors, if their parent applies for them.\n\nThe minister also holds the power to revoke naturalization at any time for specific reasons listed in the Act. Reasons for revoking the naturalization certificate include marrying someone who is a citizen of another country and holding citizenship in another country, or applying for citizenship of another country without prior authorization for retention of citizenship. If a permanent resident is denied naturalization, he or she must wait at least one year before reapplying.\n\nThere has always been a distinction in the law of England and Wales between the subjects of the monarch and aliens: the monarch's subjects owed the monarch allegiance, and included those born in his or her dominions (natural-born subjects) and those who later gave him or her their allegiance (naturalised subjects). Today, the requirements for naturalisation as a citizen of the United Kingdom depend on whether or not one is the spouse or civil partner of a citizen. An applicant who is a spouse or civil partner of a British citizen must:\n\nFor those not married to or in a civil partnership with a British citizen, the requirements are:\n\nIn the United States of America, the Constitution gives Congress the power to prescribe a uniform rule of naturalization, which is administered by state courts. There was some confusion about which courts could naturalize; the final ruling was that it could be done by any \"court of record having common-law jurisdiction and a clerk (prothonotary) and seal.\"\n\nThe Constitution also mentions \"natural born citizen\". The first naturalization Act (drafted by Thomas Jefferson) used the phrases \"natural born\" and \"native born\" interchangeably.\n\nThe Constitution does not mandate race-neutral naturalization, and the First Congress passed a naturalization act that limited eligibility for naturalization to “free white persons.” Shortly after the Civil War, Congress also extended racial eligibility for naturalization to “aliens of African nativity and persons of African descent.” Racial eligibility for naturalization was limited to these racial categories until 1940, after which eligibility for naturalization was also extended to “descendants of races indigenous to the Western Hemisphere,” “Filipino persons or persons of Filipino descent,” “Chinese persons or persons of Chinese descent,” and “persons of races indigenous to India.” The racial eligibility provisions were removed from the naturalization act in 1952, but while they remained in place many federal and state courts as well as the United States Board of Immigration Appeals interpreted the phrase “free white person” in a variety of cases involving the contested naturalization applications of immigrants from Asia and the Pacific Rim who some claimed were racially ineligible for naturalization. \n\nNaturalization is also mentioned in the Fourteenth Amendment. The Supreme Court, in the case of \"Minor v. Happersett\" explained who the citizens of the United States were before its adoption, the Court said, Before the 14th Amendment, \"the Constitution of the United States did not in terms prescribe who should be citizens [of the United States] or of the several states, yet there were necessarily such citizens without such provision. Additions might always be made to the citizenship of the United States in two ways: first, by birth, and second, by naturalization\". Before the U.S. Constitution was adopted, individual states set their own standards for citizenship; After adoption, all state citizens \"became ipso facto a citizen\" of the United States and all children born in the United States \"of parents who were its citizens became themselves, upon their birth, citizens [of the United States]. These were natives or natural-born citizens, as distinguished from aliens or foreigners.\". The 14th Amendment states that \"all persons born or naturalized in the United States and subject to the jurisdiction thereof shall be citizens of the United States and of the State in which they reside\". The \"Minor v. Happersett\" Court went on to say, \"Some authorities go further and include as citizens children born within the jurisdiction without reference to the citizenship of their parents. As to this class there have been doubts, but never as to the first\". The Supreme Court later, in the case of \"Afroyim v. Rusk\", interpreted this clause to imply that a naturalized citizen cannot be subsequently deprived of U.S. citizenship involuntarily.\n\nThe Naturalization Act of 1795 set the initial rules on naturalization: \"free, White persons\" who had been resident for five years or more. The Naturalization Act of 1798, part of the Alien and Sedition Acts, was passed by the Federalists and extended the residency requirement from five to fourteen years. It specifically targeted Irish and French immigrants who were involved in Democratic-Republican Party politics. It was repealed in 1802.\n\nAn 1862 law allowed honorably discharged Army veterans of any war to petition for naturalization, without having filed a declaration of intent, after only one year of residence in the United States. An 1894 law extended the same privilege to honorably discharged five-year veterans of the Navy or Marine Corps. Over 192,000 aliens were naturalized between May 9, 1918, and June 30, 1919, under an act of May 9, 1918. Laws enacted in 1919, 1926, 1940, and 1952 continued preferential treatment provisions for veterans.\n\nPassage of the Fourteenth Amendment meant that, in theory, all persons born in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens regardless of race. Citizenship by birth in the United States, however, was not initially granted to Asians until 1898, when the Supreme Court, in the case of \"United States v. Wong Kim Ark\" held that the Fourteenth Amendment did apply to Asians born in the United States to Alien parents who have a permanent domicile and residence in the United States.\n\nThe enabling legislation for the naturalization aspects of the Fourteenth Amendment was the Naturalization Act of 1870, which allowed naturalization of \"aliens of African nativity and to persons of African descent\", but is silent about other races. The 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act banned Chinese workers and specifically barred them from naturalization. The Immigration Act of 1917, (Barred Zone Act) extended those restrictions to almost all Asians.\n\nThe 1922 Cable Act specified that women marrying aliens ineligible for naturalization lose their US citizenship. At the time, all Asians were ineligible for naturalization. The Immigration Act of 1924 barred entry of all those ineligible for naturalization, which again meant non-Filipino Asians.\n\nFollowing the Spanish–American War in 1898, Philippine residents were classified as U.S. nationals, and the 1917 Jones–Shafroth Act granted U.S. citizenship to citizens of Puerto Rico. But the 1934 Tydings–McDuffie Act (or Philippine Independence Act) reclassified Filipinos as aliens, and set a quota of 50 immigrants per year, and otherwise applying the Immigration Act of 1924 to them. The quotas did not apply to Filipinos who served in the United States Navy, which actively recruited in the Philippines at that time.\n\nChinese persons were first permitted naturalization by the 1943 Magnuson Act, which repealed the Chinese Exclusion Act. India and the Philippines were allowed 100 annual immigrants under the 1946 Filipino Naturalization Act. The War Brides Act of 1945 permitted soldiers to bring back their foreign wives and established precedent in naturalization through marriage. The 1952 Immigration and Nationality Act (better known as the McCarran–Walter Act) lifted racial restrictions, but kept the quotas in place. The Immigration Act of 1965 finally allowed Asians and all persons from all nations be given equal access to immigration and naturalization.\n\nIllegal immigration became a major issue in the United States at the end of the 20th century. The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, while tightening border controls, also provided the opportunity of naturalization for illegal aliens who had been in the country for at least four years. Today, lawful permanent resident aliens can apply for naturalization in the United States after five years, unless they continue to be married to a U.S. citizen, in which case they can apply after three years of permanent residency.\n\nThe Child Citizenship Act of 2000 streamlined the naturalization process for children adopted internationally. A child under age 18 who is adopted by at least one U.S. citizen parent, and is in the custody of the citizen parent(s), is now automatically naturalized once admitted to the United States as an immigrant or when legally adopted in the United States, depending on the visa under which the child was admitted to the United States. The Act also provides that the non-citizen minor child of a newly naturalized U.S. citizen, whether by birth or adoption, also automatically receives U.S. citizenship\n\nThe following list is a brief summary of the duration of legal residence before a national of a foreign state, without any cultural, historical, or marriage ties or connections to the state in question, can request citizenship under that state's naturalization laws.\n\nA few rare mass naturalization processes have been implemented by nation states. In 1891, Brazil granted naturalization to all aliens living in the country. In 1922, Greece massively naturalized all the Greek refugees coming back from Turkey. The second massive naturalization process was in favor of Armenian refugees coming from Turkey, who went to Syria, Lebanon or other former Ottoman countries. Reciprocally, Turkey massively naturalized the refugees of Turkish descent or other ethnic backgrounds in Muslim creed from these countries during a redemption process.\n\nCanada instituted a mass naturalization by Act of Parliament with the enactment of the Canadian Citizenship Act 1946.\n\nAfter annexation of the territories east of the Curzon line by the Soviet Union in 1945, Soviets naturalized \"en masse\" all the inhabitants of those territories—including ethnic Poles, as well as its other citizens who had been deported into the Soviet Union, mainly to Kazakhstan. Those persons were forcibly naturalized as Soviet citizens. Later on, Germany granted to the ethnic German population in Russia and Kazakhstan full citizenship rights. Poland has a limited repatriation program in place.\n\nThe most recent massive naturalization case resulted from the Argentine economic crisis in the beginning of the 21st century. Existing or slightly updated right of return laws in Spain and Italy allowed many of their diasporic descendants to obtain—in many cases to regain—naturalization in virtue of \"jus sanguinis\", as in the Greek case. Hence, many Argentines acquired European nationality.\n\nSince the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution grants citizenship only to those \"born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof\", and the original United States Constitution only grants Congress the power of naturalization, it could be argued that all acts of Congress that expand the right of citizenship are cases of mass naturalization. This includes the acts that extended U.S. citizenship to citizens of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands, as well as the Indian Citizenship Act of 1924 which made all Native Americans citizens (most of them were previously excluded under the \"jurisdiction\" clause of the 14th Amendment).\n\nIn the eastern Malaysian state of Sabah, mass naturalisation also happened during the administration of United Sabah National Organisation (USNO) and Sabah People's United Front (BERJAYA's) Muslim-dominated political parties to increase the Muslim population in the territory by naturalising immigrants and refugees from the mainly-Muslim dominated areas of Mindanao and Sulu Archipelago of the Philippines and Sulawesi of Indonesia.\n\nThe mass naturalization of native persons in occupied territories is illegal under the laws of war (Hague and Geneva Conventions). However, there have been many instances of such illegal mass naturalizations in the 20th century.\n\nDenaturalization is the reverse of naturalization, when a state deprives one of its citizens of his or her citizenship. From the point of view of the individual, denaturalization means revocation or loss of citizenship. Denaturalization can be based on various legal justifications. The most severe form is the \"stripping of citizenship\" when denaturalization takes place as a penalty for actions considered criminal by the state, often only indirectly related to nationality, for instance for having served in a foreign military. In countries that enforce single citizenship, voluntary naturalization in another country will lead to an automatic loss of the original citizenship; the language of the law often refers to such cases as \"giving up one's citizenship\" or (implicit) renunciation of citizenship. In another case, affecting only foreign-born citizens, denaturalization can refer to the loss of citizenship by an annulment of naturalization, also known as \"administrative denaturalization\" where the original act of naturalization is found to be invalid, for instance due to an administrative error or if it had been based on fraud (including bribery). In the US, the Bancroft Treaties in the 19th century regulated legislation concerning denaturalization.\n\nIn 2010, the U.S. government launched a program (\"Operation Janus\") “to prevent aliens who received a final removal order under a different identity from obtaining immigration benefits”. In January 2018, for the first time, a denaturalization was performed as a result of this program, and a further program (\"Operation Second Look\") was initiated by the HSI specifically to address leads received from Operation Janus. In June 2018, UCSIS announced an increase of the efforts to detect fraudulent naturalization cases, aiming at the revocation of the citizenship of individuals who had applied under false pretense.\n\nLoss of U.S. citizenship was a consequence of foreign military service based on Section 349(a)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act until its provisions were found unconstitutional by the Supreme Court in 1967.\n\nYaser Esam Hamdi was a U.S. citizen captured in Afghanistan in 2001. He was fighting against U.S. and Afghan Northern Alliance forces, siding with the Taliban. He was named by the Bush administration as an illegal enemy combatant, and militarily detained in the country for almost three years without receiving any charges. On September 23, 2004, the U.S. Justice Department agreed to release Hamdi to Saudi Arabia on the condition that he give up his U.S. citizenship, though since it was done under duress it is possible that he can later reclaim it.\n\nSection 4 of the British Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 gave power to the Home Secretary to ‘deprive a person of a citizenship status if the Secretary of State is satisfied that the person has done anything seriously prejudicial to the vital interests’ of the United Kingdom etc., except in the case where such might render the person stateless.\n\nUnder Canadian citizenship law citizenship can be revoked by an order from the federal cabinet if:\n\n\nIn the past (pre-1977) revoking citizenship was more broad:\n\n\nThose who are revoked can appeal to the Federal Court of Canada.\n\nIn Apartheid-era South Africa, the Bantu Homelands Citizenship Act, 1970, removed South African citizenship from Black South Africans, making them citizens of nominally-independent or self-governing tribal \"homelands\", the Bantustans — none of which achieved international recognition. In parallel with the creation of the homelands, South Africa's black population was subjected to a massive programme of forced relocation. It has been estimated that 3.5 million people were forced from their homes from the 1960s through the 1980s, many being resettled in the Bantustans.\n\nWith the demise of the apartheid regime in South Africa in 1994, the Bantustans were dismantled and their territory reincorporated into the Republic of South Africa. The drive to achieve this was spearheaded by the African National Congress as a central element of its programme of reform. The Bantu Homelands Citizenship Act itself was repealed by the 1993 Interim Constitution, with all citizens being restored to their South African citizenship.\n\nBefore World War I, only a small number of countries had laws governing denaturalization that could be enforced against citizens guilty of \"lacking patriotism\". Such denaturalized citizens became stateless persons. During and after the war, most European countries passed amendments to revoke naturalization.\n\nIn \"Homo Sacer: Sovereign Power or Bare Life\" (1998), philosopher Giorgio Agamben mentioned a number of denaturalization laws that were passed after World War I by most European countries:\n\nIt is important to note that starting with the period of World War I, many European states began to introduce laws which permitted their own citizens to be denaturalized and denationalized. The first was France, in 1915, with regard to naturalized citizens of \"enemy\" origins; in 1922 the example was followed by Belgium, which revoked the naturalization of citizens who had committed \"anti-national\" acts during the war; in 1926 the Fascist regime in Italy passed a similar law concerning citizens who had shown themselves to be \"unworthy of Italian citizenship\"; in 1933 it was Austria's turn, and so forth, until in 1935 the Nuremberg Laws divided German citizens into full citizens and citizens without political rights. These laws—and the mass statelessness that ensued—mark a decisive turning point in the life of the modern nation-state and its definitive emancipation from the naive notions of \"people\" and \"citizen\"\n\nThe 1915 French denaturalization law applied only to naturalized citizens with \"enemy origins\" who had kept their original nationality. Later under Raymond Poincaré's government, another law was passed in 1927 which entitled the government to denaturalize any new citizen who committed acts contrary to the national interest.\n\nIn 1916, Portugal passed a law which automatically denaturalized all citizens born to a German father.\n\nIn 1922, Belgium enacted a law revoking the naturalization of persons accused of having committed \"antinational acts\" during the war; this was supplemented in 1934 by a new decree against people \"in dereliction of their duties as Belgian citizens.\"\n\nAfter 1926 in Italy, people who were deemed not to deserve the Italian citizenship or who were considered to represent a threat to the public order could lose their naturalization.\n\nEgypt in 1926 and Turkey in 1928 enacted laws authorizing denaturalization of any person threatening the public order. Austria passed a similar law in 1933 by which it could denaturalize any citizen who participated in a hostile action against the state. Russia also passed several similar decrees after 1921.\n\nIn 1933, Nazi Germany passed a law authorizing it to denaturalize any person \"living abroad\" and began restricting the citizenship rights of naturalized citizens of Jewish origin, followed in 1935 by citizens by birth on the basis of the Nuremberg laws.\n\nDuring Vichy France, 15,000 persons, mostly Jews, were denaturalized (between June 1940 and August 1944), following the setting up, in July 1940, of a Commission charged of revision of naturalizations since the 1927 reform of the nationality law.\n\nIn the United States, the proposed, but never ratified, Titles of Nobility amendment of 1810 would revoke the American citizenship of anyone who would \"accept, claim, receive or retain, any title of nobility\" or who would receive any gifts or honors from a foreign power.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53024754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53024754", "title": "Nurse attorney", "text": "Nurse attorney\n\nNurse attorneys are individuals who are licensed as both lawyers and nurses. Nurse attorneys are found in a number of practice areas including academia, administrative law, litigation, risk management & patient safety, and regulatory compliance.\n"}
{"id": "47038630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47038630", "title": "Old Russian Law", "text": "Old Russian Law\n\nOld Russian Law or Russian Law is a legal system in Kievan Rus' (since the 9th century), in later Old Rus' states (knyazhestva, or princedoms in the period of feudal fragmentation), in Grand Duchy of Lithuania and in Moscow Rus' (see: Grand Duchy of Moscow and Tsardom of Russia). Main source was Old Slavic customary law: Zakon Russkiy (Law of Rus') (it was partly written in Rus'–Byzantine Treaties). Another sources were Old Scandinavian customary law (see: Varangians) and Byzantine law (since the 10th century).\n\nThe main written sources were Russkaya Pravda (\"Russian Justice\") (since the 11th century) and Statutes of Lithuania (since the 16th century).\n\nAccording to Old Russian chronicles, in 862, Slavs and Finns invited Varangians under the leadership of prince Rurik to rule in their land:\n\nEarly Russian state settled on the oral treaty, or \"ryad\" (Old Russian: рядъ) between the prince (knyaz) with his armed force (druzhina) on the one hand, and tribal \"nobility\" and formally all people on the other hand. The prince and his druzhina defended people, decide lawsuits, provided trade and built towns. And people paid tribute and took part in irregular military. During the ensuing centuries the \"ryad\" was playing an important role in Old Russian princedoms: the prince and his administration (druzhina) found their relationship with people (\"all land\", \"all townsmen\" in Old Russian chronicles) on the treaty. A breach of the treaty could result in exile of the prince (Izyaslav Yaroslavich and Vsevolod Yaroslavich) or even in murder of the prince (Igor Rurikovich and Igor Olgovich).\n\nOne of the result of Rus'–Byzantine Wars was conclusion of Treaties with Byzantine in the 10th century, where, apart from Byzantine legal rules, also Zakon Russkiy (Law of Rus') - rules of Old Russian oral customary law reflected.\n\nYaroslav's Pravda of the beginning of the 11th century was the first written law in Rus'. This short code regulated the relationship between the princely druzhina (\"rusins\") and the people (\"slovenins\") concerning criminal law. After Yaroslav's death, his sons Izyaslav, Vsevolod, Svyatoslav and their druzhina got together and promulgated a code concerning the violation of property rights in princely lands (Pravda of Yaroslav's sons) in the middle of the 11th century. Yaroslav's Pravda and Pravda of Yaroslav's sons became a basis for the Short edition of Russkaya Pravda.\n\nIn the period of Vladimir Monomakh's reign at the beginning of the 12th century, the Vast edition of Russkaya Pravda was given, which contained rules of criminal, procedural and civil law, including trade, family law and rules of the bond of obligation.\n\nLater written secular law also included statutory charters, trade treaties, statutes of Grand Duchy of Lithuania, big codes of Moscow Rus' - Sudebniks (see below), and other texts.\n\nTranslations of Byzantine legal codes, including Nomocanon, were widely spread in Old Rus' (see: Kormchaia, Merilo Pravednoye), but it wasn't widely applied in secular or church legal practice, restricted mainly in canon law. The Church in Old Rus' did not have wide influence and depended on the power of the state. Thus, church law mainly dealt with family law and sanctions against moral violation.\n\nSee also: church statutes of prince Vladimir and prince Yaroslav.\n\n\nForeign sources\n\n\nNative sources\n\nIt was in part a record of oral law and revision of foreign sources:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25603863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25603863", "title": "Ordinary law", "text": "Ordinary law\n\nAn ordinary law is a normal law, generally distinguished from a constitutional law, organic law, or other similar law. Typically, ordinary laws are subordinate to constitutional and organic laws, and are more easily changed than constitutional or organic laws, though that should not be assumed to be the case in all jurisdictions. (For example, the Constitutional Court of Spain has ruled that Spain's Organic Laws are not hierarchically superior to ordinary laws, but simply apply to different matters.) Ordinary laws often govern areas beyond the scope of constitutional or organic laws.\n\nNormally, in a democracy, an ordinary law must first obtain a simple majority of a congress, parliament, or other legislature, and then be signed into law by the representative of executive power. The process leading to a legislative vote may vary vastly from one jurisdiction to another: the process may be initiated by either house of a bicameral legislature or from the sole house of a unicameral legislature; from the head of government or head of state; or by popular initiative. Different jurisdictions may allow ordinary laws to be proposed by one or all of these means, and may have restrictions on which body may take the initiative for certain types of laws (for example, in some bicameral systems, tax-related laws must begin in the lower chamber of the legislature). In some jurisdictions, the legislature has a means to override an executive veto by a supermajority, or the voting populace have the means to override a law by a referendum.\n\nUnder federal systems, ordinary laws may be created at the level of a sovereign state but also by its constituent components: for example, by states of the United States or autonomous communities of Spain.\n"}
{"id": "44922817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44922817", "title": "PP v. HSE", "text": "PP v. HSE\n\nP.P v. Health Service Executive was a 2014 case in the Irish High Court to rule on whether a pregnant woman (anonymised as \"N.P.\") who was brain dead ought to be kept on life support until the foetus was viable and could be delivered. The woman's next of kin wished her life support to be switched off but medical staff were unsure whether this would violate the foetus' right to life, which is guaranteed by the Eighth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland. The case was brought against the Health Service Executive (HSE) by N.P.'s father \"P.P.\"\n\nOn 27 November 2014, a woman, twelve to fourteen weeks pregnant, was admitted to hospital with headaches and nausea. Two days later, she suffered a fall and was later found to be unresponsive. On 3 December, she was declared clinically brain dead. The cause was a large cerebellar cystic lesion causing acute hydrocephalus and compression of brain stem. She was placed on life support against her family's wishes. Her parents and partner supported turning off the life support machines. Her two young children did not recognise her when they visited her, and were upset at her appearance.\n\nOn 15 December 2014, her father applied to the High Court for life support to be turned off. Nicholas Kearns, the President of the High Court, fast-tracked P.P.'s application for his daughter to be made his ward, which took effect on 23 December. On 22 December Kearns decided that the case was important enough for three judges to hear it: himself, Marie Baker, and Caroline Costello. \n\nThe case was heard on 24 December. Four senior counsel were heard: Mary O'Toole for the plaintiff, Gerry Durcan for the respondent, Cormac Corrigan representing the interests of the woman, and Conor Dignam representing the interests of the unborn child. Seven doctors gave evidence. \n\nOn 26 December 2014, the court ruled that the life support machine could be turned off. None of the counsel appealed the verdict.\n\nThe woman was taken off life support on 27 December, and buried on 29 December 2014. In September 2015, an inquest jury returned an open verdict into the cause of her death.\n\nIn November 2016, the family commenced legal action against the HSE, claiming medical negligence.\n\nIn ruling that life support to be switched off, the court held that the woman's right to dignity and her family's wishes could take precedence because the chances of the foetus being born alive were infinitesimal. The court rejected an argument that the Eighth Amendment applied only to Irish abortion law and thus ought not to be invoked in a non-abortion case. The ruling also stated \"when the mother who dies is bearing an unborn child at the time of her death, the rights of that child, who is living, and whose interests are not necessarily inimical to those just expressed, must prevail over the feelings of grief and respect for a mother who is no longer living.\" This left open the possibility of an opposite verdict in a hypothetical similar case further into a pregnancy. \n\nWomen's Link Worldwide gave the High Court judgment the \"Bronze Gavel\" for promoting gender equality at its 2015 \"Gender Justice Uncovered\" awards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24622", "title": "Pacta sunt servanda", "text": "Pacta sunt servanda\n\nPacta sunt servanda (Latin for \"agreements must be kept\"), a brocard, is a basic principle of civil law, canon law, and international law.\n\nIn its most common sense, the principle refers to private contracts, stressing that contained clauses are law between the parties, and implies that nonfulfillment of respective obligations is a breach of the pact.\nIn civil law jurisdictions this principle is related to the general principle of correct behavior in commercial practice – including the assumption of \"good faith\" – is a requirement for the efficacy of the whole system, so the eventual disorder is sometimes punished by the law of some systems even without any direct penalty incurred by any of the parties. However, common law jurisdictions usually do not have the principle of good faith in commercial contracts, therefore it is inappropriate to state that pacta sunt servanda includes the principle of good faith.\nWith reference to international agreements, \"every treaty in force is binding upon the parties to it and must be performed by them in good faith.\" \"Pacta sunt servanda\" is related to good faith, while pacta sunt servanda does not equate with good faith . This entitles states to require that obligations be respected and to rely upon the obligations being respected. This good faith basis of treaties implies that a party to the treaty cannot invoke provisions of its municipal (domestic) law as justification for a failure to perform. However, with regards to the Vienna Convention and the UNIDROIT Principles it should be kept in mind that these are heavily influenced by civil law jurisdictions. To derive from these sources that pacta sunt servanda includes the principle of good faith is therefore incorrect.\n\nThe only limit to \"pacta sunt servanda\" are the peremptory norms of general international law, called \"jus cogens\" (compelling law). The legal principle \"clausula rebus sic stantibus\", part of customary international law, also allows for treaty obligations to be unfulfilled due to a compelling change in circumstances.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3519449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3519449", "title": "Plenary power", "text": "Plenary power\n\nA plenary power or plenary authority is a complete and absolute power to take action on a particular issue, with no limitations. It is derived from the Latin term \"plenus\" (\"full\").\n\nIn United States constitutional law, plenary power is a power that has been granted to a body or person in absolute terms, with no review of or limitations upon the exercise of that power. The assignment of a plenary power to one body divests all other bodies from the right to exercise that power, where not otherwise entitled. Plenary powers are not subject to judicial review in a particular instance or in general.\n\nThere are very few clear examples of such powers in the United States, due to the nature of the Constitution, which grants different, but at times overlapping, roles to the three branches of federal government and to the states. For example, although the United States Congress, under Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 (the Commerce Clause), has been said to have \"plenary\" power over Interstate Commerce, this does not always preclude the states from passing laws that affect interstate commerce in some way. When an activity is legally classified as interstate commerce, historically the states can regulate this type of activity as long as they do so within the bounds of their Constitutional authority. Congress does appear to have complete and absolute power regarding the declaration of war and peace in Article I, Section 8, Clause 11. Yet the President has control over the Armed Forces as Commander-in-Chief. These powers are in ongoing conflict, as seen by the War Powers Resolution of 1973.\n\nAnother example of the ongoing debate over plenary powers in the US Constitution is the controversy surrounding the Spending Clause (Article I, Section 8, Clause 1). This clause states that the Congress is allowed to \"lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and provide for the common Defence [sic] and general Welfare of the United States\". How far this clause goes, and what it actually means in practice, has been hotly debated since the ratification of the Constitution.\n\nWhile other Constitutional doctrines, such as the unenumerated powers of states and the rights of individuals, are widely held (both historically and currently) as limiting the plenary power of Congress, then-Associate Justice William Rehnquist reflected that \"one of the greatest 'fictions' of our federal system is that the Congress exercises only those powers delegated to it, while the remainder are reserved to the States or to the people. The manner in which this Court has construed the Commerce Clause amply illustrates the extent of this fiction. Although it is clear that the people, through the States, delegated authority to Congress to 'regulate Commerce ... among the several States' (Commerce Clause), one could easily get the sense from this Court's opinions that the federal system exists only at the sufferance of Congress.\" (\"Hodel v. Virginia Surface Mining & Reclamation Association\", 1981.)\n\nThese conflicts over the definition of who or what retains which plenary powers have wide-ranging consequences, as seen in the example of \"United States v. Kagama\", where the Supreme Court found that Congress had complete authority over all Native American affairs.\n\nThe Congress may create and charter, through the enactment of statutes, corporate bodies (Federal Corporations) which can be granted (through the Congress' plenary power to legislate) derivative (derived from the legislation, as opposed to the Constitution itself) plenary power(s) in areas that are defined by statute and which comport with the constitution. The Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) is an example of such an entity. It was created by the Congress as a Federal Corporation, and by statute, the TVA is given plenary authority over the setting the rates (prices) it will charge customers for the electricity that it generates. The Congress effectively gave the TVA plenary power over its generated electricity rate (price) setting process by statutorily making TVA's rate (price) settings exempt and immune from legal review by any process whatsoever, be it State, Federal or otherwise. Once the TVA Act itself was ruled constitutional, its rate setting process received its derivative plenary power.\n\nThere is a difference in reach of plenary powers. While in the TVA example the Congress may at any time amend or remove TVA's plenary power to set the rates for the electricity it sells, the President's plenary power to pardon or commute those convicted under the laws of the United States is beyond the reach of the processes of the Federal Government, and requires the amendment of the US Constitution, making it a truly plenary grant of power.\n\nAn example of a plenary power granted to an individual is the power to grant pardons for Federal crimes (not State crimes), which is bestowed upon the President of the United States under Article II, Section 2, of the US Constitution. The President is granted the power to \"grant Reprieves and Pardons for Offences against the United States, except in Cases of Impeachment\".\n\nThat is, within the defined zone (e.g., all offences against the United States, except impeachment), the President may modify the punishment, up to the eradication of the fact of conviction and punishment, for offenses against the United States, entirely. Once done, the President's exercise of this power may not be reviewed by any body or through any forum; nor can this self-executing power (because it is self-executing), once exercised by a President, be reversed, or \"taken back\", by either the granting President, or any of his/her successors.\n\nNeither the power to grant pardon nor the power to construct the scope of a pardon (a commutation) is within the reach of any subsequent review or alteration. Furthermore, double jeopardy prohibits any subsequent prosecution for the offenses over which the pardon was granted. Even the President himself may not rescind a pardon that either he or a predecessor President has granted once such pardon is executed (i.e., once the official instrument is signed by the President and sealed on behalf of the United States).\n\nThe President may also (as in the case of President Gerald Ford and the then former President Richard Nixon, as well as President George H. W. Bush and the former Secretary of Defense Caspar W. Weinberger) \"prospectively\" proclaim a grant of pardon. That is the President may proclaim the pardon of an individual, a group, a corporation, or any entity chargeable of offences under Federal law, prospectively making the subject immune from Federal prosecution for past criminal acts.\n\nSuch a pardon does this by destroying the possibility of a prosecution having a purposeful meaning or result. The rules of judicial procedure make such a future prosecution, or the continuance of an ongoing prosecution, moot. Thereby a motion for dismissal of an ongoing prosecution, or of an initiated future prosecution, is granted by a Court, on the grounds that the prosecution would be of no purpose or effect, and that it would needlessly waste a Court's time and the resources of an accused, who would only have the charges, for which a pardon had been proclaimed, dismissed anyway.\n\nIn regard to immigration law, Congress, under the Plenary Power Doctrine, has the power to make immigration policy subject to judicial oversight. The Executive Branch is charged with enforcing the immigration laws passed by Congress. The doctrine is based on the concept that immigration is a question of national sovereignty, relating to a nation's right to define its own borders. Courts generally refrain from interfering in immigration matters. Historically, the U.S. Supreme Court has taken a hands-off approach when asked to review the political branches' immigration decisions and policy-making. The Center for Immigration Studies, an organization with a slant toward isolationism, suggests there is a movement to \"erode\" political-branch control over immigration in favor of a judge-administered system and that the results have created national security concerns. The U.S. Supreme Court case \"Zadvydas v. Davis\" is cited as an example of the U.S. Supreme Court not following plenary power precedent.\n\n"}
{"id": "38908122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38908122", "title": "Porphyrogeniture", "text": "Porphyrogeniture\n\nPorphyrogeniture, also sometimes referred to as born to the purple, is a system of political succession that favours the rights of sons born after their father has become king or emperor, over older siblings born before their father's ascent to the throne.\n\nExamples of this practice include Byzantium and the Nupe Kingdom. In late 11th century England and Normandy, the theory of porphyrogeniture was used by Henry I of England to justify why he, and not his older brother Robert Curthose, should inherit the throne after the death of their brother William Rufus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7789295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7789295", "title": "Printing patent", "text": "Printing patent\n\nThe printing patent or printing privilege was a precursor of modern copyright. It was an exclusive right to print a work or a class of works.\n\nThe earliest recorded printing privilege dates from 1469, giving John of Speyer a five-year monopoly on all printing in Venice. In 1495, the city-state granted another monopoly on all Greek works to Aldus as a reward for his investments in a Greek font for his press.\n\nIn France, the royal \"Code de la librairie\" of 1723 codified existing practice. It stated that there was no property in ideas or texts. Ideas, it was argued, were a gift from God, revealed through the writer. God's first representative, the French king had the exclusive right to determine what could be printed by whom. Only members of the royal guild of publishers could apply for a \"printing privilege\", a permission and an exclusive right to print a work. Authors wishing to see their manuscript printed had no choice but to sell it to guild members. Most printing privileges were owned by the guild and automatically renewed over generations. In 1789, the National Assembly created by the French Revolution brought an end to all royal privileges.\n\nEnglish monarchs granted printing patents based on the Royal Prerogative, with patents falling into one of two categories: \"particular patents\" gave an exclusive right to print a single work – often popular, classic works written centuries earlier – for a limited time, usually seven or ten years. \"General patents\" were usually granted for life and covered a class of works, such as law books or almanacs. Printing patents were independent of the private copyright system established by the Stationers' Company, even though most printing patents were granted to members of the Company. The importance of printing privileges decreased over time, but they still existed after the Statute of Anne was enacted. The royal prerogative relating to printing patents was not removed until 1775.\n\n"}
{"id": "216170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216170", "title": "Public opinion", "text": "Public opinion\n\nPublic opinion consists of the desires, wants, and thinking of the majority of the people; it is the collective opinion of the people of a society or state on an issue or problem.\n\nThis concept came about through the process of urbanization and other political and social forces. For the first time, it became important what people thought, as forms of political contention changed.\n\nThe term \"public opinion\" was derived from the French \"opinion publique\" which was first used in 1588 by Michel de Montaigne in the second edition of his \"Essays\" (ch. XXII).\n\nThe French term also appears in the 1761 work \"Julie, or the New Heloise\" by Jean-Jacques Rousseau.\n\nPrecursors of the phrase in English include William Temple's \"general opinion\" (appearing in his 1672 work \"On the Original and Nature of Government\") and John Locke's \"law of opinion\" (appearing in his 1689 work \"An Essay Concerning Human Understanding\").\n\nThe emergence of public opinion as a significant force in the political realm can be dated to the late 17th century. However, opinion had been regarded as having singular importance since far earlier. Medieval \"fama publica\" or \"vox et fama communis\" had great legal and social importance from the 12th and 13th centuries onward. Later, William Shakespeare called public opinion the 'mistress of success' and Blaise Pascal thought it was 'the queen of the world.'\n\nJohn Locke in his treatise \"An Essay Concerning Human Understanding\" considered that man was subject to three laws: the divine law, the civil law, and most importantly in Locke's judgement, the law of opinion or reputation. He regarded the latter as of the highest importance because dislike and \"ill opinion\" force people to conform in their behaviour to social norms, however he didn't consider public opinion as a suitable influence for governments.\n\nWilliam Temple in his essay of 1672, \"On the Original and Nature of Government\" gave an early formulation of the importance of public opinion. He observed that \"...when vast numbers of men submit their lives and fortunes absolutely to the will of one, it...must be force of custom, or opinion...which subjects power to authority.\"\n\nTemple disagreed with the prevalent opinion that the basis of government lay in a social contract and thought that government was merely allowed to exist due to the favour of public opinion.\n\nThe prerequisites for the emergence of a public sphere were increasing levels of literacy which was spurred on by the Reformation, which encouraged individuals to read the Bible in the vernacular, and the rapidly expanding printing presses. During the 18th century religious literature was replaced with secular literature, novels and pamphlets. In parallel to this was the growth in reading societies and clubs. At the turn of the century the first circulating library opened in London and the public library became widespread and available to the public.\n\nAn institution of central importance in the development of public opinion, was the coffee-house, which became widespread throughout Europe in the mid-17th century. Although Charles II later tried to suppress the London coffeehouses as \"places where the disaffected met, and spread scandalous reports concerning the conduct of His Majesty and his Ministers\", the public flocked to them. For several decades following the Restoration, the Wits gathered round John Dryden at Will's Coffee House, in Russell Street, Covent Garden. The coffee houses were great social levellers, open to all men and indifferent to social status, and as a result associated with equality and republicanism.\n\nMore generally, coffee houses became meeting places where business could be carried on, news exchanged and \"The London Gazette\" (government announcements) read. Lloyd's of London had its origins in a coffeehouse run by Edward Lloyd, where underwriters of ship insurance met to do business. By 1739, there were 551 coffeehouses in London; each attracted a particular clientele divided by occupation or attitude, such as Tories and Whigs, wits and stockjobbers, merchants and lawyers, booksellers and authors, men of fashion or the \"cits\" of the old city center. Joseph Addison wanted to have it said of him that he had \"brought philosophy out of closets and libraries to dwell in clubs and assemblies, at tea tables and in coffee houses.\" According to one French visitor, Antoine François Prévost, coffeehouses, \"where you have the right to read all the papers for and against the government,\" were the \"seats of English liberty.\"\n\nGentlemen's clubs proliferated in the 18th century, especially in the West End of London. Clubs took over the role occupied by coffee houses in 18th century London to some degree, and reached the height of their influence in the late 19th century – some notable names were White's, Brooks's, Arthur's, and Boodle's which still exist today.\n\nThese social changes, in which a closed and largely illiterate public became an open and politicized one, was to become of tremendous political importance in the 19th century as the mass media was circulated ever more widely and literacy was steadily improved. Governments increasingly recognized the importance of managing and directing public opinion. This trend is exemplified in the career of George Canning who restyled his political career from its aristocratic origins to one of popular consent when he contested and won the parliamentary seat in Liverpool; a city with a growing and affluent middle class, which he attributed to the growing influence of \"public opinion.\"\n\nJeremy Bentham was an impassioned advocate of the importance of public opinion in the shaping of constitutional governance. He thought it important that all government acts and decisions should be subject to the inspection of public opinion, because \"to the pernicious exercise of the power of government it is the only check.\" He opined that public opinion had the power to ensure that rulers would rule for the greatest happiness of the greater number. He brought in Utilitarian philosophy in order to define theories of public opinion.\n\nThe German sociologist Ferdinand Tönnies, by using the conceptional tools of his theory of Gemeinschaft and Gesellschaft, argued (\"Kritik der öffentlichen Meinung\", 1922), that 'public opinion' has the equivalent social function in societies (\"Gesellschaften\") which religion has in communities (\"Gemeinschaften\").\n\nGerman social theorist Jürgen Habermas contributed the idea of \"Public sphere\" to the discussion of public opinion. The Public Sphere, or bourgeois public, is according to Habermas, where \"something approaching public opinion can be formed\" (2004, p. 351). Habermas claimed that the Public Sphere featured universal access, rational debate, and disregard for rank. However, he believes that these three features for how public opinion are best formed are no longer in place in western liberal democratic countries. Public opinion, in western democracy, is highly susceptible to elite manipulation.\n\nThe American sociologist Herbert Blumer has proposed an altogether different conception of the \"public\". According to Blumer, public opinion is discussed as a form of collective behavior (another specialized term) which is made up of those who are discussing a given public issue at any one time. Given this definition, there are many publics; each of them comes into being when an issue arises and ceases to exist when the issue is resolved. Blumer claims that people participate in public in different capacities and to different degrees. So, public opinion polling cannot measure the public. An educated individual's participation is more important than that of a drunk. The \"mass\", in which people independently make decisions about, for example, which brand of toothpaste to buy, is a form of collective behavior different from the public.\n\nPublic opinion plays an important role in the political sphere. Cutting across all aspects of relationship between government and public opinion are studies of voting behavior. These have registered the distribution of opinions on a wide variety of issues, have explored the impact of special interest groups on election outcomes and have contributed to our knowledge about the effects of government propaganda and policy.\n\nContemporary, quantitative approaches to the study of public opinion may be divided into 4 categories:\n\nThe rapid spread of public opinion measurement around the world is reflection of the number of uses to which it can be put. Public opinion can be accurately obtained through survey sampling. Both private firms and governments use surveys to inform public policies and public relations.\n\nNumerous theories and substantial evidence exists to explain the formation and dynamics of individuals' opinions. Much of this research draws on psychological research on attitudes. In communications studies and political science, mass media are often seen as influential forces on public opinion. Additionally, political socialization and behavioral genetics sometimes explain public opinion.\n\nThe formation of public opinion starts with agenda setting by major media outlets throughout the world. This agenda setting dictates what is newsworthy and how and when it will be reported. The media agenda is set by a variety of different environmental and newswork factors that determines which stories will be newsworthy.\n\nAnother key component in the formation of public opinion is framing. Framing is when a story or piece of news is portrayed in a particular way and is meant to sway the consumers attitude one way or the other. Most political issues are heavily framed in order to persuade voters to vote for a particular candidate. For example, if Candidate X once voted on a bill that raised income taxes on the middle class, a framing headline would read \"Candidate X Doesn't Care About the Middle Class\". This puts Candidate X in a negative frame to the news reader.\n\nSocial desirability is another key component to the formation of public opinion. Social desirability is the idea that people in general will form their opinions based on what they believe is the prevalent opinion of the social group they identify with. Based on media agenda setting and media framing, most often a particular opinion gets repeated throughout various news mediums and social networking sites, until it creates a false vision where the perceived truth can actually be very far away from the actual truth.\n\nPublic opinion can be influenced by public relations and the political media. Additionally, mass media utilizes a wide variety of advertising techniques to get their message out and change the minds of people. Since the 1950s, television has been the main medium for molding public opinion.\n\nThere have been a variety of academic studies investigating whether or not public opinion is influenced by \"influentials,\" or persons that have a significant effect on influencing opinion of the general public regarding any relevant issues. Many early studies have modeled the transfer of information from mass media sources to the general public as a \"two-step\" process. In this process, information from mass media and other far-reaching sources of information influences influentials, and influentials then influence the general public as opposed to the mass media directly influencing the public.\n\nWhile the \"two-step\" process regarding public opinion influence has motivated further research on the role of influential persons, a more recent study by Watts and Dodds (2007) suggests that while influentials play some role in influencing public opinion, \"non-influential\" persons that make up the general public are also just as likely (if not more likely) to influence opinion provided that the general public is composed of persons that are easily influenced. This is referred to in their work as the \"Influential Hypothesis.\" The authors discuss such results by using a model to quantify the number of people influenced by both the general public and influentials. The model can be easily customized to represent a variety of ways that influencers interact with each other as well as the general public. In their study, such a model diverges from the prior paradigm of the \"two-step\" process. The Watts and Dodds model introduces a model of influence emphasizing lateral channels of influence between the influencers and general public categories. This thus leads to a more complex flow of influence amongst the three parties involved in influencing public opinion (i.e., media, influencers and general public).\n\nThe most pervasive issue dividing theories of the opinion-policy relation bears a striking resemblance to the problem of monism-pluralism in the history of philosophy. The controversy deals with the question of whether the structure of socio-political action should be viewed as a more or less centralized process of acts and decisions by a class of key leaders, representing integrated hierarchies of influence in society or whether it is more accurately envisaged as several sets of relatively autonomous opinion and influence groups, interacting with representative decision makers in an official structure of differentiated governmental authority. The former assumption interprets individual, group and official action as part of a single system and reduces politics and governmental policies to a derivative of three basic analytical terms: society, culture and personality.\n\nDespite philosophical arguments regarding public opinion, social scientists (those in sociology, political science, economics and social psychology) present compelling theories to describe how public opinion shapes public policy and find myriad effects of opinion on policy using various empirical research methods. Moreover, researchers find that causal relationships likely run in both directions from opinion to policy and from policy to opinion. On the one hand, public opinion signals public preferences and potential voting behaviors to policymakers. This impact should be greater under more stable democratic institutions. It should be greatest in the realm of social policy because the public are highly motivated by potential goods and services they get from the state. On the other hand, social policy impacts public opinion. The goods and services the public gets via social policy builds normative expectations that shape public opinion. Plus, social policy constitutes the largest share of state spending budgets, making it an active and contentious political area. Together these theories suggest that causal effects are part of a feedback loop between opinion and policy. Using increasingly sophisticated methods, scholars are beginning to grasp and identify the feedback of opinion and policy and use this phenomenon to explain the path dependency of institutions.\n\nAs with public policy, public opinion also has a close relationship with foreign policy. There is much debate concerning what the relationship is, and the study of foreign policy's relationship with public opinion has evolved over time, with the Almond-Lippmann Consensus being one of the first attempt to define this relationship. Published before the Vietnam War, Almond and Lippmann argued that public opinion about foreign policy was unstructured, incoherent, and highly volatile, and that public opinion shouldn't influence foreign policy. More recent studies have rebuked the Almond-Lippmann Consensus, showing how people's opinions are generally stable, and that while individuals may not be entirely informed about every issue, they still act efficiently and rationally.\n\nPeople’s judgments about issues are often based on heuristics, which are mental shortcuts that allow rational decisions to be made quickly. Heuristics apply to public opinion about domestic as well as foreign policy. The deductive heuristic is one that relies on a person's core values and social groups. Delegative heuristics are influenced by figures of authority such as the media or president.\n\nAnother key theory about how people form their opinions on foreign policy issues is Hurwitz and Peffley's hierarchical attitudes model. They argue that it is structured, with core values providing the basis for postures which further influence the ultimate issue position.\n\nPublic opinion about foreign policy is measured in the same way that all public opinion is measured. Through polls and surveys, respondents are asked about their issue positions. Conclusions are drawn by researchers by applying the scientific method.\n\nAccording to Robert Shapiro, public opinion and policy-making are fundamental to a democracy, which is linked to electoral accountability, meaning that the leader who was elected \"will not deviate far from voters’ opinion\". A problem that arises when analyzing the data collected by researchers is how these issues that are \"important\" are selected when collecting the data about public opinion. It is hard to determine if there has been underdevelopment of certain issues. Another concern is how elites influence public opinion by persuasion and rhetoric, ultimately shaping policy-making. These two variables are ambiguous by nature and are hard to get to any conclusions, in most cases beyond the limits of research. Other variables to look at when analyzing the opinion-policy effect are the size of the majority public, election cycle time, degree of electoral competition, and the type of issue. For example, domestic affairs public opinion will be of greater importance than that of foreign affairs, because of the complexity.\n\nSince presidents have the ability to influence their political agenda, it is easier for them to respond to public opinion. Also, since they are not an institution (like Congress) they can \"shift the standards by which the public evaluates their performance in office – away from policy concerns and towards more symbolic activities, image, and personality.\"\n\nA study by James N. Druckman and Lawrence R. Jacobs discusses how presidents collect their information for policymaking. They found that on one hand, they collect data about the public's preference on salient matters like crime and economy. This reflects a populist type of democracy where the government portrays respect toward the people's views and they are connected. On the other hand, government institutions and elites believe the general populations’ understanding of certain issued is limited, therefore they exercise autonomy when making these decisions.\n\nBaum and Kernell have stated that a challenge that modern presidents face when trying to persuade public opinion is that there is so many different types of media, that getting people's attention is hard. New media alternatives has also caused on effect on Presidential leadership as they now use them to be able to communicate younger generations, but targeting small groups of people.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1212240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1212240", "title": "Regional autonomy", "text": "Regional autonomy\n\nRegional autonomy is decentralization of governance to outlying regions. Recent examples of disputes over autonomy include:\n\n\nCurrent examples of autonomous regions include the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region in China and the Cherokee Nation in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "14366249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14366249", "title": "Trigger law", "text": "Trigger law\n\nA trigger law is a nickname for a law that is unenforceable, but may achieve enforceability if a key change in circumstances occurs.\n\nIn the United States, four U.S. states—Mississippi, Louisiana, North Dakota, and South Dakota—have trigger laws that would automatically ban abortion if the landmark case \"Roe v. Wade\" is overturned. Illinois formerly had a trigger law (enacted in 1975), but repealed it in 2017. An additional ten states retain their abortion bans enacted before 1973; these statutes are not enforceable due to \"Roe\", but could possibly be enforceable should \"Roe\" be overturned.\n"}
{"id": "32573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32573", "title": "Victimology", "text": "Victimology\n\nVictimology is the study of victimization, including the psychological effects on victims, relationships between victims and offenders, the interactions between victims and the criminal justice system—that is, the police and courts, and corrections officials—and the connections between victims and other social groups and institutions, such as the media, businesses, and social movements. Victimology is, however, not restricted to the study of victims of crime alone but may include other forms of human rights violations.\nIn criminology and criminal law, a victim of a crime is an identifiable person who has been harmed individually and directly by the perpetrator, rather than by society as a whole. However, this may not always be the case, as with victims of white collar crime, who may not be clearly identifiable or directly linked to crime against a particular individual. Victims of white collar crime are often denied their status as victims by the social construction of the concept (Croall, 2001). The concept also remains a controversial topic within women's studies.\n\nThe Supreme Court of the United States first recognized the rights of crime victims to make a victim impact statement during the sentencing phase of a criminal trial in the case of \"Payne v. Tennessee\" .\n\nA victim impact panel, which usually follows the victim impact statement, is a form of community-based or restorative justice in which the crime victims (or relatives and friends of deceased crime victims) meet with the defendant after conviction to tell the convict about how the criminal activity affected them, in the hope of rehabilitation or deterrence.\n\nEmotional distress as the result of crime is a recurring theme for all victims of crime. The most common problems, affecting three quarters of victims, were psychological problems, including: fear, anxiety, nervousness, self-blame, anger, shame, and difficulty sleeping. These problems often result in the development of chronic post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Post crime distress is also linked to pre-existing emotional problems and sociodemographic variables. This has been known to become a leading case of the elderly to be more adversely affected.(Ferraro, 1995)\n\nVictims may experience the following psychological reactions:\n\nThe experience of victimization may result in increasing fear on the part of the victim, and the spread of fear in the community.\n\nThe environmental theory posits that the location and context of the crime bring the victim of the crime and its perpetrator together.\n\nStudies in the early 2010s showed that crimes are negatively correlated to trees in urban environments; more trees in an area are congruent with lower victimization rates or violent crime rates. This relationship was established by studies in 2010 in Portland, Oregon and in 2012 in Baltimore, Maryland. Geoffrey Donovan of the United States Forest Service (USFS), one of the researchers, said, \"trees, which provide a range of other benefits, could improve quality of life in Portland by reducing crime...\" because \"We believe that large street trees can reduce crime by signaling to a potential criminal that a neighborhood is better cared for and, therefore, a criminal is more likely to be caught.\" Note that the presence of \"large\" street trees especially indicated a reduction in crime, as opposed to newer, smaller trees. In the 2012 Baltimore study, led by scientists from the University of Vermont and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), a \"conservative spatially adjusted model indicated that a 10% increase in tree canopy was associated with a roughly 12% decrease in crime... [and] we found that the inverse relationship continued in both contexts, but the magnitude was 40% greater for public than for private lands.\"\n\nThere have been some studies recently to quantify the real existence of victim-proneness. Contrary to the popular belief that more women are repeat victims, and thus more victim-prone than men, actually men in their prime (24- to 34-year-old males) are more likely to be victims of repeated crimes.\n\nIn the case of juvenile offenders, the study results also show that people are more likely to be victimized as a result of a serious offense by someone they know; the most frequent crimes committed by adolescents towards someone they know were sexual assault, common assault, and homicide. Adolescents victimizing people they did not know generally committed common assault, forcible confinement, and armed or unarmed robbery.\n\nSex workers are, anecdotally, thought to have an abnormally high incidence of violent crime committed against them, and such crimes go frequently unresolved, but there are few victimological studies of the matter.\n\nIn social psychology, the fundamental attribution error (also known as \"correspondence bias\" or \"attribution effect\") describes the tendency to over-value dispositional or personality-based explanations for the observed behaviors of others while under-valuing situational explanations for those behaviors. The term was coined by Lee Ross some years after a now-classic experiment by Edward E. Jones and Victor Harris (1967).\n\nThe fundamental attribution error is most visible when people explain the behavior of others. It does not explain interpretations of one's own behavior—where situational factors are often taken into consideration. This discrepancy is called the actor–observer bias. As a simple example, if Alice saw Bob trip over a rock and fall, Alice might consider Bob to be clumsy or careless (dispositional). If Alice later tripped over the same rock herself, she would be more likely to blame the placement of the rock (situational). Victim proneness or victim blaming can be a form of fundamental attribution error, and more specifically, the \"just-world phenomenon\".\n\nThe Just-world phenomenon is the belief that people get what they deserve and deserve what they get, which was first theorized by Melvin Lerner (1977). Attributing failures to dispositional causes rather than situational causes, which are unchangeable and uncontrollable, satisfies our need to believe that the world is fair and we have control over our life. We are motivated to see a just world because this reduces our perceived threats, gives us a sense of security, helps us find meaning in difficult and unsettling circumstances, and benefits us psychologically. Unfortunately, the just-world hypothesis also results in a tendency for people to blame and disparage victims of a tragedy or an accident, such as victims of rape and domestic abuse to reassure themselves of their insusceptibility to such events. People may even blame the victim's faults in \"past lives\" to pursue justification for their bad outcome.\n\nVictim facilitation, another controversial sub-topic, but a more accepted theory than victim proneness, finds its roots in the writings of criminologists such as Marvin Wolfgang. The choice to use victim facilitation as opposed to \"victim proneness\" or some other term is that victim facilitation is not blaming the victim, but rather the interactions of the victim that make him/her vulnerable to a crime.\n\nThe theory of victim facilitation calls for study of the external elements that make a victim more accessible or vulnerable to an attack. In an article that summarizes the major movements in victimology internationally, Schneider expresses victim facilitation as a model that ultimately describes only the misinterpretation by the offender of victim behavior. It is based upon the theory of a symbolic interaction and does not alleviate the offender of his/her exclusive responsibility.\n\nIn Eric Hickey's \"Serial Murderers and their Victims,\" a major analysis of 329 serial killers in America is conducted. As part of Hickey's analysis, he categorized victims as high, low, or mixed regarding the victim's facilitation of the murder. Categorization was based upon lifestyle risk (example, amount of time spent interacting with strangers), type of employment, and their location at the time of the killing (example, bar, home or place of business). Hickey found that 13–15% of victims had high facilitation, 60–64% of victims had low facilitation and 23–25% of victims had a combination of high and low facilitation. Hickey also noted that among serial killer victims after 1975, one in five victims were at greater risk from hitchhiking, working as a prostitute, or involving themselves in situations in which they often came into contact with strangers.\n\nThere is importance in studying and understanding victim facilitation as well as continuing to research it as a sub-topic of victimization. For instance, a study of victim facilitation increases public awareness, leads to more research on victim-offender relationship, and advances theoretical etiologies of violent crime. One of the ultimate purposes of this type of knowledge is to inform the public and increase awareness so fewer people become victims. Another goal of studying victim facilitation, as stated by Maurice Godwin, is to aid in investigations. Godwin discusses the theory of victim social networks as a concept in which one looks at the areas of highest risk for victimization from a serial killer. This can be connected to victim facilitation because the victim social networks are the locations in which the victim is most vulnerable to the serial killer. Using this process, investigators can create a profile of places where the serial killer and victim both frequent.\n\nThe National Crime Victimization Survey (NCVS) is a tool to measure the existence of actual, rather than reported, crimes—the victimization rate. The National Crime Victimization Survey is the United States' \"primary source of information on crime victimization. Each year, data are obtained from a nationally representative sample of 77,200 households comprising nearly 134,000 persons on the frequency, characteristics and consequences of criminal victimization in the United States. This survey enables the (government) to estimate the likelihood of victimization by rape, sexual assault, robbery, assault, theft, household burglary, and motor vehicle theft for the population as a whole as well as for segments of the population such as women, the elderly, members of various racial groups, city dwellers, or other groups.\" According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS), the NCVS reveals that, from 1994 to 2005, violent crime rates declined, reaching the lowest levels ever recorded. Property crimes continue to decline.\n\nIn Canada the Office of the Federal Ombudsman for Victims of Crime (OFOVC) is an independent resource for victims of crime. It was created in 2007 to ensure the federal government meets its responsibilities to victims of crime. The ombudsman provides information to victims about their rights under Canadian federal law, the services available to them, or to make a complaint about any federal agency or federal legislation dealing with victims of crime. The ombudsman also works to ensure that policy makers and other criminal justice personnel are aware of victims' needs and concerns and to identify important issues and trends that may negatively impact victims. Where appropriate, the Ombudsman may also make recommendations to the federal government.\n\nMany countries have such victimization surveys. They give a much better account for the volume crimes but are less accurate for crimes that occur with a (relative) low frequency such as homicide, or victimless 'crimes' such as drug (ab)use. Attempts to use the data from these national surveys for international comparison have failed. Differences in definitions of crime and other methodological differences are too big for proper comparison.\n\nA dedicated survey for international comparison: A group of European criminologists started an international victimization study with the sole purpose to generate international comparative crime and victimization data. The project is now known as the International Crime Victims Survey (ICVS). After the first round in 1989, the surveys were repeated in 1992, 1996, and 2000 and 2004/2005.\n\nOne train of thought supposes society itself is the victim of many crimes, especially such felonies as murder, homicide and manslaughter. Many lawyers, judges, and academics have espoused this sentiment. Some district attorneys feel they represent all of society, while others feel they represent the victims of the crime. \n\nThe \"penal couple\" is defined as the relationship between perpetrator and victim of a crime. That is, both are involved in the event. A sociologist invented the term in 1963. The term is now accepted by many sociologists. The concept is, essentially, that \"when a crime takes place, it has two partners, one the offender and second the victim, who is providing opportunity to the criminal in committing the crime.\" The victim, in this view, is \"a participant in the penal couple and should bear some 'functional responsibility' for the crime.\" The very idea is rejected by some other victimologists as blaming the victim.\n\nIn 1985, the UN General Assembly adopted the Declaration on the Basic Principles of Justice for Victims of Crime and Abuse of Power. Also, the International Victimology Institute Tilburg (INTERVICT) and the World Society of Victimology developed a UN Convention for Victims of Crime and Abuse of Power.\n\nThe term \"victimology\", in fact, denotes to the subject, which studies about the harms caused to victim in commission of crime and the relative scope for compensation to the victim as a means of redressal. In criminal jurisprudence, mere punishing of offender is not sufficient to redress the grievance of victim; there is need to compensate the loss or harms suffered by the victim. In Criminal Procedure Code, though provisions have been made in Section 357 to provide compensation to victims, who have suffered loss or harms in consequence to commission of offence. But, what has been provided in Indian Law, as a compensatory measure to victims of crimes, is not enough and this aspect needs to be reviewed by the legislature to frame or enact necessary law, so as to sufficiently compensate to victims of crimes and to provide safeguards to victims of crimes, besides compensating him in monetary terms. [S.P. Sharma, Advocate, Rajasthan High Court, Jodhpur, December, 2010].\nEuropean Union\nVictims of gender-based violence and terrorism\nThe Stockholm programme explicitly mentions gender-based violence victims in Sect. 2.3.4, stating that victims of this kind are particularly vulnerable, and therefore in need of special support and legal protection by the state. Victims of gender-based or domestic violence are entitled to the same protections as those who become victims of crime in an EU member state to which they are not nationals, as these kinds of victims are deemed to be more vulnerable and/or exposed to further harm. Victims of terrorism are also deemed to be in need.\n\nThe goal specifically for the Directive 2012/29/EU, as stated by the European Union (EU), was to \"improve the real, day to-day situation of millions of victims of crime across Europe to the greatest extent possible\". The EU's efforts to increase freedom of movement between states has resulted in a growing concern for maintaining the rights of citizens of the EU when visiting a different member state. The EU deemed that the most important way to solve this was to clearly outline the rights of victims, to strengthen and increase victims’ rights as well as increase participation of victims in criminal proceedings.\n\nAustria has established protections for Victims of Crime that reside in the EEA Area (EU countries as well as Norway, Lichtenstein and Iceland) or those that are Austrian citizens or permanent residents. Victim services include free access to legal advice and representation, counselling and monetary compensation. Monetary compensation however is capped and is only available to victims of serious crimes, which is defined as crimes where the offender serves no less than six months imprisonment. The compensation is funded by fines imposed on convicted offenders and other sources.\n\nAlthough Austria is a signatory to the Victims of Crime Directive (Directive 2012/29/EU) it has not been wholly compliant, given there is little emphasis on rights of interpretation. Applications, phone calls or emails must be made in either English or German which may hinder victims of crime from accessing services fully or understanding their rights without the help of an embassy or consulate. Another breach of the Directive involves the benefits afforded only to Austrian citizens. Austrian citizens are entitled to compensation if they are a victim of crime, even if they suffer an injury in another country, an additional protection for Austrian citizens only. Non EEA nationals have less protection from the state in Austria and must rely instead in contravention of the Directive, on Weissering which is a NFP organisation which provides services for victims of crime. Due to the limited resources (only partly funded by the government, largely reliant on donations) of Weissering, any victim seeking compensation will be means tested and assessed on a case by case basis. Emergency assistance may be available in some cases.\n\nIn terms of engagement, the Austrian Government recently participated in Victims of Crime Awareness Day, promoting the rights of victims in the workplace which is an issue in Austria, in relation to employee/employer violence but also employee/client violence. This indicates that the Austrian Government is trying to raise awareness about victims of crime, specifically in areas that are presenting a current issue in accordance with the Directive\n\nThe rights of victims of crimes in Croatia have been improving steadily since Croatia became a candidate for the European Union in 2004. As a result of their wish to become a part of the EU certain prerequisites had to be fulfilled in regards to their criminal justice system and human rights.\nCroatia, in order to fulfil said prerequisites, initiated change in their criminal justice system in relation to the rights of victims. The change instigated by the government was in the form of the Department for Support to Witnesses and Other Participants in War Crimes Trials (2005).\n\nAt a legislative level, the Criminal Procedure Act (2008) increased the rights of victims both within and of out criminal proceedings and recognised victims as a separate entity in court in addition to their role as a witness and injured party.\nThese rights include the \"right to efficient psychological and other expert help and support from the authority, organisation or institution for aiding victims of criminal offences\" and the \"right to compensation for material and immaterial damages from the state fund\".\n\n2008 also saw the enactment of the Crime Victims Compensation Act. This act resulted in the ability for Croatian citizens to receive compensation if they have endured serious personal injury.\n\nCroatia's progressive stance can be exemplified through the recent case of the introduction of laws regarding the compensation to the victims of rape committed during the 1991–1995 Independence War. This move to compensate said victims was a display of the acceptance of the United Nations Security Council's 2008 resolution which stated rape could be considered a war crime. In line with the Crime Victim Compensation Act, Croatia's parliament, in 2015, adopted laws awarding victims of rape, committed in the Independence War, compensation. This compensation was in the form of a one off payment, coupled with a monthly allowance and access to free therapy, medical and legal services.\n\nUnder the Compensation of Victims of Violent Crimes Law of 1997, Cyprus outlines that a victim is a person who has suffered serious bodily harm or impairment to one's health, which is attributed directly to a violent crime, or to an individual who has died as a result of such crime. As a result of this interpretation, crimes against the person which are not considered to be violent, will not result in the labelling of anyone as a ‘victim’. This fact can be seen as being particularly relevant to crimes often perpetrated against tourists, such as petty theft.\n\nThis is crucial in relation to compensation claims, whereby foreign citizens are not afforded the same access to compensation. Nationals of states party to the European Convention on the Compensation of Victim of Violent Crimes are granted access to compensations, as are nationals of all Member States of the Council of Europe who are permanent residents in Cyprus. All other foreigners are not granted eligibility in regards to claiming compensation as a victim of any classification of crime committed against them.\n\nThe prosecution of traffickers within Cyprus has been identified as a point of issue by the US Department of State. According to statistics gathered, there has been a 55 percent decrease in the conviction of traffickers within Cyprus. Furthermore, perpetrators are often being convicted under statutes which prescribe a much less serious penalty than other anti-trafficking laws. This decrease in convictions reflects a negative impact on victims of trafficking, who may lack faith in a system of criminal justice which does not adequately identify and punish offenders.\n\nWhen in Denmark victims of crime can access a number of services and support mechanisms to guide them through the criminal justice process. These services and support mechanisms are implemented through domestic legislation and not international law.\n\nA controversial issue surrounding Danish Victim law is the decision not to sign any European Union directive on victims’ rights. One of the most influential articles of EU legislation for victims constitutes Directive 2012/29/EU, which set minimum standards for victims’ rights. However, as Denmark is not a signatory they are not obligated to implement the directive.\n\nDespite this decision, Denmark still has a relatively high standard for Victims rights within domestic legislation.The Victims Compensation Law of 2005 allows Danish and foreign citizens as well as Danish citizens living outside of Denmark access to compensation for victims of crime with serious injuries. Danish police are required by law to accept any criminal report irrespective of the language used. Compensation for victims of crime is extensive within Denmark. Compensation can be given to those who suffered serious injuries and dependents of homicide victims. For medical expenses and loss of income there is no limit, whilst other forms of compensation (compensable costs) are capped at 1000 Danish Kroner, being decided by a compensation board. A time period of two years applies for all applications for compensation.\n\nOther support services for victims of crime within Denmark include free legal aid for violent crime upon application and automatic free legal aid for victims of sexual assault. For all other crimes the court will decide on free legal services on the grounds of economic situation and necessity. In addition, every victim whom comes before the system has the right to an interpreter as well as free translation of legal documents from the victim's primary language of understanding. In addition, victim support services are accessible to all residents even in circumstances where no crime has been reported, nor is there any criminal proceeding underway. This allows victims to access services and undergo rehabilitation, even in the instance where a choice is made to not report the crime. In the instance of mediation between offender and the victim, whereby the offender expresses remorse and the victim accepts the apology and reconciles, the judge and therefore the court may formally acknowledge the situation, still applying the sentence, however with a lighter punishment. This empowerment of the victim is often more necessary to provide closure than the strict punishment of the offender.\n\nUpon investigation of the alleged crime, a regional public prosecution or law enforcement officials will decide how to proceed with the case. If there is a decision not to prosecute on behalf of the police, and therefore not proceed to a court trial (closure of the case), the victim can appeal the decision before a regional public prosecutor. If the regional public prosecutor has initially decided to close the investigation, then the next avenue is a submission of appeal is to be directed towards the Director of public prosecutions.\n\nThe Estonian citizenship report a high trust in the incorruptibility of their judicial system (74%), legislators (67%) and police (83%). By contrast, however, only 43% of victims of serious crimes said they reported it to the police, and only 17% said they were satisfied with the treatment of their complaint to police.\n\nThe NGO 'Estonian Crime Victim Support Society' has been in operation for over 20 years, and released a Victim Support Handbook in 2002 that led a debate about legislation dealing with victim support issues that ultimately cumulated in the Victim Support Act in 2003. This Act was the beginning of a paradigmatic shift in Estonian criminal justice from a strongly retributive mindset to one of restorative justice, and showed a need and interest in caring for victims, as well as much more attention and real practical and material help for victims of crime.\n\nHowever, the NGO lacks state support and funding, and so is unable to offer high quality victim support throughout Estonia. State victim support only deals with certain types of offences with a fixed agenda and is far more regulated, making the process much more official, and leading to victims uncomfortable participating.\n\nVictims of crime of violence committed within the Republic of Estonia are entitled to state compensation pursuant to the Victim Support Act. Serious damage to one's health, a health disorder lasting at least 6 months or death as a result of a crime of violence may entitle a victim and/or their dependents compensation. A single victim and all his dependents are entitled to compensation equaling 80% of material damage as a result of the crime, but no more than a total 9590 euros, on the basis of: damage arising from work incapacity; medical treatment expenses; damage due to victim death; damage caused to appliances substituting for bodily functions (e.g. spectacles, dentures, contact lenses) and to clothes; funeral expenses of victim.\n\nBulgaria's attempts to protect and support the rights of victims of crime are generally considered superficial. Victims are entitled to participate in criminal trials as witnesses, private accusers or complainants, with assistance from legal counsel. Additionally, legislation provides for protection of vulnerable witnesses (e.g. children, victims of sexual offences) during witness examination way police handled their matters. A recent International Crime Victims Survey (ICVS), shows that only 40% of victims are satisfied with the way police handled their matters.\n\nBulgaria's rape laws have been controversial, with a number of applications made to the European Court of Justice for breaches of the Convention on Human Rights. In M.C. v Bulgaria, the ECJ held that the decision not to prosecute the rape of a 14-year-old rape victim breached her rights provided under Articles 3 and 8. The legislation enshrined a practice where rapes would only be prosecuted where there was evidence of physical force and active resistance. The court held that rape laws must apply to all forms of non-consensual sexual acts.\nMore recently, a number of breaches of the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) were highlighted in a Committee report. The report was critical of Bulgaria's failure to provide for adequate compensation for victims of sexual offences as well as the reliance on gender stereotypes when drafting legislation.\n\nA recent Council of Europe on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings found that no adult victims of human trafficking received any form of assistance from the Bulgarian Government. A key reason for this seems to stem from peculiarities and uncertainty surrounding the legislative framework on human trafficking. First, it has two separate definitions: one for criminalisation of conduct and one for identification of victims. The latter is more restrictive, so a person may be considered a victim for the purposes of a criminal trial yet fall outside the definition of ‘victim’ where support services and compensation are concerned. Secondly, Bulgaria's legislation operates solely from the perspective of Bulgaria being a country of ‘origin’ – i.e. that trafficking involves the relocation of Bulgarian nationals to other countries. As a consequence, victims who are within Bulgaria but are non-EU nationals may fall through cracks in the legislation.\n\nIntroduction:\n\nFrance is a signatory to the EU's directive on Victims’ rights and had until November 2015 to transpose it. As of February 2016, it had still failed to notify the EU what, if any, policies it had implemented to fulfill this. Criminal proceedings in France take the form of an investigation and a trial. Investigations are undertaken by French detective police under the authority of the prosecutor (police investigation) or the investigating magistrate (judicial investigation). If the investigation goes to trial, victims have the right to be involved in the trial and have access to legal counsel.\n\nCompensation:\n\nUnder France's Framework Justice Act (2002), police are obligated to inform victims of their right to apply for compensation and seek a civil remedy. Police can register compensation claims on behalf of victims so there is no need to go to court.A state fund for compensation for victims of violent crimes exists called The State Fund for the Victims of Crime. This is partly funded by Criminal Justice bodies who recoup funds from perpetrators (The Reform Act 1990).\n\nVictim Resources:\n\nThere a number of organisations within France dedicated to providing justice and support for victims of crime in France. The European Justice e-porta fact sheet, offered in over 23 languages, outlines a number of different ones, including the National Victim Support and Mediation Institute (INAVEM). It is partially funded and certified by the department of Justice, and aims to drive, coordinate, and promote victim support missions. The organisation's 08VICTIMS (08 84284637) helpline is always available. It directs victims towards their nearest INAVEM support office who can get the victim assistance from the relevant victim organisation. It also promotes awareness of victims rights, as well as representing victims' aid associations at national, European and international level. The INAVEM has been pushing the French Government to implement the directive, providing recommendations based on their assessment of victims’ needs.\n\nHuman Trafficking:\n\nIn 2012, France was found to have violated Article 4 of the European Convention of Human Rights due to its failure to provide an adequate framework to protect the rights of human trafficking victims. As of 2013, however, the Government of France was in full compliance with the required minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking. Despite this, the protection was still largely focused on victims of sex trafficking and not victims of labour trafficking.\n\nJustice proceedings in Germany take place under the Inquisitorial System of Justice, meaning that the judge has an active role within the investigation and trial process. In contrast to the Adversarial System of trial, it is possible to have more than two opposing parties in a criminal trial, as there is not such a large requirement of a balance between the prosecution and the rights of the defendant. Therefore, the German Code of Criminal Procedure 1987 (herein ‘Criminal Code’) gives victims a number of rights, including the right to participate in the trial; the right to appeal after the conclusion of the trial; and the right to seek compensation for their loss.\n\nAs a founding member of the European Union, Germany is required to sign and implement to EU's directive on Victims’ Rights into their national laws by 16 November 2015. The EU requires that victims are recognised and treated with respect and dignity; protected from further victimisation/intimidation from the offender or within the criminal justice proceedings; receive appropriate support and have access to compensation. Germany's Criminal Code has not been amended since April 2014, therefore nothing has been further implicated. However it is clear that Germany's Criminal Code already satisfies the EU requirements through their extensive rights and protections of the victim, entrenched within their Criminal Code.\n\nUnlike many other jurisdictions, Part Five of the Criminal Code allows victims of crime to participate in the criminal proceedings against the accused. For victims of personal offences such as defamation; bodily injury; and property damage, victims are automatically entitled to engage a Private Accessory Prosecutor (‘PAP’) who will represent their interests at trial. For victims of crime not mentioned in s 374 of the Criminal Code, permission can be sought from the Public Prosecution Office (‘PPO’).\n\nThe Criminal Code rules that the status of the PAP is that of the PPO in the preferred public charge, meaning they are able to participate to the same extent and be heard in the proceedings on the private charges. Furthermore, the PAP is entitled to a period of one week between summons and the main hearing and holds the right to inspect the files through an attorney.\n\nFurthermore, should victim's not be eligible for PAP or choose not to do so, they have the right to engage a legal representative as a witness to uphold their interests when, for example, they are being questions as a witness at the main trial.\n\nPAP in principle, are entitled to appeal a judgement on grounds of fact and law only. However, an appeal by a PAP will be rejected should it be solely on account of leniency of the sentence.\n\nPart three in the Criminal Code addresses appellate remedies and states that an appeal on fact and law needs to be filed with the court of first instance either orally to be recorded by the registry or in writing within one week after pronouncement of the judgment.\n\nA PAP may withdraw at any stage throughout the proceedings but needs to consented by the defendant after the commencement of their examination of the main hearing. The PAP would be deemed to have withdrawn charges, if an appeal on the fact and law was filed by them, this would immediately be dismissed. Once the PAP withdraws, it may not be brought back a second time. However, it is important to note that the PAP may demand restoration of the ‘status quo ante’ (previously existing state of affairs) within one week after the default subject to the conditions specified in sections 44 and 45.\n\nGermany has a compensation program for victims of violent or personal crimes. A police report needs to be filed within a year in order to be eligible for compensation. According to the Crimes Victims Compensation Act (1985), all European Union citizens from foreign member states are also eligible for financial compensation. This covers special compensatory damages (out of pocket expenses), such as loss of earnings and medical expenses. However, it does not cover general damages which are non-monetary for example, mental anguish, pain and suffering.\n\nIn Greece, you are considered a victim if you have suffered damage (either personal injury or harm to/loss of property) as a result of an incident that constitutes a crime under national law.\nThe motivation behind the Directive 2012/29/EU, effectively setting a minimum standard for victims rights, is illustrated by the case of Robbie Hughes in 2008, a victim of a serious attack in Greece who was left with no support or advice. The EU Member States (except Denmark) were required to implement the Directive into national law by 16 November 2015. However, Greece is one of the 16 countries facing infringement proceedings for the non-communication of the Directive.\n\nIn Greece, victims of crime enjoy rights before, during and after the trial process. In certain circumstances, such cases where the victim is a minor or has suffered sexual abuse, victims are afforded additional rights, support and protection. There is no discrimination by support services against foreigners. Foreign victims are entitled to an interpreter when testifying to the police.\n\nHowever, Greece has been criticised for its lack of upholding minority victims rights and its failure in remedying human rights in cases of hate crime. In order to file a complaint, the current law requires the payment of a fee, dissuading victims of hate crime from reporting offences. This deficiency is exacerbated by the lack of protection for undocumented migrants experiencing hate crime. Demonstrating the limited victim status of migrants and minority groups members is the inadequacy of support where such groups are victims of police abuse. Greece has been condemned by the European Court of Human Rights 11 times for the misuse of weapons by police and the subsequent absence of effective investigations. Migrants or members of minority groups were victims in ten of these incidents.\n\nCompensation for victims of intentional crimes of violence in Greece\nFor victims of domestic violence and other intentional crimes such as child abuse, if the offender lacks the means to provide compensation for their crime(s), or if the offender remains anonymous, the state of Greece, under the Compensation Directive 2004/80/EC is obliged to provide compensation to victims of intentional crimes of violence. The compensation provided by the perpetrator or the state of Greece must cover financial losses associated with physical damage resulting from the violent crime, this includes medical fees, loss of income and funeral costs. However, psychological damage and trauma resulting from the crime are not compensated. Victims of crime in Greece have five days to report the crime; if the crime is not reported in this timeframe, victims are not eligible for compensation. An application form is required for processing compensation claims, and this is to be completed in Greek. The Hellenic Compensation Authority processes claims for compensation.\n\nSupport services available to victims of crimes in Greece\nThere are a number of services available to victims of crime in Greece. These include:\nEKKA –domestic violence and racist attacks\nAssociation for Minors' Protection, NGOs: Hamogelo tou Paidiou, Arsis– social service for children\n\nIn Hungary there is a general lack of understanding in how to combat and prevent domestic violence. This often stems from cultural ideas about women in Hungarian society and the idea that some amount of violence is inevitable. Until new legislation was introduced in 2013, Domestic Violence was not categorized as a separate offence from other assaults. This means that victims of domestic violence in Hungary were accosted the same rights as victims from a range of circumstances. According to Human Rights Watch, \"authorities [often] told victims that extreme physical violence…should be considered light, and not sufficiently serious to trigger an investigation’’. However, in other cases when women reported the abuse to the police, the alleged offenders were taken into custody but, quite often released instantaneously without being taken to court. This highlights a lack of support from the police and the courts in combating domestic violence. In many instances, it is the responsibility of the victim, not the prosecution or the police to start a course of legal action which hinders effective remedies of domestic violence. In the ECtHR case Kalucza vs. Hungary 2012, the applicant complained that the Hungarian authorities had failed to protect her abuse from her husband in her home. The ECtHR concluded that Article 8 (right to respect for private life and family life) had been abused by Hungarian authorities. After the changes in 2013 however, harsher penalties were introduced for perpetrators of domestic violence. At this time as well, the onus was placed upon the prosecution and not the victim to pursue legal action. This increased the rights of the victims within Hungary in relation to domestic abuse. In spite of these changes however, an instance of domestic violence will only be considered if there have been two separate instances of abuse. Furthermore, the amendments only protected partners who were living together and neglected to protect those who were not living in the same residence. The new legislation is also lacking in a plan of a National level that could effectively combat domestic violence as an issue. Procedures have been put in place to help police respond to instances of domestic violence however, no such guidelines exist for judges, prosecutors, social workers and healthcare workers. Ultimately the provisions are not strong enough to deal with the issue sufficiently they are also not accepted and applied. Hungary also did not sign up to the Istanbul Convention, a practical convention aimed at combating domestic violence. It concluded that countries should \"establish hotlines, shelters, medical and foreign services, counselling and legal aid\" in order to protect abused women.\n\nFollowing the introduction of the directive on victims rights by the EU in 2012.(reference the directive) It is particularly relevant to examine the avenues available to victims in terms of compensation and legal aid, and avenues for retribution.\n\nThere are a number of ways to claim compensation as a victim of crime, be it through a court order dictating that an offender must pay compensation to you. If you are injured as a result of a crime, you can seek to claim compensation under the Scheme of Compensation for Personal Injuries Criminally Inflicted. This would be funded through the Department of Justice and Equality and administered by the Criminal Injuries Compensation Tribunal.\nTo seek compensation for an injury inflicted in another EU state you need to contact the compensation tribunal to gain information around how to claim compensation from the member state in question.\nThere is no time limit to making a claim if the injury inflicted resulted in the death of a victim. if this did not occur, claims must be made within 3 months.\n\nCompensation will be provided to victims, or in the event of a fatality, the immediate family of the victim.\nThe scheme of compensation is available to you if you were injured as a result of violent crime or if you were injured in assisting another victim of crime or whilst attempting to save a life.\nYou do not need legal representation to apply for compensation and then tribunal is not obliged to cover any legal costs.\nNo compensation will be given to you in the event you were living with the perpetrator at the time of the attack, meaning this is not available to victims of domestic violence. In addition, the compensation scheme does not exist to provide retribution for pain and suffering, but instead to cover out of pocket expenses and medical bills.\nCompensation is means tested and may vary depending on welfare payments, salary, and sick leave. The tribunal also considers your character and way of life when deciding compensation level. If you are found to have provoked the injury, compensation is unlikely to be provided.\n\nThere are a number of ways to claim compensation as a victim of crime, be it through a court order dictating that an offender must pay compensation to you. If you are injured as a result of a crime, you can seek to claim compensation under the Scheme of Compensation for Personal Injuries Criminally Inflicted. This would be funded through the Department of Justice and Equality and administered by the Criminal Injuries Compensation Tribunal.\nTo seek compensation for an injury inflicted in another EU state you need to contact the compensation tribunal to gain information around how to claim compensation from the member state in question.\nThere is no time limit to making a claim if the injury inflicted resulted in the death of a victim. If this did not occur, claims must be made within 3 months- to make a claim for compensation a police report must have been completed.\n\n\nVictims rights are outlined by the Code of Penal Procedure which details that during the prosecution and sentencing stages, victims have the right to be informed of judicial proceeding developments and can produce evidence at any stage of the trial. Victims also have the right to oppose the Judge for the Preliminary Investigation's request for dismissal of the case and to protect their rights by having a defending counsel if necessary.\n\nArticle 90 of the Code of Penal Procedure states that victims are allowed to present written memories and statements at any stage of the judicial process that indicate evidence. Furthermore, section 3 of Article 90 states that if a victim has died as a result of the crime then the power of rights as states by law are able to be exercised by close relatives of the victim.\n\nVictims are able to access assistance agencies, which have the primary objective of providing adequate compensation. The amount and source of compensation is determined by the nature and severity of the crime. For instance, victims of organized crime and terrorism are entitled to up to 100,000 US dollars from the State while victims that have experienced property or medical damage will be compensated by their offenders. Additionally, a victim with special needs may be granted of free legal aid and will be compensated by both private donations and a proportion of the pay received by convicted working prisoners from the Department of Prisons. The victims’ assistance agencies also provide the option to accompany the victim at trial with their consent.\n\nOne of the most vulnerable victim groups in Italy is children under the age of 16. Some of the most prevalent challenges faced by children in Italy include child labor, forced participation in organized crime and also becoming refugees after fleeing their own nation. Although young victims have rights explicitly stated in the Italian Penal Code, the Italian criminal justice system lacks ongoing supportive resources to protect the rights of children.\n\nThe European Commission has outlined the rights of the victims and states that all victims will be individually assessed to identify vulnerability. Young victims are always presumed vulnerable and particular attention is paid to categories such as victims of terrorism, organized crime, human trafficking, gender-based violence, victims with disabilities, sexual violence and exploitation. Furthermore, according to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime and article 609 decies of the Italian Penal Code, a child victim of sexual exploitation is to be assisted throughout the entire proceedings.\n\nArticle 498 of the Italian Code of Penal Procedure states that the investigatory examination of a child in a court of law must be undertaken by the President of questions and is also assisted by a family member or child psychologist.\n\nFollowing a report commissioned by former justice minister Chris Said lamenting the poor state in which victims were treated, Malta introduced the Victims of Crime Act (2015) on the 2nd of April of that year. The report emphasised the need to increase the amount of resources for the legal aid office and said that victims should be able to receive benefits from the service. The new Act provides free legal aid to victims of crime, where this was only open to the accused prior to its assent.\n\nAccording to Dr Roberta Lepre, director of Victim Support Malta, there are three primary focuses in the legislation: information, support, and protection. In terms of information, victims now have the right to easily access to clear information about the relevant procedures, what support services are available, how to access legal aid services, how to access compensation, and whether they are entitled to translation services. Victims also now have the right to receive acknowledgement of a complaint, outlining the basic elements of the crime concerned as well as ongoing information about his or her case. Further, if police do not arraign suspect, the victim has right to be informed of the decision in writing.\n\nWhen it comes to support, victims now have the right to free use of support services following a needs and risk assessment. Support services also include information on how to receive information on prevention of further risk of victimisation, and access to counselling for emotional or psychological damage. Competent authorities are also obliged to inform victims of ways in which they can be protected, such as seeking a protection order.\n\nThe legislation is primarily aimed at allowing victims a greater voice, and potentially working towards reconciliation between victim and offender by decreasing the hardship of the former. For the purposes of the Act, a victim is one who has suffered \"physical, mental or emotional harm or economic loss which was directly caused by a criminal offence\". This also applies to family members of those who have died as a direct result of a crime. Such broad provisions allow for the benefits to be accessed by many people. It is too early to say, however, whether the new legislation has been implemented effectively.\n\nLithuania has several national mechanisms relating to the rights and support for victims of crime. The Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Police Department of the Ministry of the Interior each provide legal aid and set up measures of protection for victims of crime.\n\nAs of 1996, the Parliament of Lithuania has adopted a law providing for the protection of parties in relation to criminal offences, which can be extended towards victims of crime and their families against further victimization. As per methods of victim compensation, additional provisions such as Article 107 allows for voluntary compensation for victims of crime. If this has not occurred, Article 110 stipulates that the victim can charge the offender with a civil suit, be it of a direct or indirect consequence. Further, if the offender is not able to provide compensation for the victim, Article 118 contends that the state will provide compensation in advance.\n\nIn addition to these rights provided to victims of crime, there are many NGO's operating within Lithuania to provide facilities and support for victims. These include the 'Crime Victim Care Association of Lithuania'. Cartias Lithuania, Missing Person's Support Centre, Klaipeda Social and Psychological Support Centre, Child House and the International Organization for Migration – Vilinius Office.\n\nStudies have been conducted into the physical and psychological state and needs of victims post criminalization, especially that of victims of trafficking. These studies greatly assist NGO's understanding and assisting victims of crime providing greater relief during the criminal trial process, incarceration system and return to everyday life.\n\nLatvia does not have a comprehensive victim support system, nor is there a single policy that suggests that the development of such a system would be seen as a priority in the near future. Despite this, the criminal procedure law of Latvia includes a specific chapter dedicated to victims. This chapter outlines the procedural rights and obligations of victims.\n\nIn Latvia, in order to be recognized as a victim under the criminal procedure law four steps must be undertaken. Firstly, a criminal procedure must be initiated. Secondly, there must be information that suggests as the result of the offence the person was harmed. Thirdly, the person who experienced the harm must agree to become a victim within the criminal proceedings. Fourthly and finally, the person in charge of the criminal proceedings must recognise that the person is a victim. Once these four steps take place, and the person is established as a victim, the victim gains victim rights.\n\nVictims of crime in Latvia have access to legal aid. Legal aid is often unaffordable to victims however, as although expenses for legal assistance be reimbursed from the offender, the victim has to pay the costs upfront at the time.\n\nState compensation, for moral injury, physical suffering or financial loss, is available to victims of certain types of crimes. This includes in cases of intentional criminal offences, if the offence resulted in death, if the offence resulted in severe bodily injuries or if the perpetrator of the offence was not identified and thus has not been held criminally liable. The maximum amount of compensation is give minimal monthly wages and the amount awarded depends on the severity of the crime. In the case of the crime causing the victim's death, 100% of compensation shall be awarded.\n\nLatvia is a Tier 2 source and destination country persons trafficked for sexual exploitation and forced labour. To safeguard the rights of victims of trafficking, the government of Latvia has increased the accessibility of government funded protections, such as offering victims of trafficking temporary residency in exchange for participating in the judicial process against human traffickers. During this period of investigation, qualifying victims are offered government aid, which is 70% of the maximum amount of state compensation. Victims who do not meet the qualifying criteria are referred to non-governmental organisations for aid. Furthermore, victims who may have directly or indirectly participated in unlawful activity as a result of their trafficking can avoid prosecution.\nIntersecting with social services and assistance laws, the Latvian government also ensures the social rehabilitation of the victims of human trafficking. The Government of Latvia has also established an \"anti-trafficking action plan\" for 2014–2020 to strengthen the rights of victims of trafficking, and to increase awareness of the crime.\n\nLuxembourg has a well-developed program of victim support services through the state run Victim Support Service (part of the Ministry of Justice). It is one of only five Member States where the Ministry of Justice is solely responsible for the distribution of these services. Victims’ rights are also actively enforced during the different stages of the criminal justice process, including: during the investigation of a crime, during a trial and after a trial. The state also coordinates with non-profit organisations, including through the provision of financial support, in order to assist in the development of legal reforms and to better coordinate at a grass roots level. For example, one such organisation, Women in Distress, works to provide women, their children and young girls with effective protection against violence by way of refuges and information and consultation centres. Through this process, Luxembourg has become one of only nine Member States to fulfil the Council of Europe's recommendation of one counselling centre per 50,000 women.\n\nRights of Victims\n\nVictims of Crime can report the crime to the police or directly to the public prosecutor. Reports must be submitted in one of Luxembourg's official languages: Luxembourgish, French and German. An interpreter is available for free of charge for people who do not speak these languages. Statutory limitation periods for reporting apply. Victims are able to be directly involved in the process by acting as witnesses and providing testimony. Interpreters are free of charge and the victims are entitled to be represented by lawyers. Police must undergo a mandatory course on victimology which is partly run by the ‘Service d’aide aux victims’ (SAV). Police are obligated to inform victims of their rights to:\n\n(i) receive assistance from VSS;\n(ii) compensation for damages;\n(iii) receive legal aid (available on the fulfilment of certain conditions); and\n(iv) to be fully informed about the status of their proceedings. If the case does not proceed to court, reasons for this outcome must be provided in order to help the victim decide whether to appeal this decision.\n\nCompensation\n\nIn the interest of justice, Luxembourg offers compensation for victims who have suffered physical injuries from crime. Compensation is only paid out in instances were victims were unable to obtain adequate compensation from insurance, social security or from the offender. In 2012, over 405,000 Euro was paid out in compensation. This exceeded the budgeted amount of 350,000. A request for compensation has to be initiated within two years of an offence occurring and is addressed to the Ministry of justice. A commission formed by a magistrate, senior civil servant of the Minister of Justice and a lawyer will then meet within an applicant to assess if an application is successful. The maximum amount that could be awarded as of 2009 was 63.000 Euros. By way of appeal, legal action against the State can be brought before the ‘tribunal d’arrondissement’ of Luxembourg or Diekirch.\n\nDirective 2012/29/EU\n\nDirective 2012/29/EU seeks to ensure that all victims of crime have better rights, support and protection throughout all of Europe. Member states, including Luxembourg, were required to implement the terms of the Directive into national legislation by 16 November 2015. However, almost 60% of these have failed to comply with the requirement to communicate the legislative texts which transpose the Directive to the Commission. As Luxembourg is one of these states, it now has an infringement case open against it.\n\nHotlines\nThe government of Luxembourg has implemented two telephone hotlines to assist victims of crime. The first, which assists victims in general, can be reached at +352 475 821-628/627. The second, directed specifically at youth and children, can be reached at + 352 12345. Further support is available online.\n\nCriminal Justice in Netherlands has seen an era of reform with a greater focus placed on the rights of victims of crime. In 1987, a new victim-orientated reform was put in place in which victim's interested were to be taken into account during all processes of the criminal justice system. The reform of criminal law in the eyes of victims brought forth regulations in favor of victims’ rights. Various procedural elements allow for victim compensation and institutional obligation to protect victim rights through policing, criminal proceedings and victim rehabilitation.\n\nIn practice, all official institutions are subject to monitoring by the National Ombudsman. If victims of crime feel they have been unjustly treated and victim-related rules were not correctly protected, they are able to raise a complaint with the Ombudsman. In light of this, Netherlands enforces levels of state compensation, which offers a ‘one-off’ payment, and has been institutionalized since 1974.\n\nFor further victim support, various NGO's operate within Netherlands on a local level and care for victims of crimes through providing emotional support, practical advice and judicial advice. An example of this support is seen within the nationwide agency Slachtofferhulp is partly funded by the government and gives aid to victims in specific groups and to victims of crime in general.\n\nDomestic violence rates are very high in Poland, due to a number of factors.\nAfter surveying Polish women, it was found that as many as one in six women, from a variety of backgrounds and age groups, were victims of domestic violence. The Polish criminal justice system fails to effectively assist these victims and does not take their cases seriously. Unfortunately many perpetrators only receive suspended sentences and their female partners are often financially dependent on them and must continue to live with them. Furthermore, the authorities mistrust women who report domestic violence. Poland fails to meet its obligations under international human rights law, in relation to the rights of domestic violence victims.\n\nIn order to improve the rights of domestic violence victims in Poland, the Blue Card program was introduced as a way of standardising police interaction with those that involved in cases of domestic violence, including the family of the victim. This program enables persons who have alleged to be victims of domestic violence (DV) to gain access to services in counseling, support and reparations. Anonymous or suspicion of DV is enough for issuance of a \"Blue Card – B\". A Blue Card – B consists of a brochure detailing further actions against violence, help and support centre's near by, and is applicable to the whole of Poland. The efficiency of support centres indicates a positive increase in individuals attending victim support centre's, it however does not indicate a decrease in DV occurrence. In 2000 the Ministry of Justice in Poland sparked the notion of \"Victim Support Week\", connected to the International day of Victims of Crime These proactive measures are not legally regulated however do show promise in moving the Polish Nation forward to support those effected by domestic violence.\n\nGeneral victim support centres have extended ranges since 2012 following the implementation of tasks in article 11 of the Ministry of justice Directive. Such implementation includes covering costs of heath services, medical products, secondary or vocational education, temporary accommodation and other facilities. Weak aspects still include; uneven support on a national basis in provinces that are further reaching, non-uniform project development and insufficient numbers for providing assistance, both legally and psychologically. Strong aspects however must be acknowledged, including the establishment of networks with communicative and mutual support, as well as assistance fund establishments and legal compensation. Social attitudes need to be changed in Poland, towards victims of domestic violence and the criminal justice system needs to recognise the prevalence of domestic violence, in order to hinder its occurrence and assist victims.\n\nIn Portugal, victims of crime (both tourists and national citizens) have 6 immediate rights; The Right to Information, The Right to Receive a Statement of the Complaint, The Right to Translation, The Right to Compensation for Participation in the Process and to the Reimbursement of Expenses, The Right to Compensation from the Perpetrator of the Crime, and The Right to Compensation from the Portuguese State.\n\nA 'victim of crime' is defined as; having \"suffered damage, as a result of an incident which constitutes a crime according to national law\". During legal proceedings, a victim in Portugal has a limited role, where they act only to provide evidence to support the claim for damages\n\nThe Portuguese Government offers several avenues of help and support for victims of crime such as; the National Commission for Protection of Children and Young People at Risk, Directorate General of Social Affairs, The Portuguese Association for Victim Support, the Commission for Equality and Against Racial Discrimination, and Open Window – Support to Victims of Domestic Violence.\n\nSlovakia is a nation where various targeted groups, particularly young women, as well as men, the disabled, the uneducated and the unemployed are commonly susceptible to the likes of fabricated international job prospects; and in turn increase their likelihood of becoming a victim of the human trafficking trade. Many Slovakian's end up being deported to highly active trafficking countries; such as, 'Germany, Austria, the UK, Ireland, Switzerland and Poland'. Slovakia is a prominent country which specifically has victims from Bulgaria, Romania, Vietnam, Ukraine and Moldova. People from these countries are then transported against their own will, compelled into sexual activity and prostitution.\n\nThe Government of the Slovak Republic undertook numerous steps to tackle the fight against human trafficking. In 2005 an Action Plan was initiated to undertake steps to 'control and coordinate' the activity of the slave trade. This Action was further improved with the implementation of the 2011 'National Program to Combat Trafficking in Human Beings for the years 2011–2014'. Improvements regarded achieving an effective solution to combat human trafficking. Additionally, emphasis surrounded ensuring adequate support and care for subjected victims. This includes victims receiving 'comprehensive care' and prepare them for their return to their home country.\n\nSlovenia currently has a very low crime rate (30.75 and 7.32 rapes per million people, as of 2010).\n\nSlovenia has regulated the rights of victims of crime during legal proceedings in the Criminal Procedure Act. Before this act was introduced, victims of crime were still entitled to compensation under civil law.\nIn 2005, the Witness Protection Act, the Crime Victims Compensation Act, and the Resolution for Preventing and Combating Crime came into effect. The Resolution focuses particularly on protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms, in terms of victims of crime. Slovenia's definition of victims includes immediate families of the injured party.\n\nVictims are entitled to:\nBe heard during proceedings, to give evidence, to pose questions to witnesses and experts involved, to be acquainted with all rights and for the injured party, a right to inspect material evidence supplied. They are also entitled to a translator to avoid language difficulties. Slovene is the national language, but Italian and Hungarian are also spoken in certain regions of Slovenia.\nTo claim compensation either through the criminal proceedings, or through civil suit if necessary to avoid delays.\n\nIn certain criminal offences, such as sexual abuse or mistreatment and neglect of minors or trafficking in human beings, the minor-injured party is required to have a specific authority to look after their rights, and certain stipulations apply to the investigation procedures, such as preventing the offender from being in the courtroom at the same time as the minor-offender during the proceedings.\n\nWitness protection:\nIf during criminal proceedings, the physical safety of the victim and/or their immediate families is in danger, they are entitled to the greatest amount of protection possible in pre-trial, during and after the procedure is completed. Within the Slovenian Police, the Endangered Persons Protection Unit specifically oversees the protection of witnesses under the Witness Protection Act. The Unit is also encouraged to engage with non-governmental organizations if necessary in order to provide appropriate psychological and legal assistance to the protected persons, separate from other forms of compensation they may receive. The Unit also allows for alternate measures during proceedings, for example providing evidence via video conference. These are set out in the Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, as is the Code of Obligation which specifically concerns the rights of victims of terrorist violence in Slovenia.\n\nCode of Obligation regarding victims of terrorist violence:\nIf terrorist violence occurs, the Code of Obligation states that the state, or the person who should have prevented the harm (depending on whether there was a statewide or individual failure), is responsible for redressing the harms to the victims, and liable for damages. Liability will still apply regardless of whether the person or state who should have prevented the violence, did everything they could to prevent it. These rules also apply to acts of violence that occur during public demonstrations or gatherings.\n\nFor victims of crime in Slovenia, there are several websites dedicated to assisting victims understand the process for receiving compensation such as the European Judicial Network (soon to updated to the European e-Justice Portal). Here the process is clearly outlined including conditions for applying for compensation, legal assistance available and the form and amount of evidence required. Of particular concern to Slovenia's government is the protection of women's rights. In place to protect women's right under Slovenian Law are Article 14 of the Constitution of Slovenia which, \"guarantees everyone equal human rights and fundamental freedoms\" and \"equality before the law\" as well as article 53 which states, \"marriage is based on the equality of both spouses\" and \"the state shall protect the family\", article 141 of the Criminal Code \"Violation of Right to Equality\", as well as the 2002 Act on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men which imposes punishments on all people, especially an official who can be imprisoned for up to three years for discrimination. The Slovenian government has also established an Office for Equal Opportunities to manage Acts related to equal opportunities and engage in activities which focus on areas such as the inclusion of women political and violence against women.\n\n Resources & Victims Rights \n\nVictims of crime in Spain have a number of avenues available to them to seek legal compensation or aid for the damages they have suffered. The Ministry of Justice is the state body who is in charge of awarding compensation to victims. It also is responsible for state legal aid, and has a separate department for protection of victims of terrorism-related crimes.\n\nBeyond the Ministry of Justice, there are organisations such as the Office of Crime Victims Assistance Barcelona, the Association of Terrorism Victims, the 11-M Association of Victims of Terrorism and the National Association of Victims of Violent Crime (which provides psychological assistance and specialises in aiding victims of domestic violence). These associations are all able to assist with legal aid and providing general information to people affected by crime about their rights.\n\nIf you are a foreign citizen who is a victim of crime in Spain, you should contact your country's embassy or consulate as soon as possible.\n\nIn a criminal trial in Spain, the victim can choose to participate in the trial either as a witness, or as a 'private prosecutor' ('acusación particular') which grants them additional rights and responsibilities, and makes them an official party to the trial.\n\nIf you wish to claim compensation in Spain, you must submit an application form to the Ministry of Finance, and a separate 'petition for assistance' must be filed with the Ministry of Economy and Finance. There will then be a hearing, and the state attorney will submit a report for consideration. During the hearing, the victim must prove they were legally in Spain at the time of the crime.\nIf you are a foreign citizen and you wish to apply for compensation, then you must provide evidence during the hearing of situations where your home country has provided compensation similarly for Spanish citizens – this is referred to as 'proof of reciprocity'.\n\nCompensation will only be awarded after the criminal trial is concluded and the offender is found guilty. In exceptional circumstances, a victim or the family members of a victim may claim emergency compensation before the conclusion of the trial, if their 'precarious' situation can be validated by the relevant authority.\nSpanish law does not provide a maximum amount of compensation that can be awarded, but determines a maximum amount for the individual based on different factors. The amount of compensation a victim or their beneficiaries is entitled to is determined based on the minimum monthly salary of the victim, and the negative mental and physical effects the victim suffers as a direct result of the crime. The financial situation of the victim, the number of people dependant on the victim, and the cost of therapy and psychological healthcare are all considered when deciding how much compensation is awarded.\nCompensation can be awarded to cover medical expenses, mental health expenses, lost wages for disabled victims, lost wages for dependants of homicide victims, and funeral and burial expenses. The compensation amount is paid by the offender, and if they are unable to pay then the Spanish government will cover the amount – however if the victim's losses are covered by insurance (i.e. in circumstances of theft) then they are not eligible for compensation.\n\nAccording to the European directive on Victims rights, Spain is showing compliance with the directives. However, information for victims of crime for citizens and non citizens can be quite strenuous to find due to specialised websites for each organisation. In comparison, the UK have implemented one simple to use website for victims of crime which makes information for victims rights far more accessible. A similar system could better help victims of crime in Spain with creating awareness of their rights.\n\nVarious laws addressing victim's crimes were enacted from the mid-1980s onward in Sweden. In 1988 alone, Sweden ratified the European Convention on the compensation of victims of violent crimes and passing the Act on Visiting Bans Act on Counsel for Injured Party in 1988. Crime victims may be represented y a legal advisor throughout the legal process under the provisions of the latter Act. Under the 1994 Government Bill \"Crime Victims in Focus\" various provisions were designed to improve for crime victims. For example, The Crime Victim Fund established together with the Crime Victim Compensation and Support Authority allows the assessment of state compensation and provide economic support for research, education and information on crime victims, financed through a few imposed in everyone convicted of a crime punishable by imprisonment.\n\nCrime victims became a separate area of responsibility for Swedish social services in 2001 through the Social Service Act. Despite not actually strengthening crime victims’ rights not increase costs at the time, it served as a normative reorientation of the Social Services Act towards a holistic view and right to assistance according to need.\n\nVictim-Offender Mediation\n\nSwedish multiplicities are obliged to offer mediation, based on restorative justice principles, to offenders under 21 years old. Simultaneously, offenders are offered the chance to deeply apologise for their actions and redeem themselves. The expectation is that mediation has the potential to substantially reduce cases of recidivism.\n\nThe mediation system in Sweden evolved independently from any political decision-making procedure in the second half of the 1980s. In 1998, the role of mediation in the justice system for young offenders was analysed by the Commission on Mediation which then founded their policy recommendations for legislative reforms on these evaluation studies in 2000. Mediation was formally acknowledged in 2002 by the Mediation Act (Swedish Code of Statutes, 2002:445), where the aim of mediation is explained in Section 3 as:\n\nThe act offers the chance for victims to express their emotional needs and have them addressed in an attempt to prevent recurrent symptoms of anxiety, self-image distortions and loss of self-esteem and self-confidence as the result of being victimised.\"\n\nMediation is one of several procedural operations available to a prosecutor, and sentencing an offender to mediation may be seen as a lenient sentence where the offender benefits. Another criticism is that mediation will further violate the victim's integrity and well-being.\n\nHuman trafficking in Romania is a prominent issue. The country is used as a ‘source, transit and destination country for men, women and children subject to labor trafficking and women and children subject to sex trafficking’, meaning that various victims in different stages of trafficking are either poached from, exploited or transferred to Romanian soil. Promisingly, the numbers have been to decreasing in recent years ( in 2005 there were 2551 recorded victims of human trafficking, in 2009 there were 780) perhaps due to mechanisms such as the National Agency for Preventing Trafficking in Persons and for monitoring the Assistance Granted to Victims of Trafficking in Persons Agency, legal implementations such as Law 678/2001 (combating trafficking in persons); G.D 299/2003 (standard rules for application of Law 678); law 211/2004 (protection of victims) and G.D 1654/2006 to approve the National Strategy against Trafficking to approve the National Strategy against Trafficking in Persons in persons 2006–2010). Romania also prescribed to international legal mechanisms such as the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and Council of Europe Convention on Action against trafficking Human Beings, showing that is making a conscious effort to eradicate human trafficking within the state. These mechanisms show that Romania is taking active steps towards ensuring that all individuals can live a life free from exploitation.\n\nBetween the years of 2004–2011, 800 people were killed as a result of crimes involving domestic violence\n\nPsychological counselling is provided to victims of attempted homicide, murder, hitting and other violent criminal offences. Counselling is provided free of charge for up to 3 months, and 6 months for victims under the age of 18. Other forms of assistance by not governmental organisations, independent or in partnership, can also be provided by way of referral.\n\nUpon application, free legal aid is provided to several categories of victims. Factors taken into account include the seriousness of the offence committed and material status of the victim. Direct victims of serious violent or sexual offences (e.g., homicide, serious bodily harm, rape, sexual perversion committed upon a minor) are provided with free legal aid. Additionally, indirect victims of such offences, such as close family members, may also be granted free legal aid. For any of the above offences, free legal aid is granted if the offence was committed within Romanian territory, or if the victim is a Romanian citizen or foreign citizen living legally in Romania and the criminal prosecution is taking place within Romania.\n\nPrior to the commencement of Law 211/2004, when a perpetrator of a crime remained unknown, insolvent, or was missing, the \"costs\" of the offence were incurred by the victim alone. Currently, upon application, a victim may be granted financial compensation for serious violent and sexual crimes.\n\nThe birth of the National Agency for Family Protection (NAFP) has increased support for victims of domestic violence. The agency has assisted in the setting up of shelters for victims of domestic violence, recuperation centers for victims of violence and assistance centers for aggressors.\n\nIn 1974, the charity Victim Support was set up in Bristol, aimed at providing help and support to victims of crime on a local and national level. Trained volunteers and employees offer free, confidential, practical and emotional support to people affected by crime in England and Wales. The charity offers support to around one million victims of crime per year. People may seek practical or emotional help, for example, making their home secure after a burglary, applying for compensation from the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority, getting re-housed, or asking for counselling through a GP.\n\nVictim Support also provides specialist services, such as: a national \"homicide service\", helping families who have been bereaved by murder or manslaughter, local services helping victims of domestic or sexual violence, exploitation, anti-social behaviour, or hate crime, local services for young victims of crime, including specialist support for children who have to testify in court and for recent victims of grooming, and using restorative justice to help victims.\n\nIn Scotland and Northern Ireland, similar services are provided by the charities Victim Support Scotland and Victim Support NI.\n\n\n"}
