{"id": "20072274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20072274", "title": "1998 killing of Iranian diplomats in Afghanistan", "text": "1998 killing of Iranian diplomats in Afghanistan\n\nThe 1998 killing of Iranian diplomats in Afghanistan refers to the siege of the Iranian consulate in Mazar-i-Sharif, in the Taliban-controlled Afghanistan during the Taliban and Northern Alliance battles of Mazar-i-Sharif. Initially the death of 8 Iranian diplomats was reported, but later two other diplomats and a journalist were also confirmed dead, bringing the total deaths to 11. The killings of the diplomats is speculated to have been carried out by Sipah-e-Sahaba Pakistan.\n\nBefore this incident, Iran was supportive of the Afghan Northern Alliance, and the city of Mazari Sharif was one of the headquarters of the alliance. It is reported that between May and July 1997 Abdul Malik Pahlawan executed thousands of Taliban prisoners as a revenge for the 1995 death of Abdul Ali Mazari. \"He is widely believed to have been responsible for the brutal massacre of up to 3,000 Taliban prisoners after inviting them into Mazar-i-Sharif.\" As a revenge, Taliban forces captured Mazar-i-Sharif and killed hundreds of Northern Alliance members, particularly members of the Hazara and Uzbek ethnic group as they were accused of being the ones who carried out the killings of Taliban prisoners.\n\nOn August 8, 1998, Taliban forces captured Mazar-i-Sharif. After this incident, 11 Iranian diplomats and a correspondent from Iran's state news agency (IRNA) were attacked at the Iranian consulate and subsequently disappeared. Unofficial reports from the city indicated that all these men were killed. Later it was confirmed that 8 of the Iranian diplomats and the IRNA correspondent were killed by the Taliban militia attacking the consulate. The Taliban spokesmen said the Iranians had been killed by renegade forces who had acted without orders. The final death toll was confirmed later to be 11 according to Tehran Times.\n\nThis incident caused a public furor in Iran and many observers were worried Iran would be involved in a military response to the attack. At the time, more than 70,000 Iranian troops were deployed along the Afghan border. Mediation by the United Nations defused the situation and all the hostages were eventually released. Later in February 1999, Iran and Taliban held talks, but Iranian-Taliban relations did not improve.\n\nAugust 8 is named \"National Journalists' Day\" in Iran, in memory of Mahmoud Saremi, the IRNA correspondent killed in this attack.\n"}
{"id": "33934756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33934756", "title": "2007 Morocco–Spain diplomatic conflict", "text": "2007 Morocco–Spain diplomatic conflict\n\nThe 2007 Morocco–Spain diplomatic conflict was a short lived disturbance of international relations between Morocco and Spain that arose after the announcement of the impending visit of the King of Spain to the Spanish-ruled autonomous cities Ceuta and Melilla, which are claimed by Morocco.\n\nThe dispute formally began when the Government of Morocco recalled its ambassador to Spain, Omar Azziman. According to a diplomatic note from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Morocco, \"The official announcement on Friday of the unfortunate visit of His Majesty King Juan Carlos I, on 5 and 6 November to the two occupied cities of Ceuta and Melilla is a regrettable initiative, whatever are the motives and objectives.\"\n\nAfter reporting of calls of queries from the Ambassador, the Chief Moroccan Government Spokesperson said,\"The ball is in the countryside of Spain and we hope that that country takes into consideration the sentiments of the Moroccan people and the interest of bilateral ties and cooperation.\"\n\nThe royal visit occurred in the days set, registering an influx of thousands of citizens, who cheered the Kings in both Ceuta and Melilla. During those days continued statements against the visit were made by the Moroccan authorities. In this regard, the Prime Minister of Morocco, Abbas El Fassi, compared the situation in both cities with the Israeli occupation of Palestinian Territories and King Mohammed VI himself described the visit as an \"outdated and nostalgic act of a dark era.\" The Spanish government, just before the visit, and after the reporting of the Moroccan opposition, told through the Deputy Prime Minister Maria Teresa Fernandez de la Vega that the visit of the King of Spain was an act of 'institutional normality.\" Days later, at the initiative of certain groups in Morocco, some hundreds of people carried out protests in Tetuan, as well as front of the border with Ceuta and Melilla. Moroccan authority also discontinued high-level visits of Spanish authorities to their country.\n\nFinally, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Spain, Miguel Angel Moratinos, visited Rabat to meet his Moroccan counterpart, Taib Fassi Fihri on January 3, 2008, and presented him a personal letter from Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero to King Mohamed VI, which advocated for closer relations between both countries. Four days later, the Moroccan Foreign Ministry announced the return of its ambassador to Madrid, thus terminating the conflict.\n\nOn October 30, the Government of Spain announced the visit of King Juan Carlos I and Queen Sofia to Ceuta and Melilla from 5 and 6 November. The day before, the Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, had told that fact to the opposition leader Mariano Rajoy during an official ceremony, which Rajoy welcomed.\n\nThe King of Spain had not visited Ceuta and Melilla in his reign. The most immediate antecedent of the stay of King Juan Carlos I in these cities dates back to 1970, when he undertook a visit to Ceuta in his capacity as Prince of Asturias on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the Spanish Legion.\n\nThe last visit of a Head of State of Spain to Ceuta and Melilla was by king Alfonso XIII, who was last seen in 1927, and President of the Second Republic, Niceto Alcala Zamora, on 4 November 1933.\n\nThe king of Spain was scheduled to visit to the autonomous city of Melilla in 1997 on the occasion of the five hundredth anniversary of the founding of the city, but the pressure of the Moroccan authorities led to the cancellation of the visit.\n\nOn November 5, the King and the Queen of Spain stayed in Ceuta for five hours, where they spoke to the Assembly of the Autonomous City, where the monarch said that he \"had an pending commitment to Ceuta\". Neither the king nor the Minister of Public Administration who accompanied him, Elena Salgado, or any other Spanish authority made any mention of the situation in Morocco. The King was welcomed by 25,000 people.\n\nOn November 6, the king came to Melilla, in which the Spanish monarch intervened the Assembly. There he acknowledged the loyalty of Melillans to the Crown. He made specific reference to Morocco, but said that \"Spain through mutual respect cultivates relations of sincere friendship with its neighbors.\" The number of people who gathered to welcome the King was estimated at 30,000.\n\nA month before the announcement of the royal visit, the judge of the National Court of Spain, Baltasar Garzón, had opened a file to investigate an alleged genocide of Sahrawis by Morocco, accepting to process the lawsuit filed in 2006 by various associations defending human rights and relatives of prisoners and disappeared Saharawis, which accused 31 senior officials of Moroccan security. Morocco, meanwhile, was accused of siding with the positions of the Polisario Front. Moroccan spokesman said that \"it would be good that Judge Garzon deal a bit of respect for human rights in Tindouf.\" Among the accused were Driss Basri and former Interior Minister and General Housni Benslimane.\n\nAs stated by Yassine Mansouri, Foreign Secret Service Chief of Morocco, during a stay in Mallorca, the deterioration of relations is also related to the active position of the Spanish Government and local authorities to untie Muslim believers of Ceuta and the Ministry of Religious Affairs of Morocco; and to bet on movements like the Tablig (Congregation for the Propagation of Islam) or the Muslim Brotherhood. Mansouri informed this to Alberto Saiz, Director of National Intelligence of Spain.\n\nThe position was due to the wrath of King Mohamed VI, according to Mansouri, he remembered that Moroccan King is the \"Commander of the Faithful\" and many mosques in Ceuta had been attached to the Union of Islamic Communities of Spain (UCIDE) (36 of 40 Islamic communities of Ceuta). The image of the UCID leader in Ceuta, Laarbi Maateis, is associated with radical Islamist movements by Morocco. For his part, Laarbi Maateis denied any involvement with fundamentalist movements, indicating that no member of Tablig had ever been arrested or identified as a suspect in connection with jihadism. He also said the prosecution were not understandable \"because the Maliki rite is practiced both here and in the rest of Spain and Morocco and no one has tried to change that, especially because it seems to be the best for the city.\"\n\nThe Prime Minister of Morocco, Abbas El Fassi, reported the Moroccan parliament that his government would not spare efforts to regain the two cities (Ceuta and Melilla). The next day, November 1, Abbas el Fassi asked the King of Spain to \"waive\" the trip, while the Minister and Speaker of the Moroccan government, Khalid Naciri, expressed the \"total rejection and condemnation\" of the royal visit to \"despoiled Moroccan cities.\" Abbas el Fassi, however, at the time said the Spanish press that there was no coercion and that the conflict \"must be approached with intelligence, mutual respect, dialogue and concertation.\"\n\nOn November 5, while King Juan Carlos I was visiting Ceuta, Abbas el Fassi compared the situation of Ceuta and Melilla to the Israeli occupation of Palestine during a special session of the Moroccan Parliament to discuss the issue.\n\nThe same opinion was pronounced by the leader of the Moroccan Islamist Justice and Development Party, Mustafa Ramid, by manifesting in the Parliament that \"the Moroccans living under Spanish colonization are as our fellow Palestinians under Israeli colonization.\"\n\nOn November 6, after holding a Council of Ministers before intervening in the acts of commemoration of the Green March in the Parliament, Moroccan King Mohamed VI issued a harsh condemnation through a personnel spokesman:\nIn the same statement Mohamed VI called for the formal opening of negotiations on the two cities:\nOn 15 November, the government spokesman Khalid Naciri, after a Governing Council, stated that he hoped that the Spanish \"place their hand into ours to overcome the crisis and privileging our bilateral relationship. The Spanish-Moroccan relations have undergone a crisis.\" Do not set a date for the return of the ambassador to Madrid, insist on the need for a dialogue between the parties about the future of the Spanish autonomous cities and it is expected for the future that \"our Spanish friends will consider our feelings, our sensitivity and our claims; the purpose is not to create difficulties but to preserve our relations.\" However, on 16 November, the Government of Morocco suspended two high-level visits of Spanish authorities:that of the Minister of Public Works, Magdalena Álvarez, who had planned to deal with the Moroccan Minister of Equipment and Transport Karim Ghellab about the Gibraltar rail tunnel to link the two countries across the strait (an issue on which both are officially working since 2005 when Tangier was treated evolving the fixed links between Europe and Africa and Chief of Staff of the Army of Spain, Admiral Sebastian Zaragoza.\n\nOn the same day, November 1, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Spain, Miguel Angel Moratinos, who was visiting the Moroccan city of Marrakech, reported orally to the Moroccan Foreign Minister Taieb Fassi-Fihri, despite the manifestations of the Prime Minister, that the King of Spain would visit the cities of Ceuta and Melilla on 5 and 6 November as planned. That same day, in the usual appearance of the Government of Spain after the conclusion of the regular meeting of the Council of Ministers, the Second Deputy Prime Minister Maria Teresa Fernandez de la Vega said that relations with the Moroccan government \"were extraordinary\" and the journey of the Kings fell within the \"institutional normality.\" Foreign Affairs Minister, Moratinos ruled out an action similar withdrawing the ambassador of Spain in Rabat, Spanish diplomatic sources said.\n\nOn November 3, Defense Minister Jose Antonio Alonso, in a statement to the Cadena SER said that he hoped the gesture of calling the ambassador-step prior to the breakdown of diplomatic relations, he repeated the words said by Deputy Prime Minister the previous day on the normality of the visit.\n\nThe Minister of Foreign Affairs expressed on November 14 its confidence in the return of the Moroccan ambassador in Madrid \"as soon as possible.\"\n\nThe People's Party and United Left political parties, through Angel Acebes and Gaspar Llamazares, respectively, announced their support for the visit of the King of Spain to Ceuta and Melilla. Gustavo de Arístegui, of the People Party, termed Mohamed VI's reaction as \"excessive\" and criticized the Spanish Prime Minister for failing to make clear, in his view, the 'red lines' that Morocco could not cross. Meanwhile, Elena Valenciano, International Relations Secretary of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, stressed that the visit was part of \"the most absolute institutional normality.\"\n\nThe President of Melilla, Juan José Imbroda, said that \"it is not the time to make opposite sounding declarations\", in reference to the Moroccan position. Coalition for Melilla, the prime Muslim-based opposition party in the autonomous city, manifested itself as extremely pleased with the visit the King, adding that the presence of the King of Spain was a \"historic debt in this city and which, from this formation, we always advocate for the occurrence of the visit.\" For his part, the President of Ceuta, Juan Jesus Vivas, merely issued an edict in which he urged the citizens to welcome the King, honor him by the presence of Ceutans, and \"you will honor yourselves, our city and our beloved country.\"\n"}
{"id": "169228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169228", "title": "Affair", "text": "Affair\n\nAn affair is a sexual relationship, romantic friendship, or passionate attachment between two people without the attached person's significant other knowing.\n\nA romantic affair, also called an affair of the heart, may refer to sexual liaisons among unwed or wedded parties, or to various forms of nonmonogamy. Unlike a casual relationship, which is a physical and emotional relationship between two people who may have sex without expecting a more formal romantic relationship, an affair is by its nature romantic.\nAffair may also describe part of an agreement within an open marriage or open relationship, such as Swinging, dating, or polyamory, in which some forms of sex with one's non-primary partner(s) are permitted and other forms are not. Participants in open relationships, including unmarried couples and polyamorous families, may consider sanctioned affairs the norm, but when a non-sanctioned affair occurs, it is described as infidelity and may be experienced as adultery, or a betrayal both of trust and integrity, even though to most people it would not be considered \"illicit\".\n\nWhen a romantic affair lacks both overt and covert sexual behavior and yet exhibits intense or enduring emotional intimacy it may be referred to as an emotional affair, platonic love, or a romantic friendship.\n\nExtramarital affairs are relationships outside of marriage where an illicit romantic or sexual relationship or a romantic friendship or passionate attachment occurs.\n\nAn Affair that continues in one form or another for years, even as one of the partners to that affair passes through marriage, divorce and remarriage, could be considered the primary relationship and the marriages secondary to it. Several people claim the reason of extra marital affair as their unsuccessful marriage and that both spouses failed to please each other. This may be serial polygamy or other forms of nonmonogamy.\n\nThe ability to pursue serial and clandestine extramarital affairs while safeguarding other secrets and conflict of interest inherent in the practice, requires skill in deception and duplicitous negotiation. Even to hide one affair requires a degree of skill or malicious gaslighting. All these behaviors are more usually called lying.\n\nDeception can be defined as the \"covert manipulation of perception to alter thoughts, feelings, or beliefs\". The presence of deception may indicate the degree to which the deceiver has breached fundamental conditions of fidelity, of reciprocal vulnerability and of transparency. Sometimes these are explicit or assumed pre-conditions of a committed intimate relationship.\n\nIndividuals having affairs with married men or women can be prosecuted for adultery in some jurisdictions and can be sued by the jilted spouses in others, or named as 'co-respondent' in divorce proceedings. As of 2009, eight U.S. states permitted such alienation of affections lawsuits.\n\nThe appearance of computer-mediated communication introduces a new type of communication and consequently a new type of \"affair\". There are various kinds of computer-mediated communication that differ in some significant aspects: one-to-one or group communication formats, interrelating with anonymous or identified people, and communicating in synchronous or asynchronous formats. Online affairs combine features of close and remote relationships. \n\nBen Ze'ef argues that an online affair is a unique kind of affair—termed \"detached attachment\", or just \"detachment\"—that includes opposing features whose presence in a face-to-face affair would be paradoxical. Like direct, face-to-face affairs, online affairs can be spontaneous and casual and show intensive personal involvement. However, online affairs can also be more of a planned discourse than spontaneous talk; like written letters, online messages can be stored and thus have permanent presence, which is absent from face-to-face affairs. \n\nPeople participating in online affairs may be strangers to each other in the sense that they have never actually met each other. However, they are also close to each other since they share intimate information. In online affairs, people try to enjoy the benefits of both close and remote affairs, while avoiding their flaws. People enjoy the highly valued products of close affairs while paying the low cost of remote affairs. As one woman wrote: 'He constantly told me that he can not provide me with what I would want and I would always respond with: \"I'm not asking anything from you, but simply enjoy your company\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56801739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56801739", "title": "Asante-Akim Central", "text": "Asante-Akim Central\n\nThe Asante Akim Central Municipal is one of the districts in Ashanti Region, Ghana. It was formerly the Asante Akim North Municipal. The municipality is located in the Eastern part of Ashanti Region and has Konongo as its capital town. The member of parliament for the municipal is Kwame Anyimadu-Antwi and Susan Akomea is the Municipal Chief Executive.\n"}
{"id": "170653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=170653", "title": "Authority", "text": "Authority\n\nAuthority is the right to exercise power, which can be formalized by a state and exercised by way of judges, appointed executives of government, or the ecclesiastical or priestly appointed representatives of a God or other deities. \n\nA governing body may be labelled an authority e.g. the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority or the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority. \"Authority\" can also mean the right to complete an action or execute an order.\n\nIn government, \"authority\" is often used interchangeably with \"power\". However, their meanings differ: while \"power\" is the ability to order or accomplish a goal or to influence others, \"authority\" refers to a claim of legitimacy, the justification and right to exercise that power. For example, while a mob may have the power to punish a criminal by beating or lynching, the rule of law indicates that only a court of law has the authority to determine and refer a criminal for punishment. In this sense, authority is a matter of not only the ability or power to make decisions, but the right to make these decisions and execute them with commensurate power. Appropriate authority is the basis of good government in the republican conception of government, which finds much of its theoretical origins in ancient Rome.\n\nAncient understandings of authority trace back to Rome and draw later from Catholic (Thomistic) thought and other traditional understandings. In more modern terms, forms of authority include transitional authority exhibited in for example Cambodia, public authority in the form of popular power, and, in more administrative terms, bureaucratic or managerial techniques. In terms of bureaucratic governance, one limitation of the governmental agents of the executive branch, as outlined by George A. Krause, is that they are not as close to the popular will as elected representatives are. The claims of authority can extend to national or individual sovereignty, which is broadly or provisionally understood as a claim to political authority that is legitimated. \n\nHistorical applications of authority in political terms include the formation of the city-state of Geneva, and experimental treatises involving the topic of authority in relation to education include \"Emile\" by Jean-Jacques Rousseau. As David Laitin defines, authority is a key concept to be defined in determining the range and role of political theory, science and inquiry. The relevance of a grounded understanding of authority includes the basic foundation and formation of political, civil and/or ecclesiastical institutions or representatives. In recent years, however, authority in political contexts has been challenged or questioned.\n\nThere have been several contributions to the debate of political authority. Among others, Hannah Arendt, Carl Joachim Friedrich, Thomas Hobbes, Alexandre Kojève and Carl Schmitt have provided some of the most remarkable texts.\n\nIn political philosophy, the jurisdiction of political authority, the location of sovereignty, the balancing of freedom and authority, and the requirements of political obligations have been core questions from the time of Plato and Aristotle to the present. Most democratic societies are engaged in an ongoing discussion regarding the legitimate extent of the exercise of governmental authority. In the United States, for instance, there is a prevailing belief that the political system as instituted by the Founding Fathers should accord the populace as much freedom as reasonable, and that government should limit its authority accordingly, known as limited government.\n\nIn the discussion regarding the legitimacy of political authority, there are two beliefs at the respective ends of the spectrum. The first is the belief in the absolute freedom of the individual, otherwise known as political anarchism. The second is the belief that there must be a central authority in the form of a sovereign that claims ownership and control over the masses. This belief is known as statism. Sovereignty, in modern terms, can refer either to the adherence to a form of sovereign rule or the individual sovereignty, or autonomy, of a nation-state. The argument for political anarchy and anti-statism is made by Michael Huemer in his book \"The Problem of Political Authority\". On the other side, one of the main arguments for the legitimacy of the state is some form of the “social contract theory” developed by Thomas Hobbes in his 1668 book, \"Leviathan\", or by Jean-Jacques Rousseau in his political writings on the social contract. \n\nSince the emergence of the social sciences, authority has become a subject of research in a variety of empirical settings: the family (parental authority), small groups (informal authority of leadership), intermediate organizations such as schools, churches, armies, industries and bureaucracies (organizational and bureaucratic authorities), and society-wide or inclusive organizations, ranging from the most primitive tribal society to the modern nation-state and intermediate organization (political authority).\n\nThe definition of authority in contemporary social science remains a matter of debate. Max Weber in his essay \"Politics as a Vocation\" (1919) divided legitimate authority into three types. Others, like Howard Bloom, suggest a parallel between authority and respect/reverence for ancestors.\n\nThe understanding of political authority and the exercise of political powers in the American context traces back to the writings of the Founding Fathers, including the arguments put forward in \"The Federalist Papers\" by James Madison, Alexander Hamilton and the First Chief Justice of the United States John Jay, and later speeches by the 16th President of the United States Abraham Lincoln. \"Our government rests in public opinion,\" President Abraham Lincoln said in 1856 Related to the Authority of the Sanatana Kingdom . In his 1854 Speech at Peoria, Illinois, Lincoln espoused \"the proposition that each man should do precisely as he pleases with all which is exclusively his own,\" a principle existing \"at the foundation of the sense of justice.\" This sense of personal ownership and stewardship was integral to the practice of self-government as Abraham Lincoln saw it by a Republican nation and its people. This was because, as Abraham Lincoln also declared, \"No man is good enough to govern another man, without that other's consent.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54380269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54380269", "title": "Bannu Resolution", "text": "Bannu Resolution\n\nThe Bannu Resolution (), or the Pashtunistan Resolution (), was a formal political statement adopted by Pashtun nationalists in Bannu that demanded the British offer the the option of independence, rather than choosing between the independent dominions of India and Pakistan. The British refused the request, and the region voted overwhelmingly in favor of joining Pakistan in a July 1947 referendum.\n\nThe resolution was adopted on June 21, 1947, seven weeks before the Partition of British India, by Bacha Khan, Abdul Samad Khan Achakzai, the Khudai Khidmatgars, members of the Provincial Assembly, Mirzali Khan (Faqir of Ipi), and other tribal chiefs at a loya jirga held at Bannu, in British India’s North-West Frontier Province.\n\nThe resolution demanded that Pashtuns be given a choice to have an independent state of Pashtunistan, composing all Pashtun territories of British India - an exemption from the British plan to award territories in British India to either Pakistan or India. \n\nThe British Raj refused to consider the resolution’s demands, because in July 1947, the Parliament of the United Kingdom passed the Indian Independence Act 1947 declaring that by 15 August 1947 it would divide British India into the two new independent dominions of India and Pakistan - with no option for further independent states.\n\nThe act also declared that the fate of the North West Frontier Province would be subject to the result of referendum. This was in accord with the June 3rd Plan proposal to have a referendum to decide the future of the Northwest Frontier Province—to be voted on by the same electoral college as for the Provincial Legislative Assembly in 1946.\n\nVoters in the North West Frontier Province voted overwhelmingly in favor of Pakistan versus India in the referendum held in July 1947. 289,244 (99.02%) votes were cast in favor of Pakistan, although turnout was low.\n"}
{"id": "58913233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58913233", "title": "Bao Luong", "text": "Bao Luong\n\nBao Luong (1909-1976) was born Nguyen Trung Nguyet (“faithful moon), in the rural Bình Đại District of Vietnam’s Bến Tre Province. She was a member of the Vietnamese Revolutionary Youth League, a communist group fighting against French rule in Vietnam. She became the first female political prisoner in Vietnam. \n\n= Early life =\nNguyen Trung Nguyet grew up on her parents farm in Binh Dai. Although few girls received an education at this time, Nguyen Trung Nguyet went to an all-boys night school run by her uncle. At nine years old her family moved from Binh Dai to Rach Gia (now Kien Giang), and at age twelve, they again uprooted to Phuoc Long (now part of Bac Lieu Province). Her father, Nguyen van Nham, was a French resistor, and told her stories of anticolonial resistance. He encouraged her to write patriotic poems and question the French rule. At her age, most young Vietnamese women were expected to be married, but Nguyen Trung Nguyet did not want to be distracted from the revolution against the French. Trung Nguyet often tried to persuade her parents to let her leave home to engage in revolutionary activities, but they resisted. In the Spring of 1927, Nguyen Trung Nguyet left home for Saigon, where she stayed with her aunt, Kim Oanh and her uncle Ton Duc Thang. Around the time she left home, Nguyen Trung Nguyet adopted the name Bao Luong (“Precious Honesty”), which she had originally used as a pen name while writing poetry. \n\n= Activism =\nHer uncle, Ton Duc Thang was the leader of the southern section of the Vietnamese Revolutionary Youth League. After four months, during which Ton Duc Thang assessed Bao Luong’s interest and potential, she was recruited to join the Vietnamese Revolutionary Youth League. Training for the Youth League was in Guangzhou, China, and before boarding the boat, Bao Luong’s family disguised her as a boy. Her true identity was discovered only after she gained the trust and loyalty of the other revolutionary activists on board. In Guangzhou, Bao and the other trainees attended lectures on revolutionary ideologies, evolution, and the socialist movement. At the training school, Bao wrote poetry and other articles for the cause. When her training was complete, she went back to her family in Phuoc Long. \n\nHer first task was to convince her family to support her efforts in the revolution, and her parents vowed to support her and keep her secret. She went on to recruit women to join the revolution. Bao Luong traveled throughout the Mekong Delta pretending to sell fabric. Along the way, she gathered women that supported the Revolutionary Youth League. Many of these women hoped that the revolution would lead to education reforms and the freedom to choose their own husbands. Bao Luong then received permission to start an all-women cell of the Revolutionary Youth League. She hosted meetings that gathered women from a wide geographical area, spanning five regions. All female meetings were unprecedented at the time, and Bao’s superiors warned her to be more careful. At these meetings, the women decided to use poetry to spread the anticolonial message, and used stories of exemplary women throughout history to help make their points.\n\n= Murder on Barbier Street =\nBao Luong’s passionate fight against French rule led her to become involved in an assassination plot. On December 8, 1928, Le van Phat was found in his home on Barbier Street. Le van Phat was known as Lang to the members of the Revolutionary Youth League. Lang was the chairman of the Saigon Provincial regional committee of the Revolutionary Youth League. Lang was accused of forcing a younger member of his cell to become his mistress. He also began abusing power, disrespecting orders, and missing meetings. Bao Luong chaired the meeting where the decision to execute Lang's murder was made. She directed members at the meeting to draw ballots to see who would commit the murder and three men (including Bao Luong's cousin) were selected. Bao Luong drafted a love letter which was used to make sure Lang would be home at the time of the murder. Her cousin and the two other men attempted to kill Lang with poison, before slitting his throat. The Central Committee of the Revolutionary Youth League was against the murder and ordered the Saigon cell to disband. This group went on to become the Communist Party of Indochina. After Bao Luong and her fellow Saigon cell members refused, an anonymous letter was sent to the Republic of Vietnam National Police, known as the Surete, that implicated Bao Luong and other league members in the murder of Lang. \n\n= Imprisonment and later life =\nBao Luong was beaten in prison, as the Surete tried to get her to confess. She was then moved to the Saigon Central Prison, where she awaited trial. At her trial, she spoke out to the French judge about the poor treatment of women in French Indochina and maintained her revolutionary ideas. She was found guilty and sentenced to five years in prison, but her behavior in court added three more years to her sentence. The men who committed the murder were sentenced to death. Her mentor and uncle, Ton Duc Thang, served a short prison sentence before becoming the president of Democratic Republic of Vietnam. \n\nIn prison, a male nurse who cared for Bao Luong fell in love with her. Through an intermediary, the nurse (Nguyen van Thom) asked her family for her hand in marriage. After being questioned by the head of the prison for his plans to marry Bao Luong upon her release, Nguyen van Thom quit. After Bao's release, the two moved to O Mon and had children. She was later encouraged to rejoin the revolution, but denied the invitation to care for her children and in-laws. \n\n= References =\n"}
{"id": "54589969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54589969", "title": "Biometric voter registration", "text": "Biometric voter registration\n\nBiometric voter registration implicates using biometric technology (capturing unique physical features of an individual – fingerprinting is the most commonly used), most of the times in addition to demographics of the voter, for polling registration and/or authentication. The enrollment infrastructure allows collecting and maintaining a database of the biometric templates for all voters.\n\nA biometric voting project might include introducing biometric registration kits for enrolment of voters; using electronic voter identification devices before and on Election Day; issuing of voter identification documents (i.e. biometric voter cards), among others. The chronological stages for adopting a biometric voting registration project usually include assessment; feasibility studies; securing funding; reviewing legislation; doing pilot projects and mock registration exercises; procurement; distribution of equipment, installation, and testing; recruitment and training of staff; voter information; deployment and, post-election audits.\n\nThe final aim of implementing biometric election technology is achieving de-duplication of the voting register, thus preventing multiple voter registration and multiple voting; improving identification of the voter at the polling station, and mitigating the incidence of voter fraud (e.g. buy/rent of voters IDs before an election).\n\nHowever, it is vital that commissions carrying out these election projects first and foremost guarantee that the legal framework supports biometric voter identification, and then that the data captured during the registration process will be secured while maintaining two basic requirements: personalization and privacy. Likewise, it is imperative to have contingency mechanisms in place, in case biometric systems malfunction. One of the main challenges is to ensure that given the eventualities of technological hitches and failures, not a single voter is disenfranchised.\n\nAccording to International IDEA's ICTs in Elections Database, as of 2016, the number of countries adopting biometrics in elections has steadily increased to over 50, with significant differences between regions. \"While there are virtually no users in Europe, about half of the countries in Africa and Latin America use this technology in elections.\" 35 per cent of over 130 surveyed Electoral Management Bodies is capturing biometric data (such as fingerprints or photos) as part of their voter registration process (2016).\n\nCountries which have used Biometric voting registration include Armenia, Angola, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Chad, Colombia, Comoros, Congo (Democratic Republic of), Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Dominican Republic, Fiji, Gambia, Ghana, Guatemala, India, Iraq, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Panama, Peru, The Philippines, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somaliland, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.\n\nSome promoters of biometric voting registration point out that this technology, if properly customised to the country's needs and well implemented, could offer better accessibility for citizens; help avoiding long queues and waiting times for registration and voting; add simplicity and speed to the election cycle (i.e. voter identification documents can make it easier for polling staff to verify voter details); make voters and Commissions feel confident about the quality of their registry (more accurate, reliable and complete data); improve e-voting security, considerably reduce or eliminate multiple registration and multiple voting, while mitigating the risk of impersonation, identity theft, the misuse of records of deceased voters, carousel voting and ballot-box stuffing.\n\nOn the other hand, those who criticise and disapprove the use of biometrics for voter identification maintain that using biometrics for election purposes raises concerns over voters' privacy, human dignity and governmental disclosure of personal information. Some critics go further to claim that biometrics in voting poses a serious threat to democracy, due to fears of violation of the secrecy of the vote (or correlation voter-vote).\n\nThe concerns as with any other application of biometrics for identification and authentication can be manifold. There is, for example, the possibility of voter disenfranchisement when characteristics typically used to identify or verify voters might become unavailable (e.g. bandaged finger, loss of a finger, failure to acquire due to dirt or fingerprint quality degradation). Similarly, there are also claims of potential logistical and procedural \"new problems\" that biometric identification devices can bring to an election cycle: increasing costs (initial purchase costs of biometric readers and infrastructure, costs linked to maintenance, storage and upgrades) and resources' allocation (human, time, material); additional training of commissions and polling staff, technological failures that could disenfranchise voters; and extra data storage that demands higher security.\n\n"}
{"id": "2089573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2089573", "title": "Black beret", "text": "Black beret\n\nThe black beret is a type of headgear commonly worn by armoured forces around the world including the British Army's Royal Tank Regiment (RTR), the Royal Canadian Armoured Corps (RCAC), and the Royal Australian Armoured Corps (RAAC). Notable non-armoured units to wear the black beret include the Russian Naval Infantry (and formerly Soviet) and Russian OMON units, the United States Air Force (USAF) Tactical Air Control Party (TACP), Philippine National Police-Special Action Force (PNP-SAF) members, and the Royal Canadian Navy (\"navy blue\"). It was also worn by the United Kingdom's Royal Observer Corps (ROC) with their Royal Air Force (RAF) uniform, Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA).\n\nPerhaps the most famous Commonwealth wearer of the black beret was Field Marshal Montgomery who wore a Royal Tank Regiment (RTR) beret complete with cap badge, presented to him by the regiment, to which he added his own general's (later field marshal's) rank insignia.\n\nThe black beret has its origins with the French 70th Chasseurs Alpins who influenced the British Royal Tank Corps beginning in 1918. General Sir Hugh Jamieson Elles, together with Colonel Fuller came up with the idea of a black beret for the Royal Tank Corps. Black was selected as the colour because it was least likely to show oil stains, something which tank crewmen of that time (and now) could appreciate. It was approved for wear with the Royal Tank Corps by HM King George V on 5 March 1924.\n\nThe Black Beret remained the exclusive distinctive headdress of the Royal Tank Corps in 1940.\n\nWhen uniforms were issued to the Royal Observer Corps there was a surplus of Royal Armoured Corps black berets that were given to the unit.\n\nIn the United States military, the beret was unofficially worn by a variety of special operations units during and following World War II. In the spring of 1951, the 10th and 11th Ranger Companies wore black berets during their training at Camp Carson, Colorado, before their deployment to Japan.\n\nIn 1979, the black beret was authorized for wear by enlisted personnel in the Tactical Air Control Party. In 1984, two airmen from Pope Air Force Base, North Carolina submitted the current flash and badge design. It was approved for all TACP airmen in 1985. Tactical Air Control Party specialists (AFSC 1C4X1) are currently the only United States Air Force specialty allowed to wear the coveted black beret as part of their daily duty uniform wear.\n\nIn 1973, permission was granted to local commanders to encourage distinctive, morale-enhancing uniform items and the black beret was adopted by armor and armored cavalry units in the United States.\n\nA black beret was authorized for wear by female soldiers in 1975.\n\nOn January 30, 1975, it was officially assigned as part of the newly created battalions of United States Army Rangers who had worn it unofficially during the Vietnam War.\n\nIn 1979, the army chief of staff ruled that the black beret was restricted to just ranger and airborne units (the latter receiving their distinctive maroon berets on November 28, 1980). However, since June 14, 2001, the black beret is worn by all United States Army troops unless the soldier is approved to wear a different distinctive beret. The Rangers now wear tan berets in reverence to the buckskins worn by Rogers' Rangers during the French and Indian War.\n\nThe black beret is worn as part of the Army Service Uniform (ASU), the U.S. Army's dress uniform. It also became the official garrison headgear to be worn with the Battle Dress Uniform (BDUs) in 2001, and from 2005 the Army Combat Uniform (ACU). The change was implemented by General Eric Shinseki, the Army Chief of Staff at the time, who stated that it was about promoting \"...our values as an institution.\" From the beginning, the beret was unpopular with soldiers, because the headgear required two hands to put it on, could not be carried in the pocket when not worn (as the patrol cap could), and provided no shade from the sun when worn.\n\nDespite years of negative feedback, the beret remained part of the ACU until 2011, when incoming Sergeant Major of the Army Raymond F. Chandler made it his first order of business to address the wishes \"thousands of soldiers\" who wanted the army to end the wear of the beret with the ACU, and the army subsequently did just that. The black beret remained the headgear for the ASU, but was replaced as the default headgear with the ACU patrol cap.\n\nDuring the Vietnam War the U.S. Navy personnel assigned to patrol boats wore the South Vietnamese navy black beret with badge. Unit tradition had the back ribbon cut into two pennants after first contact with the enemy with the ends of the pennant notched in a \"V\" to signify he had made an enemy \"kill\". \nUntil October 2016, a black beret was authorized to be worn, albeit solely by female U.S. Navy sailors of all ranks. Female commissioned officers wore the U.S. Navy officer crest on the beret above the left eyebrow, female petty officers and seamen wore the combination cover's device, and female chief petty officers wore their rate insignia instead. The female black beret's usage was discontinued along with the officer's tiara by the navy in 2016 as part of a naval effort to reduce the number of uniform items, make them appear more unisex, and also due to a lack of widespread use.\n\nIn the Turkish Land Forces, the black berets are worn by Armor personnel.\n\nIn the Polish Armed Forces, the black berets are worn by armored units of Polish Army, and by Polish Navy.\n\nIn the German Army, an oversized black beret was introduced during the Third Reich for panzer crews, to be worn over the crash helmet; however this was dropped in favour of a black garrison cap during World War II. Today the black beret (of conventional size) is worn by the Armoured Corps and the Armoured Reconnaissance Corps.\n\nThe black beret is worn by all soldiers in the Luxembourg Army.\n\nIn the Danish Army, the black beret was originally used by all combat regiments, but now it is worn by Jutland Dragoons, Guard Hussars, Royal Life Guard, Army Combat and Fire Support Center, Garnisonskommandant Vordingborg and 1st Danish Artillery Battalion\n\nIn the Portuguese Army, the black beret is worn by the cavalry branch, including the armoured troops and the military police. The black beret is also worn by several Portuguese civil forces, like the Bomb disposal unit of the Public Security Police, the Prison Guard Corps and the Civil Defense.\n\nIn the Chilean Army,the black beret is worn by the paras and the special forces.\n\nIn the Sri Lankan Army, the Armoured Corps, Mechanized Infantry and the Special Forces wear black berets.\n\nIn the Sri Lankan Navy, the black beret is worn by the Members of the elite Special Boat Squadron.\n\nIn the Spanish Army, the black beret is worn by the Mechanized Brigades and the Parachutist Brigade BRIPAC.\n\nIn the Spanish Air Force, the black beret is worn by the Paras: EZAPAC, Escuadrilla de Apoyo al Despliegue Aero (EADA) and SEADA as well as by Military Police Units. Members of EZAPAC also wear a Green Beret with their battle dress, to denote their Special Forces specialization. Traditionally black berets were used to denote para units, the custom originating in the Spanish Air Force, although its now used also by other, non-para units in the Army and the Air Force.\n\nIn the Belgian Army, the black beret is worn by armoured and engineer troops.\n\nIn the Dutch Army, the black beret is worn by cavalry battalions.\n\nIn the pre-2003 Iraqi Army, the black beret was the most commonly worn headgear and continues to be worn by both army and police personnel of the new Iraqi Army.\n\nIn the Israel Defense Forces, soldiers serving in the Armor Corps wear black berets.\n\nIn the Malaysian Army, the members of the Royal Armor Corps wear the black berets.\n\nIn the Philippine Army, the members of the 1st Scout Ranger Regiment, Presidential Security Group and Tank Officers from the Philippine Army Light Armor Division\n\nIn the Philippine Air Force, members of the Special Operations Wing wears black berets.\n\nIn the Philippine National Police, members of the Special Action Force wears black berets.\n\nIn the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority, members of the Traffic Enforcers wears black berets.\n\nIn the Singapore Armed Forces, members of the Armour formation wear black berets.\n\nIn the South African Army, members of the South African Armoured Corps including tank and armoured car units wear black berets.\n\nThe Norwegian Army Panserbataljonen (armoured) and other cavalry units wear black berets.\n\nIn the Indian Army, all Cavalry and Armoured Corps & National Security Guards wear black berets.\n\nIn the Pakistan Army, the Armoured Corps wears black berets as well as special forces.\n\nIn the Bangladesh Army, all units of the Armoured, Cavalry and Lancer Corps wear black berets.\n\nIn the Swedish Army, all armour and mechanized units wear black berets.\n\nIn the Irish Army the majority of the members of the Permanent Defence Forces, specifically the infantry, wear black berets except for certain combat support units such as MPs, Cavalry etc.\n\nIn the Czech Army the Military police unit-MP's.\n\nThe Irish Republican Army and its splinter groups wore black berets (with balaclavas) at events such as funerals of their members. A Black Beret was often placed on the coffin of the deceased.\n\nMembers of Serbian Military Police wear black berets.\n\nThe Finnish Panssarijääkäri (panzerjaegers) and members of the Armored Brigade also wear black berets.\n\nTactical Air Control Party members of the United States Air Force wear black berets with a flash and badge design.\n\nThe Brazilian armour and mechanized troops also wear the black beret, as well as the special forces unit of the Military Police of Rio de Janeiro, Batalhão de Operações Policiais Especiais (BOPE).\n\nThe Argentine Navy's Batallón de Infantería de Marina 5 (5th Marine Battalion), of Falklands War Mount Tumbledown fame (1982), wears a black beret. This was introduced by (then) Commander Manuel Tomé around 1977, and the beret was awarded on completion of a Cold Weather and Mountain Warfare Course. Today, all units of the Southern Marine Force of the Argentine Marine Corps wear black berets with unit badges.\n\nIn the Brazilian auxiliary military forces of the Polícia Militar (Military Police), specially in Minas Gerais state, officers sometimes wears black berets as official parts of patrol gear.\n\nIn the Canadian Armed Forces, black berets are worn by Royal Canadian Armoured Corps soldiers and by all sailors (except military police and special operations sailors).\n\nIn the Croatian Army black berets are worn by Military police units and by 1st Guard Brigade (Croatia).\n\nIn the Greek Army, black berets are worn by the Panzer (Armored Vehicles) branch, tracing back to the tradition of the original cavalry units.\n\nIn the Italian Army most units wear a black beret. Exceptions are: Paratroopers, Alpini, Army Aviation Corps (AVES) and Bersaglieri.\n\nIn the Indonesian Army, black beret is worn by the members of Cavalry Corps (except cavalry battalions under Kostrad strategic reserve command which wearing dark green beret universal to all of its soldiers).\n\nIn the Indonesian Navy, members of the Submarine Corps wear black berets.\n\nIn the Austrian Bundesheer all armoured units (Armoured Battalions, Mechanized Infantry Battalions, Artillery Battalions and Mechanized Headquarter Battalions), wear the black beret.\n\nIn the Venezuelan Army, black berets are of general use except for Paratroopers, Special Forces, Counter-insurgency troops and soldiers stationed inside the Ministry of Defence and Army headquarters.\n\nIn the Republic of Korea Army, black berets are worn by Republic of Korea Army Special Warfare Command special operations forces.\n\nIn the Swiss Army, black berets are worn by Tank Branch, Pioneers, Rescue Troops, Communication and Command Troops, high command, Tank Grenadiers, Chaplains, armed forces legal service and other troops.\n\nThe naval colour is officially \"very dark blue\". The Dutch Navy and Marines wear dark navy blue berets; a silver anchor for the Navy and a gold or dark brown (field duty) anchor on a red background for the Marines. The Portuguese Marines and San Marco Regiment, the Marines of the Italian Navy also wear a dark blue beret. The Royal Norwegian Air Force also use a dark blue beret. Finnish Marine Infantry wear a dark blue beret with the Navy insignia.(Finnish Coastal Jaegers - marine commandos - part of the same Nylands Brigade, wear the green beret).\n\nOne of the most famous photographs of Che Guevara taken by Alberto Korda was of him wearing a black beret with a gold star. Fidel Castro also wore a black beret during the revolution against the Batista government of Cuba. In the 1960s several activist groups adopted the beret.\n\n\n\nMilitary berets by color:\n"}
{"id": "52674452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52674452", "title": "Cabinet crisis", "text": "Cabinet crisis\n\nA cabinet crisis or government crisis is a situation when the government is challenged before the mandate period expires, because it threatens to resign over a proposal, or it is at risk at being dismissed after a motion of no confidence, a conflict between the parties in a coalition government or a coup d'état. It may also be the result of there being no clear majority willing to work together to form a government. During this period a caretaker government with a limited mandate may take care of the day-to-day affairs of the state, while waiting for a snap election.\n\n"}
{"id": "19264475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19264475", "title": "Civil service reform in developing countries", "text": "Civil service reform in developing countries\n\nCivil service reform is a deliberate action to improve the efficiency, effectiveness, professionalism, representativity and democratic character of a civil service, with a view to promoting better delivery of public goods and services, with increased accountability. Such actions can include data gathering and analysis, organizational restructuring, improving human resource management and training, enhancing pay and benefits while assuring sustainability under overall fiscal constraints, and strengthening measures for performance management, public participation, transparency, and combating corruption.\n\nThe civil service reform agenda in developing countries has evolved and changed its focus over the decades. The academic literature on civil service reform has provided arguments and counterarguments clarifying how several approaches to reform affect the overall performance of the civil service. The increasing availability of empirical data allows to test the effectiveness of specific reforms in a given context. While designing effective civil service reforms is a tremendously complex task considering that the right mix of corruption control and performance improvements may vary greatly across and within countries, empirical as well as qualitative research can contribute to the body of evidence-based knowledge on civil service reforms in developing countries.\n\nMany challenges remain as persisting political economy factors hinder the success of civil service reforms.\n\nMax Weber's model of the ideal type of public administration has been an influential approach to civil service reforms in the 20th century. The bureaucratic type of administration contrasts with the patrimonial type in its underlying organizing principles. Weber’s organization of the public administration relies on a clearly defined hierarchical structure with a system of subordination and supervision, a division of labor and specified positions with assigned responsibilities. Contrary to the patrimonial system in which there is no distinction between private and public domains, the Weberian bureaucracy is defined by its impersonal and impartial character. Civil servants operate according to a set of rules and procedures they must observe. Impartiality is in part attained through the professionalization of the civil service and meritocratic recruitment through competitive examinations. For full-time and professionalized civil servants, public office-holding becomes a 'vocation'.\n\nWeberian ideal-typical principles have served as foundations for civil service reforms in developing countries. Scholars and policymakers have been interested in identifying the specific features that determine bureaucratic efficiency and corruption and the mechanisms through which these features increase effectiveness and restrict corrupt behaviour in the civil service.\n\nEmpirical studies found that meritocratic recruitment of public officials in particular is associated with lower corruption levels. There are several ways in which meritocratic recruitment and promotion can restrict corrupt behaviour. To begin with, administering entry examinations and educational attainment requirements enable the selection of competent civil servants. As a matter of fact, a study by the IMF shows that better-educated civil servants are related to lower levels of corruption, better performance including better public finance management and higher tax revenue mobilization as well as higher economic growth.\n\nFurthermore, the internal promotion and career stability of merit-recruited civil servants create a sense of shared commitment to the 'vocation' of office-holding that establishes 'esprit de corps', making it harder for corruption to occur.\n\nOther evidence suggests that a professional merit-based civil service preempts corruption not necessarily through the selection of capable officials but rather through the appointment of civil servants whose interests differ from politicians'. Misaligned interests create a coordination problem which prevents corrupt practices and instead introduces a system of mutual monitoring.\n\nDuring the 1980s, developing countries subject to structural adjustment programs (SAPs) experienced fiscal austerity notably manifested through pressures to reduce the public wage bill. R. Klitgaard raised concerns that falling civil service wages could exacerbate bureaucratic inefficiencies and corruption. Low public sector wages have been associated with lower performance and motivation. Salaries below opportunity cost can induce civil servants to opt for potentially harmful adaptive strategies and seek opportunities for own-account activities. Public officials may ask for compensation through informal or illegal means and these coping strategies compromise the efficiency and honesty of civil service organizations.\n\nGiven these arguments, increasing public officials' wages and other employment benefits has been an important aspect of the civil service reform agenda in developing countries. Economic models based on the early work of Becker and Stigler have had a particular influence on the policy debate.\n\nPrincipal-agent models of corruption in the civil service provide a theoretical analysis of the relationship between public service pay and corruption. The shirking model (Shapiro-Stiglitz) is centred on the choice public officials who have the opportunity to be corrupt must make. These rational utility-maximizing agents decide to engage in morally hazardous behaviour based on a cost-benefit analysis equating the expected returns to corruption (bribes) to the costs of being corrupt (penalties, potential foregone future earnings). Corruption is detected with a certain probability and is punished by job loss or other penalties. The model predicts that, all else equal, higher wages can deter corruption by increasing the value of behaving honestly. However, when bribes are high and punishment and the probability of detection are low, substantial increases in public official's wages may be required to preempt bribery. Another model explaining bureaucratic corruption, the fair-wage model, makes a distinction between need-based and greed-based corruption. According to this theory, public officials are not necessarily driven by greed but find corruption tempting when their salaries do not allow to meet subsistence levels. 'Fairness' is also determined by other factors, such as the salaries of peers within the civil service, private sector wages, social expectations and the status of civil servants. The perception of not being paid a fair wage increases corruptibility and also reduces the moral costs of corruption. This model therefore suggests that even modest increases in salaries ensuring 'fair wages' can reduce civil servants' propensity to solicit and accept bribes.\n\nThe theoretical linkage between public salary increases and corruption remains ambiguous. In a context of constrained government fiscal resources, the question of cost-effectiveness to design optimal wage policies arises. A cross-country study by Van Rijckeghem and Weder endeavours to find empirical support for the fair-wage and efficiency wage hypotheses. The authors conclude that relative government wages are negatively and significantly correlated with measures of corruption but that eradicating corruption would necessitate unrealistic increases in relative wages. These correlations, however, cannot be interpreted as evidence of a causal relationship going from public sector wages to corruption. Causality may run in the reverse direction, pervasive corruption has been shown to reduce tax revenue collection and public expenditures. Poor public finance performance and strong budgetary pressures due to corruption may in turn sustain low civil service salaries. This endogeneity problem complicates the understanding of the relationship between pay reforms and corruption.\n\nKlaus Abbink also tests the fair salary hypothesis in a laboratory experimental setting. The controlled environment in this experiment allows to isolate and identify the impact of 'fair income' considerations on corrupt behaviour. He finds that public officials in two treatments with different perceptions of 'fairness' behave similarly in a bribery game. In other words, high relative public officials salaries do not alter decisions to be corrupt through fairness considerations. These experimental results substantiate Van Rijckeghem and Weder's findings and cast doubt on the cost-effectiveness of increasing public salaries to combat corruption.\n\nDi Tella and Schargrodsky provide additional evidence with their micro-empirical analysis on wages and auditing during a crackdown on corruption in Buenos Aires, Argentina in 1996-97. They argue that wage increases can be effective only when combined with intermediate levels of monitoring intensity (the probability of detection in the shirking model). They test their hypotheses using variations in audit intensity during the crackdown on corruption in public hospitals and find that procurement officers’ wages alone have no statistically significant effect on corruption but detect a negative relationship when wages are interacted with audit intensity. The authors make the case that higher wages and monitoring (“carrots and sticks”) should be used simultaneously to act as an effectual anti-corruption strategy.\n\nThe literature on public officials' salaries and corruption offers mixed or inconclusive evidence and seems to indicate that pay increases is a necessary but insufficient condition for curbing corruption.\n\nWage hikes could also have varying effects depending on whether reforms focus on base-salary (unconditional) increases or performance-related pay increases.\n\nFollowing the dissatisfaction with centralized forms of governance, decentralization of public service provision to sub-national governments became a global trend, particularly in developing countries. Decentralization is the transfer of authority, resources and responsibilities from higher to lower levels of government. Scott and Rao distinguish three types of decentralization:\n\n\nCountries differ in their degree of administrative, political and fiscal decentralization. For instance, in China there is a devolution of administrative and fiscal responsibilities but no political decentralization whereas it is the opposite in India.\n\nThere are several theoretical arguments supporting that decentralization can improve governance and reduce corruption. To begin with, decentralization is believed to bring the government closer to its citizens and to improve the allocation of resources at the local level. The optimal output level of a local public good (at which citizens' marginal benefit equals marginal cost of providing the good) varies across localities because of differences in preferences and costs. Considering that sub-national governments have better information about the preferences and circumstances of their constituencies, they can tailor the provision of public goods according to these preferences, thereby increasing efficiency and total welfare. This idea goes back to F. Hayek's argument in his essay \"The Use of Knowledge in Society\" (1945). Hayek asserts that since knowledge is decentralized (\"the knowledge of the particular circumstances of time and place\"), it follows that decisions and control over resources should be decentralized (a necessary although not sufficient condition for achieving optimal allocation).\n\nHowever, principal-agent models demonstrate there can be tradeoffs in transferring decision-making responsibilities. Under these theoretical frameworks, central public officials are assumed to be public-spirited principals and local officials act as self-interested agents. On the one hand, public good delivery can be better adapted to local needs but on the other hand, the decisions are made by agents whose interests differ from the principal. Delegating authority can result in 'control loss' or 'abuse of power'. Decentralization can be more effective than centralized decision-making if the gains from adaptability can outweigh the control loss. The overall effects of decentralization on governance and welfare will therefore depend on the degree to which the principal's and agent's interests are opposed and the principal's ability to exert control over the agent's actions.\n\nIt has also been argued that decentralization can enhance accountability in the service delivery mechanism. Local governments' proximity makes it more feasible for citizens to monitor and hold public officials accountable. The accountability mechanisms work through political decentralization. In a functional local democracy, local elections constitute an 'incomplete contract' enabling citizens to remove non-performing local officials from office. However, as Bardhan and Mookherjee argue, local democracy may not operate effectively in practice in developing countries and may be captured by local elites.\n\nFurthermore, decentralization can reduce corruption by creating horizontal competition between local governments. Tiebout make the case in a 1956 paper that residents' and factors of production's mobility across localities can reduce the monopoly power exercised by local public officials with respect to regulations and bribes. Fiscal and political decentralization encourages inter-jurisdictional competition that pressures sub-national governments to efficiently deliver local public goods. If citizens are dissatisfied with their local government's performance, they can move to other regions, thereby decreasing tax revenues in less efficient jurisdictions. A similar argument concerning the relationship between a decentralized bureaucratic structure and bribe payments has been explored in the academic literature. Rose-Ackerman suggests that a decentralized civil service can reduce bribery since competition between public officials would bid down bribe payments. Vishny and Shleifer further develop this argument, they build a model where citizens and businesses require more than one service or good from several public officials. If government services are substitutes, then the competitive regime still applies. However, when government services are complementary and in the case of a decentralized bureaucratic structure, firms or citizens are facing several independent bureaucrats. Decentralization might therefore lead to a lack of coordination among bribe-seeking bureaucrats and a \"Tragedy of the Commons\" outcome where public officials ask bribe payments that are too high, thereby increasing the burden that corruption imposes on firms and citizens.\n\nDiaby and Sylwester empirically test these hypotheses in a cross-country regression and find that bribe payments are higher under a more decentralized bureaucratic structure. Yet Fisman and Gatti detect a strong negative correlation between fiscal decentralization (as measured by subnational share of total government spending) and corruption. Treisman (2000) examines correlations between eight different measures of decentralization with various measures of corruption and service delivery performance. The same measure of fiscal decentralization used by Fisman and Gatti appears not to be significantly correlated with corruption measures.\n\nDecentralization is a complex process which manifests itself in various forms. The design and impetus for decentralization are specific to each country, which complicates comparisons of a single conception of decentralization. The literature on decentralization experiences in several developing countries suggests the effects of decentralization on public sector performance and corruption are likely to be ambiguous and highly context-specific. The empirical work appears to be inconclusive as various types of decentralization were examined using different measures. What's more, measuring corruption as bribery without paying attention to special interest capture may provide an inaccurate assessment of the impact of decentralization. As Bardhan and Mookherjee argue, bribery may decrease while being replaced by local elite capture as a result of decentralization.\n\nTreisman purports that the theoretical and empirical arguments about decentralization and governance refer to specific types of decentralization. He identifies five types: structural, decision, resource, electoral and institutional decentralization and develops arguments clarifying how each type affects the quality of government. While some types of decentralization can improve governance and reduce corruption, others can undermine government performance, this can in part explain the mixed empirical evidence on the effects of decentralization.\n\nRather than structuring rewards and penalties for corrupt behaviour, another approach to civil service reform seeks to increase the probability that corrupt activity will be observed. Theoretically, monitoring can reduce information asymmetries so that the principal can induce the agent to choose the optimal level of effort and the optimal degree of corrupt activity. As the agent compares his expected payoff of being honest to that of being corrupt, increasing the probability of getting caught and punished will deter corrupt behaviour.\n\nCivil service auditing by the principal or third parties serves an accountability function. The inherent conflict of interest as well as the lack of oversight require independent third parties to certify the reliability of financial reporting, performance results and compliance to rules. Auditors can help exercise oversight by evaluating the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the delivery of government services. These audits must rely on efficiency measures and pre-determined criteria and benchmarks to assess public servant's performance and the impact of government's programs. Performance auditing can also help detect corruption in public entities. Audits highlight irregularities and areas of inefficiencies that may indicate the existence of corruption. Based on suspicious circumstances, auditors can identify illegal behaviour and collect evidence on misdeeds which can subsequently be used to prosecute public servants at fault. As previously mentioned, successful detection efforts by performance auditing can have a deterrent effect on corrupt activities.\n\nAuditing and prosecution were important elements in Justice Plana's campaign to curb corruption in the Bureau of Internal Revenue in the Philippines. Appointed as the new Commissioner of the corrupt Bureau of Internal Revenue, Justice Plana's anti-corruption strategy focused on implementing a new performance evaluation system, gathering information on corruption through intelligence agents and audits and effectively prosecuting corrupt tax officers. While Justice Plana's campaign was a multi-faceted approach, the higher monitoring intensity combined with a highly credible threat of punishment were particularly successful in deterring corrupt behaviour in the Bureau of Internal Revenue. According to Professor Magtolis-Briones, the threat of being detected and prosecuted decidedly lead officials to reconsider their decisions to engage in corrupt activities.\n\nIn Georgia, the success of anti-corruption reforms especially relied on top-down monitoring and prosecution but Schueth warns about the potential abuses of monitoring when fighting corruption. The crackdown on corruption in the tax agency involved coercion such as the use of extra-legal surveillance systems to ensure public officials' observance of the new procedural codes.\n\nLaboratory experiments provide evidence on the impact monitoring. In a controlled bribery experiment in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, Armantier and Boly observed that monitoring and punishment can be an effective anti-corruption policy. The researchers had two treatments, low monitoring and high monitoring.While the 'low monitoring' treatment proved effective in curbing bribery, they could not detect significant treatment effects on bribery in the 'high monitoring' treatment. The authors suggest that high monitoring intensity can crowd out intrinsic motivations to behave honestly.\n\nSerra compare the effectiveness of top-down and bottom-up monitoring in a laboratory bribery game between public officials and private citizens. The experimental results suggest that top-down auditing is ineffective in deterring bribery, this may be especially true in weak institutional environments. However, the researcher found that combining formal top-down auditing and bottom-up monitoring created an accountability mechanism that was effective in curbing corruption.\n\nAn alternative approach to improving governance and combating corruption that has gained prominence in recent years is encouraging grassroots participation by community members in local monitoring to induce bottom-up pressures for reform. The 2004 World Development Report: Making Services Work for Poor People is centred on this grassroots approach to development. Community participation is now considered an important component of reforms aiming to improve public service delivery and corruption at the local level.\n\nBottom-up models of governance involve community members participating in the service provision process by allowing them to monitor public officials, to have a say in policymaking, and keep service providers accountable to incentivize them to deliver public goods and services efficiently.\n\nJ. Stiglitz argues that community members, as beneficiaries of public goods and services, will have more incentives to monitor and ensure that governments programs are successful compared to indifferent central bureaucrats. In particular, project involving local citizens will be more likely to succeed since community participation helps sustain efforts towards the long-term continuation of projects necessary to keep them effective.\n\nNevertheless, B. Olken contends that grassroots monitoring for public goods and services may be impaired by a free-rider problem and suggests that government provision of private goods (subsidized food or health care) may generate more incentives to monitor service provision as each community member has a personal interest in securing the effective delivery of goods and in minimizing extortion by public officials. Stiglitz indeed recognizes that grassroots monitoring of public good delivery is in itself a public good and that as such, it is under-provided.\n\nA bottom-up project, the Citizen Report Card (CRC), pioneered by the NGO Public Affairs Center (PAC) was implemented in 1993 in Bangalore, India. This project aimed at gathering local citizens' feedback on civil service performance and publicizing the results through the media, thereby exerting public pressures for the public service to improve its performance and launch reforms. In 1993, the report cards revealed low levels of citizens' satisfaction with service providers, and the expectation was that report cards would serve as an accountability mechanism that would bring forward issues of service provision quality and corruption levels in the public service. While this initiative did raise awareness on such issues, there was some but not dramatic improvement in service delivery quality between 1994 and 1999. However, the difficulty of measuring improvements in service quality other than through subjective measures restricts opportunities to rigorously evaluate this bottom-up initiative.\n\nParticipatory Budgeting in Porto Alegre, Brazil is known among scholars and policymakers as an enduring example of bottom-up reforms. Participatory budgeting allows citizens to voice their demands regarding service delivery improvements, and through negotiations to influence budget funds allocation at the municipality level. This project was initiated in 1989, and is said to have improved access to and the quality of public service provision, especially for lower segments of society. For instance, 27,000 new public housing units were created in 1989 (compared to only 1,700 in 1986), the number of schools quadrupled between 1986 and 1997 while the share of Porto Alegre's budget going to education and health went from 13% in 1985 to about 40% in 1996. Participatory budgeting still has to address some limitations, including lack of representation of the poorest, but its success has led other municipalities in Brazil and public entities in other countries to adopt this initiative.\n\nIn 2010, the Ghanaian government implemented a civil service salary reform, the Single Spine Salary Structure (SSSS) to mitigate pay disparities in the public service. Police officers were the first beneficiaries of this new salary structure as the police service has historically been the least well-paid of public services in Ghana. Their wages unilaterally doubled in an attempt to increase their living standards to reduce bribery (fair-wage hypothesis). Foltz and Opoku-Agyemang assess the impact of this salary reform using a difference-in-difference analysis taking advantage of the exogenous change induced by the policy.\n\nWhile police officers' wages doubled, the salaries of other civil servants in Ghana and police officers in Burkina Faso stayed the same. The researchers identified two groups, the Ghanaian policemen who received the treatment (higher wages) and the control group consisting of other civil servants (Ghanaian custom officers and Burkinabé policemen) whose wages did not increase.\n\nUsing data on bribes paid from 2,100 truck trips between Ghana and Burkina Faso, Foltz and Opoku-Agyemang can observe the differences in interactions with truck drivers between the treated and the control group before the salary reform (2006-2010) and after the salary reform (2010-2012). If we assume group differences would have stayed constant in the absence of the reform (parallel trend assumption), the difference-in-difference coefficient estimate measures the causal impact of the salary increase on Ghanaian police officers' propensity to ask for bribes. The results suggest that the salary reform counterintuively increased police officers' efforts to extort bribes, the value of the bribes and the total amount truck drivers had to pay on the road. This evidence goes against theoretical arguments on pay reforms in the civil service. Foltz and Opoku-Agyemang posit that these results could be due to the lack of enforcement of anti-corruption laws. Without changing the environment and other incentives facing civil servants, it appears that increasing wages may not have the predicted effects on corruption.\n\nCorruption in tax administration has particularly detrimental effects on tax revenue collection, fiscal balance and overall economic performance. Khan, Khwaja and Olken implemented a large-scale randomized experiment in Punjab, Pakistan to assess the impact of performance-based payment schemes for tax collectors. In collaboration with the Punjab provincial government, they randomly allocated tax officials in the provincial urban property tax department into four groups, a control group and three treatment groups corresponding to different pay-for-performance designs.\n\nThe three treatment groups differed in the degree to which tax officers' pay was based on revenue collection performance and on other subjective evaluations from taxpayers and the tax department. The 'Revenue' treatment provided incentives depending only on revenue collection exceeding a benchmark while the 'Revenue Plus' scheme tied salaries to tax collection performance as well as accuracy of tax assessment and taxpayers' satisfaction. The last treatment 'Flexible Plus' added several criteria set by the tax department to determine wages. After two fiscal years, Khan, Khwaja and Olken found that across the three treatment groups, tax revenues increased by 9 log points on average which is equivalent to 46% higher growth of revenues compared to the control group.\n\nThe 'Revenue' scheme was the most effective in increasing tax collection but the researchers found no effects on accuracy of tax assessment or the satisfaction of taxpayers. They note that pay-for-performance schemes may have tradeoffs: giving excessive incentives to tax officers might increase their bargaining power with taxpayers and lead to more extortion and taxpayers' dissatisfaction. However, Khan, Khwaja and Olken point out that the benefits of pay-for-performance contracts outweigh their costs and suggest they can effective in increasing tax revenue collection.\n\nIn 2003, the federal government of Brazil created the Controladoria Geral da União (CGU) charged with corruption prevention and internal control. The CGU launched an anti-corruption program, Programa de Fiscalização por Sorteios Públicos (Monitoring Program with Public Lotteries), which consists in randomly selecting municipalities for audits and publicly disseminating the findings. As of 2015, 12 years after the beginning of the reform, there have been 2,241 audits in 1,949 municipalities. Researchers Avis, Ferraz and Finan exploited the random selection to measure the impact of this anti-corruption program. While some municipalities had been audited several times in the past (treatment group), others were being audited for the first time (control group). Since the municipalities were randomly selected, comparing corruption levels among municipalities in the control and treatment group can provide causal estimates of the effects of the reform.\n\nBased on audit reports, they estimate that 30% of the federal funds transferred to municipalities were stolen. However, they find that corruption levels were 8% lower in municipalities that had previously undergone government audits, thereby suggesting that random audits can be an effective policy against corruption. The researchers posit that random audits can reduce corruption by increasing public officials' perceived probability of being detected. They observed that audits also generated spillover effects, neighbouring municipalities were also affected, having an additional neighbour audited decreased their corruption levels by 7.5%. The local media played a role in disseminating information about other municipalities' audit outcomes.\n\nAvis et al. identify several mechanisms through which the audits led to lower local corruption. First, the new program introduce a system of political accountability whereby local citizens can punish or reward (dis)honest incumbents. Audits may have also altered the types of candidates who enter into politics. What's more, negative audit results can generate reputational costs and potential legal punishments.\n\nThe Kecamatan Development Project (KDP) is an Indonesian government program, financed by the World Bank which funds village-level small-scale infrastructure programs. Benjamin Olken implemented a randomized experiment in which he randomly assigned 608 villages into groups with different audit probabilities prior to the start of a nationwide infrastructure project.\n\nA random sample of villages were informed that the project would be audited by an audit agency once completed. This increased the probability of detection from 4% to 100%. The audit results were publicly disseminated by the auditors during village meetings. Olken also designed experiments to increase local members' participation in 'accountability meetings' where officials in charge of the road-building project expose how the budget will be spent.\n\nTo assess the impact of both monitoring mechanisms, the researcher uses a quantitative measure of corruption levels based on engineers' assessment of the quantity of materials used to build the roads and estimated costs. The discrepancies between project’s official costs reported by village project leaders and the costs estimated by independent engineers measures missing expenditures which are used as a proxy for corruption in Olken's study. It was estimated that on average 24% of materials were missing based on road samples, suggesting that part of the project funds were diverted. Olken finds that increasing the probability of external audits significantly reduced missing expenditures (by 8%), and that this approach to fighting corruption is cost-effective. Top-down audits were more effective when village elections were close, which implies that local level accountability can be effective in restraining corrupt behaviour. However, the interventions to increase grassroots participation did not have any significant effects on missing funds.\n\nPolitical economy dynamics condition the success of civil service reforms. North et al. argue that some developing countries function as 'limited access orders' in which elites exclude broad cross-sections of society to maintain an equilibrium that enables them to extracts rents. In such an equilibrium, political elites have no incentives to break down their patronage networks and introduce meritocratic recruitment reforms in the civil service as it would threaten their position and reduce their opportunities for rent-seeking. The clientelist system on the contrary can be a powerful mechanism through which elites maintain this 'limited access order'. Considerably depending on clientelist and patronage networks increases the costs of implementing public sector reforms. Elites will therefore be likely to oppose reforms as they stand to lose the most.\n\nWhat's more, civil service reforms are costly to implement in the short-term while their benefits will be manifested and reaped in the future. Governments are thus unwilling to make such unappealing investment. The long-term nature of reforms and the reluctance to initiate, gather and maintain support for reforms prevent their implementation in the first place. In a background paper for the 2011 World Bank Development Report, de Weijer and Pritchett appraise that it would take about 20 years to witness improvements in the functional capability of the state. In almost every countries, this exceeds the average duration of a term of office, political incumbents would have no incentives to incur the costs to carry out reforms while the benefits will accrue to future incumbents.\n\nIn addition, bureaucratic inertia and resistance to change should not be overlooked. Bureaucrats may be disinclined to accept changes brought by civil service reforms. This is especially true in countries where bureaucrats depend on informal or illegal channels to complement their meager salaries.\n\nInstitutional structures or types of political regimes also matter for reform implementation and success. In a democratic regime, political incumbents may see it in their interests to initiate bureaucratic reforms if voters value and acknowledge the public benefits of reforms. However, demand for civil service reforms remains weak in developing countries. Even if bureaucratic corruption is condemned across countries, the internal demand for anti-corruption reforms is undermined by a collective action problem. Indeed, Persson, Rohstein and Teorell argue that civil service reforms have failed as a result of their mischaracterization of corruption. Most approaches to civil service reform rely on principal-agent frameworks that assume that 'principled principals' are public-spirited and will always take on the task to fight corruption and improve bureaucratic performance. However, the authors contend that, in contexts where corruption is pervasive, actors will not necessarily respond to incentives aiming at altering their behaviour but instead behave based on the extent to which corruption is the expected behaviour in society.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9241097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9241097", "title": "Colonial Secretary of Tasmania", "text": "Colonial Secretary of Tasmania\n\nThe Colonial Secretary of Van Diemen's Land (later Colonial Secretary of Tasmania) was the representative of the British Colonial Office in Van Diemen's Land (later Tasmania), and was usually appointed from Britain.\nIn 1884, the role was renamed Chief Secretary.\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of Colonial Secretaries of Van Diemen's Land/Tasmania:\n"}
{"id": "27993459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27993459", "title": "Concordat of 1928", "text": "Concordat of 1928\n\nThe Concordat of 1928 was signed between the Colombian government and the Vatican on 5 May 1928. The concordant was registered in \"League of Nations Treaty Series\" on 3 August 1928.\n\nIn Article 1 the Colombian government undertook to facilitate the continued operation of Catholic Missions in Colombia.\n\nArticle 2 specified the Ecclesiastical districts in Colombia.\n\nArticle 3 provided for an appendix to the agreement to specify the boundaries of the Ecclesiastical districts.\n\nArticle 4 provided for the establishment of stations on the borders with Venezuela, Brazil, Peru and Ecuador.\n\nArticle 5 provided for government financial support of missions sent to the Native American tribes in Colombia.\n\nArticles 6-8 specified the funds to be allocated to maintain the missions.\n\nArticle 9 placed the Catholic school system under the supervision of the missions.\n\nIn article 10 the Colombian government undertook to provide the missions with the land needed for their operation.\n\nArticle 11 obliged heads of missions to submit to the Papal Nuncio annual reports about their finances, and these reports must be delivered both to the Vatican and the Colombian government.\n\nIn article 12 the Colombian government undertook not to appoint in the areas where Native American tribes resided any local officials hostile to the Catholic church.\n\nArticle 13 obliged heads of mission to use their influence on Native American converts to promote government development plans on their lands.\n\nArticle 14 granted to mission officials the same legal status as other clergy.\n\nArticle 15 obliged heads of missions to appoint legal representatives to deal with legal matters.\n\nArticle 16 stipulated that the agreement shall remain in force for 25 years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3608404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3608404", "title": "Corruption", "text": "Corruption\n\nIn general, corruption is a form of dishonesty or criminal activity undertaken by a person or organization entrusted with a position of authority, often to acquire illicit benefit. Corruption may include many activities including bribery and embezzlement, though it may also involve practices that are legal in many countries. Political corruption occurs when an office-holder or other governmental employee acts in an official capacity for personal gain. Corruption is most commonplace in kleptocracies, oligarchies, narco-states and mafia states.\n\nCorruption can occur on different scales. Corruption ranges from small favors between a small number of people (petty corruption), to corruption that affects the government on a large scale (grand corruption), and corruption that is so prevalent that it is part of the everyday structure of society, including corruption as one of the symptoms of organized crime. Corruption and crime are endemic sociological occurrences which appear with regular frequency in virtually all countries on a global scale in varying degree and proportion. Individual nations each allocate domestic resources for the control and regulation of corruption and crime. Strategies to counter corruption are often summarized under the umbrella term anti-corruption.\n\nStephen D. Morris, a professor of politics, writes that political corruption is the illegitimate use of public power to benefit a private interest. Economist Ian Senior defines corruption as an action to (a) secretly provide (b) a good or a service to a third party (c) so that he or she can influence certain actions which (d) benefit the corrupt, a third party, or both (e) in which the corrupt agent has authority. Daniel Kaufmann, from the World Bank, extends the concept to include 'legal corruption' in which power is abused within the confines of the law—as those with power often have the ability to make laws for their protection. The effect of corruption in infrastructure is to increase costs and construction time, lower the quality and decrease the benefit.\n\nThe research work on social corruption developed at The Unicist Research Institute defines that corruption allows individuals to profit from the environment through illegitimate actions while they disintegrate the system they are part of.\n\nCorruption can occur on different scales. Corruption ranges from small favors between a small number of people (petty corruption), to corruption that affects the government on a large scale (grand corruption), and corruption that is so prevalent that it is part of the everyday structure of society, including corruption as one of the symptoms of organized crime.\n\nIncreasingly, a number of indicators and tools have been developed which can measure different forms of corruption with increasing accuracy.\n\nPetty corruption occurs at a smaller scale and takes place at the implementation end of public services when public officials meet the public. For example, in many small places such as registration offices, police stations, state licensing boards, and many other private and government sectors.\n\nGrand corruption is defined as corruption occurring at the highest levels of government in a way that requires significant subversion of the political, legal and economic systems. Such corruption is commonly found in countries with authoritarian or dictatorial governments but also in those without adequate policing of corruption.\n\nThe government system in many countries is divided into the legislative, executive and judiciary branches in an attempt to provide independent services that are less subject to grand corruption due to their independence from one another.\n\nSystemic corruption (or endemic corruption) is corruption which is primarily due to the weaknesses of an organization or process. It can be contrasted with individual officials or agents who act corruptly within the system.\n\nFactors which encourage systemic corruption include conflicting incentives, discretionary powers; monopolistic powers; lack of transparency; low pay; and a culture of impunity. Specific acts of corruption include \"bribery, extortion, and embezzlement\" in a system where \"corruption becomes the rule rather than the exception.\" Scholars distinguish between centralized and decentralized systemic corruption, depending on which level of state or government corruption takes place; in countries such as the Post-Soviet states both types occur.\nSome scholars argue that there is a negative duty of western governments to protect against systematic corruption of underdeveloped governments.\n\nCorruption can occur in any sector, whether they be public or private industry or even NGOs (especially in public sector). However, only in democratically controlled institutions is there an interest of the public (owner) to develop internal mechanisms to fight active or passive corruption, whereas in private industry as well as in NGOs there is no public control. Therefore, the owners' investors' or sponsors' profits are largely decisive.\n\nPublic corruption includes corruption of the political process and of government agencies such as the police as well as corruption in processes of allocating public funds for contracts, grants, and hiring. Recent research by the World Bank suggests that who makes policy decisions (elected officials or bureaucrats) can be critical in determining the level of corruption because of the incentives different policy-makers face.\n\nPolitical corruption is the abuse of public power, office, or resources by elected government officials for personal gain, by extortion, soliciting or offering bribes. It can also take the form of office holders maintaining themselves in office by purchasing votes by enacting laws which use taxpayers' money. Evidence suggests that corruption can have political consequences- with citizens being asked for bribes becoming less likely to identify with their country or region.\n\nThe political act of Graft (American English), is a well known and now global form of political corruption, being the unscrupulous and illegal use of a politician's authority for personal gain, when funds intended for public projects are intentionally misdirected in order to maximize the benefits to illegally private interests of the corrupted individual(s) and their cronies.\n\nThe Kaunas golden toilet case was a major Lithuanian scandal. In 2009, municipality of Kaunas (led by mayor Andrius Kupčinskas) ordered that a shipping container was to be converted into an outdoor toilet at a cost of 500'000 litas (around 150'000 euros). It was to also require 5'000 LTL (1'500 EUR) in monthly maintenance costs. At the same time when Kaunas \"golden toilet\" was built, Kėdainiai tennis club acquired a very similar, but more advanced solution for 4'500 EUR. Because of the inflated cost of the outdoor toilet was nicknamed \"golden toilet\". Despite the investment, the \"golden toilet\" remained closed for years due to the dysfunctionality and was a subject of a lengthy anti-corruption investigation into those who had created it and the local municipality even considered demolishing the building at one point. The group of public servants involved in the toilet's procurement received various prison sentences for recklessness, malfeasance, misuse of power and document falsifications in a 2012 court case, but were cleared of their corruption charges and received compensation, which pushed the total construction cost and subsequent related financial losses to 352'000 euros.\n\nVarious sources acclaim the Spanish People's Party – Partido Popular -, to be Europe's most corrupt party, with about yearly 45 billion euro worth of corruption.\n\nPolice corruption is a specific form of police misconduct designed to obtain financial benefits, personal gain, career advancement for a police officer or officers in exchange for not pursuing or selectively pursuing an investigation or arrest or aspects of the thin blue line itself where force members collude in lies to protect other members from accountability. One common form of police corruption is soliciting or accepting bribes in exchange for not reporting organized drug or prostitution rings or other illegal activities.\n\nAnother example is police officers flouting the police code of conduct in order to secure convictions of suspects—for example, through the use of falsified evidence. More rarely, police officers may deliberately and systematically participate in organized crime themselves. In most major cities, there are internal affairs sections to investigate suspected police corruption or misconduct. Similar entities include the British Independent Police Complaints Commission.\n\nJudicial corruption refers to corruption-related misconduct of judges, through receiving or giving bribes, improper sentencing of convicted criminals, bias in the hearing and judgement of arguments and other such misconduct.\n\nGovernmental corruption of judiciary is broadly known in many transitional and developing countries because the budget is almost completely controlled by the executive. The latter undermines the separation of powers, as it creates a critical financial dependence of the judiciary. The proper national wealth distribution including the government spending on the judiciary is subject to the constitutional economics.\n\nIt is important to distinguish between the two methods of corruption of the judiciary: the government (through budget planning and various privileges), and the private. Judicial corruption can be difficult to completely eradicate, even in developed countries.\nCorruption in judiciary also involves the government in power using the judicial arm of government to oppress the opposition parties in the detriments of the state.\n\nCorruption in education is a worldwide phenomenon. Corruption in admissions to universities is traditionally considered as one of the most corrupt areas of the education sector. Recent attempts in some countries, such as Russia and Ukraine, to curb corruption in admissions through the abolition of university entrance examinations and introduction of standardized computer-graded tests have largely failed. Vouchers for university entrants have never materialized. The cost of corruption is in that it impedes sustainable economic growth. Endemic corruption in educational institutions leads to the formation of sustainable corrupt hierarchies. While higher education in Russia is distinct with widespread bribery, corruption in the US and the UK features a significant amount of fraud. The US is distinct with grey areas and institutional corruption in the higher education sector. Authoritarian regimes, including those in the former Soviet republics, encourage educational corruption and control universities, especially during the election campaigns. This is typical for Russia, Ukraine, and Central Asian regimes, among others. The general public is well aware of the high level of corruption in colleges and universities, including thanks to the media. Doctoral education is no exception, with dissertations and doctoral degrees available for sale, including for politicians. Russian Parliament is notorious for \"highly educated\" MPs High levels of corruption are a result of universities not being able to break away from their Stalinist past, over bureaucratization, and a clear lack of university autonomy. Both quantitative and qualitative methodologies are employed to study education corruption, but the topic remains largely unattended by the scholars. In many societies and international organizations, education corruption remains a taboo.\nIn some countries, such as certain eastern European countries, some Balkan countries and certain Asian countries, corruption occurs frequently in universities. This can include bribes to bypass bureaucratic procedures and bribing faculty for a grade. The willingness to engage in corruption such as accepting bribe money in exchange for grades decreases if individuals perceive such behavior as very objectionable, i.e. a violation of social norms and if they fear sanctions regarding the severity and probability of sanctions.\n\nThe Teamsters (International Brotherhood of Teamsters) is an example of how the civil RICO process can be used. For decades, the Teamsters have been substantially controlled by La Cosa Nostra. Since 1957, four of eight Teamster presidents were indicted, yet the union continued to be controlled by organized crime elements. The federal government has been successful at removing the criminal influence from this 1.4 million-member union by using the civil process.\n\nThe history of religion includes numerous examples of religious leaders calling attention to corruption in the religious practices and institutions of their time. Jewish prophets Isaiah and Amos berate the rabbinical establishment of Ancient Judea for failing to live up to the ideals of the Torah. In the New Testament, Jesus accuses the rabbinical establishment of his time of hypocritically following only the ceremonial parts of the Torah and neglecting the more important elements of justice, mercy and faithfulness. In 1517, Martin Luther accuses the Catholic Church of widespread corruption, including selling of indulgences.\n\nIn 2015, Princeton University professor Kevin M. Kruse advances the thesis that business leaders in the 1930s and 1940s collaborated with clergymen, including James W. Fifield Jr., to develop and promote a new hermeneutical approach to Scripture that would de-emphasize the social Gospel and emphasize themes, such as individual salvation, more congenial to free enterprise.\n\n19th century German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer acknowledges that academics, including philosophers, are subject to the same sources of corruption as the society they inhabit. He distinguishes the corrupt \"university\" philosophers, whose \"real concern is to earn with credit an honest livelihood for themselves and ... to enjoy a certain prestige in the eyes of the public\" from the genuine philosopher, whose sole motive is to discover and bear witness to the truth.\n\nIn criminology, corporate crime refers to crimes committed either by a corporation (i.e., a business entity having a separate legal personality from the natural persons that manage its activities), or by individuals acting on behalf of a corporation or other business entity (see vicarious liability and corporate liability). Some negative behaviours by corporations may not be criminal; laws vary between jurisdictions. For example, some jurisdictions allow insider trading.\nPetróleo Brasileiro S.A. — Petrobras, more commonly known as simply Petrobras (), is a semi-public Brazilian multinational corporation in the petroleum industry headquartered in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The company's name translates to Brazilian Petroleum Corporation — Petrobras. The company was ranked #58 in the 2016 Fortune Global 500 list. It is being investigated over corporate and political collusion and corruption.\n\nOdebrecht is a privately held Brazilian conglomerate consisting of diversified businesses in the fields of engineering, real estate, construction, chemicals and petrochemicals. The company was founded in 1944 in Salvador da Bahia by Norberto Odebrecht, and the firm is now present in South America, Central America, North America, the Caribbean, Africa, Europe and the Middle East. Its leading company is . Odebrecht is one of the 25 largest international construction companies and is still led by Odebrecht family.\n\nThe firm's executives were examined during Operation Car Wash part of an investigation over Odebrecht Organization bribes to executives of Petrobras, in exchange for contracts and influence. Operation Car Wash is an ongoing criminal money laundering and bribes related corporate crime investigation being carried out by the Federal Police of Brazil, Curitiba Branch, and judicially commanded by Judge Sérgio Moro since March 17, 2014.\n\n\"Arms for cash\" can be done by either a state-sanctioned arms dealer, firm or state itself to another party it just in regards regards as only a good business partner and not political kindred or allies, thus making them no better than regular gun runners. Arms smugglers, who are already in to Arms trafficking may work for them on the ground or with shipment. The money is often laundered and records are often destroyed.\n\nIt often breaks UN, national or international law.\nPayment can also be in strange or indirect ways like arms paid for in post-war oil contracts, post-war hotel ownership, conflict diamonds, corporate shares or the long term post-war promises of superfus future contracts between the parties involved in it, etc...\nIn 2006 Transparency International ranked Angola a lowly 142 out of 163 countries in the Corruption Perception Index just after Venezuela and before the Republic of the Congo with a 2.2 rating. Angola was at 168th place (out of 178 countries) on Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI), receiving a 1.9 on a scale from 0 to 10. On the World Bank's 2009 Worldwide Governance Index, Angola had done very poorly on all six aspects of governance assessed. While its score for political stability improved to 35.8 in 2009 (on a 100-point scale) from 19.2 in 2004, Angola earned especially low scores for accountability, regulatory standards, and rule of law. The score for corruption declined from an extremely low 6.3 in 2004 to 5.2 in 2009.\n\nThe country is regarded poorly and that corruption is wounding the economy badly despite the emerging oil industries wealth.\n\nThe Mitterrand–Pasqua affair, also known informally as Angolagate, was an international political scandal over the secret and illegal sale and shipment of arms from the nations of Central Europe to the government of Angola by the Government of France in the 1990s. It led to arrests and judiciary actions in the 2000s, involved an illegal arms sale to Angola despite a UN embargo, with business interests in France and elsewhere improperly obtaining a share of Angolan oil revenues. The scandal has subsequently been tied to several prominent figures in French politics.\n\n“Angolagate”, which was carried out and uncovered over the course of the 1990s. 42 individuals, including: 42 people, including Jean-Christophe Mitterrand, Jacques Attali, Charles Pasqua and Jean-Charles Marchiani, Pierre Falcone. Arcadi Gaydamak, Paul-Loup Sulitzer, Union for a Popular Movement deputy Georges Fenech, the son of Francois Mitterrand and a former French Minister of the Interior, were all charged, accused, indicted or convicted with illegal arms trading, tax fraud, embezzlement, money laundering and other crimes. \"\n\nIn systemic corruption and grand corruption, multiple methods of corruption are used concurrently with similar aims.\n\nBribery involves the improper use of gifts and favours in exchange for personal gain. This is also known as kickbacks or, in the Middle East, as baksheesh. It is the common form of corruption. The types of favours given are diverse and may include money, gifts, sexual favours, company shares, entertainment, employment and political benefits. The personal gain that is given can be anything from actively giving preferential treatment to having an indiscretion or crime overlooked.\n\nBribery can sometimes form a part of the systemic use of corruption for other ends, for example to perpetrate further corruption. Bribery can make officials more susceptible to blackmail or to extortion.\n\nEmbezzlement and theft involve someone with access to funds or assets illegally taking control of them. Fraud involves using deception to convince the owner of funds or assets to give them up to an unauthorized party.\n\nExamples include the misdirection of company funds into \"shadow companies\" (and then into the pockets of corrupt employees), the skimming of foreign aid money, scams and other corrupt activity.\n\nThe political act of Graft (American English), is a well known and now global form of political corruption, being the unscrupulous and illegal use of a politician's authority for personal gain, when funds intended for public projects are intentionally misdirected in order to maximize the benefits to illegally private interests of the corrupted individual(s) and their cronies.\n\nWhile bribery is the use of positive inducements for corrupt aims, extortion and blackmail centre around the use of threats. This can be the threat of violence or false imprisonment as well as exposure of an individual's secrets or prior crimes.\n\nThis includes such behavior as an influential person threatening to go to the media if they do not receive speedy medical treatment (at the expense of other patients), threatening a public official with exposure of their secrets if they do not vote in a particular manner, or demanding money in exchange for continued secrecy.\n\nInfluence peddling is the illegal practice of using one's influence in government or connections with persons in authority to obtain favours or preferential treatment for another, usually in return for payment.\n\nNetworking can be an effective way for job-seekers to gain a competitive edge over others in the job-market. The idea is to cultivate personal relationships with prospective employers, selection panelists, and others, in the hope that these personal affections will influence future hiring decisions. This form of networking has been described as an attempt to corrupt formal hiring processes, where all candidates are given an equal opportunity to demonstrate their merits to selectors. The networker is accused of seeking non-meritocratic advantage over other candidates; advantage that is based on personal fondness rather than on any objective appraisal of which candidate is most qualified for the position.\n\nAbuse of discretion refers to the misuse of one's powers and decision-making facilities. Examples include a judge improperly dismissing a criminal case or a customs official using their discretion to allow a banned substance through a port.\n\nFavouritism, nepotism and clientelism involve the favouring of not the perpetrator of corruption but someone related to them, such as a friend, family member or member of an association. Examples would include hiring or promoting a family member or staff member to a role they are not qualified for, who belongs to the same political party as you, regardless of merit.\n\nSome states do not forbid these forms of corruption.\n\nCorruption is strongly negatively associated with the share of private investment and, hence, it lowers the rate of economic growth.\n\nCorruption reduces the returns of productive activities. If the returns to production fall faster than the returns to corruption and rent-seeking activities, resources will flow from productive activities to corruption activities over time. This will result in a lower stock of producible inputs like human capital in corrupted countries.\n\nCorruption creates the opportunity for increased inequality, reduces the return of productive activities, and, hence, makes rentseeking and corruption activities more attractive. This opportunity for increased inequality not only generates psychological frustration to the underprivileged but also reduces productivity growth, investment, and job opportunities.\n\nAccording to a 2017 survey study, the following factors have been attributed as causes of corruption:\n\nR. Klitgaard postulates that corruption will occur if the corrupt gain is greater than the penalty multiplied by the likelihood of being caught and prosecuted:\n\nCorrupt gain > Penalty × Likelihood of being caught and prosecuted\n\nThe degree of corruption will then be a function of the degree of monopoly and discretion in deciding who should get how much on the one hand and the degree to which this activity is accountable and transparent on the other hand. Still, these equations (which should be understood in a qualitative rather than a quantitative manner) seem to be lacking one aspect: a high degree of monopoly and discretion accompanied by a low degree of transparency does not automatically lead to corruption without any moral weakness or insufficient integrity. Also, low penalties in combination with a low probability of being caught will only lead to corruption if people tend to neglect ethics and moral commitment. The original R.Klitgaard equation has therefore been amended by C. Stephan into:\n\nAccording to Stephan, the moral dimension has an intrinsic and an extrinsic component. The intrinsic component refers to a mentality problem, the extrinsic component to external circumstances like poverty, inadequate remuneration, inappropriate work conditions and inoperable or over-complicated procedures which demoralize people and let them search for \"alternative\" solutions.\n\nAccording to the amended Klitgaard equation, limitation of monopoly and regulator discretion of individuals and a high degree of transparency through independent oversight by non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and the media plus public access to reliable information could reduce the problem. Djankov and other researchers have independently addressed the important role information plays in fighting corruption with evidence from both developing and developed countries. Disclosing financial information of government officials to the public is associated with improving institutional accountability and eliminating misbehavior such as vote buying. The effect is specifically remarkable when the disclosures concern politicians’ income sources, liabilities and asset level instead of just income level. Any extrinsic aspects that might reduce morality should be eliminated. Additionally, a country should establish a culture of ethical conduct in society with the government setting the good example in order to enhance the intrinsic morality.\n\nCreating bottom-up mechanisms, promoting citizens participation and encouraging the values of integrity, accountability, and transparency are crucial components of fighting corruption. The implementation of the ALACs “Advocacy and Legal Advice Centres (ALACs)” has led to a significant increase in the number of citizen complaints against acts of corruption received and documented and also to the development of strategies for good governance by involving citizens willing to fight against corruption.\n\nThe Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA, USA 1977) was an early paradigmatic law for many western countries i.e. industrial countries of the OECD. There, for the first time the old principal-agent approach was moved back where mainly the victim (a society, private or public) and a passive corrupt member (an individual) were considered, whereas the active corrupt part was not in the focus of legal prosecution. Unprecedented, the law of an industrial country directly condemned active corruption, particularly in international business transactions, which was at that time in contradiction to anti-bribery activities of the World Bank and its spin-off organization Transparency International.\n\nAs early as 1989 the OECD had established an ad hoc Working Group in order to explore \"...the concepts fundamental to the offense of corruption, and the exercise of national jurisdiction over offenses committed wholly or partially abroad.\"\nBased on the FCPA concept, the Working Group presented in 1994 the then \"OECD Anti-Bribery Recommendation\" as precursor for the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions which was signed in 1997 by all member countries and came finally into force in 1999. However, because of ongoing concealed corruption in international transactions several instruments of Country Monitoring have been developed since then by the OECD in order to foster and evaluate related national activities in combating foreign corrupt practices. One survey shows that after the implementation of heightened review of multinational firms under the convention in 2010 firms from countries that had signed the convention were less likely to use bribery.\n\nIn 2013, a document produced by the economic and private sector professional evidence and applied knowledge services help-desk discusses some of the existing practices on anti-corruption. They found:\n\nIn some countries people travel to corruption hot spots or a specialist tour company takes them on corruption city tours, as it is the case in Prague. Corruption tours have also occurred in Chicago, and Mexico City\n\nThough corruption is often viewed as illegal, there is an evolving concept of legal corruption, as developed by Daniel Kaufmann and Pedro Vicente. It might be termed as processes which are corrupt, but are protected by a legal (that is, specifically permitted, or at least not proscribed by law) framework.\n\nIn 1977 the USA had enacted the \"Foreign Corrupt Practices Act\" (FCPA) \"for the purpose of making it unlawful... to make payments to foreign government officials to assist in obtaining or retaining business\" and invited all OECD countries to follow suit. In 1997 a corresponding OECD Anti-Bribery Convention was signed by its members.\n\n17 years after the FCPA enacting, a Parliamentary Financial Commission in Bonn presented a comparative study on legal corruption in industrialized OECD countries As a result, they reported that in most industrial countries even at that time (1994) foreign corruption was legal, and that their foreign corrupt practices had been diverging to a large extent, ranging from simple legalization, through governmental subsidization (tax deduction), up to extremes like in Germany where foreign corruption was fostered, whereas domestic was legally prosecuted.\nConsequently, in order to support national export corporations the Parliamentary Financial Commission recommended to reject a related previous Parliamentary Proposal by the opposition leader which had been aiming to limit German foreign corruption on the basis of the US FCPA.\nOnly after the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention came into force, did Germany withdraw the legalization of foreign corruption in 1999.\n\nThe Foreign corrupt practices of industrialized OECD countries 1994 (Parliamentary Financial Commission study, Bonn).\n\nBelgium: bribe payments are generally tax deductible as business expenses if the name and address of the beneficiary is disclosed. Under the following conditions kickbacks in connection with exports abroad are permitted for deduction even without proof of the receiver:\nIn the absence of the required conditions, for corporate taxable companies paying bribes without proof of the receiver, a special tax of 200% is charged. This special tax may, however, be abated along with the bribe amount as an operating expense.\n\nDenmark: bribe payments are deductible when a clear operational context exists and its adequacy is maintained.\n\nFrance: basically all operating expenses can be deducted. However, staff costs must correspond to an actual work done and must not be excessive compared to the operational significance. This also applies to payments to foreign parties. Here, the receiver shall specify the name and address, unless the total amount in payments per beneficiary does not exceed 500 FF. If the receiver is not disclosed the payments are considered \"rémunérations occult\" and are associated with the following disadvantages:\n\nJapan: in Japan, bribes are deductible as business expenses that are justified by the operation (of the company) if the name and address of the recipient is specified. This also applies to payments to foreigners. If the indication of the name is refused, the expenses claimed are not recognized as operating expenses.\n\nCanada: there is no general rule on the deductibility or non-deductibility of kickbacks and bribes. Hence the rule is that necessary expenses for obtaining the income (contract) are deductible. Payments to members of the public service and domestic administration of justice, to officers and employees and those charged with the collection of fees, entrance fees etc. for the purpose to entice the recipient to the violation of his official duties, can not be abated as business expenses as well as illegal payments according to the Criminal Code.\n\nLuxembourg: bribes, justified by the operation (of a company) are deductible as business expenses. However, the tax authorities may require that the payer is to designate the receiver by name. If not, the expenses are not recognized as operating expenses.\n\nNetherlands: all expenses that are directly or closely related to the business are deductible. This also applies to expenditure outside the actual business operations if they are considered beneficial as to the operation for good reasons by the management. What counts is the good merchant custom. Neither the law nor the administration is authorized to determine which expenses are not operationally justified and therefore not deductible. For the business expense deduction it is not a requirement that the recipient is specified. It is sufficient to elucidate to the satisfaction of the tax authorities that the payments are in the interest of the operation.\n\nAustria: bribes justified by the operation (of a company) are deductible as business expenses. However, the tax authority may require that the payer names the recipient of the deducted payments exactly. If the indication of the name is denied e.g. because of business comity, the expenses claimed are not recognized as operating expenses. This principle also applies to payments to foreigners.\n\nSwitzerland: bribe payments are tax deductible if it is clearly operation initiated and the consignee is indicated.\n\nUS: (rough résumé: \"generally operational expenses are deductible if they are not illegal according to the FCPA\")\n\nUK: kickbacks and bribes are deductible if they have been paid for operating purposes. The tax authority may request the name and address of the recipient.\"\n\nReferring to the recommendation of the above-mentioned Parliamentary Financial Commission's study, the then Kohl administration (1991–1994) decided to maintain the legality of corruption against officials exclusively in foreign transactions and confirmed the full deductibility of bribe money, co-financing thus a specific nationalistic corruption practice (§4 Abs. 5 Nr. 10 EStG, valid until March 19, 1999) in contradiction to the 1994 OECD recommendation. The respective law was not changed before the OECD Convention also in Germany came into force (1999).\nAccording to the Parliamentary Financial Commission's study, however, in 1994 most countries' corruption practices were not nationalistic and much more limited by the respective laws compared to Germany.\nParticularly, the non-disclosure of the bribe money recipients' name in tax declarations had been a powerful instrument for Legal Corruption during the 1990s for German corporations, enabling them to block foreign legal jurisdictions which intended to fight corruption in their countries. Hence, they uncontrolled established a strong network of clientelism around Europe (e.g. SIEMENS) along with the formation of the European Single Market in the upcoming European Union and the Eurozone.\nMoreover, in order to further strengthen active corruption the prosecution of tax evasion during that decade had been severely limited. German tax authorities were instructed to refuse any disclosure of bribe recipients' names from tax declarations to the German criminal prosecution. As a result, German corporations have been systematically increasing their informal economy from 1980 until today up to 350 bn € per annum (see diagram on the right), thus continuously feeding their black money reserves.\n\nIn 2007, Siemens was convicted in the District Court of Darmstadt of criminal corruption against the Italian corporation Enel Power SpA. Siemens had paid almost €3.5 million in bribes to be selected for a €200 million project from the Italian corporation, partially owned by the government. The deal was handled through black money accounts in Switzerland and Liechtenstein that were established specifically for such purposes.\nBecause the crime was committed in 1999, after the OECD convention had come into force, this foreign corrupt practice could be prosecuted. According to Bucerius Law School professors Frank Saliger and Karsten Gaede, for the first time a German court of law convicted foreign corrupt practices like national ones although the corresponding law did not yet protect foreign competitors in business.\n\nDuring the judicial proceedings however it was disclosed that numerous such black accounts had been established in the past decades.\n\nPhilosophers and religious thinkers have responded to the inescapable reality of corruption in different ways. Plato, in \"The Republic\", acknowledges the corrupt nature of political institutions, and recommends that philosophers \"shelter behind a wall\" to avoid senselessly martyring themselves.\n\n\"Disciples of philosophy ... have tasted how sweet and blessed a possession philosophy is, and have also seen and been satisfied of the madness of the multitude, and known that there is no one who ever acts honestly in the administration of States, nor any helper who will save any one who maintains the cause of the just. Such a savior would be like a man who has fallen among wild beasts—unable to join in the wickedness of his fellows, neither would he be able alone to resist all their fierce natures, and therefore he would be of no use to the State or to his friends, and would have to throw away his life before he had done any good to himself or others. And he reflects upon all this, and holds his peace, and does his own business. He is like one who retires under the shelter of a wall in the storm of dust and sleet which the driving wind hurries along; and when he sees the rest of mankind full of wickedness, he is content if only he can live his own life and be pure from evil or unrighteousness, and depart in peace and good will, with bright hopes.\"\n\nThe New Testament, in keeping with the tradition of Ancient Greek thought, also frankly acknowledges the corruption of the world (ὁ κόσμος) and claims to offer a way of keeping the spirit \"unspotted from the world.\" Paul of Tarsus acknowledges his readers must inevitably \"deal with the world,\" and recommends they adopt an attitude of \"as if not\" in all their dealings. When they buy a thing, for example, they should relate to it \"as if it were not theirs to keep.\" New Testament readers are advised to refuse to \"conform to the present age\" and not to be ashamed to be peculiar or singular. They are advised not be friends of the corrupt world, because \"friendship with the world is enmity with God.\" They are advised not to love the corrupt world or the things of the world. The rulers of this world, Paul explains, \"are coming to nothing\" While readers must obey corrupt rulers in order to live in the world, the spirit is subject to no law but to love God and love our neighbors as ourselves. New Testament readers are advised to adopt a disposition in which they are \"in the world, but not of the world.\" This disposition, Paul claims, shows us a way to escape \"slavery to corruption\" and experience the freedom and glory of being innocent \"children of God\".\n\n"}
{"id": "19513741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19513741", "title": "Countercurrent (Italy, 2006)", "text": "Countercurrent (Italy, 2006)\n\nCountercurrent () is a small, Italian, trotskyist political party. It used to be a faction within the Communist Refoundation Party.\n\nThe group emerged in 2006 as a split from Communist Project, when their leader Marco Ferrando decided to leave the party in order to form his own Workers' Communist Party. For the 24–27 July 2008 congress the faction formed a common list with The Ernesto, another minority faction, and obtained 7.7% of the delegates. In that occasion they supported the election of Paolo Ferrero, leader of the Refoundation in Movement-Being Communists motion, as party secretary, thus joining for the first time the majority of the party.\n\nIn 2010 the faction embraced the Committee for a Workers' International.\n\nIn 2013, the party was the most important promoter of the massive Genoa Public Transportation Strike, that went on for a week and was considered the biggest non-general strike of the year.\n\nIn 2017, Controcorrente left the CWI over disagreements regarding, among other issues, the role of the European Union and Brexit. A large minority including mostly younger members split from Controcorrente to remain part of the CWI, forming a new organisation named Resistenze Internazionali.\n"}
{"id": "151350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=151350", "title": "Deliberation", "text": "Deliberation\n\nDeliberation is a process of thoughtfully weighing options, usually prior to voting. Deliberation emphasizes the use of logic and reason as opposed to power-struggle, creativity, or dialog. Group decisions are generally made after deliberation through a vote or consensus of those involved.\n\nIn legal settings a jury famously uses deliberation because it is given specific options, like guilty or not guilty, along with information and arguments to evaluate. In \"deliberative democracy\", the aim is for both elected officials and the general public to use deliberation rather than power-struggle as the basis for their vote.\n\nIn countries with a jury system, the jury's deliberation in criminal matters can involve both rendering a verdict and determining the appropriate sentence. In civil cases, the jury decision is whether to agree with the plaintiff or the defendant and rendering a resolution binding actions by the parties based on the results of the trial.\n\nTypically, a jury must come to a unanimous decision before delivering a verdict; however, there are exceptions. When a unanimous decision is not reached and the jury feels that one is not possible, they declare themselves a 'hung jury', a mistrial is declared and the trial will have to be redone at the discretion of the plaintiff or prosecutor.\n\nOne of the most famous dramatic depictions of this phase of a trial in practice is the film, \"12 Angry Men\".\n\nIn political philosophy, there is a wide range of views regarding how deliberation becomes a possibility within particular governmental regimes. Most recently, the uptake of deliberation by political philosophy embraces it alternatively as a crucial component or the death-knell of democratic systems. Much of contemporary democratic theory juxtaposes an optimism about democracy against excessively hegemonic, fascist, or otherwise authoritar regimes. Thus, the position of deliberation is highly contested and is defined variously by different camps within contemporary political philosophy. In its most general (and therefore, most ambiguous) sense, deliberation describes a process of interaction between various subjects/subjectivities dictated by a particular set of norms, rules, or fixed boundaries.\n\nThe origins of philosophical interest in deliberation can be traced to Aristotle’s concept of \"phronesis\", understood as “prudence” or “practical wisdom” and its exercise by individuals who deliberate in order to discern the positive or negative consequences of potential actions.\n\nFor many contemporary political philosophers, the rigidity of a particular set of norms, rules, or fixed boundaries about either the way that subjects who would qualify for deliberation are constituted (a position perhaps epitomized by John Rawls) or regarding the kinds of argument which qualify as deliberation (a position perhaps epitomized by Jürgen Habermas) constitute a foreclosure of deliberation, making it impossible.\n\n\"Existential deliberation\" is a term coined by the theorists of the emotional public sphere. Existential deliberation theorists contend that deliberation is an ontological state, rather than a process that can be deployed. As such, deliberation is a rare thing that only might happen in face-to-face encounters. This utilizes the insights of radical deliberation, in that the political is a rare discharge of potential into an otherwise sterile social field.\n\n\"Pragmatic deliberation\" is the epistemic variant on existential deliberation, frequently focusing on the ways in which groups could be assisted with producing positive outcomes that both aggregate and transform the views of effected publics.\n\nAdvocates of “public deliberation” as an essential democratic practice focus on processes of inclusiveness and interaction in making political decisions. The validity and reliability of public opinion improves with the development of “public judgment” as citizens consider multiple perspectives, weigh possible options, and accept the outcomes of decisions made together.\n\nRadical deliberation refers to a philosophical view of deliberation inspired by the events of the student revolution in May 1968. Political theory concerned with radical democracy, particularly that of such theorists as Michel Foucault, Ernesto Laclau, Chantal Mouffe, Jacques Ranciere, and Alain Badiou also focus upon deliberation insofar as the process of engagement between disparate positions create the conditions of possibility for a politics. Notably for these thinkers, the task of radical democracy is always and already unfinalized, subject to a series of changes which occur outside of the conscious influence of any single actor and are instead the discursive effects of the contingent assemblies of larger bodies politic.\n\nMichel Foucault's use of 'technologies of discourse' and 'mechanisms of power' describes how deliberation is either foreclosed or is a product of a series of technologies of discourse which produce a semblance of agency through the reproductions of power as they occur between individual subjects. The account of 'mechanisms' or 'technologies' is in some sense paradoxical: on the one hand, these technologies are inseparable from the subjects which enunciate them. On the other, to speak of the machine or technology which coordinates suggests an infrastructure through which the social is collectively organized, which suggests the removal of subjects from the means of their organization: a god's eye view of the social that is only coordinated by the movement of the parts.\n\nChantal Mouffe uses 'the democratic paradox' to generate a self-sustaining model of politics which is built on foundational contradictions - the non-resolution of which produces a productive agonism between subjects who recognize the other's right to speak. For Mouffe, the fact of the configuration of the social is the only foundational political stability - that and the certainty of a penultimate articulation's deferral. That is to say: re-articulations of the social will always occur. Again, process overwhelms content: the paradox of liberalism and popular sovereignty is the generative motor of radical democracy. The rhetorical gesture of the foundational paradox becomes a mechanism; an interface between the human and a language machine which produces the conditions of possibility for continued reconfiguration: a positive feedback loop for politics.\n\nAlthough Chantal Mouffe and Jacques Ranciere differ in their stance on what the conditions of the political are (for Mouffe, this is an internal reorganization of existing social arrangements in what are called 'articulations), for Ranciere, it is the incursion of an externality which had not yet been accounted for. In the 'arithmatic/geometric' distinctions of politics, there is a(n) (near) explicit appeal to the mechanical or mathematical: the political sustains itself by perpetuating a dialectic between homeostasis and reconfiguration (what N. Katherine Hayles might call 'pattern' and 'randomness') through a 'count' of what is internal to the police order. The mechanism of politics makes it possible for future reconfigurations only by making new inclusions, thereby rearranging the social, returning to homeostasis, and perpetuating the impossibility of a complete 'whole'. It is again a kind of rhetorical paradox which is the motor of politics: a foundational arbitrariness in who is or who is not permitted to speak.\n\nDeliberation theory is a non-political and non-legal subject dealing with the technical aspects of making decisions with varying amounts of information.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55170205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55170205", "title": "Douglas–Grumman scandal", "text": "Douglas–Grumman scandal\n\nThe Douglas-Grumman Scandal was a bribery scandal that rocked Japan in February 1979, concerning the sale of American fighter jets.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1042203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1042203", "title": "Emancipation of the Jews in the United Kingdom", "text": "Emancipation of the Jews in the United Kingdom\n\nThe Emancipation of the Jews in the United Kingdom was the culmination in the 19th century of efforts over several hundred years to loosen the legal restrictions set in place on England's Jewish population. The nation's mercantile class had long recognised Jews as an economic asset, and they and their allies in Parliament sought and eventually won the passage of laws that placed male Jews in the United Kingdom on an equal legal footing with the kingdom's other emancipated males.\n\nWhen in 1829 the Roman Catholics of the United Kingdom were freed from all their civil disabilities, the hopes of the Jews rose high; and the first step toward a similar alleviation in their case was taken in 1830 when William Huskisson presented a petition signed by 2,000 merchants and others of Liverpool. This was immediately followed by a bill presented by Robert Grant on 15 April that year which was destined to engage the British legislature in one form or another for the next thirty years. Thomas Macaulay, later a well-known and influential historian, was elected to Parliament in 1830 and – among other issues he took up – distinguished himself by attacking the exclusion of Jews.\n\nAt first the bill failed to get through the House of Commons. Against the opposition of Sir Robert Inglis, the first reading was passed by 115 to 97 votes. But the second reading, on 17 May, notwithstanding a sizable petition in its favour from 14,000 citizens of London, was rejected by 265 to 228 votes. The next year, 1833, however, it passed its third reading in the Commons on 22 July by a majority of 189 to 52, and was read for the first time in the Lords. On the second reading in the Lords on 1 August it was rejected by 104 to 54, with the Duke of Wellington speaking and voting against the Bill, though the Duke of Sussex, a constant friend to the Jews, presented a petition in its favour signed by 1,000 distinguished citizens of Westminster. The same thing happened in 1834, the bill being lost in the House of Lords by a majority of 92 votes. The whole force of the Tory Party and the personal antagonism of King William IV was against the bill. In the following year it was deemed inadvisable to make the annual appeal to Parliament, as the battle for religious liberty was going on in another part of the field; but by the passing of the Sheriffs' Declaration Act on 21 August 1835, Jews were allowed to hold the ancient and important office of sheriff. In the following year the Jew Bill was introduced late in the session, and succeeded in passing its first reading in the Lords on 19 August but was then dropped owing to the lateness of the session.\n\nBenjamin Disraeli, who was born Jewish and baptised aged 12 into the Church of England, was a member of parliament from 1837, served as Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1852, 1858–1859 and 1867–1868 Conservative governments. He went on to become, in 1868 and again in 1874, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. He was elevated to the House of Lords in 1876. His willingness to take Christian oaths meant there were no barriers to his political career; for Jews who had not converted to Christianity the oath remained the key obstacle. The oath of office included the words “and I make this Declaration upon the true Faith of a Christian”.\n\nFor a time the advocates of Jewish emancipation seemed to have lost heart. The chief supporters of the bill, R. Grant in the Commons, and Lord Holland in the Lords, died within a few months of each other in 1840, and during the next four years the political activity of the English Jews was concentrated on the attempt to obtain admission to municipal office. A bill to that effect got as far as a first reading in the Lords by one vote, in 1841, but was lost on a second reading. It was not until 31 July 1845 that the bill was carried. On 18 August 1846, the Religious Opinions Relief Act removed some of minor disabilities that affected British Jews and dissenters from the Established Church; the only state office that still remained closed to Jews was Parliament.\n\nThe success with which British Jews had induced Parliament to admit them to the shrievalty and to municipal offices had been because Jews had been actual candidates, and had been elected to those offices before any parliamentary relief was asked. It was now decided to adopt the same policy in regard to a seat in Parliament itself.\n\nA Jewish candidate, Lionel de Rothschild, was elected as one of the four members of Parliament for the City of London in 1847 but could not take his seat without taking an oath of office, and the bill that was introduced on 16 December that year was intended to carry out the wishes of a definite English constituency. This passed its third reading in the Commons on 4 May 1848, by a majority of 62 votes, but was rejected in the Lords by 163 non-contents to 128 contents. The same thing happened in 1849 when Lionel de Rothschild was again elected, but in the following year the struggle took on another and more dramatic form.\n\nDavid Salomons, who had successfully fought the battle for the shrievalty and the aldermanic chair, had been elected member for Greenwich and insisted on taking his seat, refusing to withdraw on being ordered to do so by the speaker, and adding to his offence by voting in the division on the motion for adjournment which was made to still the uproar caused by his bold course of action. The Prime minister, Lord John Russell, moved that Salomons be ordered to withdraw, and on that motion Salomons spoke in a dignified and forcible manner, and won the sympathy of the House, which nevertheless passed the Prime Minister's motion. The matter was then referred to the law courts, which decided that Salomons had no right to vote without having taken the oath of abjuration in the form appointed by Parliament, and fined him £500 for each vote he had recorded in the Commons. The government then brought in another bill in 1853, which was also rejected by the Lords. In 1855, Salomons was elected Lord Mayor of London.\n\nIn the following two years, bills were introduced by the government to modify the parliamentary oath, but they failed to obtain the assent of the Lords. In 1858 when the Oath Bill reached the Lords they eliminated the clause relating to Jews; but when the bill was referred again to the Commons, the lower house refused to accept it as amended, and appointed a committee to formulate its reasons, upon which committee, as if to show the absurdity of the situation, the member for the City of London, Lionel de Rothschild, was appointed to serve, something which he could legally do, even though he had not taken his seat. A conference was appointed between the two houses, and ultimately a compromise was reached with the passage of the \"Jews Relief Act 1858\" by which either house might admit Jews by resolution, allowing them to omit the words \"on the true faith of a Christian.\"\n\nAs a consequence, on Monday, 26 July 1858, Lionel de Rothschild took the oath with covered head, substituting \"so help me, Jehovah\" for the ordinary form of oath, and thereupon took his seat as the first Jewish member of Parliament; David Salomons was re-elected for Greenwich in a by-election and took his seat in early 1859. Two years later a more general form of oath for all members of Parliament was introduced, which freed the Jews from all cause of exclusion.\n\nThe Reform Act 1867 granted every adult male householder the right to vote. Before this legislation only very few men in Britain could vote. In 1871, in the wake of the case of Numa Edward Hartog, the Universities Tests Act removed the difficulties in the way of a Jew becoming a scholar or a fellow in an English university. In 1885, Sir Nathaniel de Rothschild was raised to the upper house as Lord Rothschild, the first Jewish Lord. In 1876 Disraeli was made Earl of Beaconsfield. They were followed within a few years by Henry de Worms as Lord Pirbright and Sydney Stern as Lord Wandsworth. In 1890 all restrictions for every position in the British Empire were removed being thrown open to every British subject without distinction of creed, except for that of monarch and the offices of Lord High Chancellor and of Lord Lieutenant of Ireland.\n\nFor some time after their admission to Parliament, the Jewish MPs belonged to the party that had given them that privilege, the Liberal Party, and Sir George Jessel acted as solicitor-general in William Ewart Gladstone's first ministry. But from the time of the Conservative reaction in 1874 Jewish voters and candidates showed an increasing tendency toward the Conservatives. The influence of Benjamin Disraeli may have had some effect on this change, but it was in the main due to the altered politics of the middle and commercial classes, to which the Jews chiefly belonged. Baron Henry de Worms acted as under Secretary of State in one of Lord Salisbury's ministries, while Sir Julian Goldsmid, a Liberal Unionist after the Home Rule policy of Gladstone was declared, made a marked impression as Deputy Speaker of the House of Commons.\n\nAltogether the struggle had lasted for sixty years; nearly all that was contended for had been gained in half that period, but complete equality was not granted to Roman Catholics and Jews until 1890. The many political friendships made during the process had facilitated social intercourse.\n\nThe pause which occurred between 1840 and 1847 in the emancipation struggle was due in large measure to a schism, which at the time seemed unfortunate, which had split the Jewish community in two and which prevented the members acting in unison for the defence of their rights. The Reform movement had reached England in a mild form under the influence of the Goldsmid family, which had been touched by the Mendelssohnian movement. In 1841 a Reform congregation was established in London, and was practically excommunicated by both the Spanish haham and the German chief rabbi. The effect of these differences was to delay common action as regards emancipation and other affairs; and it was not until 1859 that the charity organisation was put on a firm footing by the creation of the Jewish Board of Guardians. Ten years later the congregations were brought under one rule by the formation of the United Synagogue (1870), in the charter of which an attempt was made to give the Chief Rabbi autocratic powers over the doctrines to be taught in the Jewish communities throughout the British empire. But Parliament, which had recently disestablished the Irish Church, did not feel disposed to establish the Jewish Synagogue, and the clause was stricken out. The chief rabbi's salary is paid partly out of contributions from the provincial synagogues, and this gives him a certain amount of authority over all the Jews of the empire with the exception of the 3,000 or more Sephardim, who have a separate haham, and of the dwindling band of Reformers, who number about 2,000, scattered in London, Manchester, and Bradford. In 1871 the Anglo-Jewish Association was established to take the place, so far as regards the British empire, of the Alliance Israélite, which had been weakened by the Franco-German war. The Jews of England felt that they should be organised to take their proper part in Jewish affairs in general. For many years they, together with the French Jews, were the only members of the religion who were unhampered by disabilities; and this enabled them to act more freely in cases where the whole body of Israel was concerned.\n\nAs early as 1840, when the blood accusation was revived with regard to the Damascus affair, and Jewish matters were for the first time treated on an international basis, the Jews of England took by far the most prominent position in the general protest of the European Jewries against the charge. Not only was the Board of Deputies at London the sole Jewish body in Europe to hold public meetings, but owing to their influence a meeting of protest was held by eminent Christians at the Mansion House, London (3 July 1840), which formed a precedent for subsequent distinguished gatherings. Sir Moses Montefiore, after aiding the Damascus Jews by obtaining, in an interview with the Sultan at Constantinople, a firman repudiating the blood accusation, visited Russia in 1846 to intercede for his coreligionists there. In 1860 he went to Rome in connection with the Mortara affair; and in 1863 he led a mission to Morocco on behalf of Jews of that country. Action was likewise taken by the chief English Jews in behalf of the unfortunate Hebrews of the Danubian principalities. Francis Goldsmid made an interpellation in the House of Commons with regard to the Jews of Serbia (29 March 1867), and started a debate in that assembly (19 April 1872) on the subject of the persecutions of the Jews in Romania. As a consequence a Romanian committee was formed, which watched the activities of the illiberal government of that country.\n\nWhen in 1881 the outburst of violence in Russia brought the position of the Russian Jews prominently before the world, it was their coreligionists in England who took the lead in organising measures for their relief. Articles in \"The Times\" of 11 and 13 January 1882, drew the attention of the whole world to the extent of the persecutions, and a meeting of the most prominent citizens of London was held at the Mansion House on 1 February 1882 (see Mansion House Meeting). As a consequence a fund was raised amounting to more than £108,000, and a complete scheme of distributing in the United States the Russian refugees from Brody was organised by the committee of the Mansion House Fund. Similarly, when a revival of the persecutions took place in 1891, another meeting was held at the Guildhall, and a further sum of over £100,000 was collected and devoted to facilitating the westward movement of the Russian exodus. An attempt was made this time to obtain access directly to the czar by the delivery of a petition from the lord mayor and citizens of London; but this was contemptuously rejected, and the Russo-Jewish committee which carried out the work of the Mansion House Fund was obliged to confine its activity to measures outside Russia. When Maurice de Hirsch formed his elaborate scheme for the amelioration of the condition of the persecuted Jews, headquarters were established by him in London, though the administration was practically directed from Paris. The immigrants being excluded from most of the cities of the Continent, the burden of receiving most of the Russian refugees moving westward fell on England, as well as America.\n\n\"The advent of such a large number of Jews, unprovided with capital, and often without a definite occupation, brought with it difficulties. It was only natural that the newcomers should arouse a certain amount of prejudice by their foreign habits, by the economic pressure they brought to bear upon certain trades, especially on that of clothing, and by their overcrowding in certain localities. While the Continent had seen the rise of strong anti-Semitic feeling, England had been comparatively free from any exhibition of this kind. During Lord Beaconsfield's ministry, a few murmurs had been heard from the more advanced Liberals against the \"Semitic\" tendencies of the prime minister and his brethren in the race, but as a rule social had followed political emancipation almost automatically. The Russian influx threatened to disturb this natural process, and soon after 1891 protests began to be heard against the \"alien immigrants. Bills were even introduced into Parliament to check their entry into England. Nothing came of these protests, however, till the year 1902, when the question had reached such a point that it was deemed desirable to appoint a royal commission to inquire into the whole subject. The commission heard evidence both from those favouring and from those opposed to restricted immigration. Reports were made to the House of Commons that the arrival, in the East End of London, of Eastern European Jews, had brought smallpox and scarlet fever. The evidence, however, does not appear to have supported these accusations. \" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "52766081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52766081", "title": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in China", "text": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in China\n\nThe Embassy of the State of Palestine in China () is the diplomatic mission of the State of Palestine in China. It is located in Sanlitun in Beijing.\n\n"}
{"id": "34155657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34155657", "title": "Entrepreneurial leadership", "text": "Entrepreneurial leadership\n\nRoebuck, referencing Roebuck (2004), defines entrepreneurial leadership as \"organizing a group of people to achieve a common goal using proactive entrepreneurial behavior by optimising risk, innovating to take advantage of opportunities, taking personal responsibility and managing change within a dynamic environment for the benefit of [an] organisation\".\n\nSuch leadership aims to cultivate entrepreneurial individuals and teams that fully leverage their creative potential in creating value for an organisation. Entrepreneurial leadership does this by employing leadership practices that \"develop the ability in employees to self-generate, self-reflect, and self-correct in their workplace\".\n\nEntrepreneurial leadership is effectively using the skills associated with successful individual entrepreneurs and applying those within the environment of a larger organisation. This especially means within an organisation where those skills have been lost and replaced with a \"corporate\" mindset that focuses on process, systems and risk minimisation rather than on entrepreneurial behaviour.\n\nOther definitions of entrepreneurial leadership have also emerged:\n\nAn entrepreneurial leader will proactively identify opportunities to gain advantage through creativity, innovation and market understanding and then hoion and the customer.j\n\nThe entrepreneurial leader will work within a formalised organisational structure, but use the approaches normally expected of an entrepreneur to identify opportunities. Once an opportunity has been identified, they work towards creating a value proposition which will enable a rapid testing of their key assumptions. Next to an effective management of risk (rather than the minimisation of risk often sought within corporate environments), they are required to operate with contextual awareness in order to create a value proposition that delivers value to the customer while taking into account the organisational requirements and strategic aims. The entrepreneurial leader must have the ability to learn fast and within environments of ambiguity and change, while providing clarity and coherence for those around them.\n\nThe entrepreneurial leader takes responsibility for their actions and those actions must be more proactive than reactive. They think about achieving organisational outcomes in an innovative way and working with a diverse group of people and resources to achieve these goals.\n\nPerhaps the best known and most widely considered example of an entrepreneurial leader is Steve Jobs, but there are many real life examples in the world of business and other industries, such as Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg and Richard Branson.\n\nThe search for the characteristics or traits of leaders has been ongoing for centuries. History's greatest philosophical writings from Plato's \"Republic\" to Plutarch's \"Lives\" have explored the question \"What qualities distinguish an individual as a leader?\". Underlying this search was the early recognition of the importance of leadership and the assumption that leadership is rooted in the characteristics that certain individuals possess. This idea that leadership is based on individual attributes is known as the \"trait theory of leadership\".\n\nThe concept of entrepreneurial leadership was introduced in 2000 by McGrath and MacMillan who suggested that in dynamic markets where there is increased uncertainty and competitive pressure a new type of leader is required. They described this as the \"entrepreneurial leader\". These fast changing markets or situations give those with an \"entrepreneurial\" approach the ability to exploit opportunities to gain advantage for their organisation faster than others.\n\nA number of organisations have sought to develop the concept of entrepreneurial leadership within the business world. A good example is UBS, the global bank, which in the period 2002 to 2006 proactively developed entrepreneurial leadership amongst its top 500 leaders. The success of this was demonstrated by improvements in individual, team and financial performance, the project becoming a key element in the Harvard Business School Case study, \"UBS Aligning the Integrated firm\". The bank was subsequently awarded the title Best Company for Leaders (Europe) 2005. The implementation of this project over a multi divisional bank spread globally was complex and took a number of years. This is reviewed in a case study by Chris Roebuck, Visiting Professor of Transformational Leadership at Cass Business School in London. Roebuck was one of the leaders of the team who implemented entrepreneurial leadership in UBS.\n\nThe principles of entrepreneurial leadership can be applied to a number of sectors and to a wide variety of organisations. The success of this approach has confirmed the compatibility of entrepreneurial leadership to the majority of organisations seeking to improve client/customer service and overall performance.\n\nProf Chris Roebuck notes that in recent examples of applying entrepreneurial leadership to organisations, the link to employee engagement has increasingly become as a key success factor. This has also allowed development of the concept of entrepreneurial support functions, such as Entrepreneurial HR and Entrepreneurial IT, to support the customer or client facing parts of organisations.\n\nEntrepreneurial Leadership is not so much a style of leadership as a focus of leadership and employees' efforts on specific actions that either maximise the effectiveness of service delivery currently or seek to improve it in the future.\n\nLeadership style refers to a leader's behavior. It is the result of the philosophy, personality, and experience of the leader. Rhetoric specialists have also developed models for understanding leadership (Robert Hariman, \"Political Style\", Philippe-Joseph Salazar, \"L'Hyperpolitique. Technologies politiques De La Domination\").\n\nThe democratic leadership style favors decision-making by the group. Such a leader gives instructions after consulting the group. They can win the cooperation of their group and can motivate them effectively and positively. The decisions of the democratic leader are not unilateral as with the autocrat because they arise from consultation with the group members and participation by them.\n\nUnder the autocratic leadership style, all decision-making powers are centralized in the leader, as with dictators.\n\nLeaders do not entertain any suggestions or initiatives from subordinates. The autocratic management has been successful as it provides strong motivation to the manager. It permits quick decision-making, as only one person decides for the whole group and keeps each decision to him/herself until he/she feels it needs to be shared with the rest of the group.\n"}
{"id": "32330178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32330178", "title": "False necessity", "text": "False necessity\n\nFalse necessity, or anti-necessitarian social theory, is a contemporary social theory that argues for the plasticity of social organizations and their potential to be shaped in new ways. The theory rejects the assumption that laws of change govern the history of human societies and limit human freedom. It is a critique of \"necessitarian\" thought in conventional social theories (like liberalism or Marxism) which hold that parts of the social order are necessary or the result of the natural flow of history. The theory rejects the idea that human societies must be organized in a certain way (for example, liberal democracy) and that human activity will adhere to certain forms (for example if people were only motivated by rational self-interest).\n\n\"False necessity\" uses structural analysis to understand socio-political arrangements, but discards the tendency to assemble indivisible categories and to create law-like explanations. It aims to liberate human activity from necessary arrangements and limitations, and to open up a world without constraints where the possible becomes actual.\n\nModern social theory contains a tension between the realization of human freedom and the necessity of social rules. Liberal political theorists of the seventeenth century, such as Hobbes and Locke, saw the issue as one of sacrificing some individual freedoms in order to gain others. They understood social rules as enabling constraints—necessary impositions that limited activity in some spheres in order to expand it in others. (For example, traffic laws compel us to drive on one side of the road but allow us to travel more freely than if we were constantly assailed by oncoming traffic.) In the socio-political realm, these early liberal thinkers argued that we agree to surrender our freedom for political authority in order to gain greater freedom from a state of nature. The sovereign authority is a constraint, but it allows freedom from the constraints that other individuals might impose upon us. In this way, rules are always seen as a means of increasing freedom rather than rescinding it.\n\nThese early Enlightenment thinkers opposed existing religious, aristocratic, and absolutist institutions and organizations as the natural state of the world. However, they did not argue for the absolute freedom of the individual outside of any constraining rules. For them, human activity was still subject to certain types of social arrangements that followed a historical necessity. \n\nInspired by Kant's thesis of human freedom, which argued that there is no evidence to disprove our absolute freedom or capacity to resist external domination, thinkers at the end of the eighteenth century addressed how human freedoms were constrained by social institutions. Thinkers like Fichte, Schiller, Schelling, and Hegel argued that those institutions that constrain human freedom and subject the individual to fear and prejudice insult human dignity and deny the individual his autonomy. But they attempted to formulate universal laws, which in turn led to deterministic social and political arrangements. Marx, for example, put humanity at the mercy of historical and institutional necessity. \n\nThe contemporary theory of false necessity attempts to realize this idea in its entirety, and to escape the limitations of liberal and Marxist theories. It aims to realize social plasticity by decoupling human freedom from any necessary social rules or historical trajectory. The theory recognizes the need for social rules, but also affirms the human potential to transcend them. Humanity need not be constrained by any structure.\n\nThe development of the theory is credited to philosopher and politician Roberto Mangabeira Unger. His main book on the thesis, \"False Necessity: Anti-necessitarian social theory in the service of radical democracy\", was first published in 1987 by Cambridge University Press, and reissued in 2004 by Verso with a new 124 page introduction, and a new appendix, \"Five theses on the relation of religion to politics, illustrated by allusions to Brazilian experience.\"\n\nThe theory of \"false necessity\" attempts to understand humans and human history without making ourselves the object of a law-giving fate. It rejects the assumption that certain and necessary laws of organization and change govern the social, political, and economic institutions of human activity and thereby limit human freedom. It holds that the problem with traditional deep structure theory, such as Marxism, is that it couples the distinction of deep structure and routine practice with both indivisible types of social organization, and deep seated constraints and developmental laws. The theory rejects the constraints and focuses on how human behavior is shaped by the deep structures of these institutions, and how they can be remade at will, either in whole or in part. The aim is to rescue social theory and recreate the project of self-affirmation and society.\n\nRather than \"enabling constraint\" or \"universal structure\", the theory advocates \"structure-denying structures\"—that is, structures that enable their own dissolution and remaking. Since these structures normally constrain our activities, this would increase our freedom.\n\nThe problem of false necessity arises due to the failure of transformative practice to realize its stated aim. This can take form in three different scenarios:\n\nUnger points to mass politics as a means to counter oligarchy and group identity. However, if these forms are only disturbed and not destroyed, democracy is limited and becomes a quarrel about forms of power and seizing advantage. Likewise, enlarged economic rationality provides another source of emancipation by shifting economic and social relations in the ability to constantly innovate and renew.\n\nThe theory of \"false necessity\" develops the idea that the organization of society is made and can be remade—we can rebel against the worlds we have built; we can interrupt our rebellions and establish ourselves in any of those worlds. By emphasizing the disembodiment of institutional and social structures, the theory provides a basis to explain ourselves and our world without using necessitarian thought or predetermined institutional arrangements.\n\nAt the extreme, the theory of \"false necessity\" criticizes and thus unifies strands of the radical tradition. It frees leftist and liberal ideals from institutional fetishism, and emancipates modernist ideals from structural fetishism. The theory further detaches the radical commitment from utopian claims and provides a theoretical basis for transformative action. That transformative action, Unger believes, does not have to be a complete overhaul or total revolution, but rather is \"a piecemeal but cumulative change in the organization of society\". The key to the project, in the words of one critic, \"is to complete the rebellion against the naturalistic fallacy (that is, the confusion of accident with essence and contingency with necessity) and to effect an irrevocable emancipation from false necessity\".\n\nContemporary political thinkers and philosophers have developed and advocated the theory of false necessity. Roberto Mangabeira Unger has employed the theory in developing social, political, and economic alternatives, as well as in his political activism and appointments in Brazilian politics. Richard Rorty compared the theory's move towards greater liberalism with Jürgen Habermas, and called it a powerful alternative to the postmodern \"School of Resentment\". Other thinkers have said the theory is \"a challenge that the social disciplines can ignore only at their peril\". Bernard Yack wrote that it contributed to \"a new left Kantian approach to the problem of realizing human freedom in our social institutions\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18700020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18700020", "title": "GSIS-Meralco bribery case", "text": "GSIS-Meralco bribery case\n\nThe GSIS-Meralco case is a political controversy and pending legal case being heard by the Supreme Court of the Philippines. This complex case began with a complaint filed by the Philippines' Government Service Insurance System (GSIS) with the Securities and Exchange Commission of the Philippines (SEC) questioning the unvalidated proxy votes used by the Lopez family in a board election of the Manila Electric Company (Meralco). The SEC issued a cease and desist order (CDO) against Meralco, which was ignored by the latter. A show cause order (SCO) was then issued by the SEC, whereupon Meralco petitioned the Court of Appeals, questioning the jurisdiction of the SEC. The Court of Appeals issued a temporary restraining order (TRO) to the SEC while the Special 9th Division composed of Associate Justices Vicente Q. Roxas, Jose L. Sabio Jr. and Myrna Dimaranan Vidal heard the case. Roxas was assigned as the ponente while Sabio was the acting chairman.\n\nLater, Sabio called a press conference and alleged that an emissary of Meralco tried to bribe him with ₱10 million to have a case transferred to another appeals court justice. The criminal charges are obstruction of justice and malfeasance in office. Sabio did not mention any names, but businessman Francis de Borja stepped forward and claimed that he was the alleged emissary, accusing Sabio of asking for a ₱50 million bribe to side with Meralco, in response to De Borja's question “What will it take for you to resist the government’s offer?” The alleged government offer was a Supreme Court position. In the latter course of the investigation, Sabio let slip that his brother, Presidential Commission on Good Government (PCGG) Chairman Camilo Sabio, called him up twice to urge him to side favorably with the government. The late admission of the allegedly unethical and criminal action called into doubt the innocence of Sabio in coming forward with his expose and the veracity of his entire story. These acts are alleged to be punishable under Article 208 and 243 of the Revised Penal Code respectively.\n\nIt also came out during the course of the Supreme Court investigation that Court of Appeals Justice Vicente Roxas, the ponente of the controversial Meralco decision, had himself committed improprieties. One such impropriety was that Roxas preempted the legal opinion of Presiding Justice Conrado Vasquez that the Special 9th Division should have ruled on the case as per the Internal Rules of the Court of Appeals (IRCA), and not the 8th Division to which Roxas was transferred, and which eventually promulgated a ruling in favor of Meralco, with Justices Reyes and Apolinario Bruselas hastily signing the ponencia without going over or reading the memoranda submitted by concerned parties.\n\nThe Supreme Court, voting 12–1, ordered the dismissal of Roxas after he was found guilty of multiple violations of the canons of the Code of Judicial Conduct, grave misconduct, dishonesty, undue interest and conduct prejudicial to the best interest of service.\n\nSabio was suspended for two months after he was found guilty of simple misconduct and conduct unbecoming of a justice of the CA. Vasquez was severely reprimanded “for his failure to act promptly and decisively in order to avert the incidence that damaged the image of the Court of Appeals,” Reyes was found guilty of simple misconduct with mitigating circumstance, and Vidal was found guilty of conduct unbecoming of a justice of the appellate court for being “too compliant\" when she allowed herself to sign the decision without reading the parties’ memorandum.\n\nIt started on May 11, 2008, when the Philippines' Government Service Insurance System (GSIS) accused Meralco of unlawful refusal to grant corporate access to documents despite the GSIS’ holding 4 seats in the 11-member Meralco board, amid GSIS' denial of plans to wrest control from the Lopez family.\n\nThe scandal originated from the Meralco and GSIS row after Sabio—in a letter-complaint against Justices Vicente Roxas and Bienvenido Reyes—complained of the circumstances that he was removed from the Meralco-GSIS case after a standard court reorganization, and an alleged bribe attempt by Manolo Lopez and Meralco in consideration for him giving way to Reyes' chairmanship of the CA's Special 9th Division It catches nationwide attention when businessman Francis De Borja surfaces and accuses Sabio via sworn affidavit that the justice had asked for P50 million to back away from the case, to counter a government offer of money and a Supreme Court appointment in exchange for a ruling favorable to GSIS.\n\nIn 1962, Don Eugenio López, Sr. acquired MERALCO and it finally became Filipino-owned, but Ferdinand Marcos, by decree, placed it under a shell company called the Meralco Foundation, Inc., controlled by crony under government controlled Napocor.\n\nIn 1978, Meralco was fully controlled by the Marcos administration, but its ownership was finally returned to the Lopez family after the People Power Revolution by President Corazon Aquino. By executive order, she allowed Meralco to directly compete with NAPOCOR.\n\nGloria Macapagal-Arroyo on May 2, 2008, announced plans to reduce Luzon high power rates, amid a “tough legal fight” with Meralco before state energy regulators. Accordingly, GSIS, through its President Winston Garcia, on May 11, stated it \"planned not only to buy out the Lopez family and other shareholders in Meralco but also to break up its concession to promote efficiency and transparency.\" But Meralco chair and CEO Manuel Lopez said he was not selling the utility.\n\nOscar Lopez blamed the Arroyo administration's moves to take over Meralco in a “reverse privatization,” because of the Lopez-owned ABS-CBN's negative publicity against the government.\n\nDuring the May 27, 2008 stockholders’ meeting, GSIS' President Winston Garcia obtained an SEC “cease-and-desist order” to stop and defer the counting of proxy votes held by the Lopez group until questions on its validity were resolved. GSIS accused the Lopezes of “rigging” the process. GSIS failed to gain control of Meralco after a TRO from the Court of Appeals is issued, and the SEC order placed on hold. Meralco retained its 5 seats, the government its 4, while the 2 others are independent directors Artemio Panganiban and Vicente Panlilio. Aside from Manuel Lopez, the Meralco directors elected are Jesus Francisco, Felipe Alfonso, Christian Monsod and Cesar Virata, while the government board members elected aside from Garcia, are Bernardino Abes, Daisy Arce and Jeremy Parulan.\n\nOn May 30, the said temporary restraining order from the Philippine Court of Appeals, against the SEC order from the 9th division, composed of Justices Roxas and Vidal was released. They are joined by substitute Justice Jose Sabio, replacement for Justice Bienvenido Reyes who was on leave. Despite the return of Justice Reyes in time from his leave, and his trying to claiming back his post, Sabio refused to give up the position. The TRO is released with Sabio signing instead.\n\nSenior Associate Justice Rodrigo Cosico retires, and the Court of Appeals undergoes a mandatory reorganization. Following court rules, the case followed the Justice-writer assigned to it, Justice Vicente Roxas. The case moved to the 8th division, composed of Justice Reyes, Roxas, and Bruselas.\n\nThe Court's 8th Division renders a 57-page judgment authored by Justice Vicente Roxas on July 24 against the GSIS, affirming Meralco's stance that the SEC has no jurisdiction over the issue.\n\nA large scale negative media blitz is launched by unknown persons against the author of the decision Justice Roxas.\n\nJustice Myrna Dimaranan-Vidal, together with Justice Jose Sabio, former special 9th Division members, challenged the decision, per letter to CA Presiding Justice Conrado Vasquez Jr., thus: \"How can the 8th Division issue an order when it is the 9th that has been hearing the complaint of alleged irregularities in the Meralco election?\" It is also the 9th Division that issued the temporary restraining order on the SEC order to Meralco on May 30.\"\n\nAssistant Clerk of Court, lawyer Manuel Cervantes, said no irregularity had been committed when the 8th division came out with the decision instead of the 9th, simply a result of the reorganization of the court. \"The case goes with the \"ponente\"(justice assigned to pen the case),” Cervantes explained. “Justice Vicente Roxas is the ponente. Even with the change in division, the case stays with him.\" “Due to the retirement of some justices, Justice Vidal was reassigned to the 6th Division while Reyes became chair of the 8th,” Cervantes said. Roxas was moved to the 8th division, Vidal went to the 6th, and Sabio to the 9th. And since the rule is that the case goes with the ponente,the 57-page decision was issued by the division of which Justice Roxas was now a part, he said. Permission is not required from the previous division nor its justices.\n\nHe said the IRCA (Internal Rules of the Court of Appeals) does not require the justices who issued the TRO be the same justices to render the decision.\n\nThe Court of Appeals Reorganization Office Order No. 200-08-CMV was issued by Presiding Justice Vasquez on July 4, three weeks before the decision was released.\n\nJustice Jose Sabio refuses to let go of the Meralco GSIS case, and insists on being a part of the division to decide the case. He submits the case to the internal rules committee of the court, headed by Justice Edgardo P. Cruz. The Court of Appeals committee decides as early as June 20 that the committee, which clarifies internal rules of the court, rejects Justice Sabio's argument that the pending case should go with him following a court reorganization. By the rules, the division headed by Justice Bienvenido L. Reyes should hear the leadership row at Meralco. Sabio disregards Cruz's recommendation on the basis he was only a \"junior justice\".\n\nOn July 26, Justice Sabio, with the encouragement of Justice Vidal (his colleague in the 9th Special Division) broke a bribery attempt news and wrote to P.J. Vasquez, Jr. . He joined Justice Vidal, initiating further, a media expose of their squabbles, alleging something “stinks” in the Meralco court ruling. Presiding Justice Vasquez released his opinion, also, per his July 24, 2008 Letter to Justices Bienvenido L. Reyes & Vicente Q. Roxas.\n\nBusinessman Francis de Borja emerges and reveals to the media a notarized and sworn affidavit that it was Justice Sabio who brought up a P50 million price for him to act in favor of Meralco in its dispute with the GSIS. Mr. de Borja asserts that Mr. Sabio had told him a Supreme Court seat was being offered in exchange for a ruling in favor of the GSIS, which is trying to wrest control of Meralco from the Lopezes. Expecting Sabio to answer that he would not be swayed by any offer and would rule according to his conscience, De Borja asked what it would take for him to resist the supposed government offer of a seat on the Supreme Court and money. He was taken aback when Sabio replied \"P50 million”, and then left.\n\nPresiding Justice Conrado Vasquez comes under fire in the newspapers. Vasquez is criticized of having been able to spare the Court this trouble on the court's integrity had he followed the recommendation of the rules committee. With Vasquez's opinion favoring Sabio despite the reorganization, and the lack of a preliminary injunction that would exempt Meralco from being transferred to Reyes's and Roxas's division, doubt is cast on Vasquez's motivations.\n\nManolo Lopez calls the accusations of Sabio a malicious and a pure fabrication. He vehemently denied the allegations, especially Sabio's accusation that he (Lopez) was waiting in the car during the meeting. He said he was out of the country for a medical check-up when the incident supposedly happened, and returned only last July 13. As proof, he showed tickets showing his departure dated June 27 and his arrival dated July 13.\n\nThe panel investigation finds out that Chairman Camilo Sabio of the Presidential Commission on Good Government(PCGG) called up his brother, Justice Jose Sabio Jr. twice. The first time on May 30, to lobby his brother to adopt the position of the Government Service Insurance System (GSIS) versus Manila Electric Co. (Meralco). This was hours before the Ninth Division of the Court of Appeals (temporarily headed by Sabio) issued a temporary restraining order in Meralco's favor. Camilo called up Jose at 8 a.m., when the court's practice is to hand down its decisions at 10 a.m. Then, after the Court of Appeals decided the case with finality on July 23, Camilo called up Jose again, asking why he hadn’t signed the decision.\n\nWhen Camilo called the first time, he informed Jose that he was going to be the acting chairman of the Special Ninth Division of the court; and that furthermore, a TRO against the Securities and Exchange Commission order that the GSIS desired was being prepared. Camilo suggested to Jose that the latter shouldn’t sign the TRO. When Camilo called once more, it was to ask why the 8th Division, and not the Special 9th Division had decided. Justice Jose had lobbied strenuously to head the 8th even after Justice Bienvenido Reyes, the person he was substituting for, was back on the job.\n\nRetired Supreme Court Justice Romeo Callejo Sr., one of those conducting the investigation, castigated Justice Sabio why he didn’t bring up the intervention of his brother previously—or reprimand his brother. “Why did you not report your brother’s attempt to influence you? That was unethical. You did nothing; you are a professor of ethics. Did you not consider that your brother’s attempt was criminal?” Callejo asked.\n\nSabio's replies alternated between the irrelevant (his brother was older than he, he said) to patent hair-splitting (there was no outright offer of a bribe from his brother). They only reduced the reasonable doubt so far supporting Sabio by reducing the options the justice operated under to three: he was hopelessly naïve; he has been too clever for his own good; or he is a bumbling prisoner of circumstance, who has blown the lid off a legal system so thoroughly tainted it cannot absolve itself the longer the inquiry continues.\n\nThis called into question Justice Sabio's squabble with fellow Reyes over who should have jurisdiction over the case. It explained why Justice Sabio would, in turn, on July 1, meet lawyer Francis de Borja to discuss a case he had every reason to know would be brought up by a party friendly to Meralco. It's either that the Ateneo de Manila Law School's professor of legal ethics had no comprehension of the subject he teaches or he is a plain and simple hypocrite. He brags about his being a righteous professor of legal ethics which we can never believe now after knowing from the investigation his lapses to perform what is expected of a member of the court.\n\nThis provided circumstantial evidence for concluding that Sabio was playing off both sides to see who might bid highest, confirming, incidentally, many details in De Borja's affidavit while calling into question the completeness, and ultimately the veracity, of Sabio's own statements.\n\nJustice Sabio move to come forward to virtuously blow the whistle is cast in doubt by his selectivity. He denied allegations of Palace blandishments to do the GSIS’ bidding, but he left out his brother's intervention. He is looking more and more like a double-dealer who got a juicy Palace offer but tried to cash in quickly by basically making it obvious to the other side he would be open to a counteroffer.\nAs a government official, Camilo's act of calling his brother to influence his decision is punishable under Article 243 of the Revised Penal Code. Article 243 (orders or requests by executive offices to any judicial authority) states that :\"Any executive officer who shall address any order or suggestion to any judicial authority with respect to any case or business coming within the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of justice shall suffer the penalty of arresto mayor and a fine.\"\n\nAs an official of the Court, Justice Sabio is mandated under Article 208 of the Revised Penal Code to report any possible violation of the law, with negligence and tolerance as the offending act. Article 208 states: “The penalty of prison correctional in its minimum period (six months and 1 day to 2 years and four months) and suspension shall be imposed upon any public officer or officer of the law who, in dereliction of the duties of his office, shall maliciously refrain from instituting prosecution for the punishment of violations of the law, or shall tolerate the commission of offenses.” The public is in anticipation whether criminal charges for bribery and violation of Article 208 of the RPC will be filed against Sabio the soonest possible time to determine the extent of his culpability.\n\nABS-CBN and \"Philippines Newsbreak Magazine\" reported on the CA Justices of the case. ABS-CBN researched and published that:\n\n\nBribery attempt, in Philippine Jurisprudence, is considered a criminal offense or felony.\n\nPhilippine Court of Appeals Justices are under the administrative supervision of the Supreme Court of the Philippines, and may be disciplined by Disbarment or dismissal from service, under the Revised Rules of Court (1997 Code of Civil Procedure).\n\nAlso, the Philippine Court of Appeals' \"Process of Adjudication\" is governed by A.M. No. 02-6-13-CA 2005, the Revised Internal Rules of the Court of Appeals (RIRCA), Specific Amendments to, 2002 Internal Rules of the Court of Appeals, February 28, 2005.\n\nThe Revised Internal Rules of the Court of Appeals (RIRCA) regarding the matter are as follows:\n\nJustice Romeo Callejo, Sr., member of the 3-man panel investigation, Senator Francis Pangilinan and Akbayan Rep. Risa Hontiveros stated that the applicable laws are the following:\n\nThe Revised Penal Code of 1930, now defines the felony of attempted bribery and corruption of public officials as follows:\n\nThe Revised Rules of Court, now also provides for the discipline of jurists and lawyers, as follows:\n\nR.A. 3019, provides as follows:\n\nJustice Sabio informed Philippine media that he was offered P 10 million (through a Makati businessman, which he rejected) to recuse himself from the GSIS-Meralco case, which was decided by the 8th Division's Justice Vicente Roxas, the designated ponente, with the concurring opinions of Justices Bienvenido Reyes and Antonio Bruselas. Roxas was transferred from the 9th Division, when the case was pending. Sabio revealed to media that: “It turned out that he was brokering for Meralco.” Sabio appeared on a TV interview by GMA Network reporter Carlo Lorenzo in his chambers.\n\nCagayan de Oro City businessman Francis Roa de Borja, in his July 31, 2008 affidavit, swore that: \"when he asked what it would take for him to resist the government offer, Sabio's reply was: “Fifty million (pesos)\"; Sabio wanted to remain as acting chairman of the 9th Division because he was up to something; that Sabio consulted his other colleagues in the CA and they told him that he was in the right and should stick to his guns; that was then Sabio told Borja about the offer of unnamed government officials for a promotion at the SC and money for a favorable ruling for GSIS.\"\n\nDe Borja accused Sabio of twisting the facts: \"No, I never said that. If you know Manolo Lopez -- he is somewhat aristocratic -- he would be the last person to wait for somebody in the car, and they did not know that he was abroad at that time. I said in my affidavit that he told me his wife would be waiting for him in the car and he says now that Manolo was waiting in my car...\"\n\nDe Borja stated that he was ready to face charge of perjury and to take a lie detector test with Sabio before competent foreign experts and together: \"It’s a free county, let him file it and we’ll see. I’m prepared, the moment I signed my affidavit obviously I considered the consequences so I wouldn’t have made up a story. And my third comment is he is a lawyer and a justice. He knows that a lie detector test is not admissible as evidence so why is he asking for it?’’ De Borja was interviewed and appeared at ABS-CBN News Channel's (ANC) Dateline Philippines, and he repeated his media statements: \"No definitely not...He [Sabio] says that Manolo was waiting for me in my car. I never said it. And if you know Manolo...Can you imagine somebody like Manolo being made to wait in a car? Di ba, yung pagka aristocratic ni Manolo, maghihintay sa kotse? The fact is, he was abroad.\"\n\nMeanwhile, a shadowy group, \"Tanglaw ng Bayan,\" paid an advertisement on a Metro Manila newspaper, appealing \"that the CA justices not be subjected to malicious imputations just to advance the agenda of powerful interests, and to allow the CA to \"sort out its internal issues.\" In 2007, it also petitioned the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) and the Senate to probe the \"Hello Pappy\" scandal.\n\nOn July 31, 2008, after a rare 3-hour, closed-door En Banc session attended by 64 CA Justices presided by P.J. Vasquez, Jr., the CA Clerk of Court Teresita Marigomen announced the appellate court's resolution:\n\nChief Justice Reynato Puno ordered all records of case be delivered forthwith to the high court, and the Supreme Court Public Information Office OIC said all magistrates of the high court would deliberate on the case on August 5.\n\nJustice Roxas challenged the En Banc meeting as a “disguised investigation” of the 8th Division's judgment on the Meralco case, further alleging that under the Internal Rules of the Court of Appeals, a case followed the ponente to whatever division the ponente went: “Besides, all hearings in the Court of Appeals are recorded and the members of the 8th Division only need the transcripts of the hearing or the memoranda, briefs, comments and replies of the parties—which are all written.”\n\nSabio, however, told media that he has text messages plus phone call records evidence to prove that Francis Roa de Borja bribed him.\n\nSabio's former client (1978), Evelyn Clavano, a Cagayan de Oro City resident, gave media, on August 1, an affidavit saying that: \"Francis de Borja requested me if I have the cell phone number of Justice Jose L. Sabio Jr. He related that because he is very close to the Lopezes of Meralco, he wanted to call him (Sabio) regarding his possible inhibition in a certain Meralco case, wherein he was designated as a substitute member of the division vice a justice who was temporarily on-leave by reason of sickness. He further said that the Lopezes desire that the same Justice, with whom the Lopezes are more comfortable, to sit in the division. So, I gave Francis de Borja the cell phone number of Justice Jose L. Sabio Jr. through business card.\"\n\nMeralco chair Manolo lopez, in a press conference on August 2, denied any involvement in the alleged bribery attempt: “I categorically and vehemently deny the allegations of Justice Jose Sabio. Mind you, I do not have the habit of waiting in the car for anybody except my wife. The [allegations are] malicious and pure fabrication. I am a resident of Rockwell Center. I know Francis but I have not authorized him or anybody to make representations for [me on] any matter that involves cases of Meralco and the Lopez family. We have retainers and lawyers to handle legal matters.I was out of the country when the alleged meeting between Francis and Justice Sabio took place. I was in the United States for a medical check up and returned on July 13.\" Lopez's officials showed media, tickets of his departure, June 27, and his arrival, July 13.\n\nThe Lopez group led by First Philippine Holdings Corp. has a 33.47% share interest in Meralco, while the Philippine government financial institutions own 33.32%. Other shareholders hold 34.21%. Meralco said, the government share is, to wit: GSIS, 22.05%; Social Security System, 5.52%; Land Bank of the Philippines, 4.41%; Philippine Health Insurance Corp., 0.17%; and the Home Development Mutual Fund or Pag-IBIG, 0.17%.\n\nSabio, on August 1, First Friday, held a press conference in his CA [hambers, and stated to media: \n\nThe internal strife and open quarrel over signature space on a judgment pushed the appellate court to the edge and is now at the center of a maelstrom. The Government Service Insurance System (GSIS), raised a legal point, challenging the 8th CA Division's judgment dismissing GSIS's petition filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (Philippines)\nagainst Meralco. The certiorari and injunction CA lawsuit was raffled off to the CA's 9th Division chaired by Justice Bienvenido Reyes (on leave at the time). A special raffle designated Reyes’ replacement, Justice Jose Sabio (as chair). With Justices Vicente Roxas and Myrna Vidal as members, the 9th Division heard the case. (The GSIS moved to recuse Roxas on account of reports that \"he met with Meralco lawyers on the day a temporary restraining order [TRO] was issued by the CA, barring the SEC from taking jurisdiction over the GSIS complaint against Meralco.\")\n\nSabio's chairmanship issue with Reyes over the Special Ninth Division was overtaken by a July 4, 2008, reorganization at the Court of Appeals. Reyes and Roxas ended up in the 8th Division, which finally resolved the case in favor of the Lopez group on July 23. Sabio was reassigned as chairman of the 6th Division. Sabio later complained that Roxas penned the decision even before either side had submitted their arguments.\n\nJustice Reyes failed to assume the chairmanship of the 9th Division in place of Sabio, and the CA's 8th Division, chaired by Reyes and with ponente, Justices Roxas and Apolinario Bruselas as members, forthwith promulgated the challenged judgment in favor of Meralco. GSIS called the ruling, a “patent nullity for such dismissal [of the GSIS case before the SEC] was not even prayed for by Meralco in its petition with the Court of Appeals.”\n\nP.J. Vasquez wrote Justices Sabio and Vidal that as members of their newly reconstituted 8th division, they are not very familiar with the case. Vasquez earlier granted Sabio a verbal go-signal to proceed in hearing the June 23 oral argument. Vasquez reiterated that \"Sabio’s 9th division, since it issued a temporary restraining order (TRO), and its members heard and participated in the June 23 hearing, should “sign and resolve” the case. To allow the new division of Justice B.L. Reyes as Chairman, Justice Roxas, as ponente, and Justice Bruselas, Jr. as the third member, the resolution of the pending incidents in the case will be participated by two (2) members who were not present and did not hear the arguments during the hearing on the injunctive relief...”\n\nGSIS, on August 13, 2008, in 65-page certiorari petition, asked the Supreme Court to nullify the CA judgment that prevented the SEC from case intervention, \"considering the SC probe is still ongoing.\" It argued that the Special 9th Division should have ruled on the case.\n\nThe Supreme Court, on August 4 created a panel composed of 3 retired Supreme Court justices, to investigate the scandal. The High Court's resolution \"A.M. No. 08-8-11-C, August 4, 2008 - Re: Letter of Presiding Justice Conrado M. Vasquez, Jr. re: CA-G.R. SP No. 103692 (\"Antonio Rosete, et al. vs. SEC, et al.)\" directed chair Associate Justice Carolina Griño-Aquino, and Members Justices Flerida Ruth Romero and Romeo Callejo Jr. to conduct daily hearings from August 7, and submit the final report before August 21. In the docketed administrative matter, Reynato Puno, Consuelo Ynares-Santiago and Antonio Carpio recused for legal reasons. The SC PIO officer announced that: \"The hearing will be opened to the public and to the media. It's going to be a regular hearing, like the oral argument, except that there will be no cameras inside the hearing room.”\n\nJoker Arroyo criticized the High Court's ruling, saying it should be, as sitting Justices investigate the case instead, since: \"Delegating the investigation to a panel of retired justices who in turn will submit their findings to the high court for review and determination [is] akin to a trial by commissioners.\"\n\nAfter the Panel of Investigators conducted hearings from August 8 to 23, 2008, it submitted on September 4, its 59 pages Report to the Court en banc. The panel found (page 44): “the investigation has revealed irregularities and improprieties committed by the Court of Appeals Justices in connection with the MERALCO case, CA-G.R. SP No. 103692, which are detrimental to the proper administration of justice and damaging to the institutional integrity, independence and public respect for the Judiciary.”\n\nOn September 9, the Supreme Court of the Philippines rendered a 58-page per curiam judgment, in this way:\nIn a 33-page per curiam resolution, the Supreme Court on October 15, 2008, denied with finality the motions for reconsideration of all but one of the Court of Appeals (CA) justices, including businessman Mr. Francis de Borja's.\nOn September 15, 2008, Chief Justice Reynato Puno led the moral enhancement covenant signing by the Justices of the Court of Appeals' chairpersons of the 23 divisions, and the members of all divisions, in simultaneous ceremonies at Manila, Cebu, and Cagayan de Oro City. The covenant incorporated a list of institutional reforms, enhancement program, and mandated \"the revision of the Internal Rules of the Court of Appeals (IRCA), appointment of an Ombudsman at the CA, caseload reduction, the electronic raffling of cases filed, the appointment of a “Justice of the Day, and the “CA One-Stop-Shop.”\n\nAccordingly, the Department of Justice (Philippines) panel, chaired by Undersecretary Ernesto Pineda issued subpoenas to Francis de Borja, Justice Jose Sabio, his daughter Silvia Jo Guiltiano Sabio and Evelyn Clavano for the September 19 preliminary investigation.\n\nMeanwhile, 2 pro-administration congressmen, Masbate Rep. Antonio Kho and Nueva Ecija Rep. Joseph Gilbert Violago, on August 4 called for a House of Representatives probe on the bribery case. Accordingly, House Resolution 705 was filed by Manila Representative Bienvenido Abante Jr., petitioning Congress, through the committees on energy and justice, to probe the bribery case.\n\nOn January 25, 2005, and on December 10, 2006, Philippines Social Weather Stations released the results of its two surveys on corruption in the judiciary; it published that: a) like 1995, 1/4 of lawyers said many/very many judges are corrupt. But (49%) stated that a judges received bribes, just 8% of lawyers admitted they reported the bribery, because they could not prove it. [Tables 8-9]; judges, however, said, just 7% call many/very many judges as corrupt[Tables 10-11];b) \"Judges see some corruption; proportions who said - many/very many corrupt judges or justices: 17% in reference to RTC judges, 14% to MTC judges, 12% to Court of Appeals justices, 4% i to Shari'a Court judges, 4% to Sandiganbayan justices and 2% in reference to Supreme Court justices [Table 15].\n\nCreated on February 1, 1936, the Philippine Court of Appeals was initially composed of Justice Pedro Concepcion as the first Presiding Judge and 10 Appellate Judges appointed by the President with the consent of the Commission on Appointments of the National Assembly. In March 1938, the appellate Judges were named Justices and their number increased from 11 to 15, with 3 divisions of 5 under Commonwealth Act No. 259. On December 24, 1941, there were 19 Justices under Executive Order No. 395. On February 23, 1995, R.A. No. 7902 expanding the jurisdiction of the Court effective March 18, 1995. On December 30, 1996, R.A. No. 8246 created six (6) more divisions in the Court, thereby increasing its membership from 51 to 69 Justices (additional divisions - 3 for Visayas and 3 for Mindanao, the court's regionalization).\n\nThe Supreme Court of the Philippines on March 21, 2008, upon recommendation of the investigator, Bernardo P. Pardo, dismissed Philippine Court of Appeals Justice Elvi John Asuncion for gross ignorance of the law and delaying motions of considerations. Asuncion was charged of receiving money placed in “2 gym bags delivered to his office.” The Supreme Court, however, found no substantial evidence of bribery, but it dismissed him for gross ignorance of the law for his issuance of an October 30, 2001, resolution in the case between Philippine National Bank, the National Labor Relations Commission and Erlinda Archinas. He was only the 2nd Court of Appeals jurist to be dismissed, since the first firing in Philippine judicial history of CA Justice Demetrio G. Demetria, for interceding in theDOJ drug case of Yu Yuk Lai.\n\nThe CA, thereafter became the center of controversy after Chief Justice Reynato Puno ordered an investigation of the so-called \"Dirty Dozen,\" particularly on the alleged “sale” of \"Temporary Restraining Orders\" (Injunction, Restraining order abuse). On August 18, 2007, Briccio Joseph Boholst, president of IBP — Cebu City Chapter, opposed the abolition of the CA in Cebu City, for it will cause inconvenience for both litigants and lawyers. Supreme Court Associate Justice Ruben Reyes was tasked to investigate and submit recommendation to the High Tribunal because of the alleged massive graft and corruption of justices, especially in the issuance of temporary restraining orders (TRO's).\n\nOn April 3, 2007, Philippine Court of Appeals Presiding Justice Ruben Reyes (now S.C. Justice) ordered an investigation and a regular auditing and inventory of temporary restraining orders (TROs) issued by the 69 CA Justices. Reyes stated: “I will order a monthly or quarterly inventory of TROs, for transparency and to watch the movements of the so-called Dirty Dozen [the 12 most corrupt CA justices].” Reynato Puno said that Ombudsman Merceditas Gutierrez had not yet submitted the list and the Supreme Court was waiting for its delivery amid her formal investigation against the “Dirty Dozen.”\n\nOn February 1, 2008, the Court celebrated its 72nd Anniversary.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12207550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12207550", "title": "Gold shirts", "text": "Gold shirts\n\nThe Revolutionary Mexicanist Action (), better known as the Gold shirts (), was a Mexican fascist paramilitary organization in the 1930s.\n\nThe group was founded by general Nicolás Rodríguez Carrasco in 1933 with the official title of \"Acción Revolucionaria Mexicana\" (Mexican Revolutionary Action). Carrasco, who had been a supporter of Pancho Villa until he deserted in 1918, named the group after the \"dorados\", Villa's \"golden\" group of elite soldiers. The Gold shirts opposed the reforms of president Lázaro Cárdenas and were protected by former president Plutarco Elías Calles, who had become an enemy of Cárdenas. The Gold Shirts often violently clashed with supporters of the Mexican Communist Party and the Red Shirts and demanded the immediate deportation of all Jews and Chinese from Mexico. Although the \"dorados\" copied their style from the Blackshirts and Sturmabteilung, copying the anti-communism and authoritarianism of the former and the anti-Semitism of the latter, they nonetheless lacked the fascist mission, being essentially (according to Fascism expert Payne) counterrevolutionary and reactionary and as such were more easily employed by the existing state.\n\nDuring the Maximato era of the formerly heavily anticlerical Calles regime, the Gold shirts were moderately in favour of religious liberty for the Catholic Church, but because they still at times acted in an anticlericalist way against priests wearing the cassock, Cristeros never entered their ranks.\n\nAfter Calles was deported by Cárdenas on April 9, 1936, the group lost its protector. A few months later, Rodríguez was arrested and deported to Texas in August 1936, from where he continued to lead the group until his death in 1940. After Mexico's declaration of war upon the Axis powers on May 22, 1942, the Gold shirts were banned.\n\n\n\nThe opposition in the sixth cardenista (1934-1940) - The Mexican Revolutionary Action: The Golden Shirts\n"}
{"id": "54483820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54483820", "title": "Governance failure", "text": "Governance failure\n\nA governance failure refers to any failures of governance or ineffectiveness of governance processes.\n\nJessop argues for conceiving governance as a provider of flexibility for decision-making structures opposed to rigid state bureaucracy or market laws. From this approach failures would equate to failures of the governance structure. According to him new constellations of governance may compensate for state failure.\n\nPeters and Pierre state that it is the continuous task of government to adapt to growing complexity.\n\nDixon and Dogan write that constructive governance discourses are creative opportunities for people with disparate governance perspectives to find solutions to threatening governance failure.\n\nGovernance failure may also refer to what can also be described as policy failures − the effectiveness, efficiency, and resilience of specific policies. A frequently mentioned example of a policy failure is the War on Drugs.\n"}
{"id": "43903393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43903393", "title": "Governance of protected areas", "text": "Governance of protected areas\n\nConservation is a positive endeavour including “… the preservation, maintenance, sustainable use, restoration, and enhancement of the natural environment”.\n\nProtected Area is \"“...a clearly defined geographical space, recognised, dedicated and managed, through legal or other effective means, to achieve the long-term conservation of nature with associated ecosystem services and cultural values”. This IUCN definition applies equally to land, inland waters and coastal and marine territories and areas and is widely considered to be equivalent to the CBD definition.\n\nGovernance is (the process of) “…interactions among structures, processes and traditions that determine how power and responsibilities are exercised, how decisions are taken and how citizens or other stakeholders have their say…”. In less elegant, but possibly clearer words, governance is about taking decisions and ensuring the conditions for their effective implementation. It is the process of developing and exercising authority and responsibility over time. It is about who takes decisions, and how, including in relation to learning processes and evolving institutions in society.\n\nGovernance is related to management but different from it. What is the difference? Management is about what is done in pursuit of given objectives. Governance is about who decides about what is to be done, and how those decisions are taken. It is about who holds power, authority and responsibility and who is, or should be, held accountable. Governance is nothing new: someone, somewhere, has always been taking decisions about protected and conserved areas. What is new is that we are now paying better attention to governance, adding visibility, articulating concepts, and monitoring and evaluating practice. There is no ideal governance setting for protected or conserved areas, but a set of “good governance” principles can always be taken into account. Governance is appropriate only when tailored to its specific context and effective in delivering lasting conservation results, livelihood benefits and the respect of rights.\n\nGovernance can be improved and provide precious help in facing on-going challenges and global change. \n\nThe IUCN World Parks Congress is held once every decade. Since the Congress in Durban (2003), governance has been a recurring stream in the deliberations of the Congress. Governance was also a major stream at the IUCN World Parks Congress 2014. The stream, among other things, published a primer to develop a basic lexicon in the hope that speaking “a common language” may help to better communicate and develop concepts of increasing clarity and meaning.\n\nWe speak of governance diversity for protected and conserved areas when decisions are made by a variety of actors who enrich and strengthen conservation in practice. For instance, a national system of protected areas can “enhance governance diversity” by including in the system areas governed by different types of actors and under different arrangements, and/or by providing better recognition and support to conserved territories and areas outside the system.\n\nThe IUCN and CBD distinguish four broad governance types for protected and conserved areas according to the actors who take or took the fundamental decisions about them (e.g. the actors that “established” them and decided their main purpose and management).\nThe four main governance types are:\n\nICCAs is an abbreviation that refers to the territories and areas conserved by indigenous peoples and local communities. There are three essential characteristics common to ICCAs:\n\nManagement categories and governance types are independent and can be juxtaposed in the “IUCN Matrix”, visualizing a spectrum of area-based options to conserve nature in a given region/ system. The IUCN Matrix can be used to situate protected areas but also conserved territories and areas (the management category, in such case, would not correspond to a key objective but to an observed result).\n\nConservation depends on well governed systems of protected and conserved areas in the landscape and seascape and systems are made stronger by governance diversity.\n\nConserved territories or areas are “…area-based measure that— regardless of recognition and dedication and at times even regardless of explicit and conscious management practices— achieve conservation de facto and/or is in a positive conservation trend and likely to maintain this trend in the long term…”. This definition applies equally to land, inland waters and coastal and marine territories and areas.\nThe governance types apply to both protected areas and conserved territories and areas that are NOT recognised as “protected” by the IUCN or any specific national government. In this sense, the terms “Privately Conserved Areas” and “ICCAs” encompass extents of land, inland waters and coastal and marine territories and areas that go beyond those recognised as “protected” by either national government or the IUCN.\n\nMany systems of land and water management support high levels of biodiversity, including critical biodiversity, outside the formal system of protected areas, in sites such a tourism and commercial hunting reserves, private estates or village forests. The term voluntary conservation captures the idea that those who exercise governance do so consciously and without restriction, in ways that are fully compatible with conserving biodiversity values while they may or not see conservation as the primary objective of their management efforts. In other cases, as in military no-go areas or areas abandoned after a natural or man-made disaster, the term ancillary conservation is more appropriate, since conservation is an entirely unintended (though welcome) consequence of management for other purposes.\nConservation in the landscape and seascape is the result of various area-based and non-area- based measures. Among area-based measures we find both protected areas and conserved territories and areas. Crucially, those should be biologically, but also socially, well connected.\n\nA well-functioning system of protected and conserved areas is complete and well-connected in conserving the representative features and functions of nature in a given environment.\n\nThe term “other effective area-based conservation measures”– abbreviated as OECMs—is used by the Convention on Biological Diversity to refer to territories and areas that are effectively conserved but not part of the official protected area system of a given country. In this sense, OECMs can be seen as “clearly defined geographical space where de facto conservation of nature and associated ecosystem services and cultural values is achieved and expected to be maintained in the long-term regardless of specific recognition and dedication” (11). OECMs can include the following:\nThe following Table summarises various ways of classifying conservation efforts and results:\n\nWe speak of governance quality when decisions are made while respecting the “good governance” principles developed through time by a variety of peoples, nations and UN agencies. A simple and compact formulation of the “IUCN principles of good governance for protected areas”, includes:\n\n\nThus, a “good governance” situation is one in which decisions are taken legitimately, competently, fairly, with sense of vision, accountability and while respecting rights.\n\nThe IUCN good governance situation can also be summed up as “equitable and effective governance”. The criteria of legitimacy, voice, fairness and (procedural and substantive) rights contribute to equitable governance. The criteria of direction, performance and accountability lead to governance that is effective.\n\nRights are usefully distinguished between substantive and procedural. Procedural rights, such as the rights to information, participation and access to justice, govern the process of determining and adjudicating substantive rights. In turn, substantive rights refer\nto the specific powers and obligations of individuals and collective bodies under accepted customs and legislation. They span from basic human rights (e.g. life, liberty) to material and financial rights under specific contractual conditions (e.g. access to a given territory). Procedural and substantive rights deserve respect in relation to both protected\nand conserved areas and territories\n\nWe speak of governance vitality when decision-making actors and institutions are functional, responsive and thriving, meeting their role and responsibilities in timely and appropriate ways. Vitality is expressed by several of these properties:\n\nWhile governance diversity and quality have been explored rather exhaustively, the concept of governance vitality has only recently been identified for further consideration. All governance properties are open to enrichment and debate.\n\nThe IUCN and CBD have recently published a volume of Guidelines for assessing, evaluating and planning for action with a view to improving governance for a system of protected areas or a specific site. In both cases, the methodology begins with an analysis of the historical, socio-cultural, institutional and legal contexts. It then proceeds with a spatial analysis of governance vis-à-vis the status of conservation of nature. This requires a large, territorial view of the region or area under consideration, including an assessment of biological, ecological and cultural values and their potential association with governance diversity, quality and vitality. From that, valuable lessons can be derived and action plans for improvement can be drawn.\n\nGlobally, there remains a need to initiate such systematic governance assessments and evaluations processes in a range of contexts, with the aim and expectation that they will catalyze enhanced diversity, quality and vitality. A structured programme of governance assessments, supported by learning and capacity development networks is a short and medium term priority to strengthen both conservation policies and results.\n\n"}
{"id": "12229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12229", "title": "Government", "text": "Government\n\nA government is the system or group of people governing an organized community, often a state.\n\nIn the case of its broad associative definition, government normally consists of legislature, executive, and judiciary. Government is a means by which organizational policies are enforced, as well as a mechanism for determining policy. Each government has a kind of constitution, a statement of its governing principles and philosophy. Typically the philosophy chosen is some balance between the principle of individual freedom and the idea of absolute state authority (tyranny).\n\nWhile all types of organizations have governance, the word \"government\" is often used more specifically to refer to the approximately 200 independent national governments on Earth, as well as subsidiary organizations.\n\nHistorically prevalent forms of government include monarchy, aristocracy, timocracy, oligarchy, democracy, theocracy and tyranny. The main aspect of any philosophy of government is how political power is obtained, with the two main forms being electoral contest and hereditary succession.\n\nA government is the system to govern a state or community.\n\nThe word \"government\" derives, ultimately, from the Greek verb κυβερνάω [\"kubernáo\"] (meaning \"to steer\" with gubernaculum (rudder), the metaphorical sense being attested in Plato's Ship of State).\n\nThe Columbia Encyclopedia defines government as \"a system of social control under which the right to make laws, and the right to enforce them, is vested in a particular group in society\".\n\nWhile all types of organizations have governance, the word \"government\" is often used more specifically to refer to the approximately 200 independent national governments on Earth, as well as their subsidiary organizations.\n\nIn the Commonwealth of Nations, the word \"government\" is also used more narrowly to refer to the ministry (collective executive), a collective group of people that exercises executive authority in a state or, metonymically, to the governing cabinet as part of the executive.\n\nFinally, \"government\" is also sometimes used in English as a synonym for governance.\n\nThe moment and place that the phenomenon of human government developed is lost in time; however, history does record the formations of early governments. About 5,000 years ago, the first small city-states appeared. By the third to second millenniums BC, some of these had developed into larger governed areas: Sumer, Ancient Egypt, the Indus Valley Civilization, and the Yellow River Civilization.\n\nThe development of agriculture and water control projects were a catalyst for the development of governments. For many thousands of years when people were hunter-gatherers and small scale farmers, humans lived in small, non-hierarchical and self-sufficient communities. On occasion a chief of a tribe was elected by various rituals or tests of strength to govern his tribe, sometimes with a group of elder tribesmen as a council. The human ability to precisely communicate abstract, learned information allowed humans to become ever more effective at agriculture, and that allowed for ever increasing population densities. David Christian explains how this resulted in states with laws and governments:\n\nStarting at the end of the 17th century, the prevalence of republican forms of government grew. The Glorious Revolution in England, the American Revolution, and the French Revolution contributed to the growth of representative forms of government. The Soviet Union was the first large country to have a Communist government. Since the fall of the Berlin Wall, liberal democracy has become an even more prevalent form of government.\n\nIn the nineteenth and twentieth century, there was a significant increase in the size and scale of government at the national level. This included the regulation of corporations and the development of the welfare state.\n\nIn political science, it has long been a goal to create a typology or taxonomy of polities, as typologies of political systems are not obvious. It is especially important in the political science fields of comparative politics and international relations. Like all categories discerned within forms of government, the boundaries of government classifications are either fluid or ill-defined.\n\nSuperficially, all governments have an official or ideal form. The United States is a constitutional republic, while the former Soviet Union was a socialist republic. However self-identification is not objective, and as Kopstein and Lichbach argue, defining regimes can be tricky. For example, elections are a defining characteristic of an electoral democracy, but in practice elections in the former Soviet Union were not \"free and fair\" and took place in a one-party state. Voltaire argued that \"the Holy Roman Empire is neither Holy, nor Roman, nor an Empire\". Many governments that officially call themselves a \"democratic republic\" are not democratic, nor a republic; they are usually a dictatorship \"de facto\". Communist dictatorships have been especially prone to use this term. For example, the official name of North Vietnam was \"The Democratic Republic of Vietnam\". China uses a variant, \"The People's Republic of China\". Thus in many practical classifications it would not be considered democratic.\n\nIdentifying a form of government is also difficult because many political systems originate as socio-economic movements and are then carried into governments by parties naming themselves after those movements; all with competing political-ideologies. Experience with those movements in power, and the strong ties they may have to particular forms of government, can cause them to be considered as forms of government in themselves.\n\nOther complications include general non-consensus or deliberate \"distortion or bias\" of reasonable technical definitions to political ideologies and associated forms of governing, due to the nature of politics in the modern era. For example: The meaning of \"conservatism\" in the United States has little in common with the way the word's definition is used elsewhere. As Ribuffo notes, \"what Americans now call conservatism much of the world calls liberalism or neoliberalism\". Since the 1950s conservatism in the United States has been chiefly associated with the Republican Party. However, during the era of segregation many Southern Democrats were conservatives, and they played a key role in the Conservative Coalition that controlled Congress from 1937 to 1963.\n\nEvery country in the world is ruled by a system of governance that combines at least three or more political or economic attributes. Additionally, opinions vary by individuals concerning the types and properties of governments that exist. \"Shades of gray\" are commonplace in any government and its corresponding classification. Even the most liberal democracies limit rival political activity to one extent or another while the most tyrannical dictatorships must organize a broad base of support thereby creating difficulties for \"pigeonholing\" governments into narrow categories. Examples include the claims of the United States as being a plutocracy rather than a democracy since some American voters believe elections are being manipulated by wealthy Super PACs.\n\nThe Classical Greek philosopher Plato discusses five types of regimes: aristocracy, timocracy, oligarchy, democracy and tyranny. Plato also assigns a man to each of these regimes to illustrate what they stand for. The tyrannical man would represent tyranny for example. These five regimes progressively degenerate starting with aristocracy at the top and tyranny at the bottom.\n\nOne method of classifying governments is through which people have the authority to rule. This can either be one person (an autocracy, such as monarchy), a select group of people (an aristocracy), or the people as a whole (a democracy, such as a republic).\n\nThe division of governments as monarchy, aristocracy and democracy has been used since Aristotle's Politics. In his book Leviathan, Thomas Hobbes expands on this classification.\n\nAn autocracy is a system of government in which supreme power is concentrated in the hands of one person, whose decisions are subject to neither external legal restraints nor regularized mechanisms of popular control (except perhaps for the implicit threat of a coup d'état or mass insurrection).\n\nA despotism is a government ruled by a single entity with absolute power, whose decisions are subject to neither external legal restraints nor regular mechanisms of popular control (except perhaps for implicit threat). That entity may be an individual, as in an autocracy, or it may be a group, as in an oligarchy. The word despotism means to \"rule in the fashion of despots\".\n\nA monarchy is where a family or group of families (rarely another type of group), called the royalty, represents national identity, with power traditionally assigned to one of its individuals, called the monarch, who mostly rule kingdoms. The actual role of the monarch and other members of royalty varies from purely symbolical (crowned republic) to partial and restricted (constitutional monarchy) to completely despotic (absolute monarchy). Traditionally and in most cases, the post of the monarch is inherited, but there are also elective monarchies where the monarch is elected.\n\nAristocracy (Greek ἀριστοκρατία \"aristokratía\", from ἄριστος \"\" \"excellent\", and κράτος \"\" \"power\") is a form of government that places power in the hands of a small, privileged ruling class.\n\nMany monarchies were aristocracies, although in modern constitutional monarchies the monarch himself or herself has little real power. The term \"Aristocracy\" could also refer to the non-peasant, non-servant, and non-city classes in the Feudal system. \n\nAn oligarchy is ruled by a small group of segregated, powerful or influential people who usually share similar interests or family relations. These people may spread power and elect candidates equally or not equally. An oligarchy is different from a true democracy because very few people are given the chance to change things. An oligarchy does not have to be hereditary or monarchic. An oligarchy does not have one clear ruler but several rulers.\n\nSome historical examples of oligarchy are the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Some critics of representative democracy think of the United States as an oligarchy. The Athenian democracy used sortition to elect candidates, almost always male, Greek, educated citizens holding a minimum of land, wealth and status.\n\nA theocracy is rule by a religious elite; a system of governance composed of religious institutions in which the state and the church are traditionally or constitutionally the same entity. The Vatican's (see Pope), Iran's (see Supreme Leader), Tibetan government's (see Dalai Lama), Caliphates and other Islamic states are historically considered \"theocracies\".\n\nIn a general sense, in a democracy, all the people of a state or polity are involved in making decisions about its affairs. Also refer to the rule by a government chosen by election where most of the populace are enfranchised. The key distinction between a democracy and other forms of constitutional government is usually taken to be that the right to vote is not limited by a person's wealth or race (the main qualification for enfranchisement is usually having reached a certain age). A democratic government is, therefore, one supported (at least at the time of the election) by a majority of the populace (provided the election was held fairly). A \"majority\" may be defined in different ways. There are many \"power-sharing\" (usually in countries where people mainly identify themselves by race or religion) or \"electoral-college\" or \"constituency\" systems where the government is not chosen by a simple one-vote-per-person headcount.\n\nIn democracies, large proportions of the population may vote, either to make decisions or to choose representatives to make decisions. Commonly significant in democracies are political parties, which are groups of people with similar ideas about how a country or region should be governed. Different political parties have different ideas about how the government should handle different problems.\n\nLiberal democracy is a variant of democracy. It is a form of government in which representative democracy operates under the principles of liberalism. It is characterised by fair, free, and competitive elections between multiple distinct political parties, a separation of powers into different branches of government, the rule of law in everyday life as part of an open society, and the protection of human rights and civil liberties for all persons. To define the system in practice, liberal democracies often draw upon a constitution, either formally written or uncodified, to delineate the powers of government and enshrine the social contract. After a period of sustained expansion throughout the 20th century, liberal democracy became the predominant political system in the world. A liberal democracy may take various constitutional forms: it may be a republic, such as France, Germany, India, Ireland, Italy, Taiwan, or the United States; or a constitutional monarchy, such as Japan, Spain, or the United Kingdom. It may have a presidential system (Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, or the United States), a semi-presidential system (France, Portugal, or Taiwan), or a parliamentary system (Australia, Canada, Germany, Ireland, India, Italy, New Zealand, or the United Kingdom).\n\nA republic is a form of government in which the country is considered a \"public matter\" (Latin: \"res publica\"), not the private concern or property of the rulers, and where offices of states are subsequently directly or indirectly elected or appointed rather than inherited. The people, or some significant portion of them, have supreme control over the government and where offices of state are elected or chosen by elected people. A common simplified definition of a republic is a government where the head of state is not a monarch. Montesquieu included both democracies, where all the people have a share in rule, and aristocracies or oligarchies, where only some of the people rule, as republican forms of government.\n\nOther terms used to describe different republics include Democratic republic, Parliamentary republic, Federal republic, and Islamic Republic.\n\nRule by authoritarian governments is identified in societies where a specific set of people possess the authority of the state in a republic or union. It is a political system controlled by unelected rulers who usually permit some degree of individual freedom. Rule by a totalitarian government is characterised by a highly centralised and coercive authority that regulates nearly every aspect of public and private life.\n\nIn contrast, a constitutional republic is rule by a government whose powers are limited by law or a formal constitution, and chosen by a vote amongst at least some sections of the populace (Ancient Sparta was in its own terms a republic, though most inhabitants were disenfranchised). Republics that exclude sections of the populace from participation will typically claim to represent all citizens (by defining people without the vote as \"non-citizens\"). Examples include the United States, South Africa, India, etc. \n\nFederalism is a political concept in which a \"group\" of members are bound together by covenant (Latin: \"foedus\", covenant) with a governing representative head. The term \"federalism\" is also used to describe a system of government in which sovereignty is constitutionally divided between a central governing authority and constituent political units (such as states or provinces). Federalism is a system based upon democratic rules and institutions in which the power to govern is shared between national and provincial/state governments, creating what is often called a federation. Proponents are often called federalists.\n\nHistorically, most political systems originated as socioeconomic ideologies. Experience with those movements in power and the strong ties they may have to particular forms of government can cause them to be considered as forms of government in themselves.\n\n\nCertain major characteristics are defining of certain types; others are historically associated with certain types of government.\n\nThis list focuses on differing approaches that political systems take to the distribution of sovereignty, and the autonomy of regions within the state.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8695082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8695082", "title": "Health policy", "text": "Health policy\n\nHealth policy can be defined as the \"decisions, plans, and actions that are undertaken to achieve specific healthcare goals within a society\". According to the World Health Organization, an explicit health policy can achieve several things: it defines a vision for the future; it outlines priorities and the expected roles of different groups; and it builds consensus and informs people.\n\nThere are many categories of health policies, including global health policy, public health policy, mental health policy, health care services policy, insurance policy, personal healthcare policy, pharmaceutical policy, and policies related to public health such as vaccination policy, tobacco control policy or breastfeeding promotion policy. They may cover topics of financing and delivery of healthcare, access to care, quality of care, and health equity.\n\nHealth-related policy and its implementation is complex. Conceptual models can help show the flow from health-related policy development to health-related policy and program implementation and to health systems and health outcomes. Policy should be understood as more than a national law or health policy that supports a program or intervention. Operational policies are the rules, regulations, guidelines, and administrative norms that governments use to translate national laws and policies into programs and services. The policy process encompasses decisions made at a national or decentralized level (including funding decisions) that affect whether and how services are delivered. Thus, attention must be paid to policies at multiple levels of the health system and over time to ensure sustainable scale-up. A supportive policy environment will facilitate the scale-up of health interventions.\n\nThere are many topics in the politics and evidence that can influence the decision of a government, private sector business or other group to adopt a specific policy. Evidence-based policy relies on the use of science and rigorous studies such as randomized controlled trials to identify programs and practices capable of improving policy relevant outcomes. Most political debates surround personal health care policies, especially those that seek to reform healthcare delivery, and can typically be categorized as either philosophical or economic. Philosophical debates center around questions about individual rights, ethics and government authority, while economic topics include how to maximize the efficiency of health care delivery and minimize costs.\n\nThe modern concept of healthcare involves access to medical professionals from various fields as well as medical technology, such as medications and surgical equipment. It also involves access to the latest information and evidence from research, including medical research and health services research.\n\nIn many countries it is left to the individual to gain access to healthcare goods and services by paying for them directly as out-of-pocket expenses, and to private sector players in the medical and pharmaceutical industries to develop research. Planning and production of health human resources is distributed among labour market participants.\n\nOther countries have an explicit policy to ensure and support access for all of its citizens, to fund health research, and to plan for adequate numbers, distribution and quality of health workers to meet healthcare goals. Many governments around the world have established universal health care, which takes the burden of healthcare expenses off of private businesses or individuals through pooling of financial risk. There are a variety of arguments for and against universal healthcare and related health policies. Healthcare is an important part of health systems and therefore it often accounts for one of the largest areas of spending for both governments and individuals all over the world.\n\nMany countries and jurisdictions integrate a human rights philosophy in directing their healthcare policies. The World Health Organization reports that every country in the world is party to at least one human rights treaty that addresses health-related rights, including the right to health as well as other rights that relate to conditions necessary for good health. The United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) asserts that medical care is a right of all people:\n\nIn some jurisdictions and among different faith-based organizations, health policies are influenced by the perceived obligation shaped by religious beliefs to care for those in less favorable circumstances, including the sick. Other jurisdictions and non-governmental organizations draw on the principles of humanism in defining their health policies, asserting the same perceived obligation and enshrined right to health. In recent years, the worldwide human rights organization Amnesty International has focused on health as a human right, addressing inadequate access to HIV drugs and women's sexual and reproductive rights including wide disparities in maternal mortality within and across countries. Such increasing attention to health as a basic human right has been welcomed by the leading medical journal \"The Lancet\".\n\nThere remains considerable controversy regarding policies on who would be paying the costs of medical care for all people and under what circumstances. For example, government spending on healthcare is sometimes used as a global indicator of a government's commitment to the health of its people. On the other hand, one school of thought emerging from the United States rejects the notion of health care financing through taxpayer funding as incompatible with the (considered no less important) right of the physician's professional judgment, and the related concerns that government involvement in overseeing the health of its citizens could erode the right to privacy between doctors and patients. The argument furthers that universal health insurance denies the right of individual patients to dispose of their own income as per their own will.\n\nAnother issue in the rights debate is governments' use of legislation to control competition among private medical insurance providers against national social insurance systems, such as the case in Canada's national health insurance program. Laissez-faire supporters argue that this erodes the cost-effectiveness of the health system, as even those who can afford to pay for private healthcare services drain resources from the public system. The issue here is whether investor-owned medical insurance companies or health maintenance organizations are in a better position to act in the best interests of their customers compared to government regulation and oversight. Another claim in the United States perceives government over-regulation of the healthcare and insurance industries as the effective end of charitable home visits from doctors among the poor and elderly.\n\nMany types of health policies exist focusing on the financing of healthcare services to spread the economic risks of ill health. These include publicly funded health care (through taxation or insurance, also known as single-payer systems), mandatory or voluntary private health insurance, and complete capitalization of personal health care services through private companies, among others. The debate is ongoing on which type of health financing policy results in better or worse quality of healthcare services provided, and how to ensure allocated funds are used effectively, efficiently and equitably.\n\nThere are many arguments on both sides of the issue of public versus private health financing policies:\n\nClaims that publicly funded healthcare improves the quality and efficiency of personal health care delivery:\n\nClaims that privately funded healthcare leads to greater quality and efficiencies in personal health care:\n\nHealth policy options extend beyond the financing and delivery of personal health care, to domains such as medical research and health workforce planning, both domestically and internationally.\n\nMedical research can be both the basis for defining evidence-based health policy, and the subject of health policy itself, particularly in terms of its sources of funding. Those in favor of government policies for publicly funded medical research posit that removing profit as a motive will increase the rate of medical innovation. Those opposed argue that it will do the opposite, because removing the incentive of profit removes incentives to innovate and inhibits new technologies from being developed and utilized.\n\nThe existence of sound medical research does not necessarily lead to evidence-based policymaking. For example, in South Africa, whose population sets the record for HIV infections, previous government policy limiting funding and access for AIDS treatments met with strong controversy given its basis on a refusal to accept scientific evidence on the means of transmission. A change of government eventually led to a change in policy, with new policies implemented for widespread access to HIV services. Another issue relates to intellectual property, as illustrated by the case of Brazil, where debates have arisen over government policy authorizing the domestic manufacture of antiretroviral drugs used in the treatment of HIV/AIDS in violation of drug patents.\n\nSome countries and jurisdictions have an explicit policy or strategy to plan for adequate numbers, distribution and quality of health workers to meet healthcare goals, such as to address physician and nursing shortages. Elsewhere, workforce planning is distributed among labour market participants as a laissez-faire approach to health policy. Evidence-based policies for workforce development are typically based on findings from health services research.\n\nMany governments and agencies include a health dimension in their foreign policy in order to achieve global health goals. Promoting health in lower income countries has been seen as instrumental to achieve other goals on the global agenda, including:\n\nGlobal health policy encompasses the global governance structures that create the policies underlying public health throughout the world. In addressing global health, global health policy \"implies consideration of the health needs of the people of the whole planet above the concerns of particular nations.\" Distinguished from both international health policy (agreements among sovereign states) and comparative health policy (analysis of health policy across states), global health policy institutions consist of the actors and norms that frame the global health response.\n\n"}
{"id": "24150477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24150477", "title": "Investment theory of party competition", "text": "Investment theory of party competition\n\nThe Investment theory of party competition is a political theory developed by Thomas Ferguson, Emeritus Professor of Political Science at the University of Massachusetts Boston. The theory focuses on how business elites, not voters, play the leading part in political systems. The theory offers an alternative to the conventional, voter-focused, Voter Realignment theory and Median voter theorem, which has been criticized by Ferguson and others.\n\nThe \"Investment Theory of Party Competition\" was first outlined by Thomas Ferguson in his 1983 paper \"Party Realignment and American Industrial Structure: The Investment Theory of Political Parties in Historical Perspective\". The theory is detailed most extensively in Ferguson's 1995 book \"Golden Rule: The Investment Theory of Party Competition and the Logic of Money-driven Political Systems\", in which his earlier paper is republished as a chapter.\n\nFerguson frames his theory as being both inspired by and an alternative to the traditional median voter theories of democracy such as that posited by Anthony Downs in his 1957 work \"An Economic Theory of Democracy\". Quoting Downs, Ferguson accepts that 'the expense of political awareness is so great that no citizen can afford to bear it in every policy area, even if by doing so he could discover places where his intervention would reap large profits'. While Downs largely overlooked the implications of this insight, Ferguson makes it the foundation of the \"Investment Theory of Party Competition\", recognizing that if voters cannot bear the cost of becoming informed about public affairs they have little hope of successfully supervising government.\n\nThe central claim of the \"Investment Theory\" is that since ordinary citizens cannot afford to acquire the information required to invest in political parties, the political system will be dominated by those who can. As a result, the investment theory holds that rather than being seen as simple vote maximizers, political parties are best analyzed as blocs of investors who coalesce to advance candidates representing their interests.\n\nContrary to the median voter theorem where political parties have traditionally been seen as vote maximizers who will seek out the position of the 'median voter' on any particular issue, the \"Investment Theory\" holds the real area of competition for political parties is major investors who have an interest in investing to control the state.\n\nThis is because, in situations where money is important, political parties must take positions that enable them to attract the investment required to run successful campaigns. This is the case even if those positions are not supported by the majority of the population, since it is futile for a party to adopt even a popular position if it cannot afford the expense of communicating that position to the electorate in an election campaign. In fact the \"Investment theory\" predicts that in many cases political parties are more likely to try and change the position of the public to match those of its investors than vice versa.\n\nInstead political parties will try to assemble the votes they need through appeals to the electorate on issues that do not conflict with the interests of their investors. Vigorous debate may take place on issues where an opposing bloc of investors is able to mobilize and advertise their position. A further consequence of this theory is that in policy areas where large investors agree on policy, no party competition will take place. This is the case regardless of the views of the general population, unless ordinary citizens are able to become major investors in their own right through expenditure of time and income.\n\nThe \"Investment Theory of Party Competition\" does not deny the possibility that masses of voters can become major investors in an electoral system, and accepts that in cases where this does happen the effect may resemble classical voter competition models. For this to happen, however, generally requires channels that facilitate mass deliberation and expression, typically 'secondary' organizations capable of spreading the cost of acquiring information and concentrating contributions from many individuals to act politically. Such conditions may enable high information flows to the general population and make political debate and action a part of everyday life. Where these conditions do not exist, however, it is unlikely that ordinary citizens will be able to afford the costs required to control policy.\n\nA consequence of the \"Investment Theory\" is that it is not necessary to assume that the voting population is stupid or malevolent to explain why it will often vote for parties whose policies are opposed to their own interests. In fact, Ferguson suggests, the general population is far from ignorant or uninterested in the outcome of elections, and will often make considerable effort to understand the issues under discussion. Voting decisions ultimately, however, must be made on the basis of the information that is available, and if acquiring information is expensive in terms of time or money then most likely those decisions will be made on the basis of information subsidized by wealthy investors.\n\nAccording to Ferguson, who credits the insight to Downs, one of the reasons that wealthy investors are able to influence politics to their advantage is that much of the politically relevant information that is so expensive for ordinary citizens to acquire comes quite naturally to businesses in the course of their daily operations. An example might include international banks whose business contacts constitute 'a first-rate foreign policy network'.\n\nSimilarly, economies of scale give businesses an advantage over ordinary voters. For example, large investors will routinely consult with lawyers, public relations advisors, lobbyists, and political consultants before acting. The cost of this advice is prohibitively expensive for most citizens.\n\nSince investors cannot guarantee the outcome of an election or know exactly what policies a candidate will implement once in power, they must estimate the chances their investment will be successful. In some cases, this may lead to investors supporting more than one candidate, perhaps in more than one party. In other cases, it is expected that an investor will judge that one party will never accept its desired policies and so will become the 'core' of one party. Ferguson cites the support of labor-intensive industries such as textiles and steel supporting the Republican party after the New Deal as an example, owing to their labor policy.\n\nAlthough the \"Investment Theory\" recognizes the importance of financial contributions to political parties, Ferguson notes that direct cash contributions 'are probably not the most important way in which truly top business figures (\"major investors\") act politically'. Investors are also likely to act as sources of contacts, fundraisers, and as sources of legitimation for candidates, particularly through endorsements in the media. Similarly, the theory does not predict that elections will be won by the party that is able to spend the most money. Instead, it suggests that while parties will likely need to attract significant resources in order to be able to mount a successful campaign, they do not necessarily need to attract the \"most\" money.\n\nThe \"Investment Theory\" makes a number of novel predictions compared to other theories of party systems.\n\nFerguson uses the Investment Theory as the basis of an analysis of the New Deal in his 1984 paper \"From Normalcy to New Deal: Industrial structure, Party Competition, and American Public Policy in the Great Depression\", in which he argues that the New Deal policies became possible due to the changing nature of the American economy and the new coalitions of political investors that emerged as a result.\n\nFerguson argues that in the early years of the twentieth century American politics was dominated by a coalition of labor-intensive industries including steel, coal, and textiles, who opposed labor, and protectionist industries who supported the Republican Party. These industries were also joined by finance, who largely shared the support for trade tariffs and aggressive foreign policy. This coalition first began to split after the first world war as successful capital-intensive firms such as Standard Oil and General Electric began to emerge for whom labor issues were less pressing and who favored lower tariffs to stimulate world trade and open new markets. International banks also moved away from protectionist policies, as post-war recovery required European nations to export to America and required US banks to do so.\n\nThese firms went on to form the coalition that backed Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal policies, as their dominant position in the world economy made them the primary beneficiaries of the New Deal's free trade policies. While these new multinational corporations were better able to tolerate the pro-labour policies of the New Deal, they did not necessarily support it. Instead, Ferguson credits the rise of independent industrial unionism as the result of masses of American voters for the first time in US history successfully pooling their resources to become major investors in their own right.\n\nAlthough the 'Investment Theory' is largely concerned with financial donations to political parties, Ferguson argues that the theory implies reform must look beyond campaign finance alone. While acknowledging a need for reform of campaign finance, 'if only to prevent more and more of society's resources going down a black hole', Ferguson suggests, that no matter how diligent the regulators are, wealthy investors will doubtless find new ways to corrupt the political system.\n\nInstead, since the problem of money influencing politics stems from the cost of information, Ferguson argues the solution might come from finding ways for regular citizens to share these costs. Since it is inefficient for individuals or even groups of individuals to cope with this problem on an individual basis, Ferguson proposes that the cost must be subsidized by the state.\n\nWhile the United States (and other nations) already subsidize some of these costs, for example in providing public finance to political parties, franking mail or providing staff to politicians, this rarely takes place on a scale that actually does the public any good. Instead, this funding merely subsidizes parties that the rich control, with the effect that public money merely leverages the contributions of major investors. The solution, then, is to apply the 'Golden Rule' to ordinary citizens by providing enough public support to allow ordinary members of the public to run for office and have a reasonable chance of winning. This would not only allow ordinary citizens and (seemingly) heterodox opinions to be heard but would also have the effect of limiting the harm that private financing can have.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50023831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50023831", "title": "Kaliningrad question", "text": "Kaliningrad question\n\nThe Kaliningrad question is a political question concerning the status of Kaliningrad Oblast as an exclave of Russia, and its isolation from the rest of the Baltic region following the 2004 enlargement of the European Union.\n\nIn Western media, the region is most often discussed in relation to the deployment of missile systems, initially as a response to the deployment of missile defense systems in Poland and the Czech Republic. Russia views the region as a vital element of its ability to project power in the Baltic region.\n\nA fringe position also considers the return of the province to Germany from the Russian Federation, or its independence from both. The former question is mostly hypothetical, as the current German government has stated that it has no claim to it.\n\nKaliningrad, or Königsberg, had been a part of a German state (the Teutonic Order, Kingdom of Prussia, and the unified Germany) for several centuries before the Second World War, and the city was historically a rich German cultural center, being the home of – among others – the German philosopher Immanuel Kant. \n\nThe annexation of the Königsberg area of East Prussia to Russia became a stated war aim of the Soviet Union at Tehran Conference in December 1943. In 1945, at the end of World War II, the city was captured by the Soviet Union. As agreed by the Allies at the Potsdam Conference, northern Prussia, including Königsberg, was annexed by the USSR, which attached it to the Russian SFSR. In 1946, the city's name was changed to Kaliningrad.\n\nIn October 1945, only about 5,000 Soviet civilians lived in the territory. Between October 1947 and October 1948, about 100,000 Germans were forcibly moved to Germany. About 400,000 Soviet civilians arrived by 1948. Some moved voluntarily, but as the number of willing settlers proved insufficient, collective farms were given quotas of how many people they had to send to Kaliningrad. Often they sent the least socially desirable individuals, such as alcoholics and the uneducated.\n\nIn the 1950s, Nikita Khrushchev suggested that the Lithuanian SSR should annex Kaliningrad Oblast. The offer was refused by the Lithuanian Communist Party leader Antanas Sniečkus, who did not wish to alter the ethnic composition of his republic. In the late Soviet era, rumors spread that the Oblast might be converted into a homeland for Soviet Germans.\n\nKaliningrad Oblast remained part of the Soviet Union until its dissolution in 1991, and since then has been an exclave of the Russian Federation. After the Soviet collapse, some descendants of the expellees and refugees traveled to the city to examine their roots. According to the 2010 Russian Census, 7,349 ethnic Germans live in the Oblast, making up 0.8% of the population.\n\nIn Germany, the status of Kaliningrad and the rights of expellees was a mainstream political issue until the 1960s, when the shifting political discourse increasingly associated similar views with right-wing revisionism.\n\nAccording to a \"Der Spiegel\" article published in 2010, in 1990 the West German government received a message from the Soviet general Geli Batenin, offering to return Kaliningrad. The offer was never seriously considered by the Bonn government, who saw reunification with the East as its priority.\n\nIn 2001, the EU was alleged to be in talks with Russia to arrange an association agreement with the Kaliningrad Oblast, at a time when Russia could not repay £22 billion debt owed to Berlin, which may have given Germany some influence over the territory. Claims of \"buying back\" Kaliningrad or other \"secret deals\" were repudiated by both sides.\n\nAnother rumor about a debt-related deal, published by the Russian weekly \"Nash Continent\", alleged that Putin and Edmund Stoiber had agreed on the gradual return of Kaliningrad in return for waiving the country's $50 billion debt to Germany.\n\nInesis Feldmanis, head of the Faculty of History and Philosophy at the University of Latvia, has been quoted saying that the Soviet Union's annexation of Kaliningrad is \"an error in history\".\n\nThe Freistaat Preußen Movement, one of the most active offshoots of the Reichsbürger movement, considers the Russian (and German) government as illegitimate and see themselves as the rightful rulers of the region. As of 2017, the movement is split into two competing factions, one based in Königsfeld, Rhineland-Palatinate and the other in Bonn.\n\nSome political groups in Lithuania claim the parts of Kaliningrad Oblast between the Pregel and Nemunas Rivers, but they have little influence. Linas Balsys, a deputy in the Lithuanian parliament, has argued that the status of the exclave should be discussed at international levels.\n\nIn 1994, the former Lithuanian president Vytautas Landsbergis called for the separation and 'decolonization' of Kaliningrad from Russia. In December 1997, the Lithuanian parliament speaker Romualdas Ozolas expressed his view that Kaliningrad should become an independent republic.\n\nAfter the annexation of Crimea in 2014, the political analyst Laurynas Kasčiūnas called for a revisiting of the Potsdam Agreement. He argued that residents of Kaliningrad would support a referendum to separate from Russia. The notion of a Lithuanian claim has been brushed off by Russian media, with the liberal \"Novaya Gazeta\" newspaper dismissing it as a 'geopolitical fantasy'.\n\nIn the 1990s, a far-right group calling itself \"Gesellschaft für Siedlungsförderung in Trakehnen\" attempted to establish a settlement in Yasnaya Polyana. Fundraising by the organization \"Aktion Deutsches Königsberg\" financed the construction of a German-language school and housing in the neighboring village of Amtshagen. Most of the settlers were Russian Germans from the Caucasus and Kazakhstan, rather than returnees.\n\nSeveral dilapidated houses were bought and renovated; tractors, trucks, building materials and machinery were imported into the village. The relatively high salaries attracted newcomers, and the ethnic German population rose to about 400 inhabitants. The construction of a second settlement in the outskirts of Trakehnen, named \"Agnes-Miegel-Siedlung\", began in 1998.\n\nRelations with the local Russian administration were initially cordial, but the activities of the group were suppressed by the Russian government after being publicized by German media. Dietmar Munier, the initiator of the project, was banned from traveling to Kaliningrad Oblast. In 2006, he sold his stake in the association to one Alexander Mantai, who turned it into a for-profit concern and evicted the original settlers. The association was liquidated in 2015 for violating the Russian law on NGOs.\n\nIn the 1990s, a group affiliated to Manfred Roeder collected donations to build housing for ethnic Germans in the village of Olchowatka, east of Kaliningrad.\n\nThe German government has indicated no interest in recovering Kaliningrad Oblast. The governments of Poland and Lithuania similarly recognize Kaliningrad as part of Russia, as does the European Union. It formally waived all territorial claims to the former East Prussia as part of the Two Plus Four Agreement that led to German reunification. In July 2005, the German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder declared that \"in its heart [the city] will always be called Koenigsberg\", but stated that Germany did not have any territorial claim to it. According to Ulrich Speck, the prospect of returning Kaliningrad to Germany lacks support in Germany, even among fringe nationalist groups. In 2004, the German politician Jürgen Klimke asked the German federal government about its view on the establishment of a Lithuanian-Russian-Polish euroregion, to be named 'Prussia'. The initiator denied any revanchist connotations to the proposal.\n\nAfter the collapse of the Soviet Union, Russia's claim to Kaliningrad was not contested by any government, though some groups in Lithuania and Poland called for the annexation of the province, or parts of it.\n\nPoland has made no claim to Kaliningrad, and is seen as being unlikely to do so, as it was a net beneficiary of the Potsdam Agreement, which also decided the status of Kaliningrad.\n\n"}
{"id": "19558874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19558874", "title": "Lemon socialism", "text": "Lemon socialism\n\nLemon socialism is a pejorative term for a form of government intervention in which government subsidies go to weak or failing firms (\"lemons\"; see Lemon law), with the effective result that the government (and thus the taxpayer) absorbs part or all of the recipient's losses. The term derives from the conception that in socialism the government may nationalize a company's profits while leaving the company to pay its own losses, while in lemon socialism the company is allowed to keep its profits but its losses are shifted to the taxpayer.\n\nSuch payments may be made with the intent of preventing further, systemic damage to what might otherwise be considered a free marketplace. For example, the bailout that followed the 2008 financial crisis may be described as lemon socialism. The pejorative arises from the belief among free market economists that in a functional free market, failing companies will be replaced by better functioning companies in response to market demand.\n\nThe term may also be used to describe government efforts to nationalize companies or industries, in which the government takes over failing companies without taking over healthy companies. Advocates of free markets may then point to the faltering, nationalized enterprises as examples of how government regulation hurts business.\n\nMark J. Green coined the exact phrase in a 1974 article discussing the utility company, Con Ed.\n\nThe sentiment was earlier expressed in the adage \"Socialism for the rich and capitalism for the poor\", which was in use by the 1960s, though the notion of privatizing profits and socializing losses dates at least to 1834 and Andrew Jackson's closing of the Second Bank of the United States.\n\nIn Icelandic, lemon socialism is known as \"\", meaning \"the devil's socialism\", a term coined by Vilmundur Jónsson (1889–1971, Iceland's Surgeon General) in the 1930s to criticize alleged crony capitalism in Landsbanki, which term has gained renewed currency in the debate over the 2008–2012 Icelandic financial crisis. Lemon socialism, or more precisely crony capitalism, is also referred to as , meaning \"skirt capitalism\", \"pilsfaldur\" being the hemline of the skirt; and the term referring to children hiding behind their mothers' skirts after having done something wrong to criticize the alleged lack of transparency in dealings and reluctance to deal with bad consequences by themselves.\n\n"}
{"id": "243541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=243541", "title": "List of scandals with \"-gate\" suffix", "text": "List of scandals with \"-gate\" suffix\n\nThis is a list of scandals or controversies whose names include a \"-gate\" suffix, by analogy with the Watergate scandal, as well as other incidents to which the suffix has (often facetiously) been applied. This list also includes controversies that are widely referred to with a \"-gate\" suffix, but may be referred to by another more common name (such as the New Orleans Saints bounty scandal). Use of the \"-gate\" suffix has spread beyond U.S. English to many other countries and languages.\n\nThe suffix \"-gate\" derives from the Watergate scandal of the United States in the early 1970s, which resulted in the resignation of U.S. President Richard Nixon. The scandal was named after the Watergate complex in Washington, D.C.; the complex itself was named after the \"Water Gate\" area where symphony orchestra concerts were staged on the Potomac River between 1935 and 1965.\n\nThe suffix is used to embellish a noun or name to suggest the existence of a far-reaching scandal, particularly in politics and government. As a CBC News column noted in 2001, the term may \"suggest unethical behaviour and a cover-up\".\n\nSuch usages have been criticised by commentators as clichéd and misleading; James Stanyer comments that \"revelations are given the 'gate' suffix to add a thin veil of credibility, following 'Watergate', but most bear no resemblance to the painstaking investigation of that particular piece of presidential corruption\". Stanyer links the widespread use of \"-gate\" to what the sociologist John Thompson calls \"scandal syndrome\":\n\nThe adoption of \"-gate\" to suggest the existence of a scandal was promoted by William Safire, the conservative \"New York Times\" columnist and former Nixon administration speechwriter. As early as September 1974 he wrote of \"Vietgate\", a proposed pardon of the Watergate criminals and Vietnam War draft dodgers. Subsequently, he coined numerous \"-gate\" terms, including \"Billygate, Briefingate, Contragate, Deavergate, Debategate, Doublebillingsgate\" (of which he later said \"My best [-gate coinage] was the encapsulation of a minor ... scandal as doublebillingsgate\"), \"Frankiegate, Franklingate, Genschergate, Housegate, Iraqgate, Koreagate, Lancegate, Maggiegate, Nannygate, Raidergate, Scalpgate, Travelgate, Troopergate\" and \"Whitewatergate\". The \"New York\" magazine suggested that his aim in doing so was \"rehabilitating Nixon by relentlessly tarring his successors with the same rhetorical brush – diminished guilt by association\". Safire himself later said to author Eric Alterman that he \"may have been seeking to minimize the relative importance of the crimes committed by his former boss with this silliness\".\n\nThe usage has spread into languages other than English; examples of \"-gate\" being used to refer to local political scandals have been reported from Argentina, Germany, South Korea, Hungary, Greece and the former Yugoslavia.\n\nThe use of a suffix in this way is not new. \"-mandering\" has long been used as a suffix by a politician's name in analogy with gerrymandering (\"Henry-mandering\" was used in 1852). In recent years, the \"-gate\" suffix as a catch-all signifier for scandal has seen some competition from as in \"Ballghazi\" instead of \"Deflategate\", or \"Bridgeghazi\" instead of \"Bridgegate\". The use of \"-ghazi\" is a play on the investigation into the 2012 Benghazi attack, which despite numerous official investigations into the possibility of government cover-ups, has resulted in no criminal charges or major repercussions for the individuals supposedly involved. \"-ghazi\" may be seen as carrying an ironic or self-effacing connotation in its usage, implying that the event described has the appearance and media coverage of a scandal, but does not actually amount to much in a grander sense.\n\n! Name !! Year !! Description !! Reference(s)\n|-\n"}
{"id": "35958642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35958642", "title": "Mafia state", "text": "Mafia state\n\nThe term mafia state is a political buzzword to describe a state system where the government is tied with organized crime, including when government officials, police, and/or military take part in illicit enterprises. The term \"mafia\" is a reference to any organized crime groups strongly connected with the authorities.\n\nAccording to the critics of the mafia state concept, the term \"has now been so used and abused in popularized descriptions of organized criminal activity that it has lost much of its analytic value\".\n\nAccording to US diplomats, Alexander Litvinenko coined the phrase Mafia state. \n\nIn a critical review of Moisés Naím's essay in \"Foreign Affairs\", Peter Andreas pointed to the long existence of Italian mafia and Japanese Yakuza, writing that there were close relationships between those illicit organisations and respective governments. According to Andreas, these examples speak against incidences of mafia states as a historically new threat.\n\nIn Italy, the actions of the mafia can continue to affect people's lives today. The Italian \"Camorra\" Mafia network became powerful in the city of Naples in the 19th Century; although it can trace its origins back to 15th Century Spain and today extending its influence to European countries above Italy as well. The Cosa Nostra and 'Ndrangheta both as well existed in Italy with a confederation of about 150 different groups each with their own organizations and ruling body. Part of the network, known as the \"Casalesi clan\" became involved in business in the 1970s and 80s, eventually gaining control of large areas of the local economy \"partly by manipulating politicians and intimidating judges\". Among the contracts the clan gained was for the disposal of toxic waste, however, much of it was dumped illegally. This dumped toxic waste is thought to be cause of a rise in the number suffering from cancer in towns around Naples. The rise was first noticed two decades ago, and has been calculated that there has been a 40 and 47 per cent increase in cancer in women and men respectively. The Italian Senate is currently investigating the causes of the cancers, with illegal dumping thought to be the likely cause.\n\nKosovo, a partially recognised independent state formerly part of Serbia, was called a \"mafia state\" by Italian MEP Pino Arlacchi in 2011, and also by Moisés Naím in his 2012 essay \"Mafia States\" in the \"Foreign Affairs\". Naím pointed out that Prime Minister of Kosovo Hashim Thaçi is allegedly connected to the heroin trade. Many other crime allegations have been made, and investigated by several countries, against Thaçi.\n\nNaím also labeled Montenegro as a \"mafia state\" in the same essay, describing it as a hub for cigarette smuggling.\n\nTransnistria, an unrecognised break-away state from Moldova, has long been described by journalists, researchers, politicians and diplomats as a quasistate whose economy is dependent on contraband and gunrunning.\n\nFor instance, in 2002, Moldova's president, Vladimir Voronin, called Transnistria a \"residence of international mafia\", \"smuggling stronghold\" and \"outpost of Islamic combatants\". The allegations were followed by attempts of customs blockade. Reacting to the allegations, Russian state-run RTR aired an investigative program revealing that Transnistrian firms were conducting industrial-level manufacturing of small arms purposely for subsequent illegal trafficking via the Ukrainian port of Odessa. According to the program, the trade was controlled by and benefited from Transnistria's founder and then-ruler Igor Smirnov.\n\nHowever, more recent investigations and monitoring missions did not prove continuity in arms trafficking concerns. According to regular reports of the European Border Assistance Mission to Moldova and Ukraine (EUBAM), there have been no signs of significant weapons smuggling from Transnistria. During the press-conference on 30 November 2006 head of EUBAM Ferenc Banfi officially stated that organised smuggling of weapons in Transnistria did not exist. In 2013, Ukrainian Foreign Minister and acting chairman of the OSCE Leonid Kozhara gave an interview to \"El País\" newspaper, commenting on situation in Transnistria and results of work of the EUBAM mission. According to Kozhara, there have been no cases of arms traffic found.\n\nSome experts from Russia and Transnistria state that allegations of Transnistria being a \"mafia state\", \"black hole of Europe\", \"heaven for arms trafficking\", etc. are a carefully planned defamation campaign paid by the Moldovan government and aimed at producing negative image of Transnistria. Officials from the European Union and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), say they have no evidence that the Tiraspol regime has ever trafficked arms or nuclear material. Much of the alarm is attributed to efforts by the Moldovan government to increase pressure on Transdniester.\n\nThe term has been used by defector Alexander Litvinenko and some Western media to describe the political system in Russia under Vladimir Putin's rule. This characterization came to prominence following the United States diplomatic cables leak, which revealed that US diplomats viewed Russia as \"a corrupt, autocratic kleptocracy centred on the leadership of Vladimir Putin, in which officials, oligarchs and organised crime are bound together to create a 'virtual mafia state.'\" In his book titled \"Mafia State\", journalist and author Luke Harding argues that Putin has \"created a state peopled by ex-KGB and FSB officers, like himself, [who are] bent on making money above all.\" In the estimation of American diplomats, \"the government [of Russia] effectively [is] the mafia.\"\n\nAccording to the \"New Statesman\", \"the term had entered the lexicon of expert discussion\" several years before the cables leak, \"and not as a frivolous metaphor. Those most familiar with the country had come to see it as a kleptocracy with Vladimir Putin in the role of \"capo di tutti capi\", dividing the spoils and preventing turf wars between rival clans of an essentially criminal elite.\" In 2008, Stephen Blank noted that Russia under Putin is \"a state that European officials privately call a Mafia state\" that \"naturally gravitates toward Mafia-like behavior.\"\n\nNikolay Petrov, an analyst at the Carnegie Moscow Centre, said \"it's pretty hard to damage the Russian image in the world because it's already not very good\".\n\nThe scholar of Law and Economics Edgardo Buscaglia describes the political system of Mexico as a \"Mafiacracy\". Buscaglia characterises the condition between the state, the economy and organized crime in Mexico as a mutual interweaving, Mexico has also been labeled as a Narco-state (a country where the political power and the economy it's closely related and its relies highly on protecting the drug trafficking mafias).\n\nJonathan Benton, the former head of a United Kingdom anti-corruption agency, described Malta as a “mafia state” where money laundering transactions of hundreds of millions of euros are made every year without any problem. He made this statement while speaking on BBC radio following the murder of investigative journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia.\n\nMoisés Naím, the author of \"Illicit: How Smugglers, Traffickers, and Copycats Are Hijacking the Global Economy\", wrote in an article for the American magazine \"Foreign Policy\": \"In mafia states such as Bulgaria, Guinea-Bissau, Montenegro, Myanmar (also called Burma), Ukraine, and Venezuela, the national interest and the interests of organised crime are now inextricably intertwined.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4209781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4209781", "title": "Multi-level governance", "text": "Multi-level governance\n\nMulti-level (or multilevel) governance is an approach in political science and public administration theory that originated from studies on European integration. Political scientists Liesbet Hooghe and Gary Marks developed the concept of multi-level governance in the early 1990s and have continuously been contributing to the research program in a series of articles (see Bibliography). Their theory resulted from the study of the new structures that were put in place by the EU (Maastricht Treaty) in 1992. Multi-level governance gives expression to the idea that there are many interacting authority structures at work in the emergent global political economy. It \"illuminates the intimate entanglement between the domestic and international levels of authority\".\n\n'Multi-level governance' is a recent concept, having first entered the lexicon of political science around fifteen years ago as comparativists became re-acquainted with European integration and discovered that authority was shifting not only from central states up to Europe, but also down to subnational authorities. The first efforts to understand this were descriptive, spawning concepts that have generated an extensive literature. Multi-level, polycentric, and multi-layered governance emphasize the dispersion of decision making from the local to the global level. In recent years these concepts have cross-pollinated subfields of political science including European studies and decentralization, federalism and international organization, public policy (e.g. environmental policy, health policy) and public-private governance, local governance and transnational governance.\n\nThe authors of a recent survey of the literature on the structure of government conclude that ‘We attribute many of the recent “cutting-edge” theoretical contributions in political science to studies of “multi-level governance”’ and they note that although students of federalism ‘considered the current subject matter of their field to be based on well-defined, well rooted and broadly accepted ideas, they were nevertheless open to a new flowering of federal theory as a result of fertilization by these new MLG theoretical developments’. However, there is nothing entirely new under the sun. Though scarcely recognized at the time, this research revives a rich tradition in political science represented by Karl Deutsch (1966) on the effect of societal transactions on government structure, Robert Dahl (1973) on the virtues and vices of multilevel democracy, and Stein Rokkan (1983) on identity and territorial politics.\n\nThe study of the European Union has been characterized by two different theoretical phases. The first phase was dominated by studies from the field of international relations; in the second phase these studies were revised and insights from among others, public policy were added. The most straightforward way of understanding this theoretical shift is to see it as a move away from treating the EU as an international organisation similar to others (e.g. NATO) to seeing it as something unique among international organisations. The uniqueness of the EU relates both to the nature and to the extent of its development. This means that in some areas of activity the EU displays more properties related to national political systems than to those of international organisations.\n\nThe theory of multi-level governance belongs to the second phase. Multi-level governance characterizes the changing relationships between actors situated at different territorial levels, both from the public and the private sectors. The multi-level governance theory crosses the traditionally separate domains of domestic and international politics and highlights the increasingly fading distinction between these domains in the context of European integration. \nMulti-level governance was first developed from a study of EU policy and then applied to EU decision-making more generally. An early explanation referred to multi-level governance as \"a system of continuous negotiation among nested governments at several territorial tiers\" and described how \"supranational, national, regional, and local governments are enmeshed in territorially overarching policy networks\". The theory emphasized both the increasingly frequent and complex interactions between governmental actors and the increasingly important dimension of non-state actors that are mobilized in cohesion policy-making and in the EU policy more generally. As such, multi-level governance raised new and important questions about the role, power and authority of states.\n\nNo other international form of cooperation is characterized by such far-reaching integration as the European Union. This becomes evident by the number and scope of policy areas covered by the European Union and the way policy is developed. The European Union can be characterised by a mix of classic intergovernmental cooperation between sovereign states and far-reaching supranational integration.\n\nMulti-level governance within the EU is understood as respecting competences, sharing responsibilities and cooperating between the various levels of governance: the EU, the Member States and the regional and local authorities. In this context, it refers to the principle of subsidiarity, which places decisions as close as possible to the citizens and ensures that that action at Union level is justified in light of the possibilities available at national, regional or local level. In practice Multilevel Governance within the EU is about participation and coordination between all levels of government both in the decision making process and in the implementation or evaluation of European policies.\n\nThe combination of communal decision-making with the wide area of policy areas results in a deep entanglement of the member states’ national policy levels with the European policy level. This entanglement is one of the basic principles of the multi-level governance theory. The multi-level governance theory describes the European Union as a political system with interconnected institutions that exist at multiple levels and that have unique policy features. The European Union is a political system with a European layer (European Commission, European Council and European Parliament), a national layer and a regional layer. These layers interact with each other in two ways: first, across different levels of government (vertical dimension) and second, with other relevant actors within the same level (horizontal dimension).\n\nConcerning with the changes of the institutional design of the European Union, the current model governance has been shaped as a setup of constraints upon political margin of discretion, applying the central tenet of ordoliberalism with the aim to use strong rules in order to reduce the discretionary exercise of powers by institutions so as to avoid an arbitrary use of them. This principle has achieved an extreme effect at the European level, that one not to avoid arbitrary use of political powers but to keep political responsibility and participation out of the decision-making process. As Laruffa concludes: \n\"It is quite clear that such a model of governance, which is made only by rules without any role for a democratic policy-making process, imposes a de facto limit to on the political rights of the European citizens. This means that there is a control exercised by rules over the European citizens rather than a control by the European citizens over rules and policies.\"\n\nThe European Union: Multilevel Governance in Practise\n\nWithin the European Union nearly 95,000 local and regional authorities currently have significant powers in key sectors such as education, the environment, economic development, town and country planning, transport, public services and social policies. These local and regional authorities implement nearly 70% of EU legislation. They help ensure the exercise of European democracy and citizenship. Special rights and competences for regions, cities and communities are supposed to enable and preserve diversity of governance at local and regional level. By thinking beyond traditional EU - Member States relations the EU multi-level governance concept further strengthens regional and transnational cooperation. In a broader sense, this concept also includes the participation of non-state players like economic and social partners and civil society in the decision making process of all levels of governance(thus taking up the vertical and horizontal dimensions of multilevel governance).\n\nThe Treaty of Lisbon as an important step towards Multilevel Governance\n\nThe Treaty of Lisbon represents an important step towards institutional recognition of multi-level governance in the way the European Union operates. It strengthens the competences and influence of local and regional authorities in the Community decision-making process giving roles to national (and regional) parliaments and the Committee of the Regions and enshrines the territorial dimension of the European Union, notably territorial cohesion as part of the process of European integration. The Committee of the Regions has established a system to monitor the compliance with the subsidiarity thorough the whole EU policy and law making process.\n\nMultilevel governance within the EU as an ongoing process\n\nNevertheless, multi-level governance within the EU is a dynamic and ongoing process. On 16 June 2009 the Committee of the Regions adopted a White Paper on multi-level governance which recommended specific mechanisms and instruments for stimulating all stages of the European decision-making process. This document, together with the follow-up opinion \"Building a European culture of Multilevel Governance\" affirmed the Committee’s political commitment to Multi-level Governance, proposing a first political project for Building Europe in partnership. As a follow up to the 2009 White paper on Multi-level Governance, the Committee developed a \"Scoreboard on Multi-level Governance\" to monitor on a yearly basis the development of multi-level governance at European Union level.\n\nThe Charter for Multi-level Governance in Europe\n\nOn 3 April 2014 the Committee of the Regions adopted a Charter for Multi-level Governance calling public authorities of all levels of governance to use and promote multi-level governance in their future undertakings. The Charter is open for signature to:\n\n• all European Union local and regional authorities;\n\n• European and national associations of local and regional authorities, as well as local and regional authorities' network are invited to officially commit to multilevel governance principles, giving the Charter their formal support;\n\n• National and European political figures wishing to back up the Charter are also invited to declare their support\n\nThe point of departure for multi-level governance was Europe, but recent books and articles have dealt with the dispersion of authority away from central states in Latin America, Asia, and North America. Decentralization has been at least as marked in Latin America as in Europe over the past two decades, and several Asian countries have decentralized in the past decade. Dispersion of authority above the national state is most evident in the EU, but it is not sui generis. A recent survey counts 32 regional IGOs pooling authority over quite wide areas of policy and which cover all but a handful of states in the world today. The number of governmental and non-governmental international organizations has increased markedly over the past two decades, as has their scope, range and intrusiveness. Crossborder interdependence – from migration to climate change to terrorism – has stimulated regional organization in many parts of the world.\n\nThe \"vertical\" dimension refers to the linkages between higher and lower levels of government, including their institutional, financial, and informational aspects. Here, local capacity building and incentives for effectiveness of sub national levels of government are crucial issues for improving the quality and coherence of public policy.\n\nThe \"horizontal\" dimension refers to co-operation arrangements between regions or between municipalities. These agreements are increasingly common as a means by which to improve the effectiveness of local public service delivery and implementation of development strategies.\n\nThere has been an intensification of research on the consequences as well as the character of multi-level governance. The concept was developed as a tool of pure research, but it now motivates policy makers. From the late 1990s the European Commission began to refer to its own mission as one of achieving multilevel governance, especially in cohesion policy. In 2001, the Commission set up a committee on multilevel governance to contribute to its White Paper on governance. José Manuel Barroso, President of the European Commission, claims that ‘the multilevel system of governance on which our European regional policy is based provides a key boost to the Union's competitive edge’ and that, in the current economic crisis, 'multilevel governance must be a priority'. In an October 2008 resolution, the European Parliament called on the member states ‘to develop as quickly as possible the practical measures set out in the First Action Programme . . . with a view to strengthening multilevel governance’. In 2009, 344 representatives of elected regional and local authorities across the EU approved a resolution on a 'European Union Charter for Multilevel Governance', which would bring localities and regions into European democratic decision making.\n\nThis theme has been taken up by several political parties including the European Peoples Party, representing Christian democratic parties in the European Parliament, which recently stated that ‘multilevel governance should be one of the guiding principles of the EU, an integral part of any European strategy or policy where local and regional authorities are widely implicated, and monitored closely to ensure that it is indeed being put into practice on the ground’.\n\nInternational organizations have also taken positions on the issue. In 2009, the United Nations Development Programme released a report, ‘Delivering Human Security through Multilevel Governance’, which argued that ‘the two-level approach to international relations . . . is being replaced by a much more complex multilevel system of governance that also involves local, sub-national providers of public goods as well as regional governance actors acting at a supranational but not a global level’. The World Bank has commissioned a series of studies examining multilevel governance; the United Nations has a research and training institute on comparative regional integration that studies ‘multilevel regulatory processes and the relations between sub- and supra-national regional governance’, and the OECD has created a directorate on multilevel governance.\n\nHowever, the consequences of multilevel governance are debated. In the eyes of its detractors, multilevel governance exacerbates corruption (Treisman 2000), leads to gridlock (Scharpf 2007), engenders moral hazard (Rodden 2006), constrains redistribution (Obinger, Castles, Leibfried 2005), obfuscates accountability (Peters & Pierre 2004), and wastes money (Berry 2009). Research on both causes and consequences of multi-level governance is ongoing and more and more information about the subnational as well as the international dimension of multi-level governance is available in the context of larger data sets.\n\nGlobal climate change is being contributed to by ever increasing levels of greenhouse gas emissions emanating from decisions and activities of individuals and organisations at local, regional, national and international levels. Cities are suggested to contribute up to 75% of global carbon dioxide emissions, reflecting the increasing proportions of global populations living and working in cities. As we know, tackling climate change is an extensive, time-consuming and costly task, a task that cannot be achieved solely through the policy implementation and regulation from central governments and bodies alone. It has become increasingly clear that nation-states will be unable to commit to and meet international targets and agreements for offsetting climate change without engaging with the activity of sub-national and local action. Hereby, warranting the extreme importance of multi-level governance of climate change within cities.\n\nForms of governance at multi-levels have taken off increasingly at the local scale, building upon the notion of ‘think global, act local’, in cities in particular. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions stem from certain activities that originate from specific places, bringing about thought that the local scale is the most appropriate political scale to produce necessary offsets in emissions. Cities are exemplary of such specific places in which local governance action can and will help reduce GHG emissions. The levels of governance authority handed down to local governments within cities has been perceived to out-do policy goals within the national and international arena, with some local governments taking on their own initiatives for tackling urban climate change. This sets an important stance to which the local scale of multi-level governance is important for tackling global climate change within the urban arena.\n\nFour distinct modes of governance exist within the dynamics of climate change in cities. Each stems from the local level with the ability of being implemented on multi-scales to mitigate and adapt to urban climate change. Self-governing is the capacity of local governments to govern its own activities such as improving energy efficiency within a designated city, without the burdening pressure to meet targets of increased energy efficiencies set by national governments. A form of self-governing within multi-level systems is horizontal collaboration where cities may collaborate with regions demonstrating multi-levels of governance to tackle urban climate change, imperative to the success of city climate change policy. Governing through enabling is the co-ordination and facilitation of partnerships with private organisations by the local government. National governments also implement this mode of governance to implement policy and action within cities. Governing through provision, a form of vertical collaboration along with governing through enabling, applies itself to the multi-levels of governance. Climate change in cities is tackled here through the shaping of and delivery of services and resources, with additional support aided to local governments from regional and national authorities. Lastly, another form of vertical collaboration, is governing through regulation. Such regulation characterises traditional forms of authoritative governance, exemplifying local to nation-state relations, almost nearly covering the entirety of the multi-level governance scale.\n\nWithin the various initiatives of the Low Emission Development Strategies Global Partnership (LEDS GP), the thematic working group on Subnational Integration (SNI-WG) was created in 2013 to support learning and facilitate collaboration between national and subnational governments for accelerated effective climate actions. The SNI-WG realizes several activities at global and regional levels including organizing panels at multiple regional and global forums, hosting peer-learning discussions, publishing reports and case studies, along with facilitating technical workshops, webinars and providing advisory Remote Expert Assistance on LEDS (REAL) support upon request. This process has generated observations, feedback and insights on the potential of the vertical integration and coordination of subnational climate actions to accelerate and scale-up both local and global emission reductions. Improving coordination and integration between the different levels of authority in a country is critical in determining both national and global capacity to govern climate change. City and subnational governments require support from the national government, and vice versa, in order to design and implement intersectoral policies and actions for domestic decarbonization pathways.\n\nMultilevel governance theory and empirical evidence demonstrate that the coordination and vertical integration of climate actions can:\n\nThe Cities for Climate Protection (CCP) program is one example of multi-level governance of climate change. Roles and responsibilities are shared within different levels of governance, from state actors to non-state actors (Betsill & Bulkeley, 2006). Membership consists of 40 large cities worldwide (Large Cities Climate Leadership Group), with local governments often working in close connection with national governments. However, the CCP can overlook the activity of nation-states giving local governments the opportunity to amend positions of policy implementation and regulation for offsetting urban climate change, which may be of a controversial nature to national governments. Thus illustrating even though climate change in cities can be addressed and governed at local, regional, national and international levels, it does not always follow a hierarchical order.\n\nMany of the problems associated with multi-level governance revolve around the notion of levels. The very idea of levels and levels of analysis is imbued with hierarchical implications. However, different levels or social spaces often interact or cut across with one another in complex ways that are not strictly hierarchical. To what extent can 'levels' be identified at all? The notion that international bodies constitute a discrete level of authority and governance is contestable. International regulatory networks may not be separate sources of authority but instead represent the reconstitution of state authority and the pursuit of state-level governance by other means. While territorial levels make sense when we are referring to public forms of authority, they seem less compatible with private and market forms of authority.\n\nAnother criticism on the theory of multi-level governance is that it's not really a proper theory, rather that it is an approach. The main difference between multi-level governance and other theories of integration is that it gets rid of the continuum or grey area between intergovernmentalism and supranationalism and leaves in its place a descriptive structure. This theory does not address the sovereignty of states directly, but instead simply says that a multi-level structure is being created by subnational and supranational actors. One of the main questions of integration theory, namely, the transfer of loyalty and sovereignty between national and supranational entities and the future of this relationship in the EU is not specifically addressed in this theory.\n\nThe identification of partial political measures and general macroeconomics is divided on diverse decisional levels. National governments maintain an important decisional role but the control unlocalizes at supranational level. Individual national sovereignty is dilated in this decisional process and the supranational institutions have an autonomic role.\n\nThe use of security as a means of instituting ideals of democracy. The shift to a multi-level governance perspective of enforcing the ideals prevents one nation from imposing its personal agenda or perception of what these ideals entail. Additionally, the use of supranational judgement creates a uniformity for the international portrayal and enforcement of democratic principles. The utilization of multi-level security governance allows for a pooling of resources to manage this enforcement, while still allowing States to act autonomously. The supranational level merely acts as a medium for allowing the promotion of mutually beneficial security. With the rise of transnational threats, a method for ensuring international security without the reliance on a single policing nation is required. Multi-level governance provides functional means of dealing with the deficiencies of merely national actors dealing with transnational issues on the international stage.\n\nThe preliminary notion of the European Union was the European Coal and Steel Community. The union was between the nations of France, Belgium, Italy, Netherlands, Luxembourg, and West Germany. Striving for the concept of European peace the nations sought to bind the nations through economic interdependence. Coming about as a reaction to World War II, the ECSC created an economic tie for previously independent nations. It provided the European peace the nations sought, and would evolve into the European Union seen today. It was not a new concept as trade has historically been viewed as a catalyst for peace between nations. Creating multi-level governance is shown to create the necessary ties for fostering economic interdependence to a greater degree than mere trade between nations. The linking of nations through a sharing of capital creates an adhesiveness that deters the escalation of political conflict from reaching a state of war. On the international stage, political conflict leads to war as a result of perception of potential gains being larger than the opportunity costs. Interdependence created by multi-level governance is shown to greatly reduce the probability of war by increasing the opportunity costs. The increase in opportunity cost to war can be viewed from even the economic ties perspective. It is seen by noting that economic ties between participatory nations makes the cost of disruption to the system through the escalation of the political sphere towards war illogical.\n\nMulti-level government has shown to increase efficiency of governance by creating an agreed upon standard for the implementation and execution of policies. To elaborate, the establishment of a supranational institution can be used to set standards for the way cooperating nations run their environmental, industrial, and safety policies. A key factor for multi-level governance is the terms the national actors agree to when forming the supranational institution as they will give certain decision making processes to the higher level, and agree to abide by the outcome. Nations consent to the terms as they face a common issue of international policy that has to deal with collective-action problems making it nonsensical to attend to by themselves. Agreements between nations to form a multi-level government creates an efficiency gain that allows them to all share in the positive benefit.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48309279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48309279", "title": "Neoclassical liberalism", "text": "Neoclassical liberalism\n\nNeoclassical liberalism, also referred to as bleeding-heart libertarianism (BHL) or the Arizona School liberalism, is a classical liberal/libertarian political philosophy and ideology that focuses on the compatibility of support for civil liberties and free markets on the one hand, and a concern for social justice and the well-being of the worst-off on the other. Adherents of bleeding-heart libertarianism broadly hold that an agenda focused upon individual liberty will be of most benefit to the economically weak and socially disadvantaged.\n\nThe first recorded use of the term \"bleeding-heart libertarian\" seems to have been in a 1996 essay by Roderick T. Long. It was subsequently used in a blog post by Stefan Sharkansky, and later picked up and elaborated on by Arnold Kling in an article for \"TCS Daily\". Since then, the term has been used sporadically by a number of libertarian writers including Anthony Gregory and Bryan Caplan.\n\nIn March 2011, a group of academic philosophers, political theorists, and economists created the Bleeding Heart Libertarians blog. Regular contributors to the blog include Fernando Tesón, Gary Chartier, Jason Brennan, Roderick T. Long, and Steven Horwitz.\n\nCritics of the bleeding-heart libertarian movement include public choice economist Bryan Caplan and Chicago school economist David D. Friedman. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "242379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=242379", "title": "Peronism", "text": "Peronism\n\nPeronism () or Justicialism (\"justicialismo\") is an Argentine political movement based on the political ideology and legacy of former President Juan Domingo Perón and his second wife Eva Perón.\n\nThe Peronist's Justicialist Party (\"Partido Justicialista\") derives its name from the concept of social justice ().\n\nSince its inception in 1946, Peronist candidates have won nine of the 12 presidential elections from which they have not been banned. As of 2018, Perón was the only Argentine to have been elected president three times.\n\nThe pillars of the Peronist ideal, known as the \"three flags\", are social justice, economic independence and political sovereignty. Peronism can be described as a third position ideology as it rejects both capitalism and communism. Peronism espouses corporatism and thus aims to mediate tensions between the classes of society, with the state responsible for negotiating compromise in conflicts between managers and workers.\n\nHowever, it is a generally ill-defined ideology as different and sometimes contradictory sentiments are expressed in the name of Peronism. Today, the legacy and thought of Perón have transcended the confines of any single political party and bled into the broader political landscape of Argentina; therefore Peronists are usually described as a political movement. Traditionally, the Peronist movement has drawn its strongest support from the working class and sympathetic unions and has been characterized as proletarian in nature.\n\nFrom the perspective of opponents, Peronism is an authoritarian ideology. Perón was often compared to fascist dictators, accused of demagoguery and his policies derided as populist. Proclaiming himself the embodiment of nationality, Perón's government often silenced dissent by accusing opponents of being unpatriotic. The corporatist character of Peronism drew attacks from socialists who accused his administration of preserving capitalist exploitation and class division. Conservatives rejected its modernist ideology and felt their status threatened by the ascent of the Peronist apparat. Liberals condemned the Perón regime's arbitrariness and dictatorial tendencies.\n\nDefenders of Peronism also describe the doctrine as populist, albeit in the sense that they believe it embodies the interests of the masses and in particular the most vulnerable social strata. Admirers hold Perón in esteem for his administration's anti-imperialism and non-alignment as well as its socially progressive initiatives. Amongst other measures introduced by Perón's governments, social security was made universal while education was made free to all who qualified and working students were given one paid week before every major examination. Vast low-income housing projects were created and paid vacations became standard. All workers (including white-collar employees) were guaranteed free medical care and half of their vacation-trip expenses and mothers-to-be received three paid months off prior to and after giving birth. Workers' recreation centers were also constructed throughout the country.\n\nPerón's ideas were widely embraced by a variety of different groups in Argentina across the political spectrum. Perón's personal views later became a burden on the ideology, see for example his anti-clericalism, which did not strike a sympathetic chord with upper-class Argentinians.\n\nPeronism is widely regarded as a form of corporate socialism, or \"right-wing socialism\". Perón's public speeches were consistently nationalist and populist. It would be difficult to separate Peronism from corporate nationalism, for Perón nationalized Argentina's large corporations, blurring distinctions between corporations and government. At the same time, the labor unions became corporate, ceding the right to strike in agreements with Perón as Secretary of Welfare in the military government from 1943–1945. In exchange, the state was to assume the role of negotiator between conflicting interests.\n\nPeronism also lacked a strong interest in matters of foreign policy other than the belief that the political and economic influences of other nations should be kept out of Argentina—he was somewhat isolationist. Early in his presidency, Perón envisioned Argentina's role as a model for other countries in Latin America and beyond, but such ideas were ultimately abandoned. Despite his oppositional rhetoric, Perón frequently sought cooperation with the United States government on various issues.\n\nPolitical opponents sustain that Perón and his administration resorted to organized violence and dictatorial rule; that Perón showed contempt for any opponents; and regularly characterized them as traitors and agents of foreign powers. Perón maintained the institutions of democratic rule, but subverted freedoms through such actions as nationalizing the broadcasting system, centralizing the unions under his control and monopolizing the supply of newspaper print. At times, Perón also resorted to tactics such as illegally imprisoning opposition politicians and journalists, including Radical Civic Union leader Ricardo Balbin; and shutting down opposition papers, such as \"La Prensa\".\n\nPerón's admiration for Benito Mussolini is well documented. Many scholars categorize Peronism as a fascist ideology. Carlos Fayt believes that Peronism was just \"an Argentine implementation of Italian fascism\". Hayes reaches the conclusion that \"the Peronist movement produced a form of fascism that was distinctively Latin American\".\n\nOne of the most vocal critics of Peronism was the Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges. After Perón ascended to the presidency in 1946, Borges spoke before the Argentine Society of Writers (SADE) by saying: Dictatorships breed oppression, dictatorships breed servility, dictatorships breed cruelty; more loathsome still is the fact that they breed idiocy. Bellboys babbling orders, portraits of caudillos, prearranged cheers or insults, walls covered with names, unanimous ceremonies, mere discipline usurping the place of clear thinking... Fighting these sad monotonies is one of the duties of a writer. Need I remind readers of \"Martín Fierro\" or \"Don Segundo\" that individualism is an old Argentine virtue.\n\nPerón's ideology was economic and political in character and did not feature the antisemitism of Nazism.\n\nBefore Perón came to power in Argentina, the country had the largest Jewish population in Latin America. After becoming president, he invited members of the Jewish community to participate in his government. One of his advisors was José Ber Gelbard, a Jewish man from Poland. Peronism did not have antisemitic or other bias. The Jewish Virtual Library writes that while Juan Perón had sympathized with the Axis powers, \"Perón also expressed sympathy for Jewish rights and established diplomatic relations with Israel in 1949. Since then, more than 45,000 Jews have immigrated to Israel from Argentina\".\n\nIn the book \"Inside Argentina from Perón to Menem\", author Laurence Levine, also former president of the U.S.–Argentine Chamber of Commerce, writes that \"although anti-Semitism existed in Argentina, Perón's own views and his political associations were not anti-Semitic\". While Perón allowed many Nazi criminals to take refuge in Argentina, he also attracted many Jewish immigrants. Argentina has a Jewish population of over 200,000 citizens, the largest in Latin America and one of the largest in the world.\n\nA military and civilian coup, the \"Revolución Libertadora\", led by General Eduardo Lonardi, overthrew the Perón regime in 1955. During the coup, Lonardi drew analogies between Perón and Juan Manuel de Rosas. Lonardi used the quote \"neither victors nor vanquished\" (), which was used by Justo José de Urquiza after deposing Rosas in the battle of Caseros. The official perspective was that Perón was \"the second tyranny\", the first one being Rosas; and that both ones should be equally rejected and conversely both governments that ousted them should be praised. For this end, they draw the line of historical continuity \"May – Caseros – Libertadora\", matching the coup with the May Revolution and the defeat of Rosas. This approach backfired. Perón was highly popular and the military coup unpopular, so Peronists embraced the comparison established between Rosas and Perón, but viewing him with a positive light instead. Nationalist historians draw then their own line of historical continuity \"San Martín – Rosas – Perón\".\n\nThe absence of Perón, who lived for 16 years in exile in Francoist Spain, is an important key to understanding Peronism. After he went into exile, he could be invoked by a variety of Argentine sectors opposed to the current state of affairs. In particular, the personality cult of Eva Perón was conserved by supporters while despised by the \"national bourgeoisie\". In the 1960s, John William Cooke's writings became an important source of left-wing revolutionary Peronism. Left-wing Peronism was represented by many organizations, from the Montoneros and the Fuerzas Armadas Peronistas to the Peronist Youth, the Frente Revolucionario Peronista and the Revolutionary Peronist Youth, passing by Peronismo en Lucha or Peronismo de Base, which supported a Marxist viewpoint.\n\nOn the other hand, older Peronists formed the base of the orthodox bureaucracy, represented by the Unión Obrera Metalúrgica (Augusto Vandor, famous for his 1965 slogan \"For a Peronism without Perón\" and declaring as well that \"to save Perón, one has to be against Perón\", or José Ignacio Rucci). Another current was formed by the \"62 Organizaciones 'De pie junto a Perón'\", led by José Alonso and opposed to the right-wing Peronist unionist movement. In the early 1970s, left-wing Peronism rejected liberal democracy and political pluralism as the mask of bourgeois domination. The anti-communist right-wing Peronism also rejected it in the name of corporatism, claiming to return to a \"Christian and humanist, popular, national socialism\".\n\nBy 1970, many groups from opposite sides of the political spectrum had come to support Perón, from the left-wing and Catholic Montoneros to the fascist-leaning and strongly antisemitic Tacuara Nationalist Movement, one of Argentina's first guerrilla movements. In March 1973, Héctor José Cámpora, who had been named as Perón's personal delegate, was elected President of Argentina, paving the way for the return of Perón from Spain. A few months after Perón's return and the subsequent Ezeiza massacre during which the Peronist Left and Right violently clashed, new elections were held in September with Perón elected president and his third wife Isabel vice president.\n\nJosé Cámpora, a left-wing Peronist, had been replaced temporarily by interim President Raúl Alberto Lastiri while Perón had chosen to openly support the Peronist right. On 1 October 1973, Senator Humberto Martiarena, who was the national secretary of the Superior Council of the National Justicialist Movement, publicized a document giving directives to confront \"subversives, terrorist and Marxist groups\" which had allegedly initiated a \"war\" inside the Peronist organizations. From then on, the Superior Council took a firm grip on the Peronist organizations to expel the Left from it.\n\nOn that same day, a meeting took place among President Raúl Lastiri, Interior Minister Benito Llambí, Social Welfare Minister José López Rega, general secretary of the Presidency José Humberto Martiarena and various provincial governors, which has been alleged to have been the foundational act of the Argentine Anticommunist Alliance death squad.\n\nPerón's health was failing throughout his third and final term, which ended abruptly with his death and the succession of his wife to the presidency on 1 July 1974, but she was ousted by the military in another \"coup d'état\" in 1976, paving the way for the ensuing dictatorship's '\"National Reorganization Process\" and the subsequent \"Dirty War\" against everyone deemed subversive, especially leftists, including left-wing Peronists.\n\nThe official Peronist party is the Justicialist Party (PJ), which was the only Peronist party for a long time. During the government of Carlos Menem, a group of legislators led by Carlos Álvarez known as the \"Group of 8\" left the party, claiming that the government was not following Peronist doctrines. They created a new party, the Broad Front.\n\nA short time later, José Octavio Bordón left the PJ as well, fearing that he might lose a primary election against Menem and thus he created his own party to take part in the 1995 elections and allied with Álvarez' Broad Front in the Front for a Country in Solidarity (Frepaso) coalition. Similar breakaway movements followed frequently after that, creating many small parties which were led by single politicians claiming to be the authentic inheritors of Peronism.\n\nThe PJ did not participate as such during the 2003 elections. The party allowed all three precandidates to run for the general elections, using small parties created for that purpose. Néstor Kirchner won the elections running on a Front for Victory ticket. As he did not disband his party after the election, Kirchnerism relies on both the PJ and the Front for Victory.\n\nIn 2004, Chilean Christian Democrat Ignacio Walker wrote a column in \"El Mercurio\" criticizing Peronism stating it had \"Fascistoid\", \"authoritarian\" and \"corporative\" traits. He added that \"I tend to think the real wall that separates Chile from Argentina is not the Andes but the legacy of Peronism and its perverse logic\". A few months after Walker had written this column, he was appointed chancellor and the surfacing of his previous statements caused a diplomatic impasse between Chile and Peronist-ruled Argentina. A similar situation happened again in 2006, when it was made known that Chilean minister Andrés Velasco had referred to some Peronist leaders as having \"fascist traits\" and had supported Walker's analysis in 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16618624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16618624", "title": "Planning and zoning commission", "text": "Planning and zoning commission\n\nA Planning and Zoning Commission is a local elected or appointed government board charged with recommending to the local town or city council the boundaries of the various original zoning district and appropriate regulations to be enforced therein and any proposed amendments thereto and shall collect data and keep itself informed as to the best practices generally in effect in the matter city planning and zoning to the end that it may be qualified to act on measures affecting the present and future movement of traffic, the segregation of residential and business districts and the convenience and safety of persons and property in any way dependent on city planning and zoning. Some jurisdictions may refer to them also planning commissions, planning boards, zoning commissions, and zoning boards.\n\nThe chairman of the Planning and Zoning Commission (or a staff member) is responsible for publishing public hearing in the newspaper about certain matters that come before the commission. Most municipal or county Planning and Zoning Commissions consist of five to seven members. This number does not include alternates. In some states, planning and zoning commissions are regional or county.\n\nSome communities elect planning and zoning commission members. In other jurisdictions, the Planning and Zoning Commissioners are appointed by the Mayor or First Selectman of the city or town and approved by the city's legislative body, i.e. city council, board of aldermen, etc. (some planning commissioners are appointed by the City Commission as a whole). \n\nPlease note that planning and zoning commissions may also be approving agencies for development permits, variances to the zoning code. Other jurisdictions may have separate zoning board of adjustments or appeals appointed by the governing body that perform the function instead of the planning and zoning commission doing it. Some jurisdictions have featured court appointed zoning boards/boards of adjustment and appeals due to the quasi-judicial functions.\n"}
{"id": "53356159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53356159", "title": "Political authority", "text": "Political authority\n\nIn political philosophy and ethics, political authority describes any of the moral principles legitimizing differences between individuals' rights and duties by virtue of their relationship with the state. Political authority grants members of a government the right to rule over citizens using coercion if necessary (i.e., political legitimacy), while imposing an obligation for the citizens to obey government orders (i.e., political obligation).\n\nA central question in political philosophy is \"To what extent is political authority legitimate?\" Views range from political authority having no legitimacy (philosophical anarchism) to political authority being virtually unlimited in scope (totalitarianism).\n"}
{"id": "17093445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17093445", "title": "Political communication", "text": "Political communication\n\nPolitical communication(s) is a subfield of communication and political science that is concerned with how information spreads and influences politics and policy makers, the news media and citizens. Since the advent of the World Wide Web, the amount of data to analyze has exploded, and researchers are shifting to computational methods to study the dynamics of political communication. In recent years, machine learning, natural language processing, and network analysis have become key tools in the subfield. It deals with the production, dissemination, procession and effects of information, both through mass media and interpersonally, within a political context. This includes the study of the media, the analysis of speeches by politicians and those that are trying to influence the political process, and formal and informal conversations among members of the public, among other aspects. The media acts as bridge between government and public. Political communication can be defined as the connection concerning politics and citizens and the interaction modes that connect these groups to each other. Whether the relationship is formed by the modes of persuasion, Pathos, Ethos or Logos. \n\nThe study and practice of political communication focuses on the ways and means of expression of a political nature. Robert E. Denton and Gary C. Woodward, two important contributors to the field, in \"Political Communication in America\" characterize it as the ways and intentions of message senders to influence the political environment. This includes public discussion (e.g. political speeches, news media coverage, and ordinary citizens' talk) that considers who has authority to sanction, the allocation of public resources, who has authority to make decision, as well as social meaning like what makes someone American. In their words \"the crucial factor that makes communication 'political' is not the source of a message, but its content and purpose.\" David L. Swanson and Dan Nimmo, also key members of this sub-discipline, define political communication as \"the strategic use of communication to influence public knowledge, beliefs, and action on political matters.\" They emphasize the strategic nature of political communication, highlighting the role of persuasion in political discourse. Brian McNair provides a similar definition when he writes that political communication is \"purposeful communication about politics.\" For McNair this means that this not only covers verbal or written statements, but also visual representations such as dress, make-up, hairstyle or logo design. With other words, it also includes all those aspects that develop a \"political identity\" or \"image\". Reflecting on the relationship between political communication and contemporary agenda-building, Vian Bakir defines Strategic Political Communication (SPC) as comprising 'political communication that is manipulative in intent, that utilises social scientific techniques and heuristic devices to understand human motivation, human behavior and the media environment, to inform effectively what should be communicated – encompassing its detail and overall direction – and what should be withheld, with the aim of taking into account and influencing public opinion, and creating strategic alliances and an enabling environment for government policies – both at home and abroad'. \n\nThere are many academic departments and schools around the world that specialize in political communication. These programs are housed in programs of communication, journalism and political science, among others. The study of political communication is clearly interdisciplinary.\n\nThe \"Bush Administration’s torture-for-intelligence policy\", initiated soon after 9/11, was kept secret for several years, as remains the level of complicity of many other nation-states' governments. While this secret policy was gradually revealed from 2004 onwards, initiated by the Abu Ghraib torture photos, the Bush administration engaged in SPC to publicly reframe and protect its secret policy. SPC included \"silencing\" and \"persuasive\" discursive activity.\n\nThe field of political communication is focused on 4 main areas:\n\n\nAccording to James Chesebro, there are five critical approaches to contemporary Political communications:\n\nSocial media has dramatically changed the way in which modern political campaigns are run. With more digital native citizens coming into the voting population, social media is the platform on which the politicians need to establish themselves and engage with the voters. In a digital age, social media will be more important than traditional media to the politicians.\n\nTaking Australia as an example below: 86% of Australians access the Internet, and with a 17,048,864 voting age population, around 14,662,023 voting population has access to Internet, and 65% of them use social media, which means 9,530,314 Australian voters use social media. (The 2013 Yellow™ Social Media Report found that among internet users 65% of Australians use social media, up from 62% last year.) \n\nWith almost half of Australian voting population active on social media, political parties are adapting quickly to influence and connect with their voters.\n\nSocial media experience relies heavily on the user themselves due to the platforms' algorithms which tailor consumer experience for each user. This results in each person seeing more like-minded news due to the increase in digital social behavior. Additionally, social media has changed politics because it has given politicians a direct medium to give their constituents information and the people to speak directly to the politicians. This informal nature can lead to informational mistakes because it is not being subjected to the same \"fact-checking processes as institutional journalism.\" \n\nSocial media creates greater opportunity for political persuasion due to the high number of citizens that regularly engage and build followings on social media. The more that a person engages on social media, the more influential they believe themselves to be, resulting in more people considering themselves to be politically persuasive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55940100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55940100", "title": "Political stagnation", "text": "Political stagnation\n\nPolitical stagnation, decline, or decadence is a condition in which a nation, empire, political party, or alliance experiences adverse conditions, ineffective leadership, hesitation, stalemate, or loss of identity. Leaders may be unable to provide: social cohesion, an ideological programme, economic prosperity, morale, law and order, progress.\n\nThe era may be marked by unstable coalitions and policy compromises, discontinuity of purpose, frequent changes of government, corruption, and denial. Conventional politics being seen to fail, there may be an increase in scapegoating, victimization, rioting, rebellion, terrorism, attempted coups d'etat, assassinations, or other revenge missions. Leaders may see a foreign war as a way out of difficulties, as in the case of Austro-Hungary in 1914.\n\nIbn Khaldun observed periods, following 'expansion to the limit', when 'the habit of subservience' generated 'lies, ruses and deceit', and possibly a 'split in the dynasty'.\n\nAccording to Paul Kennedy, 'Great powers in relative decline instinctively respond by spending more on 'security' and thereby…compound their long-term dilemma.'\n\nIn the case of an ideocracy, Jaroslaw Piekalkiewicz and Alfred Penn see self-destruction as a factor in ideological stagnation. The ideocracy may split into 'warring camps'. It may be ended by a military coup, as in Peronist Argentina. There may be a popular rebellion. The economy may stagnate, as demands exceed ability. There may be external attacks by other states which fear the spread of the ideology, A further possibility is peaceful erosion. A new generation matures which is less fervent and more tolerant of pluralism. Technological developments and artistic expression (for example, the plays of Vaclav Havel in Czechoslovakia) erode faith in the ideology. The leadership become a less-effective self-serving, careerist elite.\n\nAccording to Bruno S. Sergi, Russia experienced 'transformative' leadership under Peter the Great, Catherine the Great, Tsar Alexander II, Lenin and Gorbachev, but stagnation followed in each case. The USSR is said to have suffered stagnation between the early 1970s and its collapse from 1989 to 1991.\n\nIran under Reza Shah Pahlavi stagnated between 1945-1949 when it failed to deal with the communist threat. His son and successor Mohammad Reza Shah experienced, according to Andrew Scott Cooper, 'economic slowdown, corruption, youth rebellion, a revolutionary underclass, and pressure for reform'. The Shah relied on his White revolution, repression, and the oil boom, but these all failed to keep his regime in power.\n\nJohn Callaghan and Steve Fielding say that postwar Britain suffered from 'pluralistic stagnation' between 1945–1979 when both parties endorsed the corporatist consensus.\n\nIn Israel adherence to the original socialist ideology, and fading hopes for a two-state solution, are factors causing stagnation according to commentators.\n\n"}
{"id": "1262999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1262999", "title": "Postal voting", "text": "Postal voting\n\nPostal voting is voting in an election whereby ballot papers are distributed to electors or returned by post, in contrast to electors voting in person at a polling station or electronically via an electronic voting system. Historically, postal votes must be distributed and placed in return mail before the scheduled election day, it is sometimes referred to as a form of early voting. It can also be used as an absentee ballot. However, in recent times the model in the US has morphed, in municipalities that use postal voting exclusively, to be one of ballots being mailed out to voters, but the return method taking on alternatives of return by mail or dropping off the ballot in person via secure drop boxes and/or voting centers. \n\nPostal voting refers only to the means by which the ballots are submitted, not to the method by which the votes are counted. Election officials may count the votes by processing the mailed-in ballots through electronic voting machines, or may count the votes manually.\n\nTo enable as many voters as possible to participate, postal voting can assist people who may not be able to attend a polling station in person, for example because of a physical disability, absence from the locality or some other reason. Postal voting is generally available to voters upon application, sometimes with restrictions. If no reason for a request is required, it may be called postal vote on demand. Postal voting may be an option for voters in some jurisdictions, while in some elections there may be all-postal voting.\n\nA form of postal voting was introduced in Western Australia in 1877, followed by an improved method in South Australia in 1890. On the other hand, concerns about postal voting have been raised as to whether it complies with the requirements of a secret ballot, in that people cast their vote outside the security of a polling station, and whether voters can cast their vote privately free from another person's coercion. There have been cases of electoral fraud with postal votes in the United Kingdom (including in Birmingham at the 2004 European and local government elections in the UK).\n\n\"All-postal\" voting is the form of postal voting where all electors receive their ballot papers through the post, not just those who requested an absentee ballot. Depending on the system applied, electors may have to return their ballot papers by post, or there may be an opportunity to deliver them by hand to a specified location.\n\nThere is some evidence that this method of voting leads to higher turnout than one where people vote in person or have to apply for a postal vote. Critics suggest that this is only a temporary impact, and that there are dangers in people using ballot papers intended for other electors.\n\nIt has been tested by a large number of local authorities in the United Kingdom for their elections, and in 2004 it was used for elections to the European Parliament and local authorities in four of the English regions (see below for more details).\n\nFrance had absentee voting until the 1970s, when it was abolished because they were classified as a security risk in terms of vote-rigging.\n\nAbsentee voting has existed in Germany since 1957, in order to ensure that all German citizens, especially the old, sick, and disabled, and citizens living abroad, have had the opportunity to participate in elections. Like in many other countries, in more recent years, voting by mail has become increasingly popular among younger and non-disabled citizens residing within the country; as such, various tools are being developed to help citizens, both domestic and abroad, more easily apply for postal voting.\n\nSince 2001 Italian citizens living abroad have the right to vote by mail in all referendums and national elections being held in Italy (provided they had registered their residence abroad with their relevant consulate).\n\nIn Malaysia, opposition leader and former deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim alleged that postal votes have been used by the ruling Barisan Nasional coalition in securing seats in certain constituencies. He also said that in one particular constituency (Setiawangsa), he claimed that his Parti Keadilan Rakyat had actually won during the 2008 elections, before 14,000 postal votes came in awarding the incumbent BN parliamentarian the seat with a majority of 8,000 votes. In Malaysia, only teachers, military personnel, and policemen based away from their constituencies are eligible to submit postal votes.\n\nIn Mexico, since the 2006 federal elections, postal voting for people living abroad has been permitted. A request can be made to the National Electoral Institute which then sends the ballots outside the country.\n\nMail-in ballots are an option for Overseas Filipinos in select countries only. The general practise for local and overseas absentee voting in Philippine elections requires that ballots be cast in person at select polling places, such as a consulate office.\n\nIn Spain, for European, regional and municipal elections, voters who will be absent from their town on election day or are ill or disabled, may request a postal vote at a post office. The application must be submitted personally or through a representative in case of illness or disability certified by a medical certificate.\n\nSwiss federal law allows postal voting in all federal elections and referenda, and all cantons also allow it for cantonal ballot issues. All voters receive their personal ballot by mail and may either cast it at a polling station or mail it back.\n\nVote-by-mail (also known as Vote from Home) is a variation of postal voting in the United States in which a ballot is mailed to the home of a registered voter, the voter fills it out and returns it via postal mail or drops off the ballot in-person into a secure drop box or at a voting center. This process eliminates the requirements to staff and run a polling center during an election and can result in considerable cost savings to the state. Balloting materials may be sent via the United States Postal Service without prepayment of postage. \n\nBallots are sent out around three weeks before the election date, after a voter's pamphlet has been distributed. To vote by mail, an individual marks the ballot for their choice of the candidates (or writes in their name), places the ballot in a secrecy envelope, seals it, places it in the provided mailing envelope, seals it and signs and dates the back of the mailing envelope. This envelope is then either stamped and mailed at any mailbox, or dropped off (postage free) at a local ballot collection center.\nThere is a cut off date for mailing ballots and it is determined by the local voting jurisdiction. In some jurisdictions, postmarks do not count, and ballots must be received by a certain time on election day. In other jurisdictions, a ballot must have a postmark on or before the day of the election and be received prior to the date of certification. Many vote-by-mail jurisdictions enlist the help of volunteers to take ballots in walk up Drop off Booths or drive-up Quick Drop locations. The Help America Vote Act requires some polling options, often at central election headquarters, with machines designed for voting by those disabled who cannot vote a normal ballot.\n\nIn the 2016 US Presidential election, approximately 33 million ballots were cast via mailed out ballots (about 25% of all ballots cast). That was from a combination of the 100% vote by mail jurisdictions plus absentees elsewhere. In 2016, the US Government Accountability Office (GAO) issued a report outlining the turnout improvements seen in vote by mail elections. In 2018, a report from the US Senate Intelligence Committee of Russian meddling in the 2016 election pointed out that paper ballots, by definition part of all vote by mail elections, were inherently safer than electronic voting systems.\n\nIn Texas, some electoral fraud has occurred over the years involving political operatives illegally aiding those eligible to vote by mail, usually voters over 65 years of age or voters with a disability. The overall rates of voter fraud are estimated to be low, with one study finding 2,068 cases of alleged voter fraud in the U.S. since 2000. In Oregon, where approximately 100 million ballots have been cast since the state went to 100% vote by mail in 2000, about 12 cases of voter fraud have been prosecuted. \n\nIn 1998, voters in Oregon passed an initiative requiring that all elections be conducted by mail. Voters may also drop their ballots off at a county designated official drop site. Oregon has since reduced the cost of elections, and the time available to tally votes has increased. Oregon requires receipt of votes by 8:00pm local time on election day. County elections offices collect from post offices at their closing time on election day and from drop boxes at 8:00pm election day. Any valid ballot received by 8:00pm local time on election day by any county is required to be counted, unless the cumulative votes of any valid ballots transferred to the relevant county elections office after the closing of the polls cannot change the outcome of the election for any given seat.\n\nIn 2011, the Washington legislature passed a law requiring all counties to conduct vote-by-mail elections. Local governments in Washington had the option to do so since 1987, and statewide elections had permitted it since 1993. By 2009, 38 of the state's 39 counties (all except Pierce County) had conducted all elections by mail. Pierce County had joined the rest of the state in all-mail balloting by 2014. In Washington, ballots must be postmarked by election day, which helps to ensure all voters' votes are counted; ballot counting takes several days after election day to receive and process ballots. Beginning in 2018 postage is prepaid so voters do not have to use a stamp.\n\nIn 2013, Colorado began holding all elections by mail. A Pantheon Analytics study of the 2014 election showed a significant uptick in voter participation from what would have normally been \"low propensity\" voters. A PEW Charitable Trust study of the same election showed significant cost savings.\n\nin 2014, Utah started allowing each county to make their own decision regarding whether to go to 100% mailed-out ballots. In the 2016 general election, 21 of their 29 counties did so. That rose to 27 of 29 counties in 2018, covering over 98% of their electorate. A Pantheon Analytics study of Utah's 2016 general election showed a 5-7% point higher turnout in the counties using vote by mail than those with traditional polling places, with even higher differences (~10% points) among younger voters. \n\nIn 2016, California passed SB 450 which authorizes a roll-out of vote by mail across the state, at county discretion. Five counties will do so in 2018. For 2020, all counties will be authorized to do so, except Los Angeles County, which will be authorized in 2022.\n\nOther jurisdictions are now starting to experiment with vote by mail, or run pilot programs. 31 of 53 counties in North Dakota now vote by mail, as do over 1000 precincts in Minnesota (those with fewer than 400 registered voters). In 2018, pilot programs in Anchorage, Alaska exceeded previous turnout records and Garden County, Nebraska saw higher turnout versus the state average. Pilot programs in Rockville, MD in 2019 and Kauai County, HI in 2020 are planned. In 2018, Connecticut's Governor issued Executive Order 64, directing a study of a possible move to vote by mail. That report is due in September 2018.\n\nProject Vote published their findings in a 2007 article titled \"Vote-by-Mail Doesn't Deliver\" by\nMichael Slater and Teresa James. The article's conclusion states,\n\nIn Oregon (the original Vote-by-Mail state), more than half of voters now choose to drop off ballots. The states of Colorado and Washington have followed suit, with California starting to roll out in 2018. Utah will hit 98% of voters in this model in 2018.\n\nVBM Changes Get out the vote (GOTV) in a big way.\nWith VBM a government no longer has to get people to the vote center on election day, a government only has to collect their ballots and take those easily portable envelopes to a vote center or VBM drop site. This makes GOTV a lot easier, but it also makes fraud possible. There are already apocryphal stories and urban legends about people collecting ballots and dumping them. There is very little evidence for actual fraud. Some jurisdictions have set limits in an attempt to reduce putative fraud: New Jersey and Colorado limit agents to 10 and 3 ballots respectively; Oregon too has limits. Face to face GOTV has been found to be less effective with VBM. \n\nAn increasing number of states in the USA now allow drive-thru voting. In the process voters leave their absentee ballots in a drop box at designated locations. Some locations allow drop-off voting 24/7. It turns out that more and more states are adopting the Colorado model, providing voters with multiple ways to return their ballot: by mail, via in person secure drop boxes, and at voting centers where they can get questions answered, replacement ballots, etc. Oregon now has 300 drop boxes across the state in the weeks leading up to each election, and in fact more voters now cast their ballot in person than by return mail. The term \"Vote at Home\" is starting to replace \"Vote by mail\" for that reason. California's roll-out of vote by mail is incorporating voting centers as a key part of their effort. Anchorage's successful pilot included many drop boxes and some voting centers.\n\nVoting at elections originally took place by way of a public show of hands or by a public ballot. The right to vote by secret ballot was introduced by the \"Parliamentary and Municipal Elections Act 1872\" (the \"Ballot Act 1872\"). After this voting took place at polling stations where voters marked their votes in secret and placed their ballot papers in a closed box.\n\nAbsent voting was first introduced for the immediate post-war period in 1918 for servicemen and others prevented \"‘by reason of the nature of their occupation…from voting at a poll\"' by the \"Representation of the People Act 1918\". Armed forces still serving overseas at the end of World War I were allowed to vote by post, and permanent arrangements were made for proxy voting by servicemen. The \"Representation of the People Act 1945\" again made temporary provision for postal voting by service voters. Postal voting was not extended to civilians until 1948 when the \"Representation of the People Act 1948\" granted postal voting facilities to both service personnel and to certain groups of civilians including those who were physically incapacitated, those unable to vote without making a journey by sea or air or because of the nature of their occupation, and those who were no longer residing at their qualifying address. All had to provide an address in the UK to which ballot papers could be sent. Service personnel could, alternatively, vote by proxy if they were likely to be at sea or abroad on polling day.\n\nIn 1983, in its review of electoral law, the Home Affairs Select Committee criticised the categories of absent voters who were allowed to vote by post. The Committee made clear that they would not wish absent voting facilities to be made available to everybody on demand but recommended that \"the Home Office should review the existing criteria for eligibility for absent voting facilities, and in particular we suggest that it would be permissible to apply for a postal vote due to absence “by reason of employment”, without the necessity to distinguish between one type of employment or another.\" The Committee also called for voters absent on holiday to have the right to apply for a postal vote. The Government responded to the Committee's report in January 1984 and expressed some concern at the increased opportunities for electoral abuse offered by absent voting (especially postal voting) and in particular by the standing arrangements made for those allowed an absent vote for an indefinite period. However, the Government's response was summed up as follows:\n\nThe \"Representation of the People Act 1985\" subsequently made provision for these extensions to the right to apply for an absent vote. The proposals did not apply to Northern Ireland where there was already widespread concern, shared by the Government, at the extent and nature of electoral abuse, including the abuse of postal voting. Further amendments were made to the rules governing absent voting in the \"Representation of the People Act 1989\".\n\nBy 1999 the system of postal and proxy voting for those unable to vote at polling stations was seen as cumbersome and complex. A Working Party on Electoral Procedures chaired by George Howarth, Minister of State at the Home Office, published its report in October 1999. The working party recommended that\n\n\nThe \"Representation of the People Act 2000\" implemented the Howarth report's recommendations. \"The Representation of the People (England & Wales) Regulations 2001\" introduced the changes to the absent voting arrangements from 16 February 2001. The main change was to allow postal voting on demand.\n\nSince 2001, any elector has been entitled to request a postal vote (known as \"postal voting on demand\") without giving a reason, apart from in Northern Ireland, where postal voting is available only if it would be unreasonable to expect a voter to go to a polling station on polling day as a result of employment, disability or education restrictions. Prior to 2001, postal votes had been available since 1948 only to those unable to attend a polling station for reasons of ill health, employment or planned holiday away from home and to some electors living on small islands where they would need to cross water to reach their polling station. Before 1985, holidays were not a sufficient reason, and the employment criterion allowed only some professions.\n\nRegistered voters who wish to vote by post must submit an additional application form to the Electoral Registration Officer at their local authority (or to the Electoral Office for Northern Ireland if in Northern Ireland) stating whether they want their ballot paper to be sent for one single election, all elections until a specified date or indefinitely. They must also submit their date of birth, and signature specimen on the form (or apply for a grant of a signature waiver due to a disability or inability to read or write). In addition, if a person eligible to vote in the United Kingdom is chosen by another voter to be his/her proxy, the proxy can apply to vote by post. To receive a postal vote for an election, the postal vote application must have been received by the Electoral Registration Officer by 5 p.m. eleven working days before polling day.\n\nReturning officers issue and despatch postal ballot packs at 5 p.m. on the eleventh working day before polling day at the earliest. Issue of postal ballots is not open to the scrutiny of candidates and their agents; by law, only the returning officers, their staff, representatives of the Electoral Commission and observers accredited by the Electoral Commission are permitted to attend. Some returning officers produce postal ballot packs in house, whilst others outsource the process to an external company.\n\nEach postal ballot pack contains inside the cover envelope a ballot paper, two envelopes (\"A\" and \"B\") and a postal voting statement. Postal ballots are printed on paper of a colour different from that of ballots issued in polling stations. Postal ballot papers contain the following design, security and identification features on the reverse:\nWhen issuing each postal ballot paper, the officer marks on a list (called the corresponding number list) next to the postal ballot's unique identification number the elector number of the voter to whom the postal ballot is sent, and then makes a mark next to the voter's name in a separate list of postal voters. The unique identification number of the postal ballot paper is also marked on the postal voting statement sent within the postal ballot pack. The local authority name and address and the name of the constituency/ward are printed on both envelopes \"A\" and \"B\". Once all ballot papers for an election have been issued by the returning officer, the corresponding number list is sealed in a packet which can only be opened upon the order of a court when an election result is challenged.\n\nUpon receipt of the postal ballot pack, the voter completes the ballot paper according to the instructions and seals it inside the envelope marked \"A\". A separate postal voting statement must be filled in by the voter with his/her date of birth and signature (unless a signature waiver has been granted or if the voter is an anonymous elector). It is strongly recommended that postal voting statement and envelope \"A\" (containing the ballot paper) be placed and sealed inside the larger envelope \"B\" when returned, although this is not a requirement. The vote can be posted back to the returning officer at the local authority address (postage is prepaid when returned from within the United Kingdom), or returned in person to the returning officer at the local authority office, or directly handed in to a polling station on polling day (but only one which is situated within the constituency/ward marked on envelopes \"A\"/\"B\"). For the vote to be counted, it must \"reach\" the returning officer/polling station by the close of poll (usually 10 p.m. on polling day).\n\nUpon receipt of a postal ballot pack in the post (or of the postal ballot paper and postal voting statement if sent separately), the returning officer places it inside the postal voters' ballot box allocated to the particular constituency/ward. If a presiding officer receives a postal ballot pack in a polling station, it is sealed inside a packet which is later delivered to the returning officer at the close of poll together with a form recording the number of postal ballot packs received by the presiding officer.\n\nCandidates and their agents, representatives of the Electoral Commission and observers accredited by the Electoral Commission and entitled to observe the opening of postal ballot packs - the returning officer must give candidates and their agents at least 48 hours' written notice of the time and location of every opening session of postal ballot packs. After emptying the postal voters' ballot box, the postal voting statements and envelopes marked \"A\"/loose postal ballot papers are separated into two different groups. The returning officer is required to verify the date of birth and signature filled in on at least 20% of the postal voting statements from each postal voters ballot box with the details provided on the original postal vote application forms. If the details do not match, then the postal voting statement is rejected. The returning officer makes a mark next to the name of the voter on the postal voters list for each postal voting statement received, even if it is selected for verification and rejected. On a separate list, the returning officer must write down the unique identification numbers of postal voting statements which were chosen for verification and subsequently rejected.\n\nThe returning officer then compiles all loose postal ballot papers together with postal ballot papers having been removed from envelopes marked \"A\". The unique identification numbers of all rejected postal ballot papers are noted on a list.\nThe postal ballot papers are counted and finally placed in the postal ballot box(es), except for rejected postal ballot papers and postal ballot papers which have the same unique identification number as rejected postal voting statements. The postal ballot box is securely sealed by the returning officer (candidates and agents can also apply their own seals).\n\nAt the count, the postal ballot boxes have their seals broken, are opened and then the postal ballot papers are counted.\n\nVoters can contact the returning officer to check that their postal voting packs (or their postal voting statements and their postal ballot papers) have been received - however a response can only be given after an opening session since the returning officer will have to refer to the postal voters list. At the end of an election, the marked postal voter lists are open for public inspection and also can be purchased by the Electoral Commission, candidates, elected representatives, government departments, police forces, registered political parties and local constituency parties.\n\nThere have been cases of electoral fraud with postal votes in the UK (including at the 2004 European and local government elections in Birmingham).\n\nIn 2000, the UK government passed legislation to permit local authorities to apply to pilot innovations in the method of voting at local elections (including all-postal voting, electronic voting, and voting at weekends), with the first pilot elections being held in May that year.\n\nIn May 2000, 2002 and 2003, many local authorities piloted all-postal voting at their local elections. In May 2003, 35 local authorities did so. The outcome of those pilots was a recommendation from the Electoral Commission that all-postal voting should be adopted as the normal method of voting at local elections in the UK. This reflected the positive impact on voter turnout at these elections (in some places, turnout doubled) and the fact that there was no evidence of an increase in electoral fraud.\n\nThe local elections scheduled for May 2004 were postponed to June and combined with the European Parliament elections. The UK government used this opportunity to trial all-postal voting in these elections across four regions: North East, North West, East Midlands, and Yorkshire and the Humber.\n\nThe pilots did show a significant increase in turnout where postal voting was trialled.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "296083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=296083", "title": "Public reason", "text": "Public reason\n\nPublic reason refers to a common mode of deliberation that individuals may use for issues of public concern. The concept implicitly excludes certain assumptions or motivations that are considered improper as a basis for public decision making, even as a person may apply them in personal decisions that do not have a significant impact on the public. \n\nThe phrase \"public use of one's reason\" (\"Vernunft in allen Stükken öffentlichen Gebrauch\") was used by Immanuel Kant in his 1784 editorial piece responding to the question \"What is Enlightenment?,\" where he distinguished it from private usage of reason, by which he meant reasoning offered from a specific civic office or post. It was developed by American philosopher John Rawls to refer to the common reason of all citizens in a pluralist society. Public reason giving, in the Rawlsian sense, involves justifying a particular position by way of reasons that people of different moral or political backgrounds could accept. Although in his later writings he added what is known as the proviso, meaning that non-public reasons could be given assuming that public reasons would be provided in due course. In order to accomplish this, however, one must overcome what he refers to as the burdens of judgment, which can produce disagreement among reasonable citizens. These burdens include conflicting evidence, giving differing weights to considerations, conceptual indeterminacy, differing experiences and value conflicts. Private reason, by contrast, is the exercise of an individual's reason to the constrained norms and interests of some sub-set of the public as a whole (such as a business, a political party, the military or the family).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1113966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1113966", "title": "Punk ideologies", "text": "Punk ideologies\n\nPunk ideologies are a group of varied social and political beliefs associated with the punk subculture and punk rock. In its original incarnation, the punk subculture originated out of working class angst and the frustrations many youth were feeling about economic inequality and the bourgeois hypocrisy and neglect of working people and their struggles. It was primarily concerned with concepts such as poverty, egalitarianism, humanitarianism, anti-authoritarianism, anti-corporatism, anti-consumerism, anti-war, anti-media culture, anti-mainstream or mainstream media, anti-intellectualism, against selling out, anti-conservative, anti-nationalism, anti-corporate greed, anti-infatuation, against vagrancy laws, anti-racism, anti-sexism, gender equality, racial equality, civil rights, animal rights, eco-friendly, social rights, free-thought and non-conformity. One of its main tenets was a rejection of mainstream, corporate mass culture and its values. It continued to evolve its ideology as the movement spread throughout North America from its origins in England and New York and embrace a range anti-racist and anti-sexist belief systems. Punk ideologies range from left wing views (e.g., NOFX) to right wing beliefs (e.g., No Remorse) or apolitical (e.g., Misfits).\n\nPunk ideologies are usually expressed through punk rock music and lyrics, punk literature such as amateur fanzines, spoken word performances or recordings, punk fashion, or punk visual art. Some punks have participated in direct action, such as protest or demonstration disruption, political violence, ecotage, street barricades, squatting, pirate radio, off-grid energy, vandalism and public and business property destruction. Indirect action through counter-propaganda, protests or boycotts. They support and squat in urban and rural collective house's with held group funds in common. Punk fashion was originally an expression of nonconformity, as well as opposition to both mainstream culture and the status quo. Punk fashion often displays aggression, rebellion, and individualism. Some punks wear clothing or have tattoos that express sociopolitical messages. They stage Punk Rock Food Drives such as D.O.A's Unity for Freedom. Punk visual art also often includes political messages. Many punks wear second-hand clothing, partly as an anti-consumerist statement.\n\nAn attitude common in the punk subculture is the opposition to selling out, which refers to abandoning of one's values and/or a change in musical style toward pop and embracing anything in mainstream capitalist culture or more radio-friendly rock in exchange for wealth, status, or power. Selling out also has the meaning of adopting a more mainstream lifestyle and ideology. The issue of authenticity is important in the punk subculture—the pejorative term \"poseur\" is applied to those who associate with punk and adopt its stylistic attributes but are deemed not to share or understand the underlying values or philosophy.\n\nBecause anti-establishment attitudes are such an important part of the punk subculture, a network of independent record labels, venues and distributors has developed. Some punk bands have chosen to break from this independent system and work within the established system of major labels. The do it yourself (DIY) ideal is common in the punk scene, especially in terms of music recording and distribution, concert promotion, and photocopying magazines, posters and flyers. The expression DIY was coined by commentators after the fact.\n\nOn religious issues, punk is mostly atheist or agnostic, but some punk bands have promoted religions such as Christianity, Buddhism, Islam, the Rastafari movement or Krishna.\n\nThe following include some of the most common ideologies and philosophies within the punk subculture (in alphabetical order).\n\nThere is a complex and worldwide underground of punks committed to anarchism as a serious political ideology, sometimes termed \"peace punks\" or \"anarcho-punks.\" While some well-known punk bands such as the Sex Pistols and The Exploited had songs about anarchy, notably the Pistols' \"Anarchy in the UK\", they did not embrace anarchism as a disciplined ideology. As such, these bands are not considered part of the anarcho-punk scene.\n\nAnarcho-punks typically believe in direct action. Many anarcho-punks are pacifists (e.g. Crass and Discharge) and therefore believe in using non-violent means of achieving their aims. These include peaceful protest, squatting, graffiti, culture jamming, ecotage, freeganism, boycotting, civil disobedience, hacktivism and subvertising. Some anarcho-punks believe that violence or property damage is an acceptable way of achieving social change (e.g. Conflict). This manifests itself as rioting, vandalism, wire cutting, hunt sabotage, participation in Animal Liberation Front- or Earth Liberation Front-style activities, and in extreme cases, bombings. Notable anarchist punk artists include: Aus-Rotten, Dave Insurgent, Crass, Subhumans (British band), Colin Jerwood, and Dave Dictor.\n\nIn the 1980s, both straight edge hardcore punk in the United States and anarcho-punk in the United Kingdom became associated with animal rights. Consequently, vegetarianism and veganism became a feature of the punk subculture. This association continues on into the 21st century, as evidenced by the prominence of vegan punk events such as Fluff Fest in Europe.\n\nSome punks claim to be non-political, such as the band Charged GBH and the singer G.G. Allin, although some socio-political ideas have appeared in their lyrics. Some Charged GBH songs have discussed social issues, and a few have expressed anti-war views. G.G. Allin expressed a vague desire to kill the United States president and destroy the political system in his song \"Violence Now\". Punk subgenres that are generally apolitical include: glam punk, psychobilly, horror punk, punk pathetique, deathrock and pop punk. Many of the bands credited with starting the punk movement were decidedly apolitical, including The Dictators, Ramones (which featured staunch conservative Johnny Ramone alongside liberal activist Joey Ramone), New York Dolls, Television, Johnny Thunders & The Heartbreakers, and Richard Hell & The Voidoids.\n\nChristian punk is a subgenre of punk rock with some degree of Christian lyrical content. Some Christian punk bands are associated with the Christian music industry, while others reject that association. Ideologies within Christian punk vary, though a number of bands lean towards traditional left-wing politics, most prominently Crashdog, Ballydowse and The Psalters, the latter two of whom identified as Christian anarchists. Further examples of notable Christian punk bands include Altar Boys, The Crucified, Five Iron Frenzy, Flatfoot 56, and pop-punk band MxPx, who earned a gold record in 1998.\n\nA small number are conservative, rejecting leftist-anarchism, liberalism, communism and socialism in favor of conservatism. Notable conservative punks include Johnny Ramone, Forgotten Rebels, Billy Zoom, Joe Escalante, Bobby Steele, Duane Peters and Dave Smalley. Some Christian punk and hardcore bands have conservative political stances, in particular some of the NYHC bands.\n\nThe Filipino punk band the Wuds which was formed in the early 1980s is the first known punk band who composed songs dedicated to Hare Krishna movement. In the 1990s, some notable members of the New York hardcore scene, including Ray Cappo (Youth of Today, Shelter and other bands), John Joseph (Cro-Mags) and Harley Flanagan (Cro-Mags) converted to Hare Krishna. This led to trend within the western hardcore scene that became known as Krishnacore.\n\nTaqwacore is a punk subgenre centred on Islam, its culture and its interpretation. The Taqwacore scene is composed mainly of young Muslim artists living in the United States and other western countries, many of whom openly reject traditionalist interpretations of Islam. There is no definitive Taqwacore sound, and some bands incorporate styles including hip-hop, techno, and/or musical traditions from the Muslim world. Examples of Muslim punk bands include Alien Kulture, The Kominas and Secret Trial Five.\n\nLiberal punks were in the punk subculture from the beginning, and are mostly on the liberal left. Notable liberal punks (second wave, mid-1990s to 2000s) include: Joey Ramone, Fat Mike of NOFX, Ted Leo, Billie Joe Armstrong of Green Day, Crashdog, Dropkick Murphys, Hoxton Tom McCourt, Jared Gomes of Hed PE, Tim Armstrong of Rancid and Tim McIlrath of Rise Against. Some punks participated in the Rock Against Bush movement in the mid-2000s, in support of the Democratic Party candidate John Kerry.\n\nLibertarian punks advocate free market capitalism, a minimal government and private ownership of property. Joe Young of the band Antiseen, Exene Cervenka and Mojo Nixon have expressed support for libertarianism. Though originally a conservative, Michale Graves has shifted towards libertarianism in recent years.\n\nNazi punks have a white nationalist ideology that is closely related to that of white power skinheads. Ian Stuart Donaldson and his band Skrewdriver are credited with popularizing white power rock and hatecore (for its hateful lyrical themes), or Rock Against Communism. Nazi punks are different from early punks such as Sid Vicious and Siouxsie Sioux, who are believed to have incorporated Nazi imagery such as Swastikas for shock or comedy value.\n\nCentering on a belief in the abject lack of meaning and value to life, nihilism was a fixture in some early punk rock and protopunk. The Sex Pistols were central to the association of punk and nihilsm, with the \"Trouser Press Record Guide\" writing that their \"confrontational, nihilistic public image and rabidly nihilistic socio-political lyrics set the tone that continues to guide punk bands.\" However, researcher Neil Eriksen argues that though \"much of the critical realism [of punk rock] expresses cynicism and nihilism, it does serve to question existing relations in such a way that listeners are forced to think about what is being said\", so that overt rejection of meaning is primarily concerned with challenging existing values.\n\nThe Situationist International (SI) was an early influence on punk subculture in the United Kingdom. Started in continental Europe in the 1950s, the SI was an avant-garde political movement that sought to recapture the ideals of surrealist art and use them to construct new and radical social situations. Malcolm McLaren introduced situationist ideas to punk through his management of the band Sex Pistols. Vivienne Westwood, McLaren's partner and the band's designer/stylist, expressed situationist ideals through fashion that was intended to provoke a specific social response. 15% Pus and DUST, subversive 1990s Manchester bands, staged psycho-geographic walks around Hulme and created human collages from road signs as part of what became known as 'psycho-spectre.' Jamie Reid's distinctive album cover artwork was openly situationist.\n\nThe Clash were a blatantly political punk rock band, introducing socialism to the punk scene. Clash frontman Joe Strummer said of his socialist views \"I believe in socialism because it seems more humanitarian, rather than every man for himself and 'I'm alright jack' and all those asshole businessmen with all the loot. I made up my mind from viewing society from that angle. That's where I'm from and there's where I've made my decisions from. That's why I believe in socialism.\" Some of the original Oi! bands expressed a rough form of socialist working class populism — often mixed with patriotism. Many Oi! bands sang about unemployment, economic inequality, working class power and police harassment. In the 1980s, several notable British socialist punk musicians were involved with Red Wedge. Notable socialist punks include: Attila the Stockbroker, Billy Bragg, Bruce La Bruce, Garry Bushell (until the late 1980s), Chris Dean, Gary Floyd, Jack Grisham, Stewart Home, Dennis Lyxzén, Thomas Mensforth, Fermin Muguruza, Alberto Pla, Tom Robinson, Seething Wells, Paul Simmonds, Rob Tyner, Joe Strummer, Ian Svenonius, Mark Steel and Paul Weller (guitarist for British powerhouse, new wave band, The Jam). Neil Eriksen wrote in 1980: \"... we feel that elements of punk rock fulfill a revolutionary cultural function\".\n\nBernie Sanders, a democratic socialist running for president of the United States in 2016, was endorsed by various bands and musicians including Jello Biafra, Henry Rollins, Wayne Kramer, Mike Watt, Brian Baker, Keith Morris, Cheetah Chrome, Flea, Jesse Malin, Belinda Carlisle and Pussy Riot among others. In April 2016, a Richmond, VA artist named Mickael Broth, created a large mural of a Sanders which was inspired by a classic Circle Jerks logo. Sanders has also been credited as having a major impact on the east coast punk scene in the United States. In the early 1980s as mayor of Burlington, VT, Sanders fought a government ban on live music and had a major goal of building a youth center. That center became 242 Main Street, which is currently one of the United States longest running all-ages youth-run DIY punk venues.\n\nStraight edge, which originated in the Washington DC hardcore punk scene with Minor Threat song \"Straight Edge\" written by frontman Ian MacKaye and guitarist Brian Baker. Straight edge involves abstaining from alcohol, tobacco, and recreational drug use. Some who claim the title straight edge also abstain from caffeine, casual sex and meat. (Although the Washington DC straight-edge scene exhibited a fierce allegiance for Coca-Cola, with supporters rarely, if ever, seen drinking anything else in public.) Those more strict individuals may be considered part of the hardline subculture. Unlike the shunning of meat and caffeine, refraining from casual sex was without question a practice in the original straight edge lifestyle, but it has been overlooked in many of the later reincarnations of straight edge. For some, straight edge is a simple lifestyle preference, but for others it is a political stance. In many cases, it is a rejection of the perceived self-destructive qualities of punk and hardcore culture. MacKaye has often spoken out against others labeling themselves as being Straight edge, which was never his intentions for it being a label but it became a movement one in which he became annoyed with. Notable straight edgers: Tim McIlrath, CM Punk and Davey Havok.\n\nPunk ideologies have been criticized from outside and within. The Clash occasionally accused other contemporary punk acts of selling out, such as in their songs \"(White Man) In Hammersmith Palais\" and \"Death or Glory\". Crass's song \"White Punks on Hope\" criticized the late-1970s British punk scene in general and, among other things, accused Joe Strummer of selling out and betraying his earlier socialist principles. Their song \"Punk is Dead\" attacked corporate co-option of the punk subculture. Dead Kennedys frontman Jello Biafra wrote many songs, such as \" Nazi Punks Fuck Off\", criticizing aspects of the punk subculture: \"\"Punk ain't no religious cult\nPunk means thinking for yourself\nYou ain't hardcore cos you spike your hair...\"\n\nMisfit frontman Michale Graves, who cofounded the Conservative Punk website, argued that punks have become \"hippies with mohawks\". However, he has since distanced himself from conservatism.\n\nAuthor Jim Goad has been very critical of punk ideologies in many of his writings. In his essay \"The Underground is A Lie!\", Goad argued that many punks are hypocrites, and he claimed that many punks act poor while hiding the fact they come from middle to upper class backgrounds. In \"Farts from Underground\", Goad claimed that the DIY ethic never produces anything original, and it allows poor quality work to be championed.\n\nIn their book \"The Rebel Sell\", Joseph Heath and Andrew Potter argued that counterculture politics have failed, and that the punk understanding of society is flawed. They also argued that alternative and mainstream lifestyles ultimately have the same values.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1074597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1074597", "title": "Raised fist", "text": "Raised fist\n\nThe raised fist, or the clenched fist, is a symbol of solidarity and support. It is also used as a salute to express unity, strength, defiance, or resistance. \n\nA raised fist was used as a logo by the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) in 1917. However, it was popularised during the Spanish Civil War of 1936-1939, when it was used by the Republican faction as a greeting, and was known as the \"Popular Front salute\" or the \"anti-fascist salute\". The salute subsequently spread among leftists and anti-fascists across Europe.\n\nThe graphic symbol was popularised in 1948 by Taller de Gráfica Popular, a print shop in Mexico that used art to advance revolutionary social causes. Its use spread through the United States in the 1960s after artist and activist Frank Cieciorka produced a simplified version for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee: this version was subsequently used by Students for a Democratic Society and the Black Power movement.\n\nThe raised fist was frequently used in propaganda posters produced during the May 1968 revolt in France, such as \"La Lutte continue\", depicting a factory chimney topped with a clenched fist.\n\nThe symbol has been picked up and incorporated around the world by various oppressed groups. In 2015 it has emerged in the southeast area of Ukraine among the separatists battling the Ukraine Kiev government forces, along with the phrase \"¡No Pasarán!\".\n\nThe image gallery shows how a raised fist is used in visual communication. Combined with another graphic element, a raised fist is used to convey polysemous gestures and opposing forces. Depending on the elements combined, the meaning of the gesture changes in tone and intention. For example, a hammer and sickle combined with a raised fist is part of communist symbolism, while the same fist combined with a Venus symbol represents Feminism, and combined with a book, it represents librarians.\n\nA raised-fist icon appears prominently as a feminist symbol on the covers of two major books by Robin Morgan, \"Sisterhood is Powerful\", published in 1970, and \"Sisterhood Is Forever\", in 2003. The symbol had been popularised in the feminist movement during the Miss America protest in 1968 which Morgan co-organised.\n\nA raised fist incorporates the outline of the state of Wisconsin, as designed in 2011, for union protests against the state rescinding collective bargaining.\n\nThe raised fist logo may represent unity or solidarity, generally with oppressed peoples. The black fist, also known as the Black Power fist is a logo generally associated with black nationalism and sometimes socialism. Its most widely known usage is by the Black Panther Party in the 1960s. A black fist logo was also adopted by the northern soul music subculture. The white fist, also known as the Aryan fist or the White Power fist is a logo generally associated with white nationalism.\n\nA white fist holding a red rose is used by the Socialist International and some socialist or social democratic parties, such as the Socialist Party in France and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party.\n\nLoyalists in Northern Ireland occasionally use a red clenched fist on murals depicting the Red Hand of Ulster. However, this is considered rare; the red hand is usually depicted with a flat palm.\n\nIrish Republicans often have the raised fist as a symbol of resistance against British rule.\n\nThe Gonzo fist emblem is characterized by two thumbs and four fingers holding a peyote button, was originally used in Hunter S. Thompson's 1970 campaign for sheriff of Aspen, Colorado. It has become a symbol of Thompson and gonzo journalism as a whole.\n\nThe Unicode character for the raised fist is .\n\nThe raised fist salute consists of raising one arm in the air with a clenched fist. The meaning can vary based on context.\n\nDifferent movements sometimes use different terms to describe the raised fist salute: amongst communists and socialists, it is sometimes called the red salute, whereas amongst some African-American activists, especially in the United States it has been called the Black Power salute. During the Spanish Civil War, it was sometimes known as the anti-fascist salute.\n\nThe clenched fist gesture is sometimes thought to have originated in the Spanish Civil War, where the Popular Front salute was at one time the standard salute of Republican forces. A letter from the Spanish Civil War stated: \"...the raised fist which greets you in Salud is not just a gesture—it means life and liberty being fought for and a greeting of solidarity with the democratic peoples of the world.\"\n\nThe Rotfrontkämpferbund paramilitary organization of Communist Party of Germany used the salute before World War II as a probable counter-gesture to the fascist salute.\n\nAt the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City, medal winners John Carlos and Tommie Smith gave the raised fist salute during the American national anthem as a sign of black power, and as a protest on behalf of the Olympic Project for Human Rights. For this, they were banned from further Olympic activities. The event was one of the most overtly political statements in the history of the modern Olympic Games. Tommie Smith stated in his autobiography, \"Silent Gesture\", that the salute was not a Black Power salute, but in fact a human rights salute.\n\nNelson Mandela also used the clenched fist salute upon his release from Victor Verster Prison in 1990.\n\nA raised White fist is also a popular White Power symbol. The Norwegian right-wing terrorist Anders Behring Breivik made a clenched-fist salute upon his conviction. Similarly Carlos the Jackal used the gesture in court, and Lee Harvey Oswald raised his fist to photographers after his arrest for the assassination of John F. Kennedy.\n\nThe raised fist is used by officials in Mainland China when being sworn into office.\n\nPsychologist Oliver James has suggested that the appeal of the salute is that it allows the individual to indicate that they \"intend to meet malevolent, massive institutional force with force of (their) own\", and that they are bound in struggle with others against common oppression.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "771103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=771103", "title": "Statolatry", "text": "Statolatry\n\nStatolatry, which combines idolatry with the state, first appeared in Giovanni Gentile's \"Doctrine of Fascism\", published in 1931 under Mussolini's name, and was also mentioned in Gramsci's Prison Notebooks (1971) sometime between 1931-1932, while he was imprisoned by Mussolini. The same year, the encyclical \"Non abbiamo bisogno\" by Pope Pius XI criticized Fascist Italy as developing \"a pagan worship of the state\" which it called \"statolatry\".\n\nThe term politiolatry was used to describe reason of state doctrine in the 17th century with similar intent.\n\nThe term was also popularized and explained by Ludwig von Mises in his 1944 work \"Omnipotent Government\". Statolatry is literally worship of the State analogous to \"idolatry\" as worship of idols. It asserts that the glorification and aggrandizement of 'State' or 'Nation' is the object of all legitimate human aspiration at the expense of all else, including personal welfare and independent thought. Expansion of the power and influence of one's State is to be achieved, if necessary, through aggressive war and colonial adventures (i.e. imperialism). It far exceeds the patriotism of those who recognize the rights of people other than themselves to self-determination, and might best be described as super-patriotism or chauvinism.\n\n"}
{"id": "13721661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13721661", "title": "Taxation of the Jews in Europe", "text": "Taxation of the Jews in Europe\n\nTaxation of the Jews in Europe refers to taxes imposed specifically on Jewish people in Europe, in addition to the taxes levied on the general population. Special taxation imposed on the Jews by the state or ruler of the territory in which they were living has played an important part in Jewish history. The abolition of special taxes on the Jews followed their admission to civil rights in France and elsewhere in Europe at the end of the 18th and beginning of the 19th centuries.\n\nThe Fiscus Judaicus (Latin: \"Jewish tax\") or \"Temple Tax\" was a tax collecting agency instituted to collect the tax imposed on Jews in the Roman Empire after the destruction of the Temple of Jerusalem in 70 CE in favor of the temple of Jupiter Capitolinus in Rome.\n\nThe tax was initially imposed by Roman Emperor Vespasian as one of the measures against Jews as a result of the First Roman-Jewish War of 66–73 CE. Vespasian imposed the tax in the aftermath of the Jewish revolt (Josephus \"BJ\" 7. 218; Dio Cassius 65.7.2). The tax was imposed on all Jews throughout the empire, not just on those who took part in the revolt against Rome. The tax was imposed after the destruction of the Second Temple in 70 CE in place of the levy (or Tithe) payable by Jews towards the upkeep of the Temple. The amount levied was two denarii, equivalent to the one-half of a shekel that observant Jews had previously paid for the upkeep of the Temple of Jerusalem (). The tax was to go instead to the Temple of Capitoline Jupiter, the major center of ancient Roman religion. The \"fiscus Iudaicus\" was a humiliation for the Jews. In Rome, a special procurator known as \"procurator ad capitularia Iudaeorum\" was responsible for the collection of the tax. Only those who had abandoned Judaism were exempt from paying it.\n\nThe Jewish populations of Europe were politically insecure and could be easily exploited for the levying of heavy taxes in exchange for official protection. The high interest rates charged by Jews became an illimitable source of tax revenue and Jewish wealth was technically easy to gauge because Jews typically stored their assets in the form of cash or promissory notes. \n\nThe Imperial Tax Register of 1241 was the first register to include taxes on the Jews. The total of the taxes on the Jews listed in the Register amounted to 857 silver marks; the total contribution of all the cities together amounted to 4.290 silver marks. These local taxes served wholly or in part to finance town-building. Not all of the contributions reached the central administration. In contrast, it is clear from the Register that the payments made by the Jews reached the Exchequer in their entirety. The taxes on the Jews were first described as the ’’Jewish Tax’’ in 1330.\n\nThe Opferfennig (originally Guldenpfennig) tax was introduced in 1342 by Emperor Louis IV the Bavarian, who ordered all Jews above the age of 12 and possessing 20 gulden to pay one gulden annually for protection. This taxation was 1 florin for every Jew and included assets worth more than 20 florins. Widows were not exempted. King Wenceslas removed the taxable minimum but an exemption for Jews dependent on alms was made later by Sigsmund, who himself levied heavy taxation. Sigsmund taxed a third of the value of Jewish properties. It was represented as a coronation tax as part of Sigsmund's attempts to ascend the throne. Isenmann disagrees and believes it was an innovation sprouted by Archchamberlain Konrad von Weinsberg. By 1433-4 the tax collectors were collecting tax worth a half of Jewish properties. \n\nEmperor Charles IV later ordered the income of the Opferfennig tax to be delivered to the archbishop of Triers. This tax was at some places replaced by an overall communal tax.\n\nThe \"Leibzoll\" or \"Judengeleit\" was a special toll which Jews had to pay in most of the European states in the Middle Ages and up to the beginning of the nineteenth century.\n\nTolerance tax (Toleranzgebührer) was a tax that was levied against Jews of Hungary, then part of the Austrian Empire, beginning in 1747.\n\nThe tax was based on the German statute that a Jew was obliged to pay a certain tax to be \"tolerated\".\n\nIn 1571 a contract was drafted with regard to the status of the Jews in Koło, in which the city's Christians have undertaken to provide protection to the Jews, in return for which the Jews were required to pay a special annual municipal tax.\n\nIn 1729 the Jewish community was required to pay 150 gold coins as an annual poll tax, and in 1738 this sum was increased to 300 gold coins.\n\nIn 1775 the Polish parliament imposed a special duty on books written in Hebrew and Yiddish, requiring each book to be stamped by the municipality. Despite heavy penalties imposed on owners of unstamped books, many books were concealed and unstamped.\n\nThe Russian Kosher tax, known as the \"korobka\", was a tax paid only by Jews for each animal slaughtered in accordance with the kashrut rules and for each pound of this meat sold. It was part of the Russian Jewish \"basket tax\" or \"box tax\". Though it was used to refer to a tax on meat or slaughtering, the word \"korobka\" (Russian: коробка) actually means \"box\" in Russian. The tax came to be called that because Jews paying had to deposit a coin in a box at the kosher slaughterer.\n\nAccording to Herman Rosenthal and Jacob Goodale Lipman, the tax was \"the most burdensome and annoying of the special taxes imposed upon the Jews of Russia by the government\". The burden of taxes, and the \"korobka\" in particular, was one of the factors which drove many Jews to abandon the towns and settle in villages or on noblemen estates.\n\nBetween 1777 and 1784, the Jews of Horodenka, a region on the southeast corner of Galicia, paid a number of special taxes, including the \"protection and tolerance tax\", and the \"property and occupation tax\". In 1784, the property and occupation tax was replaced with the kosher meat tax.\n\nIn 1741, Moldavian prince Grigore Ghica confirmed the obligation of each Jew to pay the crupca, an indirect tax on kosher meat similar to the Russian \"korobka\".\n\nDuring the period 1641–1842, the Jews of Altona (then a town close to Hamburg) paid specifically Jewish taxes as well as the same taxes as other residents of Altona. The tax burden on the members of the Jewish community was twice as heavy as that on the other residents.\n\nIn 1640 the Danish King Christian IV acquired part of the County of Pinneberg including Altona. Altona was subsequently granted the rights and status of a town on 23 August 1664.\n\nThe community was founded principally by Portuguese merchants and was known as the Portuguese-Jewish Community, although many of its members were of Spanish-Jewish descent. \n\nThese Sephardic Jews, who initially pretended to be persecuted Catholics, first came to Hamburg at the end of the 16th century. They were mostly Portuguese- or Spanish-speaking merchants. In 1621, when the armistice between Spain and the Netherlands came to an end, many of the Portuguese Jews moved to Hamburg. They were made welcome, even after the actual situation had become clear; however they were not permitted to establish a cemetery within the city walls. Thanks to the linguistic skills of the Sephardim and their contacts among their co-religionaries they controlled a large sector of the German market in provisions. The Sephardim differed culturally and socially from the Jews who came to Altona, and subsequently also to Hamburg, from the east. These were Yiddish Language speaking Ashkenazim.\nThe permanent settlement of the Ashkenazim was opposed by both the Senate of Hamburg (town council) and the citizens, supported by the Sephardim, who did not wish to see the establishment of a second community in Hamburg. As servants, referred to as tudescos, the Ashkenazi Jews were, de facto, under the protection of the Sephardic Jews.\n\nOn 1 August 1641 the Danish king had formally granted the Ashkenazi Jews the privilege of having in Altona, as hitherto, a cemetery and a synagogue, thus providing the basis for the existence of a Jewish community. Subsequently, the Danish kings promised the Jews personal security, the freedom to practice trade and religious liberties. Some of the Jews living in Hamburg therefore tried to secure the legal protection of the Danish crown in case of any attempt to expel them. In Altona the conditions of residence were favorable, in Hamburg the conditions for trading. These were the reasons for the genesis of the Altona community of Ashkenazi Jews from Hamburg and Altona. Thanks to immigration from the east, Altona became a center of research and scholarship in Jewish teaching, attracting hundreds of students. The officially recognized Jewish court of justice had a reputation as one of the most distinguished in the whole Jewish world. The Jews did not acquire these privileges freely, but in return for the payment of taxes.\n\nFrom 1584 to 1639, as in the Middle Ages, the Jews of Altona paid taxes specific to the Jews, but no further taxes. Each Jewish family was required to pay 6 Reichstaler per year. Under Danish rule this changed: the Jews continued to pay the specifically Jewish taxes plus the same taxes as all other residents. From 1641 every Jewish family was required to pay 5 Reichstaler in Jewish taxes; in the year when Altona became a town the contribution rose to 6 Reichstaler. With the ordinance of 1641 the Danish king had permitted the Jews shechita. This privilege too was not cost-free. For the years 1667–1669 we have records of taxes paid by Jewish butchers. According to these the rates were 1 Mark and 8 Schillinge for an ox, 4 Schillinge for a calf and 2 Schillinge for a lamb. These taxes were twice as high as those paid by Christian butchers. From 1681 Individual taxes on the Jews (6 Reichstaler plus the payments made by the Jewish butchers), were replaced by lump-sum payments by the Jewish community. \n\nFrom the year 1712 onwards it is possible to calculate the amount of the lump-sum payments made by the Jews. During the period 1712–1818 this amounted to 6 Reichstaler for each Jewish family; 6 Reichstaler was the level that had already been set in 1584. Assuming that a Jewish family consisted of approximately 6 persons, 6 Reichstaler corresponded to 1 Reichstaler for each individual Jew. On top of this 1 Reichstaler, also paid by the other residents, had to be paid. The tax burden on the members of the Jewish community was twice as heavy as that on the other residents. The influence of this on business practice constituted an obstacle to the granting of civil rights. In the year 1818 the Jewish Elders declared to the community of Altona that they could not, ’’on the one hand, levy specifically Jewish taxes on the members of their community and, on the other hand, encourage our co-religionaries, especially the younger ones, to pursue useful activity. In short: so to improve our condition that we might not seem unworthy to acquire civil rights. The extension – against our wishes - of the taxes on the Jews would be incompatible with the granting of civil rights.’’ This marks the beginning of the struggle of the Jewish community for emancipation. The Jewish community secured the abolition of taxes on the Jews in the year 1842.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25995519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25995519", "title": "The Chinese State in Ming Society", "text": "The Chinese State in Ming Society\n\nThe Chinese State in Ming Society is a history book which investigates the role of the state in China in the Ming dynasty (from 1368 to 1644 in the late Imperial Chinese era); the interface between the state and society, and the effect of the state on ordinary people.\n\nThe book is written by Timothy Brook, a distinguished Canadian historian who specializes in the study of China (Sinology).\n\n\"The Chinese State in Ming Society \" is set in the Ming dynasty, an era in which there was much \"commercial expansion and cultural innovation\". The book is an \"account of events and issues that engaged the members of local elites in Ming society and of the interface between these elites and the state,\" and the impact of the state on ordinary people in areas such as education, justice, the military and taxation.\n\nThe book consists of a reworking of eight \"heavily illustrated\" essays which Brook has written and published separately over the years, and is divided into four main sections (parts I to IV) with two of these essays to each part of the book. The parts are named \"Space\", \"Fields\", \"Books\" and \"Monasteries\", each of which \"represent important areas of intersection between the Ming state and society.\"\n\nBrook argues that the model of despotic government fails to account for the complex interactions between individuals, groups, communities, society and state in this period. Instead he proposes that by 1500 the Chinese had a remarkably developed system of governance, surpassing that of the European monarchs of the time, and that the developments were not the result of the isolated actions of the state, but rather of a complex interface and interaction, including local representatives of the state such as magistrates and local networks of the elite class of gentry. According to Ellen Soulliere in her review, Brook argues that \"society had the [enduring] ability to constrain, limit and sometimes redirect the authority of the state, without challenging its most basic claim to be the source of all legitimate authority.\"\n\nWriting in the \"New Zealand Journal of Asian Studies\", Ellen Soulliere describes the book as a \"detailed\", \"succinct\" and \"compelling\" account. In conclusion, she states that \"All in all, this is a fascinating and very valuable book that addresses major themes in Chinese history while greatly expanding our detailed knowledge of the issues that engaged people at the level of their local communities. It illuminates the conflicts and controversies that kept the state and society in a state of dynamic tension throughout the Ming period and beyond.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "513275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=513275", "title": "Thomas Parker, 1st Earl of Macclesfield", "text": "Thomas Parker, 1st Earl of Macclesfield\n\nThomas Parker, 1st Earl of Macclesfield, (23 July 1666 – 28 April 1732) was an English Whig politician.\n\nHe was born in Staffordshire, the son of Thomas Parker, an attorney at Leek. He was educated at Adams' Grammar School and Trinity College, Cambridge. He was married to Janet Carrier, whose sister was married to William Anson, 1st Baron Anson's father. He was called to the bar in 1691, and became a Member of Parliament and was knighted in 1705. In 1710 he refused the office of Lord Chancellor, but was made a Privy Counsellor. He was Lord Chief Justice from 1710 to 1718 and was involved in the prosecution of Dr Sacheverell. He made a vehement attack on Sacheverell and the high church clergy. He was also a friend of Bernard de Mandeville, whose satirical \"Fable of the Bees\" became highly controversial in the 1720s.\n\nHe became a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1713. He also had a grammar school built at Leek, his home town. In 1714 he was raised to the peerage as Baron Parker of Macclesfield.\n\nOn 1 August 1714, Queen Anne died, and her successor, King George I, was in Hanover, so Baron Parker was designated Regent of Great Britain, Ireland and the realms beyond the seas until the new monarch could be informed of the situation and take the crown. He governed until 18 September 1714. \n\nIn 1718, because the King could not speak English, Parker gave the King's Speech in the House of Lords.\n\nIn 1718, he became Lord Chancellor and given a pension for life, and was a favourite of the King. In 1721, he was advanced to the title Earl of Macclesfield with the additional subsidiary title of Viscount Parker. In 1724, he was implicated in financial irregularities, but he did not resign as Lord Chancellor until 1725.\n\nIn 1725, he was impeached and tried in the House of Lords. He was, unanimously, convicted of corruption for taking more than £100,000 in bribes (the equivalent of more than £11,000,000 today). He was fined £30,000 and placed in the Tower of London until payment was received. He was also struck off the roll of the Privy Council. He was a fabulously wealthy man, possibly because of his corruption, but as this money was confiscated, he had no resources to pay his fine. He spent most of the rest of his life at Shirburn Castle, where he was buried.\n\nHe was, however, still able to be a pallbearer at the funeral of Sir Isaac Newton in 1727. He died in Soho Square, London.\n\n"}
{"id": "33340526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33340526", "title": "Trans-Love Energies (organization)", "text": "Trans-Love Energies (organization)\n\nTrans-Love Energies is a medical marijuana compassion center in Detroit, Michigan.\n\nThe organization began in Detroit during the early 1960s as a communal living environment, but later relocated to Ann Arbor, Michigan. Its founder was poet and political activist, John Sinclair. The commune consisted of two houses located side-by-side. Each house was home to a musical band, and to free-thinkers of the time, including members of the White Panther movement, the \"Ann Arbor Argus\" newspaper, and the MC5. The address of their 1486 Gratiot Ave. office is often considered the birthplace of Detroit techno as it housed Kevin Saunderson's KMS Recording in 1982.\n\nThe organization has narrowed its scope from the social activism of the 1960s to assisting persons who wish to use marijuana to cope with medical ailments.\n"}
{"id": "99221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99221", "title": "World government", "text": "World government\n\nWorld government or global government is the notion of a common political authority for all of humanity, yielding a global government and a single state that exercises authority over the entire Earth. Such a government could come into existence either through violent and compulsory world domination or through peaceful and voluntary supranational union.\n\nThere has never been a worldwide executive, legislature, judiciary, military, or constitution with global jurisdiction. The United Nations, beyond the United Nations Security Council (which has the ability to issue mandatory resolutions), is limited to a mostly advisory role, and its stated purpose is to foster co-operation between existing national governments rather than exert authority over them.\n\nThe idea and aspiration of world government has been known since the dawn of history. Bronze Age Egyptian Kings aimed to rule \"All That the Sun Encircles\", Mesopotamian Kings \"All from the Sunrise to the Sunset\", and ancient Chinese and Japanese Emperors \"All under Heaven\". These four civilizations developed impressive cultures of Great Unity, or Da Yitong as the Chinese put it. In 113 BC, the Han Dynasty in China erected an Altar of the Great Unity.\n\nPolybius said that the Roman achievement of imposing one Government over the Mediterranean world was a \"marvelous\" achievement, and that the main task of future historians will be to explain how this was done.\n\nThe idea of world government outlived the fall of the Pax Romana for a millennium. Dante in the fourteenth century despairingly appealed to the human race: \"But what has been the condition of the world since that day the seamless robe [of Pax Romana] first suffered mutilation by the claws of avarice, we can read—would that we could not also see! O human race! what tempests must need toss thee, what treasure be thrown into the sea, what shipwrecks must be endured, so long as thou, like a beast of many heads, strivest after diverse ends! Thou art sick in either intellect, and sick likewise in thy affection. Thou healest not thy high understanding by argument irrefutable, nor thy lower by the countenance of experience. Nor dost thou heal thy affection by the sweetness of divine persuasion, when the voice of the Holy Spirit breathes upon thee, \"Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity!\"\" (\"De Monarchia\", 16:1)\n\nEarly father of international law, Spanish philosopher Francisco de Vitoria (c. 1483–1546) is considered the \"founder of global political philosophy\". De Vitoria conceived of the \"res publica totius orbis\", or the \"republic of the whole world\". This came at a time when the University of Salamanca was engaged in unprecedented thought concerning human rights, international law, and early economics based on the experiences of the Spanish Empire.\n\n\"De jure belli ac pacis\" (\"On the Law of War and Peace\") is a 1625 book in Latin, written by Hugo Grotius (1583–1645) and published in Paris, on the legal status of war. It is now regarded as a foundational work in international law. Grotius was a philosopher, theologian, playwright, and poet. He is known for coming up with the idea of having an international law, and is still acknowledged today by the American Society of International Law.\n\nImmanuel Kant wrote the essay \" () (1795)\". In his essay, Kant describes three basic requirements for organizing human affairs to permanently abolish the threat of present and future war, and, thereby, help establish a new era of lasting peace throughout the world. Specifically, Kant described his proposed peace program as containing two steps.\n\nThe \"Preliminary Articles\" described the steps that should be taken immediately, or with all deliberate speed:\n\n\nThree Definitive Articles would provide not merely a cessation of hostilities, but a foundation on which to build a peace.\n\n\nThe year of the battle at Jena (1806), when Napoleon overwhelmed Prussia, Fichte in \"Characteristics of the Present Age\" described what he perceived to be a very deep and dominant historical trend:\n\nIn early 19th century Mormon theology, Joseph Smith taught that a theodemocracy would guide and direct the Kingdom of God (Zion) on the earth during the end times. On March 11, 1844, Smith organized a Council of Fifty, who were to work under the direction of the Priesthood authorities of his church, along with a Council of Friends. This group of three organizations was expected to rule as a world government just prior to the Millennium.\n\nIn 1842, the English poet Alfred, Lord Tennyson, published the oft-quoted lines \"Locksley Hall\": \"For I dipt into the future, far as human eye could see / Saw a Vision of the world, and all the wonder that would be /... / Till the war-drum throbb'd no longer / and the battle-flags were furled / In the Parliament of man, the Federation of the world. / There the common sense of most shall hold / a fretful realm in awe / And the kindly earth shall slumber / lapt in universal law\".\n\nPresident Ulysses S. Grant was convinced in 1873: \"Transport, education and rapid development of both spiritual and material relationships by means of steam power and the telegraph, all this will make great changes. I am convinced that the Great Framer of the World will so develop it that it becomes one nation, so that armies and navies are no longer necessary.\"\n\nHe also commented, \"I believe at some future day, the nations of the earth will agree on some sort of congress which will take cognizance of international questions of difficulty and whose decisions will be as binding as the decisions of the Supreme Court are upon us\".\n\nThe first thinker to anticipate a kind of world unity (\"great household of the world\") under the American primacy seems to be British politician William Gladstone. In 1878, he wrote:\n\nIn 1885, Kang Youwei published his \"One World Philosophy\", where he based his vision on the evidence of political expansion which began in the immemorial past and went in his days on. He concludes:\n\nNo factor, he believed, in the long run could resist the \"laws of empires\". Kang Youwei projects the culmination of the ongoing world unification with the final confrontation between the United States and Germany: \"Some day America will take in [all the states of] the American continent and Germany will take in all the [states of] Europe. This will hasten the world along the road to One World.\"\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche in his \"Beyond Good and Evil\" (1886) envisaged: \nThe French demographer, George Vacher de Lapouge, followed K'ang Yu-wei in 1899 with his \"L'Aryen: Son Role Social\". Similarly, he outlined the logistic growth of empires from the Bronze Age till his days, when \"six states govern... three quarters of the globe\", and concluded: \"The moment is close when the struggle for the domination of the world is going to take place.\"\n\nVacher de Lapouge did not bet on Washington and Berlin in the final contest for world domination contrary to K'ang Yu-wei. Like his earlier compatriot, Alexis de Tocqueville, he guessed the Cold War contenders correctly but he went one step further. He estimated the chances of the United States as favorite in the final confrontation:\n\nIn the second half of the 19th century, Bahá'u'lláh founded the Bahá'í Faith, a religion which identified the establishment of world unity and a global federation of nations as a key principle. He envisioned a set of new social structures based on participation and consultation among the world's peoples, including a world legislature, an international court, and an international executive empowered to carry out the decisions of these legislative and judicial bodies. Connected principles of the Bahá'í religion include universal systems of weights and measures, currency unification, and the adoption of a global auxiliary language.\n\nIn \"World Order of Bahá'u'lláh,\" first published in 1938, Shoghi Effendi, great-grandson of Bahá'u'lláh and the Guardian of the Bahá'í Faith from 1921 until his death in 1957, described the anticipated world government of that religion as the \"world's future super-state\" with the Bahá'í Faith as the \"State Religion of an independent and Sovereign Power\".\n\nAccording to Shoghi Effendi, \"The unity of the human race, as envisaged by Bahá'u'lláh, implies the establishment of a world commonwealth in which all nations, races, creeds and classes are closely and permanently united, and in which the autonomy of its state members and the personal freedom and initiative of the individuals that compose them are definitely and completely safeguarded. This commonwealth must, as far as we can visualize it, consist of a world legislature, whose members will, as the trustees of the whole of mankind, ultimately control the entire resources of all the component nations, and will enact such laws as shall be required to regulate the life, satisfy the needs and adjust the relationships of all races and peoples. A world executive, backed by an international Force, will carry out the decisions arrived at, and apply the laws enacted by, this world legislature, and will safeguard the organic unity of the whole commonwealth. A world tribunal will adjudicate and deliver its compulsory and final verdict in all and any disputes that may arise between the various elements constituting this universal system.\"\n\nIn his many scriptures and messages addressed to the most prominent state leaders of his time, Bahá'u'lláh called for world reconciliation, reunification, collective security and the peaceful settlement of disputes. Many of the most fundamental Bahá'í writings address the central issue of world unity, such as the following: \"The earth is but one country and mankind its citizens\". The World Christian Encyclopedia estimated 7.1 million Bahá'ís in the world in 2000, representing 218 countries.\n\nStarting in 1843, International Peace Congresses were held in Europe every two years, but lost their momentum after 1853 due to the renewed outbreak of wars in Europe (Crimea) and North America (American Civil War).\n\nInternational organizations started forming in the late 19th century – the International Committee of the Red Cross in 1863, the Telegraphic Union in 1865 and the Universal Postal Union in 1874. The increase in international trade at the turn of the 20th century accelerated the formation of international organizations, and, by the start of World War I in 1914, there were approximately 450 of them. Support for the idea of establishing international law grew during that period as well. The Institute of International Law was formed in 1873 by the Belgian Jurist Gustave Rolin-Jaequemyns, leading to the creation of concrete legal drafts, for example by the Swiss Johaan Bluntschli in 1866. In 1883, James Lorimer published \"The Institutes of the Law of Nations\" in which he explored the idea of a world government establishing the global rule of law. The first embryonic world parliament, called the Inter-Parliamentary Union, was organized in 1886 by Cremer and Passy, composed of legislators from many countries. In 1904 the Union formally proposed \"an international congress which should meet periodically to discuss international questions\".\n\nIn \"Anticipations\" (1900), H. G. Wells envisaged that \"the great urban region between Chicago and the Atlantic\" will unify the English-speaking states, and this larger English-speaking unit, \"a New Republic dominating the world\", will by the year 2000 become the means \"by which the final peace of the world may be assured forever\". It will be \"a new social Hercules that will strangle the serpents of war and national animosity in his cradle\". Such a synthesis \"of the peoples now using the English tongue, I regard not only as possible, but as a probable, thing\". The New Republic \"will already be consciously and pretty freely controlling the general affairs of humanity before this century closes...\" Its principles and opinions \"must necessarily shape and determine that still ampler future of which the coming hundred years is but the opening phase\". The New Republic must ultimately become a \"World-State\".\n\nThe League of Nations (LoN) was an inter-governmental organization founded as a result of the Treaty of Versailles in 1919–1920. At its largest size from 28 September 1934 to 23 February 1935, it had 58 members. The League's goals included upholding the Rights of Man, such as the rights of non-whites, women, and soldiers; disarmament, preventing war through collective security, settling disputes between countries through negotiation, diplomacy, and improving global quality of life. The diplomatic philosophy behind the League represented a fundamental shift in thought from the preceding hundred years. The League lacked its own armed force and so depended on the Great Powers to enforce its resolutions and economic sanctions and provide an army, when needed. However, these powers proved reluctant to do so. Lacking many of the key elements necessary to maintain world peace, the League failed to prevent World War II. Hitler withdrew Germany from the League of Nations once he planned to take over Europe. The rest of the Axis powers soon followed him. Having failed its primary goal, the League of Nations fell apart. The League of Nations consisted of the Assembly, the Council, and the Permanent Secretariat. Below these were many agencies. The Assembly was where delegates from all member states conferred. Each country was allowed three representatives and one vote.\n\nAccording to Karl Marx's theory of historical materialism, the capitalist epoch depends on the expansion of competing geopolitical markets across the planet, atomizing the global proletariat and thus sustaining economic disparity and rivalry between markets. Eventually, this will be succeeded by a Socialist epoch in which the working class throughout the world will unite to render national distinctiveness meaningless.\n\nAlthough world Communism's long-term goal is a worldwide Communist society that is stateless, which would entail an absence of any government, many anti-Communists (especially during the Cold War) have considered it naive to think that the world revolution advocated by international Communists would lead to world domination by a single government or an alliance of several, yielding a de facto world government of a totalitarian nature.\n\nThe heyday of international Communism was the period from the end of World War I (the revolutions of 1917–23) through the 1950s, before the Sino-Soviet split.\n\nAnticipating environmental movements for world unity, like Global Scenario Group, and such concepts as the Planetary phase of civilization and Spaceship Earth, British Geographer Sir Halford Mackinder wrote in 1931:\nThe ruling Nazi Party of 1933–1945 Germany envisaged the ultimate establishment of a world government under the complete hegemony of the Third Reich. In its move to overthrow the post-World War I Treaty of Versailles Germany had already withdrawn itself from the League of Nations, and it did not intend to join a similar internationalist organization ever again. In his desire and stated political aim of expanding the living space (\"Lebensraum\") of the German people by destroying or driving out \"lesser-deserving races\" in and from other territories dictator Adolf Hitler may have devised an ideological system of self-perpetuating expansionism, in which the expansion of a state's population would require the conquest of more territory which would, in turn, lead to a further growth in population which would then require even more conquests. In 1927, Rudolf Hess relayed to Walter Hewel Hitler's belief that world peace could only be acquired \"when one power, the racially best one, has attained uncontested supremacy\". When this control would be achieved, this power could then set up for itself a world police and assure itself \"the necessary living space... The lower races will have to restrict themselves accordingly\".\n\nDuring its imperial period (1868–1945), the Japanese elaborated a worldview, \"Hakkō ichiu\", translated as \"eight corners of the world under one roof\". This was the idea behind the attempt to establish a Greater Asian Coprosperity Sphere and behind the struggle for world domination.\n\nThe Atlantic Charter was a published statement agreed between the United Kingdom and the United States. It was intended as the blueprint for the postwar world after World War II, and turned out to be the foundation for many of the international agreements that currently shape the world. The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the post-war independence of British and French possessions, and much more are derived from the Atlantic Charter. The Atlantic charter was made to show the goals of the allied powers during World War II. It first started with the United States and Great Britain, and later all the allies would follow the charter. Some goals include access to raw materials, reduction of trade restrictions, and freedom from fear and wants. The name, The Atlantic Charter, came from a newspaper that coined the title. However, Winston Churchill would use it, and from then on the Atlantic Charter was the official name. In retaliation, the Axis powers would raise their morale and try to work their way into Great Britain. The Atlantic Charter was a stepping stone into the creation of the United Nations.\nU.S. President Harry S. Truman commented: \"We must make the United Nations continue to work, and to be a going concern, to see that difficulties between nations may be settled just as we settle difficulties between States here in the United States. When Kansas and Colorado fall out over the waters in the Arkansas River, they don't go to war over it; they go to the Supreme Court of the United States, and the matter is settled in a just and honorable way. There is not a difficulty in the whole world that cannot be settled in exactly the same way in a world court\". -- President Truman's remarks in Omaha, Nebraska on June 5, 1948, at the dedication of the War Memorial. The cultural moment of the late 1940s was the peak of World Federalism among Americans.\n\nThe years between the conclusion of World War II and 1950, when the Korean War started and the Cold War mindset became dominant in international politics, were the \"golden age\" of the world federalist movement. Wendell Willkie's book \"One World\", first published in 1943, sold over 2 million copies. In another, Emery Reves' book \"The Anatomy of Peace\" (1945) laid out the arguments for replacing the UN with a federal world government and quickly became the \"bible\" of world federalists. The grassroots world federalist movement in the US, led by people such as Grenville Clark, Norman Cousins, Alan Cranston and Robert Hutchins, organized itself into increasingly larger structures, finally forming, in 1947, the United World Federalists (later renamed to World Federalist Association, then Citizens for Global Solutions), claiming membership of 47,000 in 1949.\n\nSimilar movements concurrently formed in many other countries, leading to the formation, at a 1947 meeting in Montreux, Switzerland, of a global coalition, now called World Federalist Movement. By 1950, the movement claimed 56 member groups in 22 countries, with some 156,000 members.\n\nWorld War II (1939–1945) resulted in an unprecedented scale of destruction of lives (over 60 million dead, most of them civilians), and the use of weapons of mass destruction. Some of the acts committed against civilians during the war were on such a massive scale of savagery, they came to be widely considered as crimes against humanity itself. As the war's conclusion drew near, many shocked voices called for the establishment of institutions able to permanently prevent deadly international conflicts. This led to the founding of the United Nations in 1945, which adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948. Many, however, felt that the UN, essentially a forum for discussion and coordination between sovereign governments, was insufficiently empowered for the task. A number of prominent persons, such as Albert Einstein, Winston Churchill, Bertrand Russell and Mohandas K. Gandhi, called on governments to proceed further by taking gradual steps towards forming an effectual federal world government. The United Nations main goal is to work on international law, international security, economic development, human rights, social progress, and eventually world peace. The United Nations replaced the League of Nations in 1945, after World War II. Almost every internationally recognized country is in the U.N.; as it contains 193 member states out of the 196 total nations of the world. The United Nations gather regularly in order to solve big problems throughout the world. There are six official languages: Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish. The United Nations is also financed by some of the wealthiest nations. The flag shows the Earth from a map that shows all of the populated continents.\n\nA United Nations Parliamentary Assembly (UNPA) is a proposed addition to the United Nations System that would allow for participation of member nations' legislators and, eventually, direct election of United Nations (UN) parliament members by citizens worldwide. The idea was raised at the founding of the League of Nations in the 1920s and again following the end of World War II in 1945, but remained dormant throughout the Cold War. In the 1990s and 2000s, the rise of global trade and the power of world organizations that govern it led to calls for a parliamentary assembly to scrutinize their activity. The Campaign for the Establishment of a United Nations Parliamentary Assembly was formed in 2007 to coordinate pro-UNPA efforts, which as of July 2013 has received the support of over 850 Members of Parliament from over 90 countries worldwide, in addition to over 350 non-governmental organizations and 21 Nobel and Right Livelihood laureates and 16 Heads or former heads of state or government and foreign ministers.\n\nIn France, 1948, Garry Davis began an unauthorized speech calling for a world government from the balcony of the UN General Assembly, until he was dragged away by the guards. Davis renounced his American citizenship and started a Registry of World Citizens. On September 4, 1953, Davis announced from the city hall of Ellsworth, Maine the formation of the \"World Government of World Citizens\" based on 3 \"World Laws\"—One God (or Absolute Value), One World, and One Humanity. Following this declaration, mandated, he claimed, by Article twenty one, Section three of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, he formed the United World Service Authority in New York City as the administrative agency of the new government. Its first task was to design and begin selling \"World Passports\", which the organisation argues is legitimatised by on Article 13, Section 2 of the UDHR.\n\nThe World Passport is a 45-page document sold by the World Service Authority, a non-profit organization, citing Article 13, Section 2, of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. World Passports have allegedly been accepted sporadically by some 174 countries, but no immigration authority has a de facto or de jure policy of acceptance with regards to the document. The latest edition of the World Passport, which has been on sale since January 2007, is an MRD (machine readable document) with an alphanumeric code bar enabling computer input plus an embedded \"ghost\" photo for security, printing overcovered with a plastic film. The document is in 7 languages: English, French, Spanish, Russian, Arabic, Simplified Chinese and Esperanto. Two covers are available: \"World Passport\", and \"World Government Passport\" (for registered World Citizens), (\"passport\" is in 7 languages on both covers). Other documents sold by the WSA include a World Birth Certificate, a World Political Asylum Card, a World Marriage Certificate, and a World Identity Card. Each page within the document is numbered and each page has the World Citizen logo in the background. There are two pages for affiliation with companies, organizations, and firms. There are nineteen visa pages in the document. On the back cover there are spaces for personal information such as a person’s home address.\n\nLegal anthropologist E. Adamson Hoebel concluded his treatise on broadening the legal realist tradition to include non-Western nations: \"Whatever the idealist may desire, force and the threat of force are the ultimate power in the determination of international behavior, as in the law within the nation or tribe. But until force and the threat of force in international relations are brought under social control by the world community, by and for the world society, they remain the instruments of social anarchy and not the sanctions of world law. The creation in clear-cut terms of the corpus of world law cries for the doing. If world law, however, is to be realized at all, there will have to be minimum of general agreement as to the nature of the physical and ideational world and the relation of men in society to it. An important and valuable next step will be found in deep-cutting analysis of the major law systems of the contemporary world in order to lay bare their basic postulates – postulates that are too generally hidden; postulates felt, perhaps, by those who live by them, but so much taken for granted that they are rarely expressed or exposed for examination. When this is done – and it will take the efforts of many keen intellects steeped in the law of at least a dozen lands and also aware of the social nexus of the law – then mankind will be able to see clearly for the first time and clearly where the common consensus of the great living social and law systems lies. Here will be found the common postulates and values upon which the world community can build. At the same time the truly basic points of conflict that will have to be worked upon for resolution will be revealed. Law is inherently purposive\".\n\nWhile enthusiasm for multinational federalism in Europe incrementally led, over the following decades, to the formation of the European Union, the onset of the Cold War (1945–1992) eliminated the prospects of any progress towards federation with a more global scope. The movement quickly shrank in size to a much smaller core of activists, and the world government idea all but disappeared from wide public discourse.\n\nFollowing the end of the Cold War in 1992, interest in a federal world government and, more generally, in the global protection of human rights, was renewed. The most visible achievement of the world federalism movement during the 1990s is the Rome Statute of 1998, which led to the establishment of the International Criminal Court in 2002. In Europe, progress towards forming a federal union of European states gained much momentum, starting in 1952 as a trade deal between the German and French people led, in 1992, to the Maastricht Treaty that established the name and enlarged the agreement that the European Union (EU) is based upon. The EU expanded (1995, 2004, 2007, 2013) to encompass, in 2013, over half a billion people in 28 member states. Following the EU's example, the African Union was founded in 2002 and the Union of South American Nations in 2008.\n\n, there is no functioning global international military, executive, legislature, judiciary, or constitution with jurisdiction over the entire planet.\n\nThe Earth is divided geographically and demographically into mutually exclusive territories and political structures called states which are independent and sovereign in most cases. There are numerous bodies, institutions, unions, coalitions, agreements and contracts between these units of authority, but, except in cases where a nation is under military occupation by another, \"all\" such arrangements depend on the continued consent of the participant nations. Countries that violate or do not enforce international laws may be subject to penalty or coercion often in the form of economic limitations such as embargo by cooperating countries, even if the violating country is not part of the United Nations. In this way a countries cooperation in international affairs is voluntary, but non-cooperation still has diplomatic consequences.\n\nAmong the voluntary organizations and international arrangements are:\n\nIn addition to the formal, or semi-formal, international organizations and laws mentioned above, many other mechanisms act to regulate human activities across national borders. In particular, international trade in goods, services and currencies (the \"global market\") has a tremendous impact on the lives of people in almost all parts of the world, creating deep interdependency amongst nations (see globalization). Trans-national (or multi-national) corporations, some with resources exceeding those available to most governments, govern activities of people on a global scale. The rapid increase in the volume of trans-border digital communications and mass-media distribution (e.g., Internet, satellite television) has allowed information, ideas, and opinions to rapidly spread across the world, creating a complex web of international coordination and influence, mostly outside the control of any formal organizations or laws. A proactive form of globalization is emerging, spawned by international corporations that wish to loosen trade restrictions. It is the global financial firms that have been the most eager proponents of this expansion. A group of advocates from different parts of the world had been pushing for an integrated global society as envisioned in the Globalist Manifesto which is the foundation of globalism ideology.\n\nThe only union generally recognized as having achieved the status of a supranational union is the European Union.\n\nThere are a number of other regional organizations that, while not supranational unions, have adopted or intend to adopt policies that may lead to a similar sort of integration in some respects.\n\n\nOther organisations that have also discussed greater integration include:\n\n\nThe most relevant model for the incremental establishment of a global federation may be the European Union (EU), which politically unites a large group of widely diverse (and some formerly hostile) nations spread over a large geographical area and encompassing over 500 million people. Although the EU is still evolving, it already has many attributes of a federal government such as open internal borders, a directly elected parliament, a court system, an official currency (Euro), and a centralized economic policy. A treaty change would be needed to allow for enlargement of the Union beyond the European continent.\n\nThe EU's example is being followed by the African Union, the Union of South American Nations, the Organization of Central American States, and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. A multitude of regional associations, aggregating most nations of the world, are at different stages of development towards a growing extent of economic, and sometimes political, integration. The European Union consists of twenty-eight European states. It has developed a \"single market\" which allows people of different countries to travel from state to state without a passport. This also includes the same policies when it comes to trading. The European Union is said to have 26% of the world's money. Not all EU member states use the Euro; the United Kingdom, for example, retains the pound sterling. Where the Euro is in place, it allows easy access for the free circulation of trade goods. Tariffs are also the same for each country allowing no unfair practices within the union.\n\nThe North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) is an intergovernmental military alliance based on the North Atlantic Treaty which was signed on 4 April 1949. The organization constitutes a system of collective defence whereby its member states agree to mutual defense in response to an attack by any external party. NATO's headquarters are in Brussels, Belgium, one of the 28 member states across North America and Europe, the newest of which, Albania and Croatia, joined in April 2009. An additional 22 countries participate in NATO's \"Partnership for Peace\", with 15 other countries involved in institutionalized dialogue programs. The combined military spending of all NATO members constitutes over 70% of the world's defence spending.\n\nThe Caribbean Community (CARICOM), is an organization of 15 Caribbean nations and dependencies. CARICOM's main purpose is to promote economic integration and cooperation among its members, to ensure that the benefits of integration are equitably shared and to coordinate foreign policy. Its major activities involve coordinating economic policies and development planning; devising and instituting special projects for the less-developed countries within its jurisdiction; operating as a regional single market for many of its members CARICOM Single Market and Economy (CSME); and handling regional trade disputes.\n\nSince the establishment of CARICOM by the mainly English Creole-speaking parts of the Caribbean region CARICOM has become multilingual in practice with the addition of Dutch speaking Suriname on 4 July 1995 (although the lingua franca in Suriname is Sranan Tongo, which is an English-based Creole like the languages spoken in much of the rest of CARICOM) and Haiti, where French and Haitian Creole are spoken, on 2 July 2002. In 2001, the heads of government signed a Revised Treaty of Chaguaramas in Trinidad and Tobago, clearing the way for the transformation of the idea for a Common Market aspect of CARICOM into instead a Caribbean Single Market and Economy. Part of the revised treaty among member states includes the establishment and implementation of the Caribbean Court of Justice (CCJ).\n\nThe African Union (AU) is an organisation consisting of all the 55 African states of the continent and African waters. Established on July 9, 2002, the AU was formed as a successor to the amalgamated African Economic Community (AEC) and the Organisation of African Unity (OAU). Eventually, the AU aims to have a single currency and a single integrated defence force, as well as other institutions of state, including a cabinet for the AU Head of State. The purpose of the union is to help secure Africa's democracy, human rights, and a sustainable economy, especially by bringing an end to intra-African conflict and creating an effective common market.\n\nProjects for improved economic and political cooperation are also happening at a regional level with the Arab Maghreb Union, the Economic Community of West African States, the Economic Community of Central African States the Southern African Development Community and the East African Community.\nASEAN ( ), the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, is a geo-political and economic organization of 10 countries located in Southeast Asia, which was formed on August 8, 1967 by Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand as a display of solidarity against communist expansion in Vietnam and insurgency within their own borders. Its claimed aims include the acceleration of economic growth, social progress, cultural development among its members, and the promotion of regional peace. All members later founded the Asia Cooperation Dialogue, which aims to unite the entire continent.\nThe Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) is an intergovernmental organization which was founded on June 14, 2001 by the leaders of the People's Republic of China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. Except for Uzbekistan, these countries had been members of the Shanghai Five; after the inclusion of Uzbekistan in 2001, the members renamed the organization.\nThe Commonwealth of Independent States is comparable to a confederation similar to the original European Community. Although the CIS has few supranational powers, it is more than a purely symbolic organization, possessing coordinating powers in the realm of trade, finance, lawmaking, and security. It has also promoted cooperation on democratization and cross-border crime prevention. As a regional organization, CIS participates in UN peacekeeping forces. Some of the members of the CIS have established the Eurasian Economic Community with the aim of creating a full-fledged common market.\nThe Arab League is a regional organization of Arab states in Southwest Asia, and North and Northeast Africa. It was formed in Cairo on March 22, 1945 with six members: Egypt, Iraq, Transjordan (renamed Jordan after 1946), Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, and Syria. Yemen joined as a member on May 5, 1945. The Arab League currently has 22 members, which also include, Algeria, Bahrain, Comoros, Djibouti, Kuwait, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, Somalia, Sudan, Tunisia and the United Arab Emirates.\nIt has also been proposed to reform the Arab League into an Arab Union. The Arab League currently is the most important organization in the region.\nThe Union of South American Nations, modeled on the European Union, was founded between 2006 and 2008. It incorporates all the independent states of South America. These states are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Guyana, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, Uruguay, and Venezuela.\n\nThe South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) is an economic and political organization of eight countries in Southern Asia. In terms of population, its sphere of influence is the largest of any regional organization: almost 1.5 billion people, the combined population of its member states. It was established on December 8, 1985 by India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Maldives and Bhutan. In April 2007, at the Association's 14th summit, Afghanistan became its eighth member.\nThe Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) is an international organisation with a permanent delegation to the United Nations. It groups 57 member states, from the Middle East, Africa, Central Asia, Caucasus, Balkans, Southeast Asia and South Asia. The organization claims it represents the Global Islamic World (\"ummah\"). The official languages of the organisation are Arabic, English and French.\n\nSince the 19th century, many Muslims have aspired to uniting the Muslim \"ummah\" to serve their common political, economic and social interests. Despite the presence of secularist, nationalist and socialist ideologies in modern Muslim states, they have cooperated to form the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation. The formation of the OIC happened in the backdrop of the loss of Muslim holy sites in Jerusalem. The final cause sufficiently compelled leaders of Muslim nations to meet in Rabat to establish the OIC on September 25, 1969.\n\nAccording to its charter, the OIC aims to preserve Islamic social and economic values; promote solidarity amongst member states; increase cooperation in social, economic, cultural, scientific, and political areas; uphold international peace and security; and advance education, particularly in the fields of science and technology.\n\nOn August 5, 1990, 45 foreign ministers of the OIC adopted the Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam to serve as a guidance for the member states in the matters of human rights in as much as they are compatible with the Sharia, or Quranic Law.\n\nThe Turkic Council is an international organization comprising Turkic countries. Since 1992, the \"Turkic Language Speaking Countries Summit\" has been organizing amongst the Turkic countries. On October 3, 2009, four of these countries signed the Nahcivan Agreement. The organizational center is İstanbul. Additionally, the Joint Administration of Turkic Arts and Culture was founded in Almaty in 1992 and the \"Turkic Countries Parliamentarian Assembly\" was founded in Baku in 1998. All of these organizations were coopted into the Turkic Council. The Turkic Council has an operational style similar to organization like the Arab League. The member countries are Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Turkey. The remaining two Turkic states, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan are not currently official members of the council. However, due to their neutral stance, they participate in international relations and are strongly predicted to be future members of the council. The idea of setting up this cooperative council was first put forward by Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev back in 2006.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
