{"id": "18936343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18936343", "title": "Amethyst Initiative", "text": "Amethyst Initiative\n\nThe Amethyst Initiative is an organization made up of U.S. college presidents and chancellors that in July 2008 launched a movement calling for the reconsideration of U.S. legal drinking age, particularly the minimum age of 21. The National Minimum Drinking Age Act of 1984 requires all US states to raise their minimum age for purchase and public possession of alcohol to 21 or face a reduction in highway funds under the Federal-Aid Highway Act. The Amethyst Initiative was initiated by John McCardell, founder of Choose Responsibility, a former professor of history at Middlebury College in Middlebury, Vermont and current Vice-Chancellor of , and is currently supported by 136 college presidents who signed a statement proclaiming, \"It’s time to rethink the drinking age\".\n\nAccording to Greek and Roman legend, amethysts protected their owners from drunkenness.\n\nThe Amethyst Initiative states that, in their experience as university presidents, they have observed, \"Alcohol education that mandates abstinence as the only legal option has not resulted in significant constructive behavioral change among our students,\" and therefore they urge lawmakers \"to invite new ideas about the best ways to prepare young adults to make responsible decisions about alcohol\".\n\nGustavus Adolphus College President Jack R. Ohle said in a statement that the initiative is not about lowering the drinking age, but to open a debate on alcohol policies that affect young people and their choices about alcohol use. \n\nThe Amethyst Initiative states the following:\n\nSignatories of the initiative include:\n\nThe initiative's proposal has been criticized by several groups and government and industry officials, including Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD). Joining MADD's criticism are other groups, including the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, the American Medical Association, and the National Transportation Safety Board. A spokesman for the Governors Highway Safety Association told \"The Washington Post\" that university leaders \"are really just punting on the issue and leaving the high school principals to deal with it.\" However, Amethyst Initiative's parent organization, Choose Responsibility, proposes that only high school graduates should be eligible.\n\nIn a press release, MADD argues that lowering the drinking age would result in greater numbers of fatal automobile accidents, and that the presidents are \"looking for an easy way out of an inconvenient problem\" and \"misrepresenting science.\" MADD cited former U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary, and current University of Miami president Donna Shalala statement that \"maintaining the legal drinking age at 21 is a socially and medically sound policy that helps parents, schools and law enforcement protect our youth from the potentially life-threatening effects of underage drinking.\"\nChoose Responsibility argues that scientific evidence supports the Amethyst Initiative's views and goals, and refutes some of MADD's past claims. Sanford Ungar, president of Goucher College and signee of the initiative argues that opponents should not fear because the Amethyst Initiative is about opening up the debate to improve alcohol policy. He brings about the misconception that they want to \"polarize\" the issue at hand, but instead wishes to find a better alternative to the current drinking age.\n\nRadley Balko, of \"Reason,\" wryly noted inconsistency opponents of the Amethyst Initiative believe that it \"would be a \"national tragedy\" to, for example, allow 19- and 20-year-old men and women returning from Iraq and Afghanistan to have a beer in celebration of completing their tours of duty.\" Balko also noted research showing that underage drinking laws had not reduced highway deaths.\n\nIn November 2008, the Student Senate at the University of Wisconsin–La Crosse rejected a proposal to urge that university's chancellor to sign the Amethyst Initiative. Supposedly the first such attempt by a student body to ask a president or chancellor to sign on, the measure at UW–L was defeated 14-19 after three weeks' debate. Chancellor Joe Gow said this vote, \"certainly defies the 'conventional wisdom' regarding young people being eager to lower the drinking age.\"\n\nIn 2014, a pair of researchers published a literature review in Journal of Studies on Alcohol and Drugs of studies on the effect of the drinking age in response to the Amethyst Initiative; the review indicates support for the drinking age remaining at 21. That review, however, was specific to studies focused on the United States of America and comparing trends before and after 1984; based on World Health Organization (WHO) data from 2011 and 2014, foreign countries with lesser drinking ages often have fewer alcohol-related deaths per capita annually than the USA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16594692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16594692", "title": "Aonach", "text": "Aonach\n\nAn Aonach or Óenach was an ancient Irish public national assembly called upon the death of a king, queen, notable sage or warrior as part of ancestor worship practices. As well as the entertainment, the óenach was an occasion on which kings and notables met under truce and where laws were pronounced and confirmed.\n\nThe Aonach had three functions; honoring the dead, proclaiming laws, and funeral games and festivities to entertain. The first function took between one and three days depending on the importance of the deceased, guests would sing mourning chants called the \"Guba\" after which druids would improvise songs in memory of the dead called a \"Cepóg\". The dead would then be burnt on a funeral pyre. The second function would then be carried out by the Ollamh Érenn, giving out laws to the people via bards and druids and culminating in the igniting of another massive fire. The custom of rejoicing after a funeral was then enshrined in the \"Cuiteach Fuait\", games of mental and physical ability accompanied by a large market for traders. \n\nThe most notable fair, that held under the auspices of the High King of Ireland and the Uí Néill, was the \"Óenach Tailten\" or \"Tailteann Games\", which is given prehistoric origins by medieval writers. This was held at Teltown, in modern County Meath, as late as 1770. The compilers of the Irish annals considered violence and disorders at this óenach, or the failure of the incumbent High King to hold the fair, to be of note. The Irish Free State held revivals of the Tailteann Games from 1924 to 1932. \n\nOther important assemblies included that of Tlachtga, held on the Hill of Ward at Samhain, that of Carman, held in County Wexford, that of Uisnech, held at Beltane and that of Raigne in Osraige. Not all had pagan calendrical associations. The \"Óenach Colmáin\", probably held at Lynally, was named for Saint Elo Colman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44231559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44231559", "title": "Child's slave", "text": "Child's slave\n\nChild's Slave (Chinese: 孩奴 \"háinú\") is a term used to describe some parents in China, especially those born in the 1980s, who are under pressure when raising their children. The pressures can be in form of financial, physical, or mental pressure. The parents who are \"Child's Slave\" lose their self-value and the purpose of life because they live and work only for their children. Also, their children are usually spoiled because of the indulgence of parents.\n\nSimilarly, there are also \"House's Slave\" and \"Car's Slave\", which means the people who are under living pressure of buying houses and cars.\n\nThe main reason is the high cost of raising a child, which includes the cost of housing, food, education and transportation. It has been rising over the years. According to the gynecologist in China, it cost about 40 RMB only to give birth in 1980s, while it is over 4,000 RMB now. However, even more money is spent on education of the child because of the fierce competition in China. The huge expenditure forces parents to become a \"child's slave\". Some married couples might even get child phobia because of it.\n\nParents in China can have only one child under one-child policy, which leads to excessive parental expectations. With parents putting all their hopes and dreams on the only child, the parents might over-protect them and materially over-provide them.\n\nIn Chinese traditional culture, family is considered as a center of society. This concept remains the same now and the child becomes the center of family. The parents who are \"child's slaves\" are mostly post-80s, who grew up in a special circumstance. As the first generation growing under single child policy, they had no siblings and were the center of family as well. Therefore, they are self-oriented and have difficulty of expressing their emotions. They use materials and money to show their love towards their children. This gives them a heavy burden and makes them become \"child's slave\" eventually.\n\n\nThe child is usually well-taken care of, hence spoiled by parents. Since everything is well prepared by the parents, the child might have low self-care ability. Moreover, he gains sufficient supports, both financially and mentally, to focus on his own interests, which may lead to temporary success. This reduces their ability of facing failure. Also, the children might be over dependent on their parents.\n\nOn the other hand, since the children are spoiled by their parents, they take parents' love for granted, and even regard them as servants. This might affect the personality of children, by developing the so-called prince illness. Lack of sense of responsibility slows down their mental maturity.\n\nSince the child is the center of the family, the parents are willing to give up their own life goals in order to focus on the growth of the child. High expectation is imposed to the kid, and it might worsen the relationship between the child and parents due to the severe upbringing\n\nFor the whole society, a generation of spoilt children does little contribution to social development. They are selfish and lazy, unwilling to work hard.\n\nAging society is another problem. If young couples refuse to give birth because of the fear of becoming \"child's slaves\", the labor force of society will be reduced.\n\n\"Child's slave\" has become a common situation in modern China. Many young parents, especially those born in the 1980s, are called \"child's slaves\" to describe the heavy burden on them.\n\nMore than 80% of young parents feel great pressure under the burden of raising a child because of high expenses incurred as the child grows up. To ensure their child grow in a better environment, young parents are willing to spend most of their income on them. The common situation of buying expensive imported milk powder is a representation. The average cost for raising up a child from birth to grade six is RMB 450,000, despite the extra spending like traveling or studying abroad. In big cities like Beijing and Shanghai, the cost is even much higher.\n\nMoreover, most of these young parents also have other \"name-tags\", including \"mortgage's slave\", \"card's slave\" and \"car's slave\", which indicates how heavy their financial pressure are. It is because of the inflation in China and also their wills of providing a better living environment to their family and child. Apart from the financial pressure, \"Child's slaves\" sacrifice their own life for the child. Some of them give up personal career and shorten their leisure time to take care of the child, or some of them work day and night to earn money for their child.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12067506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12067506", "title": "Civitas Foundation for Civil Society", "text": "Civitas Foundation for Civil Society\n\nCivitas Foundation for Civil Society is a NGO in Romania which aims to stimulate the local and regional development.\n\nCivitas Foundation was founded in October 1992. The main reasons for its founding were the need to enhance the local government capacity and to stimulate the citizen’s involvement in decision making and local governance. The foundation carries on activities in Transylvania, but carries on projects on national and international level (South East Europe) too.\n\nThe programs and projects carried on by the foundation can be classified in four major domains which are in concordance with the strategically principles.\n\nThe services provided by the foundation are structured in three categories:\n\nThe beneficiaries of the services offered by Civitas:\n\n\nCivitas Foundation is member in the followings networks:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12205222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12205222", "title": "Coherence time (communications systems)", "text": "Coherence time (communications systems)\n\nIn communications systems, a communication channel may change with time. Coherence time is the time duration over which the channel impulse response is considered to be not varying. Such channel variation is much more significant in wireless communications systems, due to Doppler effects.\n\nIn a simple model, a signal formula_1 transmitted at time formula_2 will be received as\nwhere formula_4 is the channel impulse response (CIR) at time formula_2. A signal transmitted at time formula_6 will be received as \nNow, if formula_8 is relatively small, the channel may be considered constant within the interval formula_2 to formula_6.\n\nCoherence time (formula_11) will therefore be given by\n\nCoherence time formula_11 is the time domain dual of Doppler spread and is used to characterize the time varying nature of the frequency dispersiveness of the channel in the time domain. The Maximum Doppler spread and coherence time are inversely proportional to one another. That is,\nwhere formula_15 is the maximum Doppler spread or, maximum Doppler frequency or, maximum Doppler shift given by formula_16 with formula_17 being the center frequency of the emitter.\n\nCoherence time is actually a statistical measure of the time duration over which the channel impulse response is essentially invariant, and quantifies the similarity of the channel response at different times. In other words, coherence time is the time duration over which two received signals have a strong potential for amplitude correlation. If the reciprocal bandwidth of the baseband signal is greater than the coherence time of the channel, then the channel will change during the transmission of the baseband message, thus causing distortion at the receiver. If the coherence time is defined as the time over which the time correlation function is above 0.5, then the coherence time is approximately,\n\nIn practice, the first approximation of coherence time suggests a time duration during which a Rayleigh fading signal may fluctuate wildly, and the second approximation is often too restrictive. A popular rule of thumb for modern digital communications is to define the coherence time as the geometric mean of the two approximate equations also known as Clarke's model; from the maximum Doppler frequency formula_19 we can obtain 50% coherence time \nUsually, we use the following relation\n"}
{"id": "22539338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22539338", "title": "Communication rights", "text": "Communication rights\n\nCommunication rights involve freedom of opinion and expression, democratic media governance, media ownership and media control, participation in one's own culture, linguistic rights, rights to education, privacy, assemble, and self-determination. They are also related inclusion and exclusion, quality and accessibility to means of communication.\n\nA \"right to communicate\" and \"communication rights\" are closely related, but not identical. The former is more associated with the New World Information and Communication Order debate, and points to the need for a formal legal acknowledgment of such a right, as an overall framework for more effective implementation. The latter emphasizes the fact that an array of international rights underpinning communication already exists, but many are often ignored and require active mobilization and assertion.\n\nThe concept of the right to communicate began in 1969 with Jean D’Arcy, a pioneer in French and European television in the 1950s and by 1969 Director of the United Nations Radio and Visual Services Division, where he was involved in international policy discussions arising out of the recent innovations in satellite global communications. He recognized that the communication rights relating to freedom of expression embodied in the U. N. Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) adopted in 1948 would need to be re-examined in the context of global, interactive communication between individuals and communities. He called for the need for the recognition of a human right to communicate that would encompass earlier established rights. He thus was the first to link communication and \"universal\" human rights. His call was taken up by academics, policy experts, and public servants who evolved into the Right to Communicate Group, the many non-governmental and civil society organisations that made up the Platform for Co-operation on Communication and Democratisation, and the Communication Rights in the Information Society (CRIS) Campaign.\n\nThe first broad-based debate on media and communication globally, limited mainly to governments, ran for a decade from the mid-1970s. Governments of the South, by then a majority in the UN, began voicing demands in UNESCO concerning media concentration, the flow of news, and ‘cultural imperialism’. The MacBride Report (1981) studied the problem, articulating a general ‘right to communicate’. The debate was compromised, however, by Cold War rhetoric, and fell apart after the US and the UK pulled out of UNESCO.\n\nThe \"MacBride Report\" became unavailable until the World Association for Christian Communication (WACC) sponsored its republication in 1988. WACC held the secretariat of the CRIS Campaign 2000–05.\n\nInterest in the right to communicate languished during the 1980s as there was no mass movement to promote it for the simple reason few people had direct experience with interactive communication over global electronic networks. This situation changed dramatically in the 1990s with a cluster of innovations that included the Internet, the World Wide Web, search engines, availability of personal computers, and social networking. As more people participated in interactive communication and the many challenges it raised in regard to such communication rights as free of speech, privacy, and freedom of information, they began to develop a growing consciousness of the importance of such rights to their ability to communicate.\n\nA result of this growing communicative consciousness is a renewed research interest in and political advocacy for a right to communicate (see references). From the 1990s onwards, NGOs and activists became increasingly active in a variety of communication issues, from community media, to language rights, to copyright, to Internet provision and free and open source software. These coalesced in a number of umbrella groups tackling inter-related issues from which the pluralistic notion of communication rights began to take shape, this time from the ground up.\n\nEach Pillar [of Communication Rights] relates to a different domain of social existence, experience and practice, in which communication is a core activity and performs key functions. The for the four [pillars is,] that each involves a \"relatively autonomous sphere of social action\", yet \"depends on the others\" for achieving its ultimate goal - they are necessary interlocking blocks in the struggle to achieve communication rights. Action can be coherently pursued under, each, often in collaboration with other social actors concerned with the area more generally; while bridges can and must be built to the other areas if the goal is to be achieved.\n\n\"The role of communication and media in exercising democratic political participation in society.\"\n\n\"The terms and means by which knowledge generated by society is communicated, or blocked, for use by different groups.\"\n\n\"The exercise of civil rights relating to the processes of communication in society.\"\n\n\"The communication of diverse cultures, cultural forms and identities at the individual and social levels.\"\n\nA ‘right to communicate’ and ‘communication rights’ are closely related, but not identical, in their history and usage. In the Cold War tensions of the 1970s and 1980s, the former became associated with the New World Information and Communication Order (NWICO) debate, thus, efforts within UNESCO to formulate such a right were abandoned. The latter emphasizes the fact that an array of international rights underpinning communication already exists, but many are too often ignored and require active mobilisation and assertion. While some, especially within the mass media sector, still see the right to communicate as a \"code word\" for state censorship,the technological innovations in interactive electronic, global communication of recent decades are seen by others as challenging the traditional mass media structures and formulations of communication rights values arising from them, thereby renewing the need to re-consider the need for a right to communicate.\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "19347198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19347198", "title": "Complaint system", "text": "Complaint system\n\nA complaint system (also known as a conflict management system, internal conflict management system, integrated conflict management system, or dispute system) is a set of procedures used in organizations to address complaints and resolve disputes. Complaint systems in the US have undergone several innovations especially since about 1970 with the advent of extensive workplace regulation. Notably in many countries, conflict management channels and systems have evolved from a major focus on labor-management relations to a much wider purview that includes unionized workers and also managers, non-union employees, professional staff, students, trainees, vendors, donors, customers, etc.\n\nThere is a substantial early history of scholarly work on due process, and union and non-union grievance procedures within organizations. This work focused primarily on rights-based conflict resolution between union and non-union workers and their managers. Scholarly work has evolved to cover both a wider range of conflict management channels, and, also, a much wider range of disputants.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s much interest arose in the United States, in dealing with conflict informally as well as formally, and in learning from conflict and managing conflict. In contemporary language, these discussions centered on the \"interests\" of all who would consider themselves stake-holders in a given conflict—and on systems change—as well as resolving grievances.\n\nThese discussions led to questions of how to think about complaint systems and how to link different conflict management offices and processes within an organization. Papers by Ronald Berenbeimmason djordje bentions.\n\nMany authors extended the work of Berenbeim, Rowe, and Rowe and Baker, on the topic of internal complaint systems. They included: Douglas M. McCabe, William L. Ury, Jeanne M. Brett, and Stephen B. Goldberg. (Ury, Brett and Goldberg in particular described conflict resolution within organizations in terms of interests, rights and power and the possibility of looping back from rights-based processes to interest-based solutions.) Cathy Costantino and Cristina S Merchant, and Karl A. Slaikeu and Ralph H. Hasson extensively explored issues of designing conflict management systems.\n\nThe concept of an \"integrated\" conflict management system was conceived and developed by Mary Rowe, in numerous articles in the 1980s and 1990s. She saw the need to offer options for complainants and therefore a linked system of choices within an organizational system.\n\nThe idea of a systems approach has endured well. In recent years however, there has been discussion as to whether conflict should be \"managed\" by the organization—or whether the goal is to understand, deal with and learn from conflict. There is also concern about practical and theoretical issues in \"integrating\" a system, with some observers preferring the idea of \"coordinating\" a conflict system. However 2012 research by David Lipsky \"et al.\", suggests that an increasing number of corporations see themselves as having \"integrated conflict management systems,\" or \"ICMS.\"\n\nThere is also a major need to collect, review and understand the nature of conflict management and complaint systems around the world. Studies and citations are needed about how complaint systems work for women as well as men. Research is needed as to how systems work for many different national groups, for people of different socio-economic classes, and different ages, and different religions, and especially for contract workers and immigrant workers, in every country. Studies (and citations) are needed about complaint systems in health care, in faith-based organizations, in schools, in political organizations, in the military and in many specialized occupations. Studies are needed about important specialized issues like free speech.\n\nA number of artificial intelligence technologies are helpful in complaint resolution process, understanding the attitudes of involved parties and reasoning about them, in particular, based on the belief–desire–intention model. Concept learning is an adequate formalism to reason about complaints.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39675445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39675445", "title": "Data literacy", "text": "Data literacy\n\nData literacy is the ability to read, understand, create and communicate data as information. Much like literacy as a general concept, data literacy focuses on the competencies involved in working with data. \nAs data collection and data sharing become routine and data analysis and big data become common ideas in the news, business, government and society, it becomes more and more important for students, citizens, and readers to have some data literacy. \n\nData literacy focuses on the ability to understand and build knowledge from data, and to communicate that meaning to others. It is related to other fields, including:\n\n\n\nAs guides for finding and using information, librarians lead workshops on data literacy for students and researchers, and also work on developing their own data literacy skills. \n\nResources created by librarians include MIT's Data Management and Publishing tutorial, the EDINA Research Data Management Training (MANTRA), the University of Edinburgh’s Data Library and the University of Minnesota libraries’ Data Management Course for Structural Engineers.\n"}
{"id": "41994398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41994398", "title": "Discussion moderator", "text": "Discussion moderator\n\nA discussion moderator or debate moderator is a person whose role is to act as a neutral participant in a debate or discussion, holds participants to time limits and tries to keep them from straying off the topic of the questions being raised in the debate. Sometimes moderators may ask questions intended to allow the debate participants to fully develop their argument in order to ensure the debate moves at pace.\n\nIn panel discussions commonly held at academic conferences, the moderator usually introduces the participants and solicits questions from the audience. On television and radio shows, a moderator will often take calls from people having differing views, and will use those calls as a starting point to ask questions of guests on the show. Perhaps the most prominent role of moderators is in political debates, which have become a common feature of election campaigns. The moderator may have complete control over which questions to ask, or may act as a filter by selecting questions from the audience.\n\nThe role of the discussion moderator became significant in the year 1780, when a \"Rage for publick debate\" led to a number of different organizations advertising and hosting debates for anywhere between 650 and 1200 people. The question for debate was introduced by a president or moderator who proceeded to regulate the discussion. Speakers were given set amounts of time to argue their point of view, and, at the end of the debate, a vote was taken to determine a decision or adjourn the question for further debate. Speakers were not permitted to slander or insult other speakers, or diverge from the topic at hand, illustrating the value placed on politeness.\n\nIn the television era, it is common for political debate moderators to be journalists, either individually or as a panel.\n"}
{"id": "2998435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2998435", "title": "Disease mongering", "text": "Disease mongering\n\n]\nDisease mongering is a term for the practice of widening the diagnostic boundaries of illnesses and aggressively promoting their public awareness in order to expand the markets for treatment. \nAmong the entities benefiting from selling and delivering treatments are pharmaceutical companies, physicians, alternative practitioners and other professional or consumer organizations. It is distinct from the promulgation of bogus or unrecognised diagnoses.\n\nThe term “monger” has ancient roots, providing the basis for many common compound forms such as cheesemonger, fishmonger, and fleshmonger for those who peddle such wares respectively. “Disease mongering” as a label for the \"invention\" or promotion of diseases in order to capitalize on their treatment was first used in 1992 by health writer Lynn Payer, who applied it to the Listerine mouthwash campaign against halitosis (bad breath).\n\nPayer defined disease mongering as a set of practices which include the following:\n\n\nThe incidence of conditions not previously defined as illness being medicalised as \"diseases\" is difficult to scientifically assess due to the inherent social and political nature of the definition of what constitutes a disease, and what aspects of the human condition should be managed according to a medical model. For example, halitosis, the condition which prompted Payer to coin the phrase \"disease mongering\", isn't merely an imagined social stigma but can stem from any of a wide spectrum of conditions spanning from bacterial infection of the gums to kidney failure, and is recognized by the Scientific Council of the American Dental Association as \"a recognizable condition which deserves professional attention\".\n\nAustralian journalist Ray Moynihan has argued that the pharmaceutical industry engages in disease mongering to enlarge its profits, and that it harms patients. His use of osteoporosis as an example of a \"made up\" disease in this article prompted an angry retort from the president of the British National Osteoporosis Society, stating that the article was insulting to people with osteoporosis and vastly understated the risk of disabling fractures associated with the disorder. Moynihan published a satire of disease mongering in the 2006 April Fool's Day issue of BMJ titled \"Scientists find new disease: motivational deficiency disorder\".\n\nOther conditions which have been cited as examples of disease mongering include restless leg syndrome, testosterone deficiency, erectile dysfunction, hypoactive sexual desire disorder. Some of these conditions are recognized as medical disorders by professional medical societies and the National Institute of Health and Clinical Excellence. In 2014 an FDA advisory committee voted to limit the use of testosterone replacement therapy products due to potentially increased cardiovascular risk associated with their use.\n\nA 2006 Newcastle, New South Wales international conference, reported in \"PLoS Medicine\", explored the phenomenon of disease mongering.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38673678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38673678", "title": "EGM: prevention of violence against women and girls", "text": "EGM: prevention of violence against women and girls\n\nThe Expert Group Meeting (EGM): prevention of violence against women and girls was convened as part of the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women's multi-year programme of work for 2010-2014. The \"Elimination and prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls\" forms a priority theme for its fifty-seventh session in 2013 (CSW57).\n\nThe meeting took place in Bangkok, Thailand 17–20 September 2012 and was organised by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women), in collaboration with the following organisations:\n\n\"EGM note 2\" The report reflects the shared discussion and analysis of the major issues, gaps and challenges identified at the EGM and presents key findings and recommendations. It was intended to build on the individual papers on specific issues provided by experts prior to the meeting, and the background paper prepared by the rapporteur. It provides inputs for the reports of the Secretary-General to the CSW and widely disseminated in preparation to the fifty-seventh session of CSW (CSW57).\n\n\"EGM notes 3 to 5\"\nThe EGM brought together a diverse group of people from different backgrounds and regions including academics, practitioners, representatives from women’s organisations and staff members of the United Nations system.\n\nThe experts elected a drafting committee (including two co-chairs) which was tasked to draft the report of the meeting, P miconclusions and recommendations. The following experts were elected to the drafting committee:\n\n\"EGM note 6\" Experts noted that violence against women and girls is defined as ‘any act of gender-based violence that results in, or is likely to result in, physical, sexual or psychological harm or suffering to women [or girls], including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or in private life.’ It exists in multiple, interrelated and sometimes recurring forms, and is a manifestation of historically unequal power relations between men and women.\n\n\"EGM note 7\" Experts stressed that we are at a critical moment where international bodies, nation states and civil society can and must come together to solidify commitments to ending violence against women and girls, as fragile and – in many places – deteriorating economic conditions, persistent environmental degradation, internal conflicts and wars, all contribute to the exacerbation of violence against women and girls, and violations of their rights.\n\n\"EGM note 8\" Experts noted that the impacts of the global financial crisis, the economic pressures on Governments to reduce funding to social services and programmes, and the ongoing resource constraints faced by conflict-affected and developing countries, all risk limiting or reducing the investment States will make in preventing and responding to violence against women and girls.\n\n\"EGM note 9\" However, they highlighted the enormous costs violence against women and girls entails to States and societies as a whole, in terms of reduced human capital, decreased productivity, exacerbated social inequalities, lowered overall educational outcomes, and broad strains on public services. Violence diminishes women’s and girls’ ability to gain an education, earn a living and participate in public life, and live a life free of fear. It has significant health impacts, including psychological consequences, physical injuries, sexual/reproductive health issues and death. In war-affected settings, violence against women and girls inhibits efforts towards peace-building and sustainable recovery, contributing to the risk of resurgent conflict. In development settings, it hinders progress towards achievement of several of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), including those relating to , , and . It has intergenerational impacts, given that women use disproportionately more of their income toward supporting their families, and because violence diminishes their ability to fully participate in their societies (for example in politics, work or education) they are less able to invest in their children’s futures. One study in Chile found that women’s lost earnings alone as a result of domestic violence cost US$1.56 billion or more than 2 percent of the country’s Gross Domestic Product.\n\n\"EGM note 10\" Violence against women and girls therefore entails massive costs to the State, and has a dragging effect on all other social and economic development efforts, particularly in humanitarian and development contexts. It is only by lowering the incidence of violence against women and girls, preventing recurrence, and responding effectively to existing violence to minimise ongoing impacts, that the overall costs of such violence to any economy will be reduced. Experts noted that, in the face of such evidence, prevention is not only possible, but central to the social and economic advancement of developed and developing countries alike. It was reiterated that all States have not only a responsibility to significantly strengthen their planning and budgeting efforts for prevention of violence against women and girls, but that doing so will contribute to positive social and economic outcomes.\n\n\"EGM note 11\" Experts brought together experiences from across developing and developed countries, and from humanitarian contexts (arising from conflict and natural disasters), demonstrating that violence against women and girls could be prevented regardless of political, social and economic conditions. Levels of violence against women and girls vary across countries that with similar economic status or political systems – a variation that can be attributed to different laws, policies, practices, norms, behaviours and attitudes that contribute to, justify or excuse violence against women and girls. Such factors must be targeted to prevent and reduce violence within and across all settings.\n\n\"EGM note 12\" Across developing and developed countries alike, more comprehensive, multi-sectoral and sustained approaches were recognised as necessary to achieve such change, with investments commensurate to the enormous scale of the abuse and its impacts. While the allocation of more resources to prevention remained high on the priority list for experts, political will was also identified as a key factor. It was noted that organisations and communities in some developing countries have led the way in testing and expanding new models for prevention, however experts did not believe any State was currently meeting its full normative obligations in this area.\n\n\"EGM note 13\" Experts reiterated that violence against women and girls is a pervasive and systematic human rights violation, caused by – and reinforcing – gender inequality and entrenched discrimination. While most violence against women and girls is committed by non-State actors or individuals (usually men known to the victims/survivors, often husbands/intimate partners or other family members), experts were adamant that laws, policies and practices emanating from the State – as well as from traditional or customary practices – could also result in direct violence against women and girls, fail to respond to it, or create an environment where such violence was tolerated, excused or justified.\n\n\"EGM note 14\" To this end, experts noted that the prevention of violence against women and girls could not be achieved without the full implementation of the existing legal obligation on States – under the \"Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW)\" to ‘take all appropriate measures to modify the social and cultural patterns of conduct of men and women, with a view to achieving the elimination of prejudices and customary and all other practices which are based on the idea of the inferiority or the superiority of either of the sexes or on stereotyped roles for men and women,’ along with the more detailed obligations relating to the elimination of violence against women and girls outlined in the \"Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action (BPfA)\". Experts emphasised, as central to the latter, the obligation on States to ‘refrain from invoking any custom, tradition or religious consideration to avoid their obligations’ to eliminate violence against women and girls.\n\n\"EGM note 15\" A key message from experts was that the call for greater efforts to prevent violence against women and girls is not a ‘new demand,’ but well supported by international legal and normative frameworks. What is new is the emergence, in recent years, of an unprecedented evidence and practice base that provides concrete guidance on the application of proven and effective strategies, and makes prevention of violence against women and girls a tangible and measurable goal. We now know that to effectively prevent violence against women and girls, efforts must go beyond simple awareness-raising projects and instead work to actively (and measurably) transform discriminatory and violence-supportive attitudes and behaviours, community norms, institutional practices and systems, laws and policies, and society as a whole.\n\n\"EGM note 16\" Experts noted that this holistic and comprehensive approach to prevention has the potential to create numerous benefits for communities beyond reductions in violence, because it also addresses the discrimination, inequality and other violence-supportive practices and behaviours that contribute to a range of social ills. Prevention of violence against women and girls is ultimately about building relationships, communities and organisations that are equal, non-violent and respectful of all individuals. It results in the creation of more peaceful, egalitarian and productive societies where women and girls live free from the discrimination, harassment, violence and fear of violence that can block them from reaching their full human potential.\n\n\"EGM note 17\" The focus of the meeting (and this report) was on prevention of violence against women and girls \"before it occurs\", that is, by identifying and addressing its underlying causes and promoting shifts in the social environment that ultimately reduce the number of new incidents of violence against women and girls.\n\n\"EGM note 18\" Experts noted that prevention of violence against women and girls remains a poorly understood concept across sectors and stakeholders. Prevention is often conflated with early intervention or the response to existing violence, or else limited to awareness raising or social marketing campaigns. Simplistic analyses and programmes aimed at single-cause factors such as alcohol abuse, or placing the responsibility to prevent violence on women and girls themselves (such as self-defence programmes) can in some cases do more harm than good, and are not uncommon. Cynical perceptions that violence against women and girls is somehow an inevitable part of society, and that efforts to prevent it are well-intentioned but ultimately ineffective, are also widespread. There is therefore a need to build not only evidence, but shared understandings of the complexity and causes of violence against women and girls, and of how it can be effectively prevented.\n\n\"EGM note 19\" Experts recognised that this transformative agenda engages all levels of the socio-political system, from policy and legislative development, to the development and delivery of programmes and services ‘on the ground’, and the capacity building of the institutions responsible for implementation. Confronting existing social and gendered realities that continue to use arguments based on culture, customs and ‘traditional’ values and practices to justify discrimination and violence against women and girls, and treat them as subordinate and second-class citizens, remains a major challenge in addressing the social and cultural environments that permit violence against women and girls to flourish with impunity. As the Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences has noted: ‘no form of interpersonal violence against women is devoid of structural violence – as in all places, such abuse is underpinned by beliefs about the perpetrator’s right to harm another, based on societal notions of gender and rights.’\n\n\"EGM note 20\" Experts were particularly keen to convey that, in prevention terms, violence against women and girls in the private sphere and/or perpetrated by non-State actors could \"not\" be considered as something ‘separate’ from the actions of the State. Experts stressed that violence against women and girls – in every context – can be perpetuated by State decision-making mechanisms, laws, policies and practices when these systematically marginalize women and girls and/or fail to promote their rights. These include not only legal policies and programs that fail to criminalize violence against women and girls or adequately punish it, but also State-sanctioned discrimination, for example: excluding women from political participation (such as assemblies, high-level government positions, and key decision-making bodies like constitutional committees); constitutional language that threatens women’s rights (whether existing or developing in emerging State structures); or discriminatory laws, policies and budgets which disproportionately limit women’s and girls’ rights, neglect their voices and concerns, and fail to promote full substantive, as well as formal, equality between men and women.\n\n\"EGM note 21\" State-sanctioned violence and discrimination against women is significantly tied to cultural and social norms that pervade a nation, which are then used to justify, excuse or tolerate violence against women and girls. When laws and policies limit women’s freedoms or deem women as ‘complementary’ instead of ‘equal to’ men, this trickles down to public perception of women and girls and their role in society, and undermines their safety and security within the State. These social and cultural norms are similarly impacted by the respect, or otherwise, of women’s civil and political rights (such as their political participation), and their economic, social and cultural rights (such as their access to work and education). Greater levels of social and economic equality between men and women, for instance, are closely correlated with lower levels of violence against women and girls at the population level. Similarly, greater visibility of women in leadership roles, including in constitution committees, assemblies and high-level posts in government, in peacekeeping troops and in peace-building talks, promotes positive and egalitarian norms and combats gender stereotypes in a way that counters discriminatory and violence-supportive attitudes and the marginalization of women and girls.\n\n\"EGM note 22\" Prevention of violence against women and girls is often conceptualised in terms of awareness raising or community mobilisation, and these are important components. Experts reiterated the importance of grassroots community mobilisation in driving attitudinal and behavioural transformation at the local level. However, in light of the above, experts stressed the more expansive and multi-level nature of effective prevention, in particular the critical role of government to create an ‘enabling environment’ through undertaking policy, legislative and budgetary reform to promote gender equality and women’s empowerment, and actively address the multiple and intersecting forms of discrimination and disadvantage that place women and girls at risk of violence. They emphasised the additional role of States in providing support to women’s and other civil society actors, including women, men and youth community and religious leaders and opinion-makers, in their prevention efforts.\n\n\"EGM note 23\" Experts further stressed the importance of continued investment in an effective \"response\" to existing violence against women and girls – including through improving legislative, police, justice and service systems – as a fundamental ‘building block’ for prevention, establishing accountability and redress, and protecting women and girls from further violence. Effective response systems are also necessary to ensure support of women and girls who may identify violence in their own lives as a direct result of prevention activity and seek help and redress. Experts acknowledged that a separate stream of work on building an effective multi-sectoral response was being undertaken in preparation for CSW.\n\n\"EGM note 24\" Experts recommended that prevention and response strategies be developed and implemented as a holistic and integrated system that upholds the human rights of girls and women to live in societies, communities and families that are free of such violence. However, while essential, experts noted the evidence that an effective response has, in itself, only a limited impact on reducing the number of new incidents of violence. Specific actions to address the foundations of violence – discriminatory and violence-supportive practices, laws, norms, behaviours and attitudes – are also necessary in order to prevent violence against women and girls from happening in the first place, within and across all settings. These are the focus of discussions and recommendations in this Report.\n\n\"EGM note 25\" The emphasis on economic growth in the development agenda globally has led to growing inequalities and a reduced focus on redistribution. The rolling economic crises currently gripping almost all of the world’s countries has resulted in increased unemployment and poverty, a shortage of housing, and cutbacks in social spending including subsidies for health and education. These multiple crises have in turn fuelled communal and ethnic tensions, mass migration and displacement, rendering millions homeless and poor, and more vulnerable to trafficking and diverse forms of exploitation. In most communities, this also results in the heightened vulnerability of women and girls to violence and exploitation.\n\n\"EGM note 26\" Experts noted the evidence that violence against women and girls is intensified and exacerbated in situations of socio-economic stress, conflict and other crisis situations. In addition to the impact of economic crises described above, global warming and associated rising sea levels and severe weather events, as well as environmental degradation and resource depletion, can all contribute to conditions of social and economic vulnerability, including homelessness and mass migrations. They can also lead to the disaster or crisis situations in which violence against women and girls is known to increase.\n\n\"EGM note 27\" As discrimination based on sex and gender continues to dominate social formations even in the 21st century, experts noted that violence against women and girls continues to be perceived as ‘normal’ in many contexts. The pervasive nature of militarization and the growth of all forms of religious fundamentalisms and other forms of extreme nationalism creates cultures where women are reduced to being symbolic ‘bearers’ of their culture and have their mobility and autonomy restricted in many different ways.\n\n\"EGM note 28\" Exacerbated by the conditions described above (and even without them) women and girls experience daily harassment, abuse, discrimination and violence across the numerous settings in which they conduct their lives, from workplaces, schools and other educational institutions, community and faith organisations and groups, market places, shops, on public transport, in social settings, online and via social media, during flight and while displaced as a result of conflict and natural disasters, and above all in their homes.\n\n\"EGM note 29\" Experts also identified emerging contexts and issues that have an impact on violence against women and girls. For example, experts agreed that the role of new media presents a number of layered and complex challenges, as well as opportunities, for the prevention of violence against women and girls. In the first instance, new media is often a platform for the perpetuation of harmful masculinities and the objectification of women and girls. This can take a number of forms from everyday hyper-sexualised, one-dimensional images of women and girls to hard-core pornography which has moved from the peripheries to the mainstream of the pornography industry. Virtual spaces are also utilised to perpetuate direct attacks on women and girls. This can range from cyber-stalking to the posting of inappropriate images / videos of women. For example, women have increasingly reported incidents of footage of them engaged in sexual activity (filmed both with and without consent) being posted on internet sites without their consent. In a number of cases this has included the posting of footage of actual rapes.\n\n\"EGM note 30\" Violence in the virtual space and the wider issues of how women and girls are objectified in the media has particular implications for girls and younger women, who are much more like to engage with social networking sites, instant messaging, etc. Despite the range of violations, incidents can be hard to prosecute, especially as the internet is not limited to nation spaces. There are also real challenges around balancing the right to freedom of expression with the right to be protected from discrimination.\n\"EGM note 31\" Experts also noted with concern the emerging evidence that adolescent girls and young women may also be targeted for sexual violence in the context of serious youth violence (e.g. youth gangs) and/or broader urban violence. They may also be members of gangs themselves and involved in perpetration of violence against other young women and girls within or between gangs. Experts further expressed the concern that adolescent girls and young women were frequently overlooked in policy and programming responses designed for young men, adult women or for children in general, yet the context of their lives may be quite distinct and require specific approaches, particularly given they are the age group at greatest risk of sexual violence.\n\n\"EGM note 32\" In humanitarian crises caused by conflict and/or natural disasters, women and girls are at risk of violence throughout all stages: during crises, during flight from crises, while living in displaced settings, and during and following return. In situations of armed conflict, women and girls can be exposed to violence at the hands of armed actors, including soldiers and military assigned to protect civilians and assist in their safe flight from conflict. They may be recruited into armed groups and serve as sexual slaves to combatants. In some settings women and girls continue to be used as ‘weapons of war,’ subject to sexual assault by all parties to conflict, at times in front of their husbands, children, and other family or community members.\n\n\"EGM note 33\" While much attention has been accorded to sexual violence against women and girls during conflict, they suffer many additional forms of violence in humanitarian emergencies, including sexual exploitation, trafficking, early marriage, and intimate partner violence. Experts noted that all of these forms of violence can be averted or reduced with effective prevention programming from the contingency planning phase through to recovery, and States’ responsibilities to work towards the prevention of this violence are reinforced by a broad normative framework mandating protection of women and girls from sexual and other forms of violence in emergencies. And yet, prevention programming remains weak in virtually every humanitarian setting around the world.\n\n\"EGM note 34\" Experts further noted the evidence that while more than 740,000 men, women, and children die each year as a result of armed violence, the majority of these deaths – 490,000 – occur in countries that are not affected by conflict. The proliferation of small arms increases the vulnerability of women and girls to violence, and exacerbates the seriousness of that violence. This is particularly true in the context of urban/serious youth (e.g. gang) violence (referred to above), but also in the case of violence in the home, where the presence of small arms significantly increases the risk of the victim being killed. The violent deaths of approximately 66,000 women and girls are attributed to armed violence globally each year.\n\n\"EGM note 35\" Experts were finally keen to emphasise that – even within the same geographic or socio-political setting, ‘context’ was not the same thing for different women and girls. Women and girls often experience multiple and intersecting forms of social disadvantage and discrimination (in addition to that based on gender), and this compounds their individual and collective vulnerability to violence. The Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences, has recently noted that theories on violence have often ‘failed to provide a comprehensive understanding of how various forms of discrimination, beyond a male/female gender binary, contextualize, exacerbate, and correlate to high levels of violence in given societies. The lack of an intersectional approach can lead to the reinforcing of one form of discrimination in attempts to alleviate another.’ Factors such as race, ethnicity, caste, class, age, religion, sexual orientation, marital status, geographic location, disability, HIV status or status as a refugee or internally displaced person, will all influence the forms and nature of violence women and girls may suffer, and the relationship of these factors to prevention is discussed in the ‘Key Findings’ section.\n\n\"EGM note 36\" The international community is committed to eliminating violence against women and girls and has recognised – in various global and regional legal and policy instruments – the important role of prevention towards this end.\n\n\"EGM note 37\" Above all, State responsibility for prevention of violence against women and girls through social and behavioural change is supported by the foundational treaty on women’s human rights, the \"Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women\" (CEDAW), which establishes signatories’ legal obligation to take ‘all appropriate measures [to] modify the social and cultural patterns of conduct of men and women, with a view to achieving the elimination of prejudices and customary and all other practices which are based on the idea of the inferiority or the superiority of either of the sexes or on stereotyped roles for men and women.’ General Recommendation 19 of the CEDAW Committee defines violence as a form of discrimination against women, and establishes the obligation of States to act with ‘due diligence’ to prevent and respond to violence against women and girls.\n\n\"EGM note 38\" The \"Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women\" enhanced the definition of violence against women and also included protection of women from violence committed in the private domain as being an obligation of the state. Responsibilities of the State to prevent violence, abuse and neglect of girls are further supported by the \"Convention on the Rights of the Child\", requiring States parties to ‘take all appropriate legislative, administrative, social and educational measures to protect the child from all forms of physical or mental violence, injury or abuse, neglect or negligent treatment, maltreatment or exploitation, including sexual abuse’ including ‘forms of prevention,’ along with its two Optional Protocols.\n\n\"EGM note 39\" The \"Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action\" (BPfA), adopted at the Fourth World Conference on Women in 1995, recognised the complexity of the underlying causes of violence against women and girls, and the need to link prevention and response activities. Paragraph 118 notes that:\n\n\"EGM notes 40 to 51\" Other global policy and legislative / normative frameworks that are currently in place.\n\n\"EGM note 52\" In conclusion, while the normative framework has clearly developed an obligation for States to take holistic, comprehensive, strategic and well-resourced action to prevent violence against women and girls, and while States have increasingly ratified the relevant treaties and in some cases brought these obligations into their legal frameworks, much work remains to be done before the normative obligations will be fully implemented. Gaps remain in terms of resource allocation, legislative and policy development, and systems and mechanisms for coordinated and sustained action.\n\n\"EGM note 53\" In considering the above analysis, experts believed that a significant global shift in perceptions was necessary towards greater recognition of the widespread and systematic nature of violence against women and girls, deserving of more serious attention by States and the international community. Experts returned to and supported the international definition of violence against women and girls in the \"Declaration\", i.e. as a violation of human rights and a form of discrimination against them, that shall mean all acts of gender-based violence that result in, or are likely to result in, physical, sexual, psychological or economic harm or suffering to women and girls, including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or in private life.\n\n\"EGM note 54\" However, some experts noted that such violence is not isolated or sporadic, but could be seen as part of a widespread or systematic practice intended to humiliate or degrade an identifiable group. As such, they called for violence against women and girls to be considered a crime against humanity. Others cautioned against linking violence against women and girls to current definitions of crimes against humanity, given the existing limitations of international law and jurisprudence. It was noted that the landmark February 2008 judgement of the Sierra Leone Appeals Chamber of the Special Court in the Armed Forces Revolutionary Council case had set an historic precedent in recognising forced marriage as a distinct category of crimes against humanity in international criminal law. Experts therefore agreed that calling for violence against women and girls to be recognised as a crime against humanity was intended as an aspirational statement and advocacy goal, one which would expand current definitions and understanding of crimes against humanity – in a way similar to the Sierra Leone case – and help drive a global shift in perceptions towards one that recognises the full seriousness of violence against women and girls, and the urgency with which we must prevent it.\n\n\"EGM note 55\" Based on comprehensive discussion at the EGM, review of the papers presented by experts, and an analysis of the global context, normative framework and evidence and practice base, experts agreed on the following key findings. Experts noted the significant development, over recent years, of guidance to States and other stakeholders in the development, implementation and monitoring of policy and programming to prevent violence against women and girls, and again\nreferred to the papers submitted to the EGM as providing further information on current practice. Rather than reiterate that guidance here, experts have confined their findings below to the emerging issues, and those perceived to be of most critical relevance to CSW.\n\n\"EGM note 56\" Experts wished to reiterate, as a finding and central tenet of their recommendations, that prevention of violence against women and girls is a positive endeavour, a precondition for enabling women and men to reach their full potential, and is essential to the creation of healthy, equitable, stable and productive communities, workplaces, schools and universities, faith and cultural institutions, sporting and recreation organisations, and societies as a whole.\n\n\"EGM note 57\" Noting recent research highlighting the unique and catalysing impact of women’s organisations on enduring and effective policy development to end violence against women and girls, experts were unanimous that effective prevention of violence against women and girls was not only often driven by, but \"required\" the involvement of women’s organisations, working in partnership with national, provincial and local Governments, communities, civil society groups, donors, the private sector and other non-state actors.\n\n\"EGM note 58\" Experts emphasized the importance of moving away from short-term, ad hoc sensitisation and awareness raising activities and towards more comprehensive, longer-term prevention efforts that are grounded in communities and work systematically to change unequal power relations between women and men. Such social norm change requires working with a cross section of the community from women and men, young people, religious and cultural leaders, health care providers, police, government officials, the media and others, over time and in varied ways, to challenge norms that perpetuate violence and emphasize the positive benefits of non-violence, justice and equality for individuals, families and the broader community. Civil society plays an essential role in mobilising communities to rethink the acceptability of violence and supporting positive change.\n\n\"EGM note 59\" However, while women’s and other civil society organisations and communities themselves have been at the forefront of developing the practice and evidence base for prevention programming, factors such as time, reach and workforce constraints can prevent many good initiatives from being evaluated, expanded or otherwise scaled-up. Research has also shown that those working to end violence against women and girls can themselves face discrimination, hostility, repudiation and even violence, precisely because they challenge traditional notions of the family and gender that contribute to such violence.\n\n\"EGM note 60\"\nTo maximise the impact and sustainability of such work, therefore, Governments have a key role to play in supporting and creating an enabling environment for women’s organisations and others working to prevent violence against women and girls to continue to drive and innovate prevention programming, safe from violence and discrimination themselves. Governments should also activate their reach and mandate to ensure the scale-up, systematisation and embedding of good practice in laws, policies and through public institutions (e.g. schools, social and health services, media and workplace regulation) for long-term sustainability.\n\n\"EGM note 61\" Experts noted that without States taking their full responsibility for sustained, systematic and coordinated policy, programming and investment for prevention, the transformative social development necessary to end violence against women and girls cannot be achieved. Few States worldwide had implemented their obligations to this end. A 2011 review of National Action Plans on Violence against Women found that most policies were limited to responding to existing violence. Those that did contain specific prevention actions largely focussed on raising awareness of new laws or where to access services, with some containing one-off or single-sector prevention activities such as social marketing campaigns or schools-based programmes. Only one identified plan took a long-term, multi-sectoral and holistic approach to prevention, with appropriate institutional support mechanisms and commensurate investment.\n\n\"EGM note 62\" Importantly, one-off, single-sector or small-scale interventions, while they may have some effectiveness for participating individuals, are unable to change the social norms at the community or society level that have a dampening effect on such attitudinal change. Therefore, they can never in themselves decrease prevalence of violence against women and girls across society as a whole. Broad and sustainable change is only achieved when such activities are implemented in a long-term and cumulative way, mutually reinforced across various settings. These should be linked to a prevention framework which is coordinated to ensure that all levels are appropriately engaged, with evaluation and monitoring for continuous improvement. It is particularly essential that all strategies and interventions are supported by policy and legislative reform that promotes gender equality, challenges discrimination, and provides an effective response to existing violence.\n\n\"EGM notes 63 to 102\" Other key findings from the EGM.\n\n\"Recommendation 103\"\nExperts stressed the critical importance of women’s organisations, civil society, international institutions, donors and States working together to go beyond ‘ad hoc’ approaches to prevention, and for States to take their responsibility for developing long-term and multi-sectoral strategies so that activity can be coordinated, and evidence built, to achieve real results. With an increased commitment from all actors to such an approach, and corresponding investment, many experts believed violence against women and girls could be ended within a generation. To this end, experts have made recommendations (see below) for a coordinated and target-focussed approach to preventing violence against women and girls, driven by two overarching activities – a Global Implementation Plan – framing the work of international, regional and national institutions (including States) toward the goal of ending violence against women and girls, along with a Global Advocacy Campaign – driven by women’s and other civil society organisations to create momentum and provide accountability for the above.\n\n\"Recommendation 104\" Also, given CSW’s specific mandate with regards to implementation of the \"Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action\" experts have made further recommendations for immediate implementation, aligned with the BPfA’s strategic objectives of taking integrated measures to prevent and eliminate violence against women, and studying the causes and consequences of violence against women and the effectiveness of preventive measures. While the BPfA objectives cover both prevention of, and response to, violence against women and girls, and experts supported full implementation of all of these, the recommendations below build on those areas focussing on prevention.\n\n\"Recommendation 105\" Finally, experts identified recommendations arising from emerging issues or gaps in the evidence and practice base regarding prevention of violence against women and girls in certain contexts and settings. These include recommendations for prevention in settings affected by humanitarian crises such as conflict and natural disasters; contexts of serious urban or youth violence; with regards to representation of women and girls in the context of mass media as well as in new social media; and in the context of the global financial crisis and shifting geopolitics. In addition to the broad recommendations below that are relevant to all settings, special attention has been given to certain contexts and settings in order to highlight specific strategies for prevention related to these particular areas of concern. Experts have also chosen to highlight certain recommendations specific to preventing violence against girls, including adolescent girls, and young women, as a frequently overlooked group worthy of special consideration.\n\n\"Recommendation 106\"\nExperts agreed that while an international legal and normative frame work for preventing violence against women and girls is already in place, there are two major barriers to its implementation. The first is that social and cultural norms and customs are often used as a shroud or excuse for laws, practices and behaviours that are either directly violent and discriminatory towards women and girls, or else contribute to and support violence against them. The BPfA clearly calls on States to ‘refrain from invoking any custom, tradition or religious consideration to avoid their obligations with respect to its elimination as set out in the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women,’ and experts were adamant that this entails an active obligation on States to examine their own laws and policies, and challenge the communities, organisations and individuals in their jurisdictions, to eliminate norms and customs that excuse, justify or tolerate violence against women and girls, and which exist in all societies.\n\n\"Recommendation 107\"\nA second barrier to full implementation of existing obligations is the lack of a coordinated, strategic agenda at international, regional and national levels for modifying ‘the social and cultural patterns of conduct of men and women, with a view to achieving the elimination of prejudices and customary and all other practices which are based on the idea of the inferiority or the superiority of either of the sexes or on stereotyped roles for men and women,’ required by CEDAW. This is an essential precondition and support for the sustainable prevention of violence against women and girls. As noted above, such prejudices, practices and stereotypes are rampant in all societies, expressed as much through channels such as media and popular culture, as through institutions more identifiable as the bearers of custom or ‘tradition’ (e.g. faith institutions). A much greater commitment and level of resourcing is required from all States, along with significantly improved coordination of policy, programming and research at global, regional and national levels towards a shared strategic agenda to eliminate these and so meet the legal obligation under CEDAW.\n\n\"Recommendation 108\"\nTo this end, an overarching recommendation from experts was that Member States commit, at CSW in 2013, to develop a Global Implementation Plan to End Violence against Women and Girls, to be launched in 2015, with a particular focus on prevention of violence against women and girls. This Plan should aim to provide vigilance on established international obligations (particularly the overarching BPfA and CEDAW obligations cited above), and serve as the tool for operationalising these norms into national policy and programming in a coordinated and results-based way.\n\n\"Recommendation 109\"\nThe Global Implementation Plan to End Violence against Women and Girls, endorsed and supported by Member States at its launch, would aim to:\n\"Recommendation 110\"\nDevelopment of the plan should be linked to the processes defining the post-2015 development agenda, to ensure that the prevention of violence against women and girls is rightly understood as crucial to the meeting of other internationally agreed development goals, and that targets relating to the prevention of (and response to) such violence are explicitly identified and well situated in the post-2015 development framework.\n\n\"Recommendation 111\"\nDevelopment of the plan would require, among other things:\n\"Recommendation 112\"\nDevelopment of the plan should include the proactive engagement of new partners (such as the private sector, sporting organisations, religious and cultural leaders, the media and entertainment industry), with a critical eye to the internal structures and methods of operation of such partners to ensure they fully support and in no way undermine the human rights of women and girls.\n\n\"Recommendation 113\"\nExperts further recognised the crucial and catalytic role of women’s organisations and called for them to help build support and momentum for the above. A global ‘movement for prevention’ is needed, engaging a critical mass of individuals, groups and institutions working together to create communities and countries that are safe for women and girls and where their rights are respected.\n\n\"Recommendation 114\"\nExperts’ second overarching recommendation was therefore that women’s organisations, in partnership with other civil society organisations and identified willing international and regional institutions, States and other relevant parties, lead a Global Advocacy Campaign to Prevent Violence against Women and Girls, as a crucial accompaniment to the development of the Implementation Plan above. The Advocacy Campaign could include the creation of plain language communications materials, mechanisms to share information and practice, avenues for capacity development, and advocacy strengthening, for example through the training of male and female youth and veteran activists and leaders to monitor progress of nations on international agreements, produce reports, and represent women’s and girls’ priorities and interests in international fora. The aim of the Advocacy Campaign would be to create momentum for the Implementation Plan, ensure the consistent promotion of evidence-informed, rights-based prevention activity, and hold international, regional and national stakeholders accountable to women and girls.\n\n\"Recommendation 115\"\"\nWhile the Global Implementation Plan may take one to two years to develop, there are many areas of work that States have already committed to under the BPfA Strategic Objective D1 – to take integrated measures to prevent and eliminate violence against women – and upon which they can and should take immediate action. Below are recommendations elaborated by the experts in line with the growing evidence and practice base on prevention, in support of these existing commitments.\n\n\"Recommendation 116\"\"\nIn line with BPfA’s Paragraph 124(j), calling on Governments to ‘formulate and implement, at all appropriate levels, plans of action to eliminate violence against women,’and Paragraph 124(p)calling for the allocation of ‘adequate resources within the government budget and mobilis[ation of]community resources for activities related to the elimination of violence against women, including resources for the implementation of plans of action at all appropriate levels,’ experts recommend that States work in partnership with funders, international and regional institutions, women’s and civil society organisations and other stakeholders to develop, implement,\nevaluate and monitor coordinated, multisectoral and sustained prevention strategies, alongside and reinforcing strategies to improve the response to existing violence. Such strategies should\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26157344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26157344", "title": "Figure rating scale", "text": "Figure rating scale\n\nThe Figure Rating Scale (FRS) also known as the Stunkard Scale is a psychometric measurement developed in 1983 as a tool to determine body dissatisfaction in women and men. This scale has also been developed for measuring adolescent body image. This type of measurement was originally developed and validated to indicate the weight status of relatives of research subjects when other specific measurements or self-reported values were unavailable. This scale is a visible measure of how an individual perceives his or her own physical appearance. Each figure presents nine male and nine female schematic silhouettes, ranging from extreme thinness to extreme obesity. For research purposes, participants are asked to self-select the silhouette that best indicates his or her current body size and the silhouette that reflects his or her ideal body size (IBS). \n\nPast research has tested the reliability and validity of the figure rating scale. In order to test the strength and reliability of this measurement, researchers assigned six specific instructions to ask of their participants during figure selection. The instructions are as follows: (1) choose your ideal figure; (2) choose the figure that reflects how you think you look; (3) choose the figure that reflects how you feel most of the time; (4) choose the figure that you think is most preferred by men; (5) choose the figure that you think is most preferred by women; and (6) pick the opposite sex figure that you find most attractive. For validity analyses, the figure ratings can be transformed into the three following discrepancy measures: (1) feel minus ideal; (2) think minus ideal; and (3) feel minus think. The instructions developed for these measures may be interchanged depending on the specific topic of research or category of observation. Each research study may provide a different set of reliability and validity assessments for the figure rating scale dependent upon the goal and procedures of the study. \n\nThe figure rating scale has been used in several influential studies on body image, body satisfaction, and eating disorders. Research involving the figure rating scale has related the techniques of this measurement to identify how gender, media, race, and culture have an effect on how sensitive an individual is to his or her own physical appearance. Results may differ dependent upon the variables in question during observation. \n\nThe majority of research involving the figure rating scale focuses on observing body dissatisfaction. This research area also focuses primarily on the effects of gender on body dissatisfaction. In association with the figure rating scale, there has been more research conducted on female body image. Studies of body dissatisfaction have shown that women have a tendency to choose a smaller ideal body size than their current body size. This discrepancy between the two figure selections indicates body dissatisfaction. A high level of body dissatisfaction can lead to eating disorders or depression. Body dissatisfaction is also influenced by a variety of different factors. \n\nOther research that involves the figure rating scale indicates that the media is an important factor in body dissatisfaction. Media influences can have an effect on how individuals feel about their own body image. Body types presented in the media can also have an influence on the physical appearance that an individual desires to obtain. Research suggests that women are mostly influenced by media images that promote The Thin Ideal body type. Whereas, men are mostly influenced by media images that promote a more muscular build. These influences may cause participants to choose a silhouette on the figure rating scale that represents themselves as the opposite of the desired body type in the media. Additionally, when asked to point to the image of their desired body type, participants may choose a silhouette on the scale that is more similar to attractive body types that are presented in the media. \n\nThe figure rating scale has also been utilized in observations that involved race as a variable. There has been some comparative study that focuses on the body image perceptions among Caucasian, Asian, and African-American college women. Through this observation, African-American women chose larger ideal body sizes from the figures provided in the scale than the Caucasian and Asian women. Research in this area of body image suggests that each race or ethnicity has its own concept of an ideal body type. Each ideal body type is unique to that race or ethnicity. \n\nThe figure rating scale has also been translated into different languages in order for body image research to be conducted in other countries. For example, researchers have developed a Portuguese version of this scale for body image research in Brazil. This type of development also allows researchers to be able to compare findings of one culture to another. For example, one comparative study showed the silhouettes in the figure rating scale to college women in Korea and the United States. The women were asked to choose their ideal body type on the scale. After comparing the results, the Korean women were more dissatisfied with their bodies due to the pressures of thinness that exist in that particular culture. Another research study used the figure rating scale to observe the differences in actual body size and ideal body size among women born in Australia and Hong Kong in which the Australian women scored higher in body dissatisfaction. \n\nResults from figure observations have been applied to other scales in order to assess for body dissatisfaction and eating disorders. These scales provide more data that can assist researchers in determining the reasons for why an individual will select a particular silhouette on the figure rating scale. \n\nThe Eating Disorder Inventory (EDI) assess for various aspects of eating disorders. Through the addition of the subscales from this inventory, researchers are able to indicate how an individual, that may suffer or show symptoms of eating disorders, perceives their physical appearance. \n\nThe Bulimia (B) Scale has also been utilized in research involving the figure rating scale. This scale provides seven item measures that analyze the symptoms of bulimia such as binging or purging. \n\nThe Drive for Thinness (DT) is another scale that has been used in studies with the figure rating scale. This scale consists of seven items that measure the intensity of an individual’s desire to lose weight or fear of gaining weight. \n\nThe Body Dissatisfaction (BD) Scale consists of nine items and measures the extent to which individuals are satisfied with specific parts of the body. This scale has been used in conjunction with the figure rating scale in order to observe if an individual’s sensitivity to a particular body part results in the individual for choosing the silhouette that they do during observation. \n\nThe Body-Esteem Scale for Adolescents and Adults (BESAA) has also been used in conjunction with research that involves the figure rating scale. This scale consists of twenty-three statements that measure an individual’s general feelings about his or her physical appearance.\n\nIn order to properly use this type of measurement, it is important to understand how researchers have applied theoretical frameworks to analyze results gathered from the use of the figure rating scale. This scale is most associated with theories that are used in body image research. Researchers conducting observations in this area will also utilize theories from areas such as psychology and communications. These fields provide theories that allow researchers to understand some of the reasons why an individual will choose a certain silhouette to represent his or her own body type. \n\nThe social comparison theory has been associated with the figure rating scale. This theory suggests that individuals will compare their own physical appearance to the body images presented in the media. Researchers have used this theory in association with the figure rating scale to understand if individuals will change their figure choice after social comparing themselves to other individuals. People may compare themselves to peers, celebrities, or other individuals presented in the media. \n\nThe Self-discrepancy theory has also been used in research along with the figure rating scale. This theory has generally been applied to body image research to understand the three domains of the self: the actual self, the ideal self, and the ought self. By asking participants to choose images on the scale, the individual may choose a separate silhouette for each domain of the self. These findings can be observed to understand the differences between an individual’s perception of his or her actual body type and ideal body type. \n\nSince the scale’s development in 1983, there have been other body image measurements that have been created for research in this area. This action is partly due to the scale being outdated. Although the original development of the figure rating scale has been utilized in a substantial amount of research, there are some limitations to this measurement. The line-drawn silhouettes provided in the scale may not provide a clear presentation of the average human body. As the silhouettes in the scale shift from very thin to very obese, the figures gain more in the middle of the body. While this type of body image may be representative of some individuals, there is a wide range of possible body types that are not represented in the original scale. Some individuals may have broader shoulders or wider hips than in the images provided in the scale; therefore, the participants may have a more difficult time choosing the appropriate figure to represent their physical appearance. Research has also translated this scale into photographic images with real people. These three-dimensional images are able to depict a more realistic presentation of different body types. \n"}
{"id": "245104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245104", "title": "Gaius Gracchus", "text": "Gaius Gracchus\n\nGaius Sempronius Gracchus (154–121 BC) was a Roman \"Popularis\" politician in the 2nd century BC and brother of the reformer Tiberius Sempronius Gracchus. His election to the office of tribune in the years 123 BC and 122 BC and reformative policies while in office prompted a constitutional crisis and his death at the hands of the Roman Senate in 121 BC.\n\nGaius Gracchus was born into a family who had a strong tradition in the politics of ancient Rome. His father, Tiberius Gracchus the Elder, was a powerful man in Roman politics throughout the 2nd century BC and had built up a large and powerful clientele largely based in Spain. His mother was Cornelia Africana, daughter of Scipio Africanus, a noble woman who was a major influence on the Gracchi; as a widow, she refused the marriage proposal of Ptolemy VIII, the King of Egypt, preferring to devote her life to the upbringing of her sons.\n\nThe family was attached to the Claudii faction in Roman politics despite his mother's background. It can be supposed, however, that both the Gracchi brothers would have come into contact with powerful members of both the Claudii and Cornelii Scipiones factions.\nGaius Gracchus was the younger brother of Tiberius Gracchus, by about nine years. He was heavily influenced both by the reformative policy of his older brother, and by his death at the hands of a senatorial mob. Plutarch suggests that it was \"the grief he had suffered [that] encouraged him to speak out fearlessly, whenever he lamented the fate of his brother.\" Certainly aspects of his reforms, and especially his judicial reforms, seem to have been directed at the people responsible for his brother's death.\n\nGaius's political career began in 133 BC, when he served with Tiberius's land-commission. In 126 BC, he became a quaestor in the Roman province of Sardinia, where his merits advanced his good reputation. During his quaestorship, he honed his skills in oratory.\n\nIn one particularly harsh Sardinian winter, the Legate of the local garrison requisitioned supplies from the nearby towns, despite their objections. When they appealed and won the Senate's approval to keep their supplies, Gaius made them a personal appeal for aid. Fearing this as a ploy for popular approval, the Senate rebuffed envoys sent by Micipsa, king of Numidia, who had sent grain to Gaius based on their mutual regard. The Senate ordered the garrison's replacement, but also ordered that Gaius remain in his post, in Sardinia.\n\nGaius returned to Rome, to appeal the decision. He was accused of unlawfully abandoning his post, but won popular support when he pointed out that he had served twelve years - two more than the basic requirement - and had been quaestor for two years though legally only required to serve one. Furthermore, he had used the Roman money that he had brought with him to this quaestorship to aid Sardinia, and had never used his position to line his own pockets.\n\nHe was then accused of aiding in an Italian revolt at Fregellae, but little evidence supported this. His support for the reforms of Gaius Papirius Carbo and Marcus Fulvius Flaccus, his evident skills at oratory and his association with the reforms of his brother led the senatorial nobles to try him on charges plainly false or heavily exaggerated. He cleared himself with ease and in 122 was elected to serve as a tribune for the following year.\n\nGaius used his celebrated oratory, considered to be the best in Rome, to attack his opponents at every chance and frequently lamented the fate of his brother Tiberius. He criticised the Senate's failure to emulate their ancestors' respect for the tribune, citing its decision to wage war on the Falerii for insulting the tribune Genucius, or how Gaius Veturius had been condemned to death for failing to make way for the tribune. He chastised the people for standing by while Tiberius and his supporters were beaten and cited the unlawful sentences of exile that followed, because the accused were not permitted to stand trial.\n\nGaius' social reforms were far wider reaching than the reforms of his brother Tiberius. Perhaps motivated by the fate of his brother, some of his earliest reforms dealt with the judiciary system. He set up two initial measures, the first of which prohibited a magistrate who had been deposed by the people from holding office a second time. Gaius's second bill established the right of the people to prosecute any magistrate who had exiled citizens without a trial. These decisions were a direct response to the Senate's actions in the aftermath of his brother Tiberius's murder.\n\nCourts with capital punishment, not set up by the people, were now declared illegal by a retrospective measure which saw the former consul Popilius Laenas driven into exile. Further reforms to the judicial system were passed to check the acquittals by senatorial juries of senators charged with extortion; the Lex Acilia placed extortion trials under the control of the equites class, and trial procedures were redesigned in favour of the prosecution. Aside from benefiting the provincials by dispensing of the conflict of interests involved in Senators trying their fellow-Senators on crimes of which they were often guilty themselves, it was also a significant step in wrenching apart the longstanding alliance of the rich, Senators and Equites, in oppressing the poor proletariat, and bringing the Equites to his own side against the Senate. A second measure which Gracchus passed to please the Equites was in changing the arrangements of the Senate for collecting the taxes from the recently acquired (133) province of Asia. Whereas the Senate had arranged for a fixed sum to be paid directly to the state, excluding the capitalist Equites, Gracchus passed a measure changing the tax to a 10% tax on the lands of the province, the right of collecting which was auctioned off at Rome, thus naturally placing it in the hands of the Equites, since the Senators were banned from commerce, and the provincials were too distant. Although it has been stated that Gracchus' rearrangement was mere base pandering to the avarice of the Equites, who used the opportunity to extort fearful sums from the Asian provincials, it is also true that, on the other hand in a year of drought for instance, the 10% tax of Gracchus would be actually far more favorable to the province than a fixed amount.\n\nThough Tiberius' land measures had already accomplished their object by 129, when the Senate effectively froze it (by transferring jurisdiction regarding the right to proclaim land “Public” or “Private” from the land commission to the consuls), Gracchus symbolically returned jurisdiction over the land to the commission, gratifying popular sentiment. As a substitute to the allotments, large overseas colonies were planned to provide for thousands of settlers which may have included some Italians as well as Roman citizens. The \"Lex Frumentaria\" required that the state buy bulk grain from North Africa and Sicily and distribute it to citizens at a low price, as a monthly ration. Secondary roads were extended throughout Italy, to facilitate trade and communication. Rome's censors auctioned off contracts for tax collection in Asia.\n\nGaius's \"Lex Militaris\" provided for the free issue of clothes and equipment to soldiers, shortened the term of military service and forbade the draft of boys under the age of seventeen. These reforms were intended to raise army morale and to win the political support of soldiers, allies, and voters with small incomes.\n\nGaius submitted a franchise bill that sought the extension of Roman citizenship to all Latin citizens, and of Latin citizenship to all Italian allies. The bill was rejected because the Roman Patricians had no wish to share the benefits of citizenship, including subsidised grain and entertainment. The rejection of this measure led, in part, to the disastrous Social War of 90 BC.\n\nIn a further slight to the power of the Senate, Gaius changed physically how speeches were delivered from the Rostra. Formerly, when a speaker delivered a speech in the Forum, he turned his face to the right in the direction of the curia, the Senate house, and the Comitium. Instead, Gaius would turn his face to the left, toward the direction of the Forum proper, effectively turning his back on the Senate.\n\nGaius showed great efficiency in his administration. He oversaw the implementation of each new institution, and personally selected 300 equestrian jurists. He helped Gaius Fannius win the consulship for 122, and was elected as tribune the same year by popular vote.\n\nThe senate interpreted Gaius' popularity and legislation as threats to its privilege and position. It backed another tribune, Livius Drusus. He was placed under strict orders not to incite violence; instead, he should propose legislation that would please the common people, and make it known that he had the Senate's backing. In the event, his proposed legislation was neither credible nor beneficial to the commons, and was intended merely to undermine Gaius.\n\nWhen Gaius proposed that two colonies be founded with reliable citizens, the Senate accused him of trying to win favor with the people before Drusus proposed twelve with three thousand citizens. When Gaius granted the most needy small plots of redistributed land on the condition they pay a small rent to the public coffers, the Senate accused him of trying to win favor with the people before Drusus proposed to do the same rent-free.\n\nWhen Gaius proposed that all Latins should have equal voting rights, the Senate protested, but approved of Drusus' measure that no Latin would ever be beaten with rods. Drusus went to great pains to ensure he was never seen as the benefactor, politically or economically, of his legislation but rather that he proposed his measures, backed by the Senate, to further benefit the people. Drusus' constant referencing of the Senate worked and at least some of the people began to feel less hostility toward the Senate, marking the Senatorial plan a resounding success. When a measure was passed to found a colony at Carthage, which had been destroyed in 146 BC by Scipio Africanus the Younger, Gaius was appointed to oversee the construction and left for Africa. Drusus immediately took advantage of Gaius' absence by attacking Gaius' ally, Fulvius Flaccus, who was known by the Senate to be an agitator and was suspected by some of stirring up the Italian allies to revolt.\n\nA new candidate emerged for the consulship, one Lucius Opimius, who had opposed Fannius for the consulship in 122 BC and been stymied by Gaius' machinations. Opimius, a staunch conservative and oligarchical man who wanted to restore power to the Senate, had garnered a significant following and stood poised to challenge Gaius directly. Opimius had made it his sole mission to unseat Gaius.\n\nWhen Scipio the Younger agreed to represent the Italian allies, who were protesting the injustices done to them which Tiberius Gracchus' land reform was supposed to remedy, he won the hostility of the people, who accused him of standing against Tiberius Gracchus and wishing to abolish the law and incite bloodshed.\n\nWhen Scipio died suddenly and mysteriously one day, Gaius was one of many political enemies implicated in his death. Carbo had just that day delivered a fiery speech against Scipio and he—like other Gracchan political allies such as Fulvius Flaccus—was widely known to be an outspoken enemy of Scipio's during this time as his Gracchan-backed proposal to formally allow tribunes multiple terms in office was ultimately defeated in large part due to Scipio's influence. In fact, between the years of his return from Spain in 132 and his death in 129, Scipio \"inexorably began to unite the ruling oligarchy against\" Gaius. Other members of the Gracchi family were also accused; Scipio had been in a loveless marriage to Sempronia, sister of the Gracchi brothers and daughter of their mother Cornelia - Scipio referred to his wife as 'deformed' and 'barren'. Both women were suspected of murdering Scipio because of his perceived attempt to undo the reforms of Tiberius.\n\nThe combined political positions of his fellow tribunes Lucius Opimius, Livius Drusus and Marcus Minucius Rufus, another political enemy of Gaius, meant the repeal of as many of Gaius' measures as possible. Gaius now stood on increasingly shaky ground with the Senate, though his popularity with the people remained undeniable. Gaius' return to Rome from Carthage set in motion a series of events that would eventually cause him to suffer the same fate as his brother. Gaius' first action was to move from his home on the Palatine, where the wealthiest of Romans and the political elite lived, to a neighborhood near the Forum, believing that in so doing he was keeping to his democratic principles and reaffirming his loyalty to the people rather than to the privileged elite.\n\nGaius then called together all of his supporters from Italy to put into motion his legislation. The Senate convinced Fannius, whose friendship with Gaius had run its course, to expel all those who were not Roman citizens by birth from the city. Gaius condemned the proposal, promising support for the Italians, but his image took a hit when he failed to uphold his promises and did not stop Fannius' lictors from dragging away a friend. Whether he did this because he was afraid to test his power or because he refused to do anything which would have given the Senate pretext to initiate violence remains unknown.\n\nGaius further distanced himself from his fellow tribunes when he insisted that the seats for a gladiatorial show be removed to allow the poor to watch. When they refused, he removed them secretly at night. Plutarch claims this cost him a third term as tribune, because, although he won the popular vote, the tribunes were so upset that they falsified the ballots. Opimius and his supporters began to overturn Gaius' legislation with the hope of provoking him into violence, but Gaius remained resolute. Rumors suggested that his mother Cornelia hired foreign men disguised as harvesters to protect him.\n\nOn the day that Opimius planned to repeal Gaius' laws, an attendant of Opimius, Quintus Antyllius, carrying the entrails of a sacrifice, forced his way through a crowd. A resulting scuffle between the supporters of the two opposing groups on the Capitoline Hill led to his death. Plutarch maintains that Antyllius had rudely pushed his way through the crowd and gave an indecent gesture and was immediately beset upon by Gracchan supporters much to the disapproval of Gaius.\n\nAppian states that Gaius had arrived with an escort of body guards in a distressed state. When Antyllius saw Gaius, he laid a hand on him, begging him not to destroy the state. When Gaius cast his scorn on Antyllius, his supporters took it as a sign to act on his behalf and struck Antyllius down. Gaius and Fulvius failed to exonerate themselves of the deed and returned home under the protection of their supporters to await the day's outcomes.\n\nThe death of Antyllius allowed a triumphant Opimius a pretext for action. On the following morning, with much showboating, the body of Antyllius was presented to the Senate as indicative of the measures Gaius would take. The senate passed a senatus consultum ultimum, granting Opimius the right to defend the state and rid it of tyrants. The Senate armed itself and commanded all the equestrians to arm themselves and two of their servants and assemble the next morning.\n\nFulvius gathered his supporters and they passed the evening in a drunken and raucous manner. Gaius, much more somber, paused in front of the statue of his father on his way out of the Forum, and, weeping, went homeward. His plight and obvious distress caused such sympathy among the people, who blamed themselves for betraying their champion, that a large party gathered outside his home to ensure his protection. Unlike Fulvius, Gaius' men were quiet and reflective of future events.\n\nThe following morning, Fulvius' men armed themselves with spoils from Fulvius' Gallic campaign and marched loudly to the Aventine. Gaius refused to gird himself with anything save a small dagger and his toga. As he left his home, his wife Licinia, daughter of Crassus, begged him not to go meet the same men who had murdered and dishonored Tiberius Gracchus, knowing well enough that Gaius was to die that day. Gaius, without saying a word, gently pried himself from her arms and left her there, weeping, until her servants eventually came to pick her up and carried her to her brother Crassus.\n\nAt Gaius' suggestion, Fulvius sent his youngest son Quintus to the Forum to speak to the Senate as a herald carrying a staff, which was only used when heralds approached enemies in times of war. Tearful, he pleaded for terms which many there were willing to hear, but Opimius insisted on speaking directly to Fulvius and Gaius, demanding they surrender themselves for trial. These terms were not negotiable. When Quintus returned to Gaius and Fulvius, Gaius was willing to acquiesce but Fulvius was not and sent the boy back.\n\nWhen the boy came back to the Senate and relayed what his father Fulvius stated, Opimius placed him under arrest and under guard and advanced on Fulvius' position with a contingent of archers from Crete. When they fired on Fulvius' men, wounding many, the crowd was thrown into chaos and fled. Fulvius hid in an abandoned bath or workshop with his eldest son and when discovered both were executed. Appian adds that when they initially hid, citizens were hesitant to give them away, but when the whole row was threatened to be burned down they were handed over to the mob.\n\nGaius, taking no part in the fighting and despairing at the bloodshed, fled to the Temple of Diana on the Aventine where he intended to commit suicide but was stopped by his friends Pomponius and Licinius. Gaius knelt and prayed to the goddess, asking that the people of Rome be forever enslaved by their masters since many had openly and quickly switched sides when an amnesty was declared by the Senate.\n\nGaius fled the temple and tried to cross the Tiber on a wooden bridge while Pomponius and Licinius stayed back to cover his retreat, killing as many as they could until they were themselves felled. Accompanied by only his slave Philocrates, Gaius fled, urged by onlookers though no man offered assistance despite Gaius' repeated requests for aid. Arriving at a grove sacred to Furrina, Philocrates first assisted Gaius in his suicide before taking his own life, though some rumors held that Philocrates was only killed after he refused to let go of his master's body.\n\nGaius' head was cut off, as Opimius had announced that whoever brought back the head would be paid its weight in gold. When the head measured an astonishing seventeen and two-thirds pounds, it was discovered that Septimuleius, who brought the head, committed fraud by removing the brain and pouring in molten lead and therefore received no reward at all. The bodies of Gaius, Fulvius and the three thousand supporters who also died were thrown into the Tiber, their property confiscated and sold to the public treasury. Appian adds that their homes were looted by their opponents.\n\nTheir wives were forbidden to mourn the death of their husbands and Licinia, wife of Gaius, was stripped of her dowry. Fulvius' youngest son, who took no part in the fighting and merely acted as herald, was executed, though Appian holds that Opimius allowed him to choose his own manner of death. Most outrageous to the people was when Opimius celebrated his victory by building a temple to Concord in the Forum with the Senate's approval. The people felt that a victory bought with the massacre of so many citizens was exceptionally distasteful. According to Plutarch, one night an inscription was carved that read \"This temple of Concord is the work of mad Discord.\"\n\nPlutarch maintains that Opimius was the first Roman to appoint himself dictator, kill 3,000 Roman citizens without trial, including the proconsul Fulvius Flaccus and the tribune Gaius Gracchus, a man renowned for his reputation and virtue. Ironically, this same Opimius then later committed fraud and accepted bribes from the Numidian king Jugurtha and, after being convicted, spent his days in disgrace. The people, realizing that their democratic cause was now dead, understood how deeply they missed the Gracchus brothers.\n\nStatues were erected in Rome, the locations where they fell were consecrated as holy ground and the season's first fruits were offered as sacrifice. Many worshiped them daily as if the Gracchi had been elevated to divine status. Cornelia honored the memory of her sons' murders by constructing elaborate tombs at the spot of their deaths. Appian adds that within 15 years, all of the progress done under the Gracchi had been overturned and the poor were in a much worse position than ever before, many reduced to unemployment.\n\nWhile many of Gaius' laws were repealed by his political opponents, the \"Lex Frumentaria\" remained. It set a precedent for the \"Roman Bread Dole\" which existed in one form or another until the fall of the Western Empire.\n\nThe French revolutionary François-Noël Babeuf took up the name \"Gracchus Babeuf\" in conscious emulation of the Roman brothers, and published a newspaper \"Le tribun du peuple\" (\"the tribune of the people\"). Ultimately he, like them, met a violent end.\n\nAt the Internet Classics Archive, MIT:\n"}
{"id": "24860432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24860432", "title": "Global network", "text": "Global network\n\nA global network is any communication network which spans the entire Earth. The term, as used in this article refers in a more restricted way to \"bidirectional\" communication networks, and to technology-based networks. Early networks such as international mail and unidirectional communication networks, such as radio and television, are described elsewhere.\n\nThe first global network was established using electrical telegraphy and global span was achieved in 1899. The telephony network was the second to achieve global status, in the 1950s. More recently, interconnected IP networks (principally the Internet, with estimated 2.5 billion users worldwide in 2014 ), and the GSM mobile communication network (with over 6 billion worldwide users in 2014) form the largest global networks of all.\n\nSetting up global networks requires immensely costly and lengthy efforts lasting for decades. Elaborate interconnections, switching and routing devices, laying out physical carriers of information, such as land and submarine cables and earth stations must be set in operation. In addition, international communication protocols, legislation and agreements are involved.\n\nGlobal networks might also refer to networks of individuals (such as scientists), communities (such as cities) and organizations (such as civil organizations) worldwide which, for instance, might have formed for the management, mitigation and resolval of global issues.\n\nCommunication satellites are an important part of global networks. However, there are specific low Earth orbit (LEO) global satellite constellations, such as Iridium, Globalstar and Orbcomm, which are comprised by dozens of similar satellites which are put in orbit at regularly spaced positions and form a mesh network, sometimes sending and receiving information directly among themselves. Using VSAT technology, satellite internet access has become possible.\n\nIt is estimated that 80% of the global mobile market uses the GSM standard, present in more than 212 countries and territories. Its ubiquity makes international roaming very common between mobile phone operators, enabling subscribers to use their phones in many parts of the world. In order to achieve this, these networks must be interconnected by way of peering arrangements, and therefore the GSM network is a truly global one.\n\nThe telegraph and telex communication networks have been phased out, so interconnection among existing global networks arise at several points, such as between the voice telephony and digital data networks, and between these and satellite networks. Many applications run now on several networks, such as VoIP (voice over IP). Mobile communication (voice and data) networks are also intimately intertwinned, because the majority of 21st century cell phones have both voice and data (internet navigation and emailing) capabilities.\n\nDigital global networks require huge carrying capacity in the main backbones. This is currently achieved by fiber optic cables.\n\nThe Canadian sociologist Marshall McLuhan was the first to forecast the huge impact of the matrix of global networks upon society, coining the term global village. His work, however, related to radio and television networks, which are broadcast (unidirectional) networks, thus predating the much larger impact of the internet.\n\nGlobal networks have revolutionized human communication several times. The first to do so was the electrical telegraph. Its impact was so large that it has been dubbed the Victorian Internet. It was expanded many times in its coverage with the advent of radiotelegraphy, and with text messaging using telex machines.\n\nThe Internet and mobile communication networks have made possible entirely new forms of social interaction, activities and organizing, thanks to its basic features such as widespread usability and access, and instant communication from any connected point to another. Thus, its social impact has been, and still is, enormous. Finally, the impact on governance have been significant facilitating the emergence of 'transnational policy networks' \n"}
{"id": "3718113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3718113", "title": "Graphic violence", "text": "Graphic violence\n\nGraphic violence is the depiction of especially vivid, brutal and realistic acts of violence in visual media such as literature, film, television, and video games. It may be real, simulated live action, or animated.\n\nThe \"graphic\" in graphic violence is a synonym for \"explicit\", referring to the clear and unabashed nature of the violence portrayed; this is what differentiates true graphic violence from lesser forms of violence in media productions, including \"real\" violence, \"cartoon\" violence and \"fantasy\" violence.\n\nGraphic violence generally consists of any clear and uncensored depiction of various violent acts. Commonly included depictions include murder, assault with a deadly weapon, accidents which result in death or severe injury, suicide, and torture. In all cases, it is the explicitness of the violence and the injury inflicted which results in it being labeled \"graphic\". In fictional depictions, appropriately realistic plot elements are usually included to heighten the sense of realism (i.e. blood effects, prop weapons, CGI). In order to qualify for the \"graphic\" designation, the violence depicted must generally be of a particularly unmitigated and unshielded nature; an example would be a video of a man being shot by me, bleeding from the wound, and crumpling to the ground calling for his mother.\n\nGraphic violence arouses strong emotions, ranging from titillation and excitement to utter revulsion and even terror, depending on the mindset of the viewer and the method in which it is presented. A certain degree of graphic violence has become \"de rigueur\" in adult \"action\" genre, and it is presented in an amount and manner carefully deliberated to excite the emotions of the target demographic without inducing disgust or revulsion. Even more extreme and grotesque acts of graphic violence (generally revolving around mutilation) are often used in the horror genre in order to inspire even stronger emotions of fear and shock (which the viewing demographic would presumably be seeking).\n\nIt is a highly controversial topic. Many believe that exposure to graphic violence leads to desensitization to committing acts of violence in person. It has led to censorship in extreme cases, and regulation in others. One notable case was the creation of the US Entertainment Software Rating Board in 1994. Many nations now require varying degrees of approval from television, movie, and software rating boards before a work can be released to the public.\n\nOn the other hand, some critics claim that watching violent media content can be cathartic, providings \"acceptable outlets for anti-social impulses.\"\n\nGraphic violence is used frequently in horror, action, and crime films. Several of these films were banned from certain countries for their violence. The snuff film takes horror to its furthest extreme as torture and murder are not simulated.\n\nViolence in films is not an old topic, recently a study presented in an annual American Academy of Pediatrics conference showed that the \"good guys\" in superhero movies were on average more violent than the villains, potentially sending a strongly negative message to young viewers. \n\nNews media on television and online video frequently cover violent acts. The coverage may be preceded with a warning, stating that the footage may be disturbing to some viewers.\n\nSometimes graphic images are censored, by blurring or blocking a portion of the image, cutting the violent portions out of an image sequence or by removing certain portions of film footage from viewing. However, more and more throughout the years, it has been a ploy for media companies to attract more and more viewers by trivializing various events like the ones mentioned above for shock appeal.\n\nGraphic and gory violence has started appearing in music videos in recent times, an example being the controversial music video for the song \"Rock DJ\" by British rock vocalist Robbie Williams, which features self-mutilation. Another example of a music video containing strong violence is the music video for the song \"Hurricane\" by American rock band Thirty Seconds to Mars and \"Happiness in Slavery\" by American industrial rock group Nine Inch Nails. The music video for \"Forced Gender Reassignment\" by American deathgrind band Cattle Decapitation displays such intense graphic violence that it is not hosted by many popular video hosting sites like YouTube and Dailymotion and is only hosted by Bloody Disgusting.\n\nViolent content has been a central part of video game controversy. Because violence in video games is interactive and not passive, critics such as Dave Grossman and Jack Thompson argue that violence in games hardens children to unethical acts, calling first-person shooter games \"murder simulators\", although no conclusive evidence has supported this belief.\n\nAn example is the display of \"gibs\" (short for giblets), little bits or giant chunks of internal organs, flesh, and bone, when a character is killed.\n\nOn the internet, several sites dedicated to recordings of real graphic violence, referred to as \"gore\", exist, such as Bestgore.com and Goregrish.com. Furthermore, many content-aggregator sites such as Reddit or imageboards and 4chan have their own subsites which are dedicated to or allow that kind of content. Some of those sites also require that gore material to be marked as it, often by the internet slang \"NSFL\" (shorthand for \"not safe for life\"). This kind of media might depict reality footage of war, car crashes and other accidents, decapitations, suicide, terrorism, murder, or executions. \n\n"}
{"id": "446755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=446755", "title": "Henry Stephens Salt", "text": "Henry Stephens Salt\n\nHenry Stephens Salt (; 20 September 1851 – 19 April 1939) was an English writer and campaigner for social reform in the fields of prisons, schools, economic institutions, and the treatment of animals. He was a noted ethical vegetarian, anti-vivisectionist, socialist, and pacifist, and was well known as a literary critic, biographer, classical scholar and naturalist. It was Salt who first introduced Mohandas Gandhi to the influential works of Henry David Thoreau, and influenced Gandhi's study of vegetarianism.\n\nSalt is credited with being the first writer to argue explicitly in favour of animal rights, in his \"\" (1894), rather than focusing on improvements to animal welfare. He wrote: \"If we are ever going to do justice to the lower races, we must get rid of the antiquated notion of a 'great gulf' fixed between them and mankind, and must recognize the common bond of humanity that unites all living beings in one universal brotherhood.\"\n\nThe son of a British army colonel, Salt was born in Naini Tal in India in 1851, but returned with his family to England in 1852 while still an infant. He studied at Eton College, and graduated from the University of Cambridge in 1875.\n\nAfter Cambridge, Salt returned to Eton as an assistant schoolmaster to teach classics. Four years later, in 1879, he married the scholar Catherine (Kate)Leigh Joynes, the daughter of a fellow master at Eton. He remained at Eton until 1884, when, inspired by classic ideals and disgusted by his fellow masters' meat-eating habits and reliance on servants, he and Kate moved to a small cottage at Tilford, Surrey where they grew their own vegetables and lived very simply, sustained by a small pension Salt had built up. Salt engrossed himself in writing and began work on the pioneering Humanitarian League.\n\nDuring his lifetime Salt wrote almost 40 books. His first, \"A Plea for Vegetarianism\" (1886) was published by the Vegetarian Society, and in 1890, he produced an acclaimed biography of philosopher Henry David Thoreau, two interests that later led to a friendship with Mahatma Gandhi. He also wrote, in \"On Cambrian and Cumbrian Hills\" (1922), about the need for nature conservation to protect the natural beauty of the British countryside from commercial vandalism.\n\nHis circle of friends included many notable figures from late-19th and early-20th century literary and political life, including writers Algernon Charles Swinburne, John Galsworthy, Thomas Hardy, Rudyard Kipling, Havelock Ellis, Count Leo Tolstoy, William Morris, Peter Kropotkin, Ouida, George Bernard Shaw and Robert Cunninghame-Graham, as well as Labour leader James Keir Hardie and Fabian Society co-founders Hubert Bland and Annie Besant.\n\nSalt formed the Humanitarian League in 1891. Its objectives included the banning of hunting as a sport (in this respect it can be regarded as a fore-runner of the League Against Cruel Sports). In 1914 The League published a whole volume of essays on \"Killing for Sport\", the preface was written by George Bernard Shaw. The book formed in summary form the Humanitarian League's arraignment of blood-sports.\n\nKeith Tester writes that, in 1894, Salt created an \"epistemological break,\" by being the first writer to consider the issue of animal rights explicitly, as opposed to better animal welfare. In \"\", Salt wrote that he wanted to \"set the principle of animals' rights on a consistent and intelligible footing, [and] to show that this principle underlies the various efforts of humanitarian reformers ...\":\n\nEven the leading advocates of animal rights seem to have shrunk from basing their claim on the only argument which can ultimately be held to be a really sufficient one—the assertion that animals, as well as men, though, of course, to a far less extent than men, are possessed of a distinctive individuality, and, therefore, are in justice entitled to live their lives with a due measure of that 'restricted freedom' to which Herbert Spencer alludes.\n\nHe wrote that there is no point in claiming rights for animals if we subordinate their rights to human interests, and he argued against the presumption that a human life necessarily has more value than a nonhuman one:\n\n[The] notion of the life of an animal having 'no moral purpose,' belongs to a class of ideas which cannot possibly be accepted by the advanced humanitarian thought of the present day—it is a purely arbitrary assumption, at variance with our best instincts, at variance with our best science, and absolutely fatal (if the subject be clearly thought out) to any full realization of animals' rights. If we are ever going to do justice to the lower races, we must get rid of the antiquated notion of a 'great gulf' fixed between them and mankind, and must recognize the common bond of humanity that unites all living beings in one universal brotherhood.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20078879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20078879", "title": "Human Ecology, Human Economy", "text": "Human Ecology, Human Economy\n\nHuman Ecology, Human Economy: Ideas for an Ecologically Sustainable Future is a 1997 book edited by Mark Diesendorf and Clive Hamilton. The authors' intent is to \"develop some of the basic ideas, concepts and tools that are needed to create a set of preferred futures for the Earth\". According to the editors, the book provides equal measures of human ecology and ecological economics, in order to assist the process of working towards a better future.\n\n\"Human Ecology, Human Economy\" has been reviewed in \"Ecological Economics\" and \"The Australian Journal of Agricultural and Resource Economics\".\n\n"}
{"id": "55285257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55285257", "title": "Industry funding of academic research", "text": "Industry funding of academic research\n\nIndustry funding of academic research in the United States is one of the two major sources of funding in academia along with government support. Currently, private funding of research accounts for the majority of all research and development funding in the United States as of 2007 overall. Overall, Federal and Industrial sources contribute similar amounts to research, while industry funds the vast majority of development work. \n\nWhile the majority of industry research is performed in-house, a major portion of this private research funding is directed to research in non-profit academic centers. As of 1999, industrial sources accounted for an estimated $2.2 billion of academic research funding in the US. However, there is little governmental oversight or tracking of industry funding on academic science and figures of the scale of industry research are often estimated by self-reporting and surveys which can be somewhat unreliable.\n\nMuch of this industry funding of academic research is directed toward applied research. However, by some accounts, industry may even fund up to 40% of basic research in the United States, with Federal funding of basic research falling below 50%, although this figure does not consider where this research is conducted. The role for funding of academic research from industrial sources has received much attention both in a historical and contemporary perspective. The practice has received both extensive political praise and scholarly criticism.\n\nResearch in the US prior to World War II, heavily relied on funding from private sources without major organized federal research programs or either the scientists’ or associates’ personal funds. During World War II, governmental investment in research was widely regarded as a major contributor to military success and support for research was politically favorable. Following WW2, federal research funding in both Europe and the US increased in terms of relative percent of funding for research and absolute amount. Overall, the growth of industrial research funding has greatly outpaced public research funding growth, with US governmental research funding increasing by an average of 3.4% annually, while industrial research funding increased by an average of 5.4% annually from 1950 to 2004. \n\nSince WW2, industry funding of science has consistently represented the second largest source of funding for academic science. Industry funding of academic science did expand during the 1980s and 1990s following the passing of the Bayh-Dohl Act and a variety of both State and Federal proposals to increase funding for joint industry academic partnerships. In the 2000s there has been a small retraction of industry funding for academic science while overall industry R&D funding has expanded. ). However, industry funding may be broadening its scope as industry funding of basic science increasing dramatically over that same period, but much of this funding remains in-house.\n\nCulturally, attitudes towards the industrial funding of academic research have changed over time. Within universities, commercial activities and industry funding were often spurned in the 19th century. More recently, commercializing scientific activity is viewed more favorably with extensive political and university support of translating scientific discovery into economic output. However, within the research community and the public, industrial funding of research remains controversial. The universality of this tangled industry, academic, and governmental exchange of funding and research adventures has led researchers to term this model of R&D the Triple Helix.\n\nUniversity-industry partnerships can take on a variety of forms. On the smallest scale, individual research labs or researchers can partner with industry sources for funding. The details of such partnerships can differ substantially with any number of motives ranging from the academic lab testing of previously developed products, to performing early stage basic research related to industry research objectives, or even to individual researchers supporting their salary by consulting on related research problems in industry. While many such partnerships exist, due to their informal nature and resulting lack of record, it is difficult to track how extensive and impactful such relationships are, with most relying on surveys and other self-reporting measures. By closest approximation, according to the Research Value Mapping Survey, 17% of academics at major US research universities report receive grants from industry sources supporting their research.\n\nFar more extensively, in many fields and countries, a narrow majority of academic scientists report having some soft industry relationships, primarily through consulting. Such informal industry academic relationships have a long-standing tradition as they served as a major source of funding for individual labs prior to WW2. In many cases, it was expected that researchers would pursue such relationships as this was expected to be a major source of funding for researcher’s salaries. Despite greatly expanded post-WW2 federal support for research, so called soft money salary support from industry remains a large and growing aspect of academic research salaries.\n\nOn a larger scale, there have been numerous attempts to create collaborative University-Industry Research Centers (UIRCs) to jointly host academic and industry researchers to address industry problems with direct, large scale collaborative centers. Early forms of UIRCS started in the 1950s and 1960s with the formation of research parks with industry sponsors. In the 1970s, there were multiple proposals at the federal level in the US to help fund and expand early UIRCs. However, funding fell through at multiple points. \n\nThe first UIRCs experienced difficulties in bridging the differences between academic and industrial culture. One such attempt occurred at Cal Tech where Cal Tech researchers partnered with Xerox and IBM through the Silicon Structures Project. Both industry and academic partners were concerned about the cultures of the other and found the structure ineffective. With such frustrations, it was difficult to secure partners to continue expanding UIRCs.\n\nIn the late 1970s, RPI created two three new UIRCs: 1) the Center for Integrated Computer Graphics, which received both NSF and industry support 2) the Center for Manufacturing Productivity and Technology Transfer, which was funded entirely by industry support and 3) the Center for Integrated Electronics, which received unprecedented industry support. These centers were generally regarded as highly successful and made expansion of governmental support for joint industry and academic ventures more favorable. In the early 1980s, states began contributing funding to UIRCs and other industry-academic partnerships to encourage local economic growth from innovation. By the mid-1980s, the federal government expanded financial support for UIRCs. \n\nWith mixed governmental and industry support, the UIRCs were more likely to be successful. Over time successful governmentally funded UIRCs could become independent from government support once having demonstrable successes that could continue to incentivize industry to contribute funding more aggressively. UIRCs, coupled to early seeding from both state and federal government, continued to greatly expand during the 1980s and early 1990s, eventually receiving nearly 70% of industry funding of academic research and incentivizing a tripling of industry funding of academic research during the 1980s.\n\nContract research has also drawn increasing industry funding, particularly to Contract Research Organizations (CROs) from Biotech and Pharmaceutical corporations. Contract research is a popular form of outsourcing research in industry as industry has more influence over how the study is conducted than in either UIRCs or traditional academic grants. CROs, which are specifically designed for this function have drawn substantial industry clinical research funding away from academia and are growing rapidly.\n\nMuch discussion has been placed on the effects of industrial research funding on the behavior of academic research scientists. Concerns center on whether researchers can remain impartial when they are being funded by a for-profit and potentially motivated industrial source, if this funding gives private sources an oversized impact on which research directions are pursued, and the potential negative effects of industrial funding on the openness of science. \n\nA multitude of studies have found that pharmaceutical studies funded by industry organizations are significantly more likely to publish results in favor of the product being supported. This could, in part, be due to the fact that usually when an academic accepts industry funding, particularly when working on an existing product, researchers have to sign non-disclosure agreements which often prevent the publication of negative results and inhibit the openness of science. This could serve to significantly bias scientific results and diminish public trust of science.\n\nThere are additionally many scholars who have considered advantages of industrially funded academic research. Generally, increased industry funding may increase academic and industry interaction, prompting greater efficiency in translating and commercializing of science research. This increased commercialization activity from academics could serve as an economic and societal boost as the economy could be bolstered by new products hitting the market, while society could benefit directly from having increased access to the fruits of scientific production. Supporting this, academic science funded by industry sources does result in more patents per dollar, increased licensing of these patents, and even more citations per published paper than research supported by other sources, including federal at the University of California Berkeley. \n\nIn Germany, it also appears that applied research funded by industry sources results in a significant increase in patent citations, which could correspond to a serious increase in translation of applied research. Such increase in commercialization and translation of research could provide social and economic benefits. However, it is difficult to determine whether this increase in apparent impact is due to the industry funding itself or is just a read out that industry funds target work that tends to produce more citations per publication as well as more patents.\n\n"}
{"id": "53747763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53747763", "title": "Informal technical report", "text": "Informal technical report\n\nUnlike formal reports, \"informal technical reports\" are used for daily communication within a corporation or workplace. The parts of an informal technical report generally include a heading, introduction, summary, discussion/feedback, and conclusion. A recommendations section and or attachments section may be included if necessary.\n\nThough some organizations have their own template for informal report headings, most headings include the date, a name for who the formal report is being addressed to, a name for who the report is from, a subject, a reference, action required, and a distribution list. The \"Date, To, From, and Subject\" are all crucial portions of the heading. Alternatively, the \"Reference, Action Required, and Distribution list\" may be used depending on the circumstance and content of the report. A \"Reference\" should be used if the report is related to a previous report or is a response to another informal report. The \"Action Required\" may be necessary if receivers must respond by a certain date or time. Lastly, a \"Distribution List\" should be included if it is necessary for all readers to be aware of who is receiving the report, in addition to the file name. A sample format is as follows\nDate:6th July 2018\n\nTo:MOBILITY TECHNOLOGIES\n\nFrom:SUPIMENS SECURITY SYSTEM\n\nSubject:REPORT ON SECURITY SYSTEMS\n\nReference:\n\nAction Required:\n\nDistribution List:\n\nThe introduction of the report should concisely summarize what the report is going to cover. Additionally, the introduction should include a purpose, any helpful background information, and the order of the content.\n\nThe summary should cover the key points addressed in the report. \"If appropriate, the introduction and summary may be combined when using informal technical reports.\"\n\nThe discussion portion of the report should be used to cover each main point that it introduced in the summary. This section should be reserved for elaborating on the key points and discussing any potential issues that the readers may need to be aware of. Additionally, the author may include any interpretations or opinion in this section.\n\nThe conclusion portion of the report should summarize all of the key points addressed and restate the most important points that readers should take away from the report.\n\nThe recommendations section should be reserved for proposing any solutions to the issues addressed in the \"discussion/feedback\" section.\n\nThe attachment section should be utilized for any extra documents containing data or supporting evidence necessary to support the key point addressed in the report.\n\n"}
{"id": "8724959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8724959", "title": "Joseph Rowntree (philanthropist)", "text": "Joseph Rowntree (philanthropist)\n\nJoseph Rowntree (24 May 1836 – 24 February 1925) was an English Quaker philanthropist and businessman from York. Rowntree is perhaps best known for being a champion of social reform, partner and friend of Charles Booth, and his time as a chocolatier at family business \"Rowntree's\", one of the most important in Britain. Even as a powerful businessman, he was deeply interested in improving the quality of life of his employees; this led to him becoming a philanthropist, pursuing many charitable causes. In 1904 he created three trusts, the Joseph Rowntree Village Trust (JRVT) which was originally set up to build and manage the garden village of New Earswick, the Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust (JRCT) and the Joseph Rowntree Social Services Trust (JRSST). The latter two were both set up to effect social reform, the difference between them being that whereas the Charitable Trust was set up as a charity, the Social Services Trust was set up as a limited company so that if necessary it would be able to undertake social and political work not legally allowed by a charitable Trust. He suggested that only the JRVT would be permanent but in fact all the trusts are still in existence although the Social Services Trust has changed its name to the Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust and with the separation of the Joseph Rowntree Housing Trust from the Village Trust in 1968, there are now four trusts that exist today.\n\nRowntree was born the son of Sarah and Joseph Rowntree, on Pavement Street in York where his father owned a grocer's shop. He attended Bootham School. At fourteen he accompanied his father on a visit to Ireland, and witnessed the effects of the potato famine. This experience was to provide the grounding for his political views and business ideas later in life.\n\nHe started working in his father's grocery business as an apprentice the following year, and after his father's death in 1859 he took over the running, jointly managing the business with his brother John Stephenson Rowntree.\n\nIn 1869 he joined his brother, Henry Isaac Rowntree, who owned a chocolate factory in York. When Henry Isaac died in 1883, Joseph became the owner of the company. Joseph pursued his progressive ideas within the running of Rowntree's, in the design of the new factory opened in 1881, and in the business practices followed therein, including the founding of one of the first Occupational Pension Schemes.\n\nThe company, Rowntree's, grew from 30 to over 4,000 employees by the end of the 19th century making it Britain's eightieth largest manufacturing employer. It merged with John Mackintosh and Co. in 1969 and was taken over by Nestlé in 1988.\n\nHe had two marriages, to Julia Eliza Seebohm in 1862 who died in 1863, and then to her cousin Emma Antoinette Seebohm in 1867 with whom he had six children. The social investigator Seebohm Rowntree was one of their children.\n\nJoseph Rowntree's grave, along with many other members of his family, can be seen in the Quaker cemetery within the grounds of The Retreat on Heslington Road, York.\n\nPhilosophical and political views: Joseph Rowntree was a supporter of liberal values, and was anxious to improve the quality of life of his employees. He provided them with a library, free education, a works magazine, a social welfare officer, a doctor, a dentist and a pension fund.\n\nThe Joseph Rowntree School was built in York in 1942 by the Joseph Rowntree Village Trust. In 2010 the school relocated to new premises costing £29 million. Students refer to it as \"Jo Ro\".\n\nA campaign was started in summer 2012 to put a statue of Joseph Rowntree at a prominent site in the centre of York, with a Facebook page – \"A Joseph Rowntree statue for York City Centre\" – that stated: \"York should be proud of its greatest son! This campaign aims to place a statue of Joseph Rowntree, philanthropist, social reformer, and chocolatier, in Parliament Square, York, on the site of the repulsed and now-demolished toilet block.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "37278553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37278553", "title": "Kingston Bridal Week", "text": "Kingston Bridal Week\n\nKingston Bridal Week is Jamaica’s first and only annual Bridal Week. The event was founded in 2012 by Kibwe McGann, Sean Lyn and Kara-Ann Anderson, and was produced by Intuit Concepts. In the second year, Nicola Barbar of Phoenix printery became an official partner and was added to the directorship. In September 2013, for the second staging of Kingston Bridal Week, and for the first time in Jamaica, Kingston Bridal Week hosted Randy Fenoli, TV star of TLC 's Say Yes To The Dress and Randy to the Rescue and author of\nIt's all About the Dress.\n\nAs part of Kingston Bridal Week's Lifestyle and Honeymoon fashion shows, the event has featured international designers Rebacca Ansah (UK), Kesia Eastwick (Barbados), Cedella Marley (Jamaica), Spokes Apparel, Roger Gary (Guyana), and Lubica (Slovakia).\n\nKingston Bridal Week has hosted three charity events as part of annual bridal week: In 2012 - a charity dinner in partnership with Angels of Love, A Jamaican charity for children was hosted by international recording artist Tami Chynn, sister of Jamaican singer Tessanne Chin; Brides for Haiti, charity dress drive; and Baggage Claim charity movie premiere.\n\nIntuit Concepts is the management and execution company that conceptualized Kingston Bridal Week. The company also produces Wedding Spectacular a two-day annual bridal event held in February which is also hosted in Jamaica.\n\n"}
{"id": "49947894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49947894", "title": "Leo Szilard Lectureship Award", "text": "Leo Szilard Lectureship Award\n\nThe Leo Szilard Lectureship Award (originally called the Leo Szilard Award) is given annually by the American Physical Society (APS) for \"outstanding accomplishments by physicists in promoting the use of physics for the benefit of society\". It is given internationally in commemoration of physicist Leo Szilard.\n\nIt is often awarded to physicists early in their careers who are active in areas such as environmental issues, arms control, or science policy. the recipient is given $3,000 plus $2,000 travel expenses and is expected to lecture at an APS meeting and at educational or research laboratories, to promote awareness of their activities.\n\nThe award is given yearly and was first presented in 1974.\n\n"}
{"id": "5612881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5612881", "title": "List of revolutions and rebellions", "text": "List of revolutions and rebellions\n\nThis is a list of revolutions and rebellions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45564275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45564275", "title": "Military democracy", "text": "Military democracy\n\nMilitary democracy is a term used to describe the war-based society of historical peoples. An example is Frederick Engels' characterization:\n\nAccording to Engels, the Greek Heroic Age was a typical example of military democracy. Lewis Henry Morgan spoke of two features: \"the military state of society, and the system of administration consisting of an elective and removable supreme chief, a council of elders and a popular assembly.\"\n"}
{"id": "26206891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26206891", "title": "Namık Kemal", "text": "Namık Kemal\n\nNamık Kemal (21 December 1840 – 2 December 1888) was an Ottoman democrat, writer, intellectual, reformer, journalist, playwright, and political activist who was influential in the formation of the Young Ottomans and their struggle for governmental reform in the Ottoman Empire during the late Tanzimat period, which would lead to the First Constitutional Era in the Empire in 1876. Kemal was particularly significant for championing the notions of freedom and fatherland in his numerous plays and poems, and his works would have a powerful impact on the establishment of and future reform movements in Turkey, as well as other former Ottoman lands. He is often regarded as being instrumental in redefining Western concepts like natural rights and constitutional government.\n\nAn Albanian by origin, Namık Kemal was born in Tekirdağ (then part of the Ottoman Empire, today in Turkey) on 21 December 1840, to Fatma Zehra and Mustafa Asım Bey, the latter of whom was chief astrologer in the Sultan’s Palace. Since surnames or family names were not in use during the Ottoman Empire, \"Kemal\" was not his surname, but part of his first name. During his youth, Kemal traveled throughout the Ottoman Empire, staying in Constantinople, Kars, and Sofia, and studied a number of subjects, including poetry. In 1857, at the age of 17, Kemal worked in the \"Tercüme Odası\" (\"The Translation Office\") of the government. However, as a result of the political nature of his writings, Kemal was forced to leave this job by Grand Vizier Mehmed Emin Âli Pasha and so joined his friend and fellow Young Ottoman, İbrahim Şinasi, on his newspaper \"Tasvir-i Efkar\" (\"Herald of Ideas\"). Kemal worked on \"Tasvir-i Efkar\" until his exile and flight to Paris in 1867.\n\nThe Young Ottomans were a group of political activists whose members came principally from the young elite of Ottoman society. The major goal of this group was to institute political reform according to the Western ideas of representative government.\n\nAfter joining the Young Ottomans in 1862, Kemal continually wrote essays on the subjects of political, administrative, social, and foreign policy reform. In 1864, Kemal took over the pro-reform newspaper \"Tasvir-i Efkar\" after its previous owner and Kemal's friend İbrahim Şinasi was forced into exile. In 1868, after being forced to seek refuge in Paris, Kemal began to handle the publication of the newspaper \"Hürriyet\" (\"Liberty\"), which also espoused the purpose of the Young Ottomans. Kemal’s papers rapidly became a popular venue for Young Ottomans to express their anti-sultanate and pro-parliamentary sentiments. However, as a result of their outspokenness, many Young Ottomans were, like Kemal, forced to flee the empire and seek refuge in Western Europe.\n\nNamik Kemal admired the constitution of the French Third Republic, he summed up the Young Ottomans' political ideals as \"the sovereignty of the nation, the separation of powers, the responsibility of officials, personal freedom, equality, freedom of thought, freedom of press, freedom of association, enjoyment of property, sanctity of the home\".\n\nNamık Kemal was heavily influenced by Western conceptions of the relationship between the government and the people. As such, he and his compatriots spoke out against the movement to centralize the government being undertaken by Sultan Abdülaziz (ruled 1861–1876), and his advisors Mehmed Emin Âli Pasha and Mehmed Fuad Pasha. As a result of his criticism of the government, Namık Kemal was exiled from the Ottoman Empire in 1867 and fled to Paris, where many other exiled Young Ottomans had found refuge.\n\nIn 1869 or 1870, Kemal was allowed to return to Constantinople and proceeded to write for a number of Young Ottoman-run newspapers, and eventually published one of his own, \"Ibret\" (\"Admonition\"), in which he addressed more intellectual, social, and national subjects. In addition, it was after his return to Constantinople that Kemal wrote his most significant and influential work: the play \"Vatan Yahut Silistre\", or \"Silistra\", which translates to \"Fatherland.\" The play tells the story of an Ottoman soldier whose loyalty to his nation, and not his religion or allegiance to the Sultan, motivates him to defend the town of Silistra, Bulgaria from the Russians during the Crimean War. The impact these nationalist sentiments, unheard of in the Ottoman Empire prior to Kemal, had on the Turkish people was so profound that Kemal’s newspaper, \"Ibret\", was shut down, and Kemal himself was banished from the Empire for the second time. During this second exile, Kemal took refuge in Cyprus, in a building known as the Namık Kemal Dungeon in Famagusta, where he remained for three years.\n\nLike many Young Ottomans, Namık Kemal supported Murad V’s ascension to the throne after the abdication of Abdülaziz in 1876. However, their hope that Murad would institute the reforms they desired was dashed, for it rapidly became apparent that he was not suited for rule; his weak nerves and alcoholism leading to his abdication after only three months. Namık Kemal protested against Murad’s deposition, and continued to support Murad’s Western political perspectives, but ultimately, his pleas failed to have any effect and Murad V stepped down in 1876.\n\nDespite Murad’s abdication, the first Ottoman Parliament, the General Assembly of the Ottoman Empire, was established in 1876, largely as a result of pressure from the Young Ottomans, as well as Midhat Pasha’s political influence. However, while, at first, Abdul Hamid II, the sultan who succeeded Murad V, was willing to allow Parliament to function, he quickly decided that it was easier for him to enact reform by seizing autocratic powers instead of waiting for the approval of elected officials. In order to successfully implement his autocratic rule, Abdul Hamid II exiled many Young Ottomans, including Namık Kemal, who were critical of his decision to disregard the Parliament. Thus, for the third time, Kemal was removed from Constantinople by being forced into an administrative position in Chios, where he would die in 1888.\n\nNamık Kemal had an enormous influence on the formation of a Turkish national identity. Kemal’s focus on national loyalty, rather than loyalty to a monarch, influenced, as it was, by Western European ideals of self-government, contributed not only to the spread of democracy during the early 20th century, but also to the formation of the modern Republic of Turkey after the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire. The founder of modern Turkey, Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, often remarked that he had been influenced by Kemal’s writing as a young man, and that they had subsequently been a source of inspiration for his goals in the formation of the Turkish government and state.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "381564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=381564", "title": "Normative", "text": "Normative\n\nNormative generally means relating to an evaluative standard. Normativity is the phenomenon in human societies of designating some actions or outcomes as good or desirable or permissible and others as bad or undesirable or impermissible. A norm in this normative sense means a standard for evaluating or making judgments about behavior or outcomes. Normative is sometimes also used, somewhat confusingly, to mean relating to a descriptive standard: doing what is normally done or what most others are expected to do in practice. In this sense a norm is not evaluative, a basis for judging behavior or outcomes; it is simply a fact or observation about behavior or outcomes, without judgment. Many researchers in this field try to restrict the use of the term normative to the evaluative sense and refer to the description of behavior and outcomes as positive, descriptive, predictive, or empirical. \n\n\"Normative\" has specialized meanings in different academic disciplines such as philosophy, social sciences, and law. In most contexts, normative means 'relating to an evaluation or value judgment.' Normative propositions tend to evaluate some object or some course of action. Normative content differs from descriptive content.\n\nOne of the major developments in analytic philosophy has seen the reach of normativity spread to virtually all corners of the field, from ethics and the philosophy of action, to epistemology, metaphysics, and the philosophy of science. Saul Kripke famously showed that rules (including mathematical rules, such as the repetition of a decimal pattern) are normative in an important respect.\n\nThough philosophers disagree about how normativity should be understood, it has become increasingly common to understand normative claims as claims about reasons. As Derek Parfit explains:\n\nIn philosophy, \"normative\" statements make claims about how things should or ought to be, how to value them, which things are good or bad, and which actions are right or wrong. Normative claims are usually contrasted with positive (i.e. descriptive, explanatory, or constative) claims when describing types of theories, beliefs, or propositions. Positive statements are (purportedly) factual statements that attempt to describe reality.\n\nFor example, \"children should eat vegetables\", and \"those who would sacrifice liberty for security deserve neither\" are normative claims. On the other hand, \"vegetables contain a relatively high proportion of vitamins\", and \"a common consequence of sacrificing liberty for security is a loss of both\" are positive claims. Whether a statement is normative is logically independent of whether it is verified, verifiable, or popularly held.\n\nThere are several schools of thought regarding the status of normative statements and whether they can be rationally discussed or defended. Among these schools are the tradition of practical reason extending from Aristotle through Kant to Habermas, which asserts that they can, and the tradition of emotivism, which maintains that they are merely expressions of emotions and have no cognitive content. \n\nNormative statements and norms, as well as their meanings, are an integral part of human life. They are fundamental for prioritizing goals and organizing and planning. Thought, belief, emotion, and action are the basis of much ethical and political discourse; indeed, normativity is arguably the key feature distinguishing ethical and political discourse from other discourses (such as natural science).\n\nMuch modern moral/ethical philosophy takes as its starting point the apparent variance between peoples and cultures regarding the ways they define what is considered to be appropriate/desirable/praiseworthy/valuable/good etc. (In other words, variance in how individuals, groups and societies define what is in accordance with their normative standards.) This has led philosophers such as A.J. Ayer and J.L. Mackie (for different reasons and in different ways) to cast doubt on the meaningfulness of normative statements. However, other philosophers, such as Christine Korsgaard, have argued for a source of normative value which is independent of individuals' subjective morality and which consequently attains (a lesser or greater degree of) objectivity.\n\nIn the social sciences, the term \"normative\" has broadly the same meaning as its usage in philosophy, but may also relate, in a sociological context, to the role of cultural 'norms'; the shared values or institutions that structural functionalists regard as constitutive of the social structure and social cohesion. These values and units of socialization thus act to encourage or enforce social activity and outcomes that \"ought\" to (with respect to the norms implicit in those structures) occur, while discouraging or preventing social activity that \"ought not\" occur. That is, they promote social activity that is socially \"valued\" (see philosophy above). While there are always anomalies in social activity (typically described as \"crime\" or anti-social behaviour, see also normality (behavior)) the normative effects of popularly endorsed beliefs (such as \"family values\" or \"common sense\") push most social activity towards a generally homogeneous set. From such reasoning, however, functionalism shares an affinity with ideological conservatism.\n\nNormative economics deals with questions of what sort of economic policies should be pursued, in order to achieve desired (that is, valued) economic outcomes.\n\nIn the academic discipline of International relations, Smith, Baylis & Owens in the \"Introduction\" to their 2008 book make the case that the normative position or normative theory is to make the world a better place and that this theoretical worldview aims to do so by being aware of implicit assumptions and explicit assumptions that constitute a non-normative position, and align or position the normative towards the loci of other key socio-political theories such as political Liberalism, Marxism, political Constructivism, political Realism, political Idealism and political Globalization.\n\nIn law, as an academic discipline, the term \"normative\" is used to describe the way something ought to be done according to a value position. As such, normative arguments can be conflicting, insofar as different values can be inconsistent with one another. For example, from one normative value position the purpose of the criminal process may be to repress crime. From another value position, the purpose of the criminal justice system could be to protect individuals from the moral harm of wrongful conviction.\n\nNormative elements are defined in International Organization for Standardization Directives Part 2 as \"elements that describe the scope of the document, and which set out provisions\". Provisions include \"requirements\", \"recommendations\" and \"statements\". \"Statements\" include permissions, possibilities and capabilities. A \"requirement\" is an \"expression in the content of a document conveying criteria to be fulfilled if compliance with the document is to be claimed and from which no deviation is permitted.\" It is not necessary to comply with recommendations and statements in order to comply with the standard; it is necessary to comply only with the requirements (that are denoted by the verbal form \"shall\"). There is much confusion between \"normative\" and \"requirement\", however the ISO terminology is supported by national standards bodies worldwide and is the legitimate description of these terms in the context of standards documents.\n\nIn standards terminology still used by some organisations, \"normative\" means \"considered to be a prescriptive part of the standard\". It characterises that part of the standard which describes what \"ought\" (see philosophy above) to be done within the application of that standard. It is implicit that application of that standard will result in a \"valuable\" outcome (\"ibid.\"). For example, many standards have an introduction, preface, or summary that is considered non-normative, as well as a main body that is considered normative. \"Compliance\" is defined as \"complies with the normative sections of the standard\"; an object that complies with the normative sections but not the non-normative sections of a standard is still considered to be in compliance.\n\n\nTypically, \"normative\" is contrasted with \"informative\" (referring to the standard's descriptive, explanatory or positive content). Informative data is supplemental information such as additional guidance, supplemental recommendations, tutorials, commentary as well as background, history, development, and relationship with other elements. Informative data is not a requirement and doesn’t compel compliance.\n\n"}
{"id": "24591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24591", "title": "Polyamory", "text": "Polyamory\n\nPolyamory (from Greek ', \"many, several\", and Latin ', \"love\") is the practice of, or desire for, intimate relationships with more than one partner, with the consent of all partners involved. It has been described as \"consensual, ethical, and responsible non-monogamy\". People who identify as polyamorous believe in an open relationship with a conscious management of jealousy; they reject the view that sexual and relational exclusivity are necessary for deep, committed, long-term loving relationships.\n\n\"Polyamory\" has come to be an umbrella term for various forms of non-monogamous, multi-partner relationships, or non-exclusive sexual or romantic relationships. Its usage reflects the choices and philosophies of the individuals involved, but with recurring themes or values, such as love, intimacy, honesty, integrity, equality, communication, and commitment.\n\nThe word \"polyamorous\" first appeared in an article by Morning Glory Zell-Ravenheart, \"A Bouquet of Lovers\", published in May 1990 in \"Green Egg Magazine\", as \"poly-amorous\". In May 1992, Jennifer L. Wesp created the Usenet newsgroup \"alt.polyamory\", and the Oxford English Dictionary cites the proposal to create that group as the first verified appearance of the word. The words \"polyamory, -ous, and -ist\" were added to the OED in 2006. In 1999, Zell-Ravenheart was asked by the editor of the OED to provide a definition of the term, and had provided it for the UK version as \"the practice, state or ability of having more than one sexual loving relationship at the same time, with the full knowledge and consent of all partners involved.\"\n\nAlthough sources define polyamory as a sexual or romantic relationship involving multiple people, with the consent of all the people involved, the North American version of the OED declares it a philosophy or state, and some believe that it should be classified an orientation or identity (like sexual orientation or gender identity).\n\nThere is a cultural divide between the polyamorous and swinger communities, the former emphasizing the emotional and egalitarian aspects of plural relationships and the latter emphasizing sexual non-monogamy and emotional monogamy. A person with polyamorous relationships may also engage in swinging and other open relationships. As well, swingers occasionally develop deep emotional attachments with their sexual friends. Swingers and polyamorous people alike might engage in secret infidelities, though this is no more acceptable than in monogamy.\n\nSeparate from polyamory as a philosophical basis for relationship, are the practical ways in which people who live polyamorously arrange their lives and handle certain issues, as compared to those of a more conventional monogamous arrangement.\n\n\nBenefits of a polyamorous relationship might include:\n\nIn 1998, a Tennessee court granted guardianship of a child to her grandmother and step-grandfather after the child's mother April Divilbiss and partners outed themselves as polyamorous on MTV. After contesting the decision for two years, Divilbiss eventually agreed to relinquish her daughter, acknowledging that she was unable to adequately care for her child and that this, rather than her polyamory, had been the grandparents' real motivation in seeking custody.\n\nCompersion (or, in Britain, frubble) is an empathetic state of happiness and joy experienced when another individual experiences happiness and joy, and by members of the polyamory community in the context of polyamorous relationships. It is used to describe when a person experiences positive feelings when a lover is enjoying another relationship.\n\nThe concept of compersion within the polyamorous community was originally coined by the Kerista Commune in San Francisco, who also coined polyfidelity to describe their relational ideal.\n\nEaston and Liszt wrote that jealousy will inherently occur in open romantic relationships.\n\nIn the Cuckold/Hotwife lifestyle, compersion may include the feelings associated with \"Cuckold Angst\" this feeling is often described as anxiety, fear, happiness and fulfillment. \n\n\nBertrand Russell published \"Marriage and Morals\" in 1929, questioning contemporary notions of morality regarding monogamy in sex and marriage. This viewpoint was criticized by John Dewey.\n\nA 2003 article in \"The Guardian\" proposed six primary reasons for choosing polyamory: \n\nThe Oneida Community in the 1800s in New York (a Christian religious commune) believed strongly in a system of free love known as complex marriage, where any member was free to have sex with any other who consented. Possessiveness and exclusive relationships were frowned upon.\n\nSome people consider themselves Christian and polyamorous, but mainstream Christianity does not accept polyamory.\n\nOn August 29, 2017, the Council on Biblical Manhood and Womanhood released a manifesto on human sexuality known as the \"Nashville Statement\". The statement was signed by 150 evangelical leaders, and includes 14 points of belief. Among other things, it states, \"We deny that God has designed marriage to be a homosexual, polygamous, or polyamorous relationship.\"\n\nSome Jews are polyamorous, but mainstream Judaism does not accept polyamory; however, Sharon Kleinbaum, the senior rabbi at Congregation Beit Simchat Torah in New York, has said that polyamory is a choice that does not preclude a Jewishly observant and socially conscious life. Some polyamorous Jews also point to biblical patriarchs having multiple wives and concubines as evidence that polyamorous relationships can be sacred in Judaism. An email list was founded dedicated to polyamorous Jews, called \"AhavaRaba\", which roughly translates to \"big love\" in Hebrew, and whose name echoes God's \"great\" or \"abounding\" love mentioned in the Ahava rabbah prayer.\n\nLaVeyan Satanism is critical of Abrahamic sexual mores, considering them narrow, restrictive and hypocritical. Satanists are pluralists, accepting polyamorists, bisexuals, lesbians, gays, BDSM, transgender people, and asexuals. Sex is viewed as an indulgence, but one that should only be freely entered into with consent. The Eleven Satanic Rules of the Earth only give two instructions regarding sex: \"Do not make sexual advances unless you are given the mating signal\" and \"Do not harm little children,\" though the latter is much broader and encompasses physical and other abuse. This has always been consistent part of CoS policy since its inception in 1966, as Peter H. Gillmore wrote in an essay supporting same-sex marriage:\n\nUnitarian Universalists for Polyamory Awareness, founded in 2001, has engaged in ongoing education and advocacy for greater understanding and acceptance of polyamory within the Unitarian Universalist Association. At the 2014 General Assembly, two UUPA members moved to include the category of \"family and relationship structures\" in the UUA's nondiscrimination rule, along with other amendments; the package of proposed amendments was ratified by the GA delegates.\n\nBigamy is the act of marrying one person while already being married to another, and is legally prohibited in most countries in which monogamy is the cultural norm. Some bigamy statutes are broad enough to potentially encompass polyamorous relationships involving cohabitation, even if none of the participants claim marriage to more than one partner.\n\nIn most countries, it is legal for three or more people to form and share a sexual relationship (subject sometimes to laws against homosexuality or adultery if two of the three are married). With only minor exceptions no developed countries permit \"marriage\" among more than two people, nor do the majority of countries give legal protection (e.g., of rights relating to children) to non-married partners. Individuals involved in polyamorous relationships are generally considered by the law to be no different from people who live together, or \"date\", under other circumstances. In 2017 John Alejandro Rodriguez, Victor Hugo Prada, and Manuel Jose Bermudez become Colombia's first polyamorous family to have a legally recognized relationship, though not a marriage: \"By Colombian law a marriage is between two people, so we had to come up with a new word: a special patrimonial union.\"\n\nIn many jurisdictions where same-sex couples can access civil unions or registered partnerships, these are often intended as parallel institutions to that of heterosexual monogamous marriage. Accordingly, they include parallel entitlements, obligations, and limitations. Among the latter, as in the case of the New Zealand Civil Union Act 2005, there are parallel prohibitions on civil unions with more than one partner, which is considered bigamy, or dual marriage/civil union hybrids with more than one person. Both are banned under Sections 205–206 of the Crimes Act 1961. In jurisdictions where same-sex marriage proper exists, bigamous same-sex marriages fall under the same set of legal prohibitions as bigamous heterosexual marriages. As yet, there is no case law applicable to these issues.\n\nHaving multiple non-marital partners, even if married to one, is legal in most U.S. jurisdictions; at most it constitutes grounds for divorce if the spouse is non-consenting, or feels that the interest in a further partner has destabilized the marriage. In jurisdictions where civil unions or registered partnerships are recognized, the same principle applies to divorce in those contexts. There are exceptions to this: in North Carolina, a spouse can sue a third party for causing \"loss of affection\" in or \"criminal conversation\" (adultery) with their spouse, and more than twenty states in the US have laws against adultery although they are infrequently enforced. Some states were prompted to review their laws criminalizing consensual sexual activity in the wake of the Supreme Court's ruling in \"Lawrence v. Texas\".\n\nAt present, the extension to multiple-partner relationships of laws that use a criterion similar to that adopted in the United Kingdom, i.e., \"married \"or living together as married\"\" remains largely untested. That is, it is not known whether these laws could treat some trios or larger groups as common-law marriages.\n\nIf marriage is intended, some countries provide for both a religious marriage and a civil ceremony (sometimes combined). These recognize and formalize the relationship. Few countries outside of Africa or Asia give legal recognition to marriages with three or more partners. While a recent case in the Netherlands was commonly read as demonstrating that Dutch law permitted multiple-partner civil unions, the relationship in question was a \"\", or \"cohabitation contract\", and not a registered partnership or marriage. The Netherlands' law concerning registered partnerships provides that\n\nAuthors have explored legalistic ramifications of polyamorous marriage. \n\nSuch endeavors, however, may be moot. In 1979, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), an international bill of rights for women, with 99 initial signatories and an eventual 189 ratifying parties. The intent is to make monogamous marriage the only legal form, worldwide, with progress monitored by the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women. Polygamy is seen as contrary to CEDAW Article 16, which bars \"discrimination against women in all matters relating to marriage and family relations.\"\n\nDuring a PinkNews question-and-answer session in May 2015, Redfern Jon Barrett questioned Natalie Bennett, leader of the Green Party of England and Wales, about her party's stance towards polyamorous marriage rights. Bennett responded by saying that her party is \"open\" to discussion on the idea of civil partnership or marriages between three people. Bennett's announcement aroused media controversy on the topic and led to major international news outlets covering her answer. A follow-up article written by Barrett was published by PinkNews on May 4, 2015, further exploring the topic.\n\nPolyamory was the subject of the 2018 Louis Theroux documentary \"Love Without Limits\", where Theroux travels to Portland, Oregon to meet a number of people engaged in polyamorous relationships. Also in 2018, a web series about a black lesbian couple dealing with their relationship being newly polyamorous, called \"195 Lewis\", received the Breakthrough Series – Short Form award from the Gotham Awards. That series premiered in 2017.\n\nResearch into polyamory has been limited. A comprehensive government study of sexual attitudes, behaviors and relationships in Finland in 1992 (age 18–75, around 50% female and male) found that around 200 out of 2250 (8.9%) respondents \"agreed or strongly agreed\" with the statement \"I could maintain several sexual relationships at the same time\" and 8.2% indicated a relationship type \"that best suits\" at the present stage of life would involve multiple partners. By contrast, when asked about other relationships at the same time as a steady relationship, around 17% stated they had had other partners while in a steady relationship (50% no, 17% yes, 33% refused to answer).\n\nThe article,\"What Psychology Professionals Should Know About Polyamory\", based on a paper presented at the 8th Annual Diversity Conference in March 1999 in Albany, New York, states the following:\n\nA study by Moors et al. examined \"consensual non-monogamy\" or CNM (which includes polyamory) in the context of attachment in adults, particularly with regards to \"anxiety\" (insecurity about a partner's availability) and \"avoidance\" (discomfort with closeness). The first sample was of exclusively monogamous individuals who were not told the nature of what was being studied, and found that those with greater discomfort with emotional closeness tended to view CNM more positively as well as being more willing to engage in it (but had not \"actually\" engaged in it). The authors theorized this was \"because these relationships promote distance from their partners and support their accepting attitudes toward uncommitted and casual sex\". Individuals with high attachment anxiety tended to view CNM negatively, but no correlation was found regarding willingness to engage in it. The second sample was a targeted recruitment of individuals currently engaged in CNM relationships. This sample showed low levels of attachment avoidance, and no correlation related to attachment anxiety. The lack of correlation with anxiety in either sample with regards to willingness or actual engagement suggested it may have little impact on the matter. The large disparity in attachment avoidance between those willing to engage in CNM and those that actually engage in it could not be fully explained within the context of the study, but the authors offer several hypotheses. The study also had a few limitations, including that all subjects were heterosexual, the data was anonymous self-report and the second sample may have suffered from social desirability bias due to its targeted recruitment.\n\nIn 2002, a paper titled \"Working with polyamorous clients in the clinical setting\" (Davidson) addressed the following areas of inquiry:\n\n\nIts conclusions were that \"Sweeping changes are occurring in the sexual and relational landscape\" (including \"dissatisfaction with limitations of serial monogamy, i.e. exchanging one partner for another in the hope of a better outcome\"); that clinicians need to start by \"recognizing the array of possibilities that 'polyamory' encompasses\" and \"examine our culturally-based assumption that 'only monogamy is acceptable'\" and how this bias impacts on the practice of therapy; the need for self-education about polyamory, basic understandings about the \"rewards of the poly lifestyle\" and the common social and relationship challenges faced by those involved, and the \"shadow side\" of polyamory, the potential existing for coercion, strong emotions in opposition, and jealousy.\n\nThe paper also states that the configurations a therapist would be \"most likely to see in practice\" are individuals involved in primary-plus arrangements, monogamous couples wishing to explore non-monogamy for the first time, and \"poly singles\".\n\nA manual for psychotherapists who deal with polyamorous clients was published in September 2009 by the National Coalition for Sexual Freedom \"What Psychotherapists Should Know About Polyamory\".\n\nMichael Shernoff cites two studies in his report on same-sex couples considering nonmonogamy.\n\nMorin (1999) stated that a couple has a very good chance of adjusting to nonexclusivity if at least some of the following conditions exist:\n\nGreen and Mitchell (2002) stated that direct discussion of the following issues can provide the basis for honest and important conversations:\n\nAccording to Shernoff, if the matter is discussed with a third party, such as a therapist, the task of the therapist is to \"engage couples in conversations that let them decide for themselves whether sexual exclusivity or nonexclusivity is functional or dysfunctional for the relationship.\"\n\nPolyamory, along with other forms of consensual non-monogamy, is not without drawbacks. Morin (1999) and Fleckenstein (2014) noted that certain conditions are favorable to good experiences with polyamory, but that these differ from the general population. Heavy public promotion of polyamory can have the unintended effect of attracting people to it for whom it is not well-suited. Unequal power dynamics, such as financial dependence, can also inappropriately influence a person to agree to a polyamorous relationship against their true desires. Even in more equal power dynamic relationships, the reluctant partner may feel coerced into a proposed non-monogamous arrangement due to the implication that if they refuse, the proposer will pursue other partners anyway, will break off the relationship, or that the one refusing will be accused of intolerance.\n\nScientific studies on polyamory have also not been without bias and methodological issues. First, a significant number of studies rely on small samples that are recruited from referrals, snowball sampling, and websites devoted to polyamory. Individuals recruited this way tend to be relative homogeneous in terms of values, beliefs and demographics, which limits the generalizability of the findings. These samples also tend to be self-selecting toward individuals with positive experiences, whereas those who found polyamory to be distressing or hurtful might be more reluctant to participate in the research. A second problem is that most of the studies rely entirely on self-report measures. This is problematic because prior research has shown that self-reports of well-being and relationship satisfaction over time are flawed, and are often based on beliefs rather than actual experiences. Self-report measures are also at risk of self-enhancement bias; subjects may feel pressure to give positive responses about their well-being and relationship satisfaction in the face of stereotype threat. This disparity was noted by Moors et al. (2014), who compared respondents expressing interest in consensual non-monogamy drawn from the general population to those drawn from online communities devoted to it. In academic works involving volunteer interviews, the participant is almost always a single partner of such relationships or a small group where certain partners are not present, resulting in one-sided views being recorded about the relationship.\n\nPolyamorous relationships also can have practical pitfalls. One common complaint from participants is time management, as more partners means one must divide one's time and attention up between them, leaving less for each. Related is that the complexity of the arrangement can lead to so much effort being spent on the relationship that personal, individual needs can be overlooked. Another potential issue is lopsided power dynamics, such as one partner having significantly more resources, being more attractive or being much better at initiating new relationships, making the arrangement clearly more beneficial to that partner than the others. The strong emphasis on communication can also unintentionally marginalize partners who are less articulate. Finally, negotiating the sometimes complex rules and boundaries of these relationships can be emotionally taxing, as can as reconciling situations where one partner goes outside those boundaries.\n\nA number of symbols have been created to represent polyamory. These include a parrot (a pun, as \"Polly\" is a common name for domesticated parrots) and the \"infinity heart\". The \"infinity heart\" symbol has appeared on pins, T-shirts, bumper stickers and other media.\nThe polyamory pride flag, designed by Jim Evans in 1995, has stripes of blue (representing openness and honesty among all partners), red (representing love and passion), and black (representing solidarity with those who must hide their polyamorous relationships from the outside world). In the center of the flag is a gold Greek lowercase letter 'pi', as the first letter of 'polyamory'. Gold represents \"the value that we place on the emotional attachment to others... as opposed to merely primarily physical relationships\". There is also a similar ribbon.\n\nPolyamory-related media\n\nPolyamory-related media coverage\n\nResearch and articles\n"}
{"id": "2599417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2599417", "title": "Public file", "text": "Public file\n\nA public file (or public inspection file) is a collection of documents required by a broadcasting authority to be maintained by all broadcast stations under its jurisdiction.\n\nSuch a file is required by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in the United States, and by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC). The public inspection file must be maintained at the station's main studio and it must be accessible to anyone during business hours. Stations are required to provide copies at the requester's expense, or if the facility is outside of the community of license, provide copies via mail at their own expense. As of November 2007, the FCC required public inspection files must also be maintained on the station's website, and are optionally distributed to public libraries in the station's broadcast area for the sake of convenience. In these cases, public correspondence from viewers and political reports are usually left out due to cost concerns or misuse of the information provided. The FCC itself began to maintain a site in 2014 where a station can upload their public file components, allowing the public full access to the materials contained within without the restrictions of business hours or a studio visit.\n\nAll or part of the file may be maintained in digital format as long as it is accessible at the time of inspection.\n\nU.S. stations must keep the following materials in their public inspection file:\n\nThe instrument of authorization shows the station's frequency, call letters, operating power, transmitter location, etc., as well as any special conditions imposed by the FCC on the station's operation. The license also shows when it was issued and when it will expire.\n\nThe public file must contain copies of all applications filed with the FCC that are still pending before either the FCC or the courts. These include applications to sell the station or to modify its facilities (for example, to increase power, change the antenna system, or change the transmitter location). Also, the station must keep copies of any construction or sales application whose grant required us to waive our rules.\n\nStations must keep a copy of any written agreements they make with local viewers or listeners. These \"citizen agreements\" deal with programming, employment, or other issues of community concern. The station must keep these agreements in the public file for as long as they are in effect.\n\nThe public file must contain copies of any service contour maps or other information submitted with any application filed with the FCC that reflects the station's service contours and/or its main studio and transmitter location, if there are any, as not all stations are required to have contour maps.\n\nPer Section 73.1943 , licensees are required to document each political candidate's broadcasts.\n\nStations must keep material relating to any matter that is the subject of an FCC investigation or complaint.\n\nPer Section 73.2080 , licensees are required to keep records related to equal opportunity employment (EEO).\n\nThe FCC has a publication entitled \"The Public and Broadcasting\", which must be kept in the file.\n\nAll correspondence from the public must be filed.\n\nAll broadcast facilities must keep a list of program material aired for the betterment of the local community. TV stations must have records concerning commercial limits and children's programming, along with their compliance with the E/I rule.\n\nUpon filing for license renewal, section 73.3580 states broadcast facilities must make public announcements of their intention to continue broadcasting and notify the community that they may comment on the performance of the licensee. Dates and times of these broadcasts must be maintained in the public file.\n\nFor commercial facilities, a copy of every contract or agreement for brokered time must be available. Local marketing agreements (LMAs) are also included.\n\nClass A television stations are required to document any agreements regarding must-carry or retransmission consent which they have with local cable TV systems.\n\nThe public file must contain a copy of the most recent, complete Ownership Report filed for the station. This report has the names of the owners of the station and their ownership interests, lists any contracts related to the station that are required to be filed with the FCC, and identifies any interest held by the station licensee in other broadcast stations.\n\nStations have to keep either a copy of all the contracts or an up-to-date list identifying all such contracts they have on file with the FCC.\n\nFor commercial facilities, any joint sales between the two must be documented.\n\nPer Section 73.6001 , class A television stations must keep copies of their continued eligibility.\n\nCanadian stations must keep the following materials in their public inspection file: \n\nThe official rules from the FCC are contained in Title 47 CFR Part 73:\n\nSections 73.3526 and 73.3527 are not applicable to low-power FM and TV stations and applicants.\n\n"}
{"id": "48563218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48563218", "title": "Public hypersphere", "text": "Public hypersphere\n\nPublic hypersphere is a new kind of public sphere that has come into existence globally through the use of modern information technology, digital media, and computer networks.\n\nSwedish writer Karl-Erik Tallmo used the corresponding Swedish term \"hyperoffentlighet\" in an article in the daily \"Sydsvenska Dagbladet\" in 1999 and the same year also the English expression \"public hypersphere\" in an article in the journal \"Human IT\".\n\nThe term is derived from Jürgen Habermas and his thoughts concerning a \"bourgeois public sphere\". The public hypersphere, however, is not limited to publishing or the European café culture, not even to the Internet but includes the larger part of human relations, mediated or not. It encompasses both voluntary participation as well as involuntary, through mass surveillance: \"The electronic traces we leave constantly write our autobiographies ... [The public hypersphere is] a gas that fills the entire available space, it is 'the place that doesn't exist'.\" The public hypersphere is \"not just public or transparent to a higher degree than the regular public sphere; it has a whole new structure. Mathematicians talk about \"hyperspheres\" when they want to describe a sphere of higher dimensionality, where normal geometric rules don't apply – here, the shortest path between two points is not necessarily a straight line.\"\n\nThe French philosopher and media scholar Pierre Lévy used the expression \"l'hypersphère publique\" in an article in 2011 in the journal \"Medium\". He describes the combined effect of social media, real time functions, and wireless technology. He mentions API programming as important when it comes to connecting various databases with different interfaces. He writes that traditional information monopolies are dissolved and a kind of \"digital ecosystem\" has evolved, where old and new media interact. Citizens gain new liberties in expressing and retrieving information but also new ways to establish personal contacts. All these new phenomena \"contribute in building a ubiquitous medium, hypercomplex and fractal, that everyone, \"nolens volens\", partake in designing, directing and using ...\" Lévy has also written about the transformation of the public sphere in his book \"Cyberdémocratie\" (2002).\n\nIn German, the word \"Hyperöffentlichkeit\" has been used by sociologist Udo Thiedeke in his characterization of Howard Rheingold's ideas concerning the virtual community, that is a high degree of participation and interactivity.\n"}
{"id": "3076576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3076576", "title": "Public morality", "text": "Public morality\n\nPublic morality refers to moral and ethical standards enforced in a society, by law or police work or social pressure, and applied to public life, to the content of the media, and to conduct in public places. A famous remark of Mrs Patrick Campbell, that she did not care what people did as long as they \"didn't frighten the horses\" shows that in some sense even high tolerance expects a \"public\" limitation on behaviour (sexual conduct is implied here). At the opposite extreme a theocracy may equate public morality with religious instruction, and give both the equal force of law.\n\nPublic morality often means regulation of sexual matters, including prostitution and homosexuality, but also matters of dress and nudity, pornography, acceptability in social terms of cohabitation before marriage, and the protection of children. It is a main justification for censorship; it can lead to campaigns against profanity, and so be at odds with freedom of speech. Gambling is generally controlled: casinos have been considered much more of a threat than large-scale lotteries or football pools. Public drunkenness is quite unacceptable in some societies, and legal control of consumption of alcohol is often justified in terms of public morality, just as much as for medical reasons or to limit alcohol-related crime. Drug legislation, historically speaking, has sometimes followed on similar reasoning. Abortion is sometimes treated as an aspect of public morality, even if it is legally defined, regulated by medical professionals, and almost entirely hidden from public view. AIDS as a health policy issue is linked to public morality in a complicated manner.\n\nViews on public morality do change over time. For example, there have been proscriptions against eating in the street or allowing women to smoke in public. These examples show that public views on which things which are acceptable often move towards wider tolerance. Rapid shifts the other way are often characterised by moral panics, as in the shutting down of theatres a generation after Shakespeare's death by the English Puritans.\n\nIt may also be applied to the \"morals of public life\". Political corruption, or the telling of lies in public statements, tarnish not only individual politicians, but the entire conduct of political life, whether at local or national level. These are fairly universally regarded as blots on reputations, though in some cases there is a grey area between corruption and legitimate fund-raising. Whether the private lives of politicians are a public morals issue is not a matter of agreement, internationally speaking; the existence of an extramarital relationship of a Prime Minister would in some countries be considered a revelation well within the sphere of the public interest, while in other countries it would be considered quite irrelevant.\n\n"}
{"id": "55485933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55485933", "title": "Public theology", "text": "Public theology\n\nPublic theology is the Christian engagement and dialogue within the church and especially with the larger society. It seeks the welfare of the state and a fair society for all by engaging issues of common interest to build the common good. This is Christian theology that talks \"with\" society not just \"to\" society. This is done by presenting the Christian position in a way that can be publicly understood and thereby open to public debate and critical enquiry.\n\nThe term \"public theology\" was first coined by Martin Marty to contrast against civil religion. Civil religion looks more generally at religion in relation to the state, whereas public theology is rooted in a Christian standpoint and identity as it considers its contributions to the society and the state.\n\nDavid Tracy asked what the \"public\" in \"public theology\" meant. He identifies three publics that public theology should try to engage in dialogue with: the society, the academy and the church. He suggests that, given these publics, the language and rationale used should be openly assessable by all and not couched in theologically elitist terms. Since Tracy identified these three publics, others have suggested the addition of other \"publics\" such as economics, law, the market, media, and other religious communities.\n\nHarold Breitenberg suggests that most literature on public theology falls into one of three classes. Firstly, there are studies on key public theologians and how they understand the topic. Secondly, there are discussions on the nature and the shape of public theology. Lastly, there is \"constructive public theology\" which is the actual doing of public theology. The first two aim at developing public theology as a field of study while the last one is the practical application of it.\n\nSome notable figures in this field are Dietrich Bonhoeffer, William Temple, Martin Luther King Jr., Desmond Tutu, Jürgen Moltmann, Ronald Thiemann, Dorothee Soelle, John Courtney Murray, Reinhold Niebuhr, Duncan Forrester, Max Stackhouse, and Sebastian C. H. Kim.\n\nWhile there is no authoritative definition or corpus of books on public theology, there are several common traits which are observable in varying degrees. Katie Day and Sebastian Kim note six common \"marks\" of public theology. Firstly, public theology is often incarnational. It is not confined to the church but meant to be relevant to people outside of it as well. It is meant to be realistic and concerned with all aspects of societal life. Secondly, there is often discussion over which public(s) to engage and the nature of the public sphere. Thirdly, it is interdisciplinary because it draws on other fields of study in order to be more relevant to society. Fourthly, public theology always involves dialogue and critique from both the church itself and society as well. Fifthly, it has a global perspective because many issues affects countries across borders, such as immigration, climate change, refugees, etc. Lastly, public theology is performed, not just printed in books. This field of theology is not theorized first then applied, but it is a theology that develops and evolves while being expressed in society.\n\nPublic theology and political theology share many common points. They have overlapping concerns for social justice and Christian engagement in the public and political sphere. They also share similar concerns that the Christian faith is more than individual piety. It has a role to play in building societal peace, justice, and the common good.\n\nHowever, they differ in many ways as well. Political theology tends to be more radical in its pursuit for societal transformation, sometimes compelled by a sense of crisis. Public theology, on the other hand, is more moderate. It seeks to bring change gradually through social analysis, public dialogue, and shaping the moral fabric of society. So political theology tends to be more revolutionary while public theology is more reformative.\n\nPolitical theology is directed more towards the government or the state, whereas public theology is more towards civil society. This is because political theology is more concerned with a just political system whereas public theology is more concerned for a just society for everyone, open dialogue, and the building a common ground.\n\nA common critique of public theology is the overly broad range of issues it is concerned with. Because it seeks to engage in all issues that concern the society, public theology may find itself spread too thin across these issues. As a result, it may fail to engage the issues with sufficient depth and academic rigour because it lacks the necessary subject matter expertise. This overt broadness may also cause public theology to lack a focused approach and method because each issue may require a different methodology.\n\nAnother critique public theology faces is the inherent difficulty in retaining its Christian distinctiveness while being publicly relevant. Too much weight in either direction may cause it to be irrelevant to the public or bearing no distinct Christian witness. The tension may be ideal in theory, but difficult to achieve in reality.\n\n"}
{"id": "174363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174363", "title": "Public trust", "text": "Public trust\n\nThe concept of the public trust relates back to the origins of democratic government and its seminal idea that within the public lies the true power and future of a society; therefore, whatever \"trust\" the public places in its officials must be respected.\nOne of the reasons that bribery is regarded as a notorious evil is that it contributes to a culture of political corruption in which the public trust is eroded. Other issues related to political corruption or betrayal of public trust are lobbying, special interest groups and the public cartel.\n\nIn the Philippines, \"betrayal of public trust\" is one of the impeachable offenses. In \"Francisco, Jr. vs. Nagmamalasakit na mga Manananggol ng mga Manggagawang Pilipino, Inc.,\" the Supreme Court of the Philippines ruled that the definition of \"betrayal of public trust\" is \"a non-justiciable political question which is beyond the scope of its judicial power\" under the Constitution. It did not prescribe which branch of government has the power to define it, but implies that Congress, which handles impeachment cases, has the power to do so.\n\n"}
{"id": "17138799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17138799", "title": "ROFLCon", "text": "ROFLCon\n\nROFLCon was a biennial convention of internet memes that took place in 2008, 2010 and 2012, featuring various internet celebrities. All three events were at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ROFLCon was first organized by a group of students from Harvard University led by Tim Hwang. According to Hwang, the inspiration for the conference was the September 23, 2007 meetup of fans of \"xkcd\" with its creator, Randall Munroe, in a park in North Cambridge, Massachusetts.\n\nThe name \"ROFLCon\" comes from the internet slang \"ROFL\", short for \"rolling on the floor laughing\", and \"con\", short for \"convention\".\n\nAt ROFLCon 2012, it was announced that there would not be another ROFLCon.\n\nThe first ROFLCon was first announced in late 2007, and took place on April 25–26, 2008.\n\nVarious internet celebrities attended, such as the authors of the webcomics \"xkcd\", \"Questionable Content\" and \"Dinosaur comics\", Jay Maynard \"The Tron Guy\", Christopher \"moot\" Poole, Leeroy Jenkins, The Brothers Chaps, and many others.\n\nAttendance was open to the public after pre-registration and a fee. The primary events of ROFLCon were moderated panel discussions with the Internet celebrities, and question and answer sessions with the audience. Several guest speakers gave talks on issues pertaining to internet culture. The convention ended with the \"ROFLConcert\", featuring live performances by Group X, Leslie Hall, Lemon Demon, Trocadero and Denny Blaze.\n\nThe second ROFLCon took place from April 30 to May 1 at MIT. Passes were available from $45 for a student to $500 for a \"Mystery Pass.\"\n\nThe third and final ROFLCon took place on May 4–5, 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57430521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57430521", "title": "Relationship aspect", "text": "Relationship aspect\n\nIn psychology and sociology, relationship aspect refers to the quality of interpersonal cooperation in terms of intuitive, emotional and social inner relatedness, which makes people feel connected outside of the content aspect.\n\nOpenness, honesty, reliability, emotional intelligence and other key skills are required to develop and deepen a good relationship.\n\nIn order for communication processes within familiar or business relationships and especially inside of romantic relationships to succeed, the quality of the relationship aspect is of prime importance. According to Sigmund Freud, trust, empathy, and shared values, along with preconceptions or fears and wishes, determine the success of interpersonal communication by more than 80 percent.\n\nThe iceberg model states that the relationship aspect has a much greater impact on communication than the content level, but also that it often works subconsciously.\n\nSocial competence generally refers to skills needed for social behavior. The term “social” can be understood within the field of social-psychology as “interpersonal”, sociological-value-neutral (as in “societal”) or as sociological-judgemental (as in “social-moral”). It describes the different dimensions of interpersonal relationships. Which interpersonal relationships and mismeetings (Martin Buber) will unfold, which conflicts may develop, and which of the existing conflicts can possibly be solved? Courage, the ability to overcome something, and risk are fundamental traits in developing social skills and stable relationships. Their quality can generally be measured on the basis of the status, power and influence within a social structure as well as the choice of partner.\n\nThe ability to develop stable relationships is strongly based on the following features:\n\n\nThe economic importance of the relationship aspect between employees and colleagues, or customers, or suppliers, becomes clear during business exchange processes, particularly within teams and in the sales area. Since trust is an essential factor for the disposition to engage in monetary exchange processes, considerable efforts are made in this area to secure a defined relationship aspect, with the help of electronic records (see: CRM).\n\nThe relationship aspect is of particular importance in the economic context for marketing. The economic importance of personal relationships is in no other sales area of marketing as important as it is here. Consequently, the success of networking depends very much on the number of people one knows and their level of trust. Naturally, these are first and foremost close relatives and good friends. These people are seen as potential customers and future independent employees. Visits to these people are primarily for the purpose of selling products and recruiting them to the business. In this context, aspects of business ethics also play a direct role.\n\nThe efforts to establish a mutually beneficial business relationship on the basis of a \"good relationship aspect\" are represented by various concepts in the spirit of the win-win strategy. The \"getting to yes\" theory, in particular, aims to make the relationship between the two parties as good as possible and the dispute as clear as necessary (principle: \"Separate the people from the problem\").\n\nWithin the argumentation, the relationship to the use of the relationship aspect is based on emotional arguments which are supported by preconceptions, personal references, experience and the credibility of the speaker. The logically valid deductive reasoning on the other hand completely excludes the relationship aspect between speaker and audience. Since Plato, dialectics has established itself as a school of argumentation. Dialectics aims to promote an inner understanding and willingness to compromise, comprising three stages of development: a thesis, an antithesis and a synthesis.\n\nAnother method for solving interpersonal conflicts in the relationship aspect has been successfully established with systemic therapy or systemic organisational development. All persons and institutions involved with their needs and expectations, as well as the interactions with each other, are considered neutral. In this way, it is usually possible to clarify the relationship disturbances beyond the pure reasoning approach.\n\nAnother form of conflict resolution for a disturbed relationship aspect is mediation. This person mediates between parties in order to find a pragmatic solution, usually a compromise. In contrast to more therapeutically oriented systemic work, mediation is more frequently encountered in business.\n\nFrom the theoretical background of psychoanalysis, Gestalt therapy and humanistic psychology, a third concept has been established, called theme-centered interaction, which was developed by the educator and psychoanalyst Ruth Cohn to improve relationships within groups. The aim of TCI is to open up better possibilities of communication through understanding interrelationships and through emotional experience. The result is an interaction model that treats the person, the group and the task as a model unit, where each is equally important and where the context of communication is always taken into consideration.\n\nThe genogram has been established as an instrument for the graphical representation of a bipolar or polypolar relationship aspect. Dependencies and informal structures that would be hardly recognizable on the surface can be visualized more easily with the help of graphical relationship lines between the participants. The mediator, the systemic organizational developer, or the therapist uses this image to reduce tension and previously hidden conflicts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2796342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2796342", "title": "Renaissance Weekend", "text": "Renaissance Weekend\n\nRenaissance Weekend is an American retreat for leaders in business and finance, government, the media, religion, medicine, science, technology and the arts. Conversations are off the record and subject matter ranges widely, tending to focus heavily on policy and business issues.\n\nFounded in 1980 on Hilton Head Island, South Carolina by Linda LeSourd Lader and her husband Philip Lader, the former U.S. Ambassador to the Court of St. James's, Renaissance Weekends, now held in several locations each year, are structured to encourage the transcendence of political, economic, and religious differences by bringing together distinguished participants from a wide range of fields, including CEOs, venture capitalists and entrepreneurs, Nobel Laureates and Pulitzer Prize-winners, artists and scientists, astronauts and Olympians, judges, diplomats and Presidents, Prime Ministers, professors and priests, Republicans, Democrats and Independents. The Weekends are geared towards the establishment of an environment free of partisanship and commercialism, where \"civility prevails.\" Membership is by invitation only.\n\nSixty families pioneered the Lader's 1980 New Year's house party. The result has been a cross-generational \"continuing conversation\" of individuals with broadly divergent perspectives, no political agenda, but a legacy of ideas and friendships.\n\nThe mission is \"To build bridges among innovative leaders with exceptionally diverse perspectives.\" Each Renaissance Weekend seeks to build bridges across traditional divides of professions, politics, geography, age, religions, philosophies, religion, and race. For over 25 years, these family retreats' objective has been to encourage personal and national renewal.\n\nThrough hundreds of panels, seminars and workshops each Weekend, participants themselves address such public policy and personal concerns as \"America's Responsibility to the World,\" \"Investment Perspectives,\" \"How the Media has Covered the War Against Terrorism,\" \"Corporate Governance After Enron,\" \"Beating Cancer,\" \"My Family's Legacies for Life,\" and \"Christianity, Judaism & Islam - Eternal Truths & Current Myths.\"\n\n\"More than 1,000 participants will take part in 500 lectures, seminars, discussions and performances during the four-day event.\" The Clinton family attended Renaissance Weekend for 13 years. Some former attendees of Renaissance Weekend, listed by the year(s) of attendance have included;\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23512043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23512043", "title": "Rowland G. Hazard", "text": "Rowland G. Hazard\n\nRowland Gibson Hazard (October 9, 1801 – June 24, 1888) was an American industrialist, politician, and social reformer.\n\nHazard was born in South Kingstown, Rhode Island in 1801. His parents were Rowland Hazard (sometimes referred to as Rowland Hazard I), founder in 1802 of the Peace Dale Manufacturing Company in Peace Dale, Rhode Island, and the former Mary Peace. He grew up in Bristol, Pennsylvania, in the home of his maternal grandfather, Isaac Peace. He was educated in a Quaker boarding school in Burlington, New Jersey, where he developed a particular interest in mathematics. In 1819 he returned to Rhode Island to join his elder brother Isaac in the management of the Peace Dale Manufacturing Company.\n\nIn 1828 he married Caroline Newbold of Bucks County, Pennsylvania. The couple had two sons, Rowland II and John.\n\nA third brother, Joseph P. Hazard, became a partner in the Peace Dale operation in 1828, and the business took the name \"R.G. Hazard & Co.\" One of Rowland Hazard's responsibilities was selling the company's products to planters in the southern United States, particularly Louisiana, Alabama and Mississippi. He spent winters in New Orleans from about 1833 to 1842 to sell goods that included cotton bagging cloth, pre-cut garments, low-priced shoes, and raw \"Negro cloth\" for use by African-American slaves.\n\nAfter an 1845 fire destroyed one of the mill buildings, the brothers built new facilities, including expanded hydropower systems and a fireproof stone factory.\n\nIn 1848 the partnership incorporated, becoming the Peace Dale Manufacturing Company, with Isaac P. Hazard as president and Rowland Hazard as secretary/treasurer. In 1849 the business started a transition into making woolen shawls and other high-quality woolens instead of cheaper fabrics.\n\nIn 1843, Hazard acquired a textile mill complex at the village now known as Carolina, Rhode Island, and renamed the mill and its surrounding village in honor of his wife. The Carolina Mills Company remained in family ownership until 1863 and was operated by his son Rowland II until at least 1877.\n\nThe activity that Hazard considered \"as the greatest effort of his life\" (according to his granddaughter) began when he was in New Orleans on business in the winter of 1841. After he learned that a free African-American man from Newport, Rhode Island was in custody in Louisiana as an escaped slave, his investigations found that many free African-Americans were being detained under the assumption they were escaped slaves. He worked with Jacob Barker, then a New Orleans lawyer, to obtain freedom for nearly 100 people being held as slaves. The action later led to charges being filed against several public officials who were responsible for the illegal detentions.\n\nHis involvement with abolitionist causes and in the Republican Party eventually caused his company to lose favor with its markets in the southern United States. This helped to prompt the Peace Dale mills' transition from making cheap cotton products to selling higher quality woolens.\n\nHazard served three one-year terms in the Rhode Island House of Representatives, winning election as a state representative in 1851, 1854 and 1880. He also was a state senator from 1866 to 1867. In 1856 he was one of Rhode Island's delegates to the founding convention of the Republican Party. Four years later he was a delegate to the 1860 Republican National Convention.\n\nIn 1854, while serving in the state legislature, he made a speech criticizing the Stonington Railroad Company for charging discriminatory rates for both freight and passengers. Shortly thereafter, the railroad company retaliated by refusing to let Hazard ride on one of its trains. Resolutions passed by the South Kingstown Town Council in reaction to his treatment are said to have formed \"the germ of\" the Interstate Commerce Law of 1886.\n\n\"As a public benefactor, Hazard contributed to the schools and churches in South Kingstown and endowed a professorship of physics at Brown University with a gift of $40,000.\" \n\nHazard retired from the textile business in 1866 and invested in the Union Pacific Railroad. After Union Pacific fell into financial disarray and became a party to the Crédit Mobilier scandal of 1872, Hazard spent much time dealing with the company's financial affairs.\n\nHe died in Peace Dale on June 24, 1888.\n\nHazard was a prolific writer in the fields of philosophy, economics, and politics. Among his published works were: \n\n"}
{"id": "212614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212614", "title": "Rural area", "text": "Rural area\n\nIn general, a rural area or countryside is a geographic area that is located outside towns and cities. The Health Resources and Services Administration of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services defines the word \"rural\" as encompassing \"...all population, housing, and territory not included within an urban area. Whatever is not urban is considered rural.\"\n\nTypical rural areas have a low population density and small settlements. Agricultural areas are commonly rural, as are other types of areas such as forest. Different countries have varying definitions of \"rural\" for statistical and administrative purposes.\n\nIn Canada, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development defines a \"predominantly rural region\" as having more than 50% of the population living in rural communities where a \"rural community\" has a population density less than 150 people per square kilometre. In Canada, the census division has been used to represent \"regions\" and census consolidated sub-divisions have been used to represent \"communities\". Intermediate regions have 15 to 49 percent of their population living in a rural community. Predominantly urban regions have less than 15 percent of their population living in a rural community. Predominantly rural regions are classified as rural metro-adjacent, rural non-metro-adjacent and rural northern, following Ehrensaft and Beeman (1992). Rural metro-adjacent regions are predominantly rural census divisions which are adjacent to metropolitan centres while rural non-metro-adjacent regions are those predominantly rural census divisions which are not adjacent to metropolitan centres. Rural northern regions are predominantly rural census divisions that are found either entirely or mostly above the following lines of parallel in each province: Newfoundland and Labrador, 50th; Quebec 54th; Ontario, 54th; Manitoba, 53rd; Saskatchewan, Alberta and British Columbia, 54th. As well, rural northern regions encompass all of the Yukon, Northwest Territories and Nunavut.\n\nStatistics Canada defines rural for their population counts. This definition has changed over time (see Appendix A in du Plessis et al., 2002). Typically, it has referred to the population living outside settlements of 1,000 or fewer inhabitants. The current definition states that census rural is the population outside settlements with fewer than 1,000 inhabitants and a population density below 400 people per square kilometre (Statistics Canada, 2007).\n\n84% of the United States' inhabitants live in suburban and urban areas, but cities occupy only 10 percent of the country. Rural areas (villages) occupy the remaining 90 percent. The U.S. Census Bureau, the USDA's Economic Research Service, and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) have come together to help define rural areas. United States Census Bureau: The Census Bureau definitions (new to the 2000 census), which are based on population density, defines rural areas as all territory outside Census Bureau-defined urbanized areas and urban clusters. \n\nUSDA\n\n\nOMB:\n\nUnder the Core Based Statistical Areas used by the OMB (commonly referred to as 'CBSA Codes'), \n\nIn 2014, the USDA updated their rural / non-rural area definitions based on the 2010 Census counts.\n\nNational Center for Education Statistics (NCES) revised its definition of rural schools in 2006 after working with the Census Bureau to create a new locale classification system to capitalize on improved geocoding technology.\n\nRural health definitions can be different for establishing under-served areas or health care accessibility in rural areas of the United States. According to the handbook, Definitions of Rural: A Handbook for Health Policy Makers and Researchers, \"Residents of metropolitan counties are generally thought to have easy access to the relatively concentrated health services of the county's central areas. However, some metropolitan counties are so large that they contain small towns and rural, sparsely populated areas that are isolated from these central clusters and their corresponding health services by physical barriers.\" To address this type of rural area, \"Harold Goldsmith, Dena Puskin, and Dianne Stiles (1992) described a methodology to identify small towns and rural areas within large metropolitan counties (LMCs) that were isolated from central areas by distance or other physical features.\" This became the Goldsmith Modification definition of rural. \"Bhoomeet rural education The Goldsmith Modification has been useful for expanding the eligibility for federal programs that assist rural populations—to include the isolated rural populations of large metropolitan counties.\"\n\nHealth care delivery in rural areas of the United States can be challenging. From 2005-2011, the rate of potentially preventable hospitalizations for acute conditions was highest in rural areas (as compared to large metropolitan, small metropolitan, or micropolitan areas).\n\nIn Brazil, there are different notions of \"rural area\" and \"countryside\". Rural areas are any place outside a municipality's urban development (buildings, streets) and it's carried by informal usage. Otherwise, countryside (\"interior\" in Portuguese) are officially defined as all municipalities outside the state/territory capital's metropolitan region. Some states as Mato Grosso do Sul doesn't have any metropolitan region, thus all of the state, except its capital is officially \"countryside\". Rio de Janeiro is singular in Brazil and it's de facto a \"metropolitan state\", as circa 70% of its population are located in Greater Rio. In the Federal District it's not applicable and there's no countryside as all of it is treated as the federal capital. Brasília is \"nominally\" the capital, but the \"capitality\" is shared through all Federal District, because Brazil de facto defines its capital as a municipality, and in municipal matters, the Federal District is treated and governs as a single municipality, city-state-like (Brasília, DF).\n\nThe country is divided into 402 administrative districts: 295 rural districts and 107 urban districts. Germany is among the largest agricultural producers in the European Union. More than half of Germany's territory – almost 19 million hectares – is used for farming, and are located in the rural areas. Almost 10% of employees in Germany has work linked directly or indirectly with the agricultural, forest and fisheries sectors; approximately a fifth of them are employed in primary production. The implication is that, unlike in some other European countries, where rural areas are known for being backward when compared to urban areas, in Germany, the trend is changing. Due to the country's policy of equal living conditions, this is not the case in Germany. Rural areas receive nearly equivalent attention as the urban areas do. Also, through a special approach to rural development, usually referred to as Village Renewal, the challenges of rural Germany are taken care of.\n\nIn Britain, \"rural\" is defined by the government Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), using population data from the latest census, such as the United Kingdom Census 2001. These definitions have various grades, but the upper point is any local government area with more than 26% of its population living in a rural settlement or market town (\"market town\" being defined as any settlement which has permission to hold a street market). A number of measures are in place to protect the British countryside, including green belts.\n\nIn England an NHS patient is defined as rural if they live more than 1 mile (1.6 km) from either a doctor or a dispensing chemist. In Scotland a different definition of rural is used. This is important for defining whether the patient is expected to collect their own medicines. While doctors' surgeries in towns will not have a medicines dispensary instead expecting patients to use a high-street chemist to purchase their prescription medicines (in Scotland collection not purchase, as prescriptions are paid by the state), in rural village surgeries, an NHS medicines dispensary will be built into the same building.\n\nRural areas are also known as the 'countryside' or a 'village' in India. It has a very low population density. In rural areas, agriculture is the chief source of livelihood along with fishing, cottage industries, pottery etc.\n\nThe quest to discover the real rural India still continues in great earnest. Almost every economic agency today has a definition of rural India. Here are a few definitions:\nAccording to the Planning Commission, a town with a maximum population of 15,000 is considered rural in nature. In these areas the panchayat makes all the decisions. There are five persons in the panchayat.\nThe National Sample Survey Organisation (NSSO) defines ‘rural’ as follows:\nRBI defines rural areas as those areas with a population of less than 49,000 (tier -3 to tier-6 cities).\n\nIt is generally said that the rural areas house up to 70% of India’s population. Rural India contributes a large chunk to India’s GDP by way of agriculture, self-employment, services, construction etc. As per a strict measure used by the National Sample Survey in its 63rd round, called monthly per capita expenditure, rural expenditure accounts for 55% of total national monthly expenditure. The rural population currently accounts for one-third of the total Indian FMCG sales.\n\nAccording to the 2017 census about 64% of Pakistanis live in rural areas. Most rural areas in Pakistan tend to be near cities, and are peri-urban areas, This is due to the definition of a rural area in Pakistan being an area that does not come within an urban boundary.\nThe remote rural villagers of Pakistan commonly live in houses made of bricks, clay or mud.\nSocioeconomic status among rural Pakistani villagers is often based upon the ownership of agricultural land, which also may provide social prestige in village cultures. The majority of rural Pakistani inhabitants livelihoods is based upon the rearing of livestock, which also comprises a significant part of Pakistan's gross domestic product. Some livestock raised by rural Pakistanis include cattle and goats.\nHowever rural areas in Pakistan that are near cities are considered suburban areas or suburbs.\n\nRural residence is a fertility factor, with total fertility rates and pregnancy being higher among women in rural areas than among women in urban areas and the rural population is much younger than urban areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "26743647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26743647", "title": "Sara W. Mahan", "text": "Sara W. Mahan\n\nSara W. Mahan (February 26, 1870 – November 1, 1966) was a progressive era social reformer, and early Democratic Party female politician from Kentucky in the United States. Mahan was one of the founders of the Democratic Women's Club of Kentucky. She was one of the first women to become a member of the Kentucky Democratic State Central and Executive Committee.\n\nSara W. Mahan, daughter of George D. and Katherine Cain (White), was born in Clay County, Kentucky on February 26, 1870. She never married. She is interred in Bellevue Cemetery.\n\nIn 1907 Mahan began her political career when she managed the campaign headquarters of the Kentucky Democratic gubernatorial candidate, Judge S. W. Hagar. \"The Frankfort Journal\" took note of her work and said, \"Miss Mahan displayed remarkable exec. ability and was the first woman to have charge of the successful management of a campaign for the nomination for the chief office of this Commonwealth.\" \n\nIn 1908, Mahan became assistant state librarian and remained in the position until 1920. From 1920 to 1921, she served as Centre College librarian.\n\nMahan was Boyle County Circuit Court Clerk from 1921 to 1929. She was Secretary of State of Kentucky from 1932 to 1936.\n\nMahan was a member of many Women's Clubs and other community organizations, including the Democratic Women's Club of Kentucky, Woman's Club of Frankfort, and the Business and Professional Women's Club.\n\nMahan died in Danville, Kentucky, on November 1, 1966.\n\n"}
{"id": "11045901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11045901", "title": "Slow science", "text": "Slow science\n\nSlow science is part of the broader slow movement. It is based on the belief that science should be a slow, steady, methodical process, and that scientists should not be expected to provide \"quick fixes\" to society's problems. Slow science supports curiosity-driven scientific research and opposes performance targets.\n\n"}
{"id": "15144375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15144375", "title": "Social network aggregation", "text": "Social network aggregation\n\nSocial network aggregation is the process of collecting content from multiple social network services, such as Instagram, Tumblr, Flickr, LinkedIn, Twitch, YouTube, etc. into one unified presentation. The task is often performed by a social network aggregator (such as Hootsuite, Taggbox and FriendFeed), which pulls together information into a single location, or helps a user consolidate multiple social networking profiles into one profile. Various aggregation services provide tools or widgets to allow users to consolidate messages, track friends, combine bookmarks, search across multiple social networking sites, read RSS feeds for multiple social networks, see when their name is mentioned on various sites, access their profiles from a single interface, provide \"lifestreams\", etc. Social network aggregation services attempt to organize or simplify a user's social networking experience, although the idea has been satirized by the concept of a \"social network aggregator aggregator\".\n\nThere are other related uses of social media aggregators aside from simplifying the user's social networking experiences. Some aggregators are designed to help companies (and bloggers) improve engagement with their brand(s) by creating aggregated social streams that can be embedded into an existing website and customized to look visually intrinsic to the site. This allows potential customers to interact with all the social media posts maintained by the brand without requiring them to jump from site to site. This has the benefit of keeping customers on the brand's site for a longer period of time (increasing \"time on site\" metrics).\n\nSocial network aggregation platforms allow social network members to share social network activities like Twitter, YouTube, Stumbleupon, Digg, Delicious, with other major platforms. All content appears in real time to other members who subscribe to a particular community, which eliminates the need to jump from one social media network to another, trying to keep an eye on one's interests.\n\nSocial network aggregation systems can rely on initiation by publishers or by readers. In the publisher-initiated aggregation systems, the publishers combine their own identities, which make their readers see all aggregated content once subscribed. In the reader-initiated systems (such as Windows Phone 7 people hub and Linked Internet UI), the readers combine the identities of others, which has no impact on the publishers or other readers. The publishers can still keep separate identities for different readers.\n\nTechnically, the aggregation is enabled by APIs provided by social networks. For the API to access a user's actions from another platform, the user will have to give permission to the social-aggregation platform, by specifying the user-id and password of the social media to be syndicated. This concept resembles open ID. In March 2008, \"The Economist\" reported that social network services are only beginning the move away from \"walled gardens\" to more open architectures. Some sites are working together on a \"data portability workgroup\", while others are focusing on a single sign-on system called OpenID to allow users to log on across multiple sites. Historically, the trend from private services to more open ones can be seen across many Internet services from email and instant messaging to the move that early online service providers made to become websites. The OpenSocial initiative aims to bridge the member overlap between various online social network services.\n\nThe attraction of social network aggregation comes from the fact that some users tend to use multiple social networks: they have accounts on several social-networking sites. In November 2007, Alex Patriquin of Compete.com reported on the member overlap between various online social network services:\n\nA 2009 study of 11,000 users\nreported that the majority of MySpace, LinkedIn, and Twitter users also have Facebook accounts.\n\n"}
{"id": "1684824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1684824", "title": "Spectacle", "text": "Spectacle\n\nIn general, spectacle refers to an event that is memorable for the appearance it creates. Derived in Middle English from c. 1340 as \"specially prepared or arranged display\" it was borrowed from Old French \"spectacle\", itself a reflection of the Latin \"spectaculum\" \"a show\" from \"spectare\" \"to view, watch\" frequentative form of \"specere\" \"to look at.\" The word \"spectacle\" has also been a term of art in theater dating from the 17th century in English drama.\nCourt masques and masques of the nobility were most popular in the Jacobean and Caroline era. Such masques, as their name implies, relied heavily upon a non-verbal theater. The character lists for masques would be quite small, in keeping with the ability of a small family of patrons to act, but the costumes and theatrical effects would be lavish. Reading the text of masques, such as \"The Masque at Ludlow\" (most often referred to as \"Comus\"), the writing is spare, philosophical, and grandiose, with very few marks of traditional dramatic structure. This is partially due to the purpose of the masque being family entertainment and spectacle. Unlike \"The Masque at Ludlow\", most masques were recreations of well-known mythological or religious scenes. Some masques would derive from tableau. For example, Edmund Spenser (\"Fairie Queene\" I, iv) describes a masque of \"The Seven Deadly Sins\". \n\nMasques were multimedia, for they almost always involved costuming and music as a method of conveying the story or narrative. Ben Jonson, for example, wrote masques with the architect Inigo Jones. William Davenant, who would become one of the major impresarios of the English Restoration, also wrote pre-Revolutionary masques with Inigo Jones. The role of the architect was that of designer of the staging, which would be elaborate and often culminate in a fireworks show.\n\nWhen the zoetrope and nickelodeon technology first appeared, the earliest films were spectacles. They caught the attention of common people. They showed things people would rarely see, and they showed it to the wide audience.\n\nWithin industrial and post-industrial cultural and state formations, spectacle has been appropriated to describe appearances that are purported to be simultaneously enticing, deceptive, distracting and superficial. (Jonathan Crary: 2005) Current academic theories of spectacle \"highlight how the productive forces of marketing, often associated with media and Internet proliferation, create symbolic forms of practice that are emblematic of everyday situations\".\n\nSpectacle can also refer to a society that critics describe as dominated by electronic media, consumption, and surveillance, reducing citizens to spectators by political neutralization. Recently the word has been associated with the many ways in which a capitalist structure is purported to create play-like celebrations of its products and leisure time consumption. The work of French Marxist thinker Guy Debord is perhaps the best-known example of this critical analysis; see his \"The Society of the Spectacle\" (1967)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5456701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5456701", "title": "Technoculture", "text": "Technoculture\n\nTechnoculture is a neologism that is not in standard dictionaries but that has some popularity in academia, popularized by editors Constance Penley and Andrew Ross in a book of essays bearing that title. It refers to the interactions between, and politics of, technology and culture.\n\n\"Technoculture\" is used by a number of universities to describe subject areas or courses of study. UC Davis, for instance, has a program of technocultural studies. In 2012, the major merged with Film Studies to form Cinema and Techno-Cultural Studies (CaTS), but in 2013 is being reviewed to become Cinema and Technoculture (see below); the University of Western Ontario offers a degree in Media, Information and Technoculture (which they refer to as MIT, offering an \"MIT BA\"). UC Riverside is in the process of creating a program in technocultural studies beginning with the creation of a graduate certificate program in \"Science Fiction and Technoculture Studies.\"\n\nAccording to its description, the Georgetown University course English/CCT 691 titled \"Technoculture from Frankenstein to Cyberpunk\", covers the \"social reception and representation of technology in literature and popular culture from the Romantic era to the present\" and includes \"all media, including film, TV, and recent video animation and Web 'zines.\" The course focuses \"mainly on American culture and the way in which machines, computers, and the body have been imagined.\"\n\nThe UC Davis Technocultural Studies department focuses on \"transdisciplinary approaches to artistic, cultural and scholarly production in contemporary media and digital arts, community media, and mutual concerns of the arts with the scientific and technological disciplines. In contrast to programs which see technology as the primary driving force, we place questions of poetics, aesthetics, history, politics and the environment at the core of our mission. In other words, we emphasize the 'culture' in Technoculture.\"\n\nThe Technocultural Studies major program is an interdisciplinary integration of current research in cultural history and theory with innovative hands-on production in digital media and \"low-tech\". It focuses on the fine and performing arts, media arts, community media, literature and cultural studies as they relate to technology and science. Backed by critical perspectives and the latest forms of research and production skills, students enjoy the mobility to explore individual research and expression, project-based collaboration and community engagement.\n\nTechnocultural Studies is a fairly new major at UC Davis and is considered a division of Humanities, Arts and Cultural Studies.\n\n\n\"'Technoculture: An Online Journal of Technology in Society\" () is an independent, interdisciplinary, annual peer-reviewed journal that publishes critical and creative works that explore the ways in which technology impacts society. It uses a broad definition of technology. Founded by Keith Dorwick and Kevin Moberly, it is now edited by Keith Dorwick. \"Technoculture\" is a member of the Council of Editors of Learned Journals and is indexed by EBSCOhost and the Modern Language Association.\n\nMarshall McLuhan is most known for his concepts of a \"global village\". In his book \"Understanding Media\" he talks about how media affects society and culture. He also develops a theory about technology being an extension of the body. According to McLuhan, the alphabet is what gave rise to the idea that sight is more important than hearing because in order to communicate one had to be able to see and understand the alphabet.\n\nIn her book \"Technoculture: The Key Concepts\", Debra Benita Shaw \"outlines the place of science and technology in today's culture\" and \"explores the power of scientific ideas, their impact on how we understand the natural world and how successive technological developments have influenced our attitudes to work, art, space, language and the human body.\"\n\nClay Shirky writes, teaches, and consults on the social and economic effects of the internet, and especially on places where our social and technological networks overlap. He is on the faculty of NYU's Interactive Telecommunications Program, and has consulted for Nokia, Procter and Gamble, News Corp., the BBC, the United States Navy and Lego. He is also a regular speaker at technology conferences.\n\nIn his book \"The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction\" Walter Benjamin attempts to analyze the changed experience of art in modern society. He believes that a reproduction of art lacks presence in time and space and therefore has no aura. Original works of art do have an aura. An aura includes authority, its place in space and time (when it was made), how the piece's physical condition suffered and how it's changed owners over time. An original work of art derives its authenticity from history and what has happened to it over time.\n\n"}
{"id": "29597238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29597238", "title": "The Cool Stuff Collective", "text": "The Cool Stuff Collective\n\nThe Cool Stuff Collective is a British children's television programme, which was produced for three series that aired on the ITV Network and CITV respectively from 13 September 2010 to 24 December 2011. The show featured reviews of the latest and forthcoming video games, gadgets, films and music. CITV also broadcast a similar format programme called \"Play The Game\" in 2004. Sy Thomas presented the programme for the majority of its run, with Vicky Letch and The Blowfish later taking over for the final series.\n\n\nIn 2011, the programme was found to have breached Ofcom's rules on product placement. Ofcom stated that many of the items featured on the show ended with \"overt encouragements\" to consider purchase of the product.\n"}
{"id": "14199230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14199230", "title": "USPID", "text": "USPID\n\nUSPID (\"Unione Scienziati per il Disarmo\" in Italian) is the Italian Union of Scientists for Disarmament, an association established in 1982 with the purpose of providing information about and analysis of arms control and disarmament.\n\nMembers of USPID believe that this task is part of the social responsibility of scientists.\n\nThe issues addressed by USPID include nuclear arms-control and disarmament, nuclear proliferation, consequences of nuclear explosions, control of fissile material, developments of military technology, conventional disarmament, chemical and biological disarmament, problems of conflicts and conflict resolution.\n\nMembers of USPID, both individually and collectively, share their views with Italian policy-makers and opinion-makers.\n\nUSPID organizes conferences and meetings, including the biennial Castiglioncello conference (now at its 11th edition), courses and seminars in Italian Universities, courses for high-school teachers.\n\nUSPID promotes the establishment of inter-departmental Centers affiliated to Italian Universities, and has actively collaborated for many years with the CIRP-UniBa (Centro Interdipartimentale di Ricerche sulla Pace, University of Bari).\n\nUSPID collaborates with international organizations of scientists and other Italian institutions, such as Archivio Disarmo (Roma), Forum per i Problemi della Pace e della Guerra (Firenze). Members of USPID participate in Pugwash and ISODARCO meetings.\n\nIn 1995 USPID began a standing collaboration with Landau Network-Centro Volta, Como (Italy). This institution organizes, together with UNESCO and under the sponsorship of the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, conferences and research projects on different topics, including disarmament, non-proliferation and scientific-technological aspects of International Security.\n\n"}
{"id": "30702076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30702076", "title": "Violence begets violence", "text": "Violence begets violence\n\nThe phrase \"violence begets violence\" (or \"hate begets hate\") means that violent behavior promotes other violent behavior, in return. The phrase has been used since at least the 1830s.\n\nViolence begets violence is a concept described in the Gospel of Matthew, verse 26:52. The passage depicts a disciple (identified in the Gospel of John as Saint Peter) drawing a sword to defend against the arrest of Jesus but being told to sheath his weapon:\n\n\"Put your sword back in its place,\" Jesus said to him, \"for all who draw the sword will die by the sword.\"\n\nMartin Luther King Jr. (1929–1968) used the phrase when saying:\n\n"}
{"id": "34375832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34375832", "title": "Vorlage", "text": "Vorlage\n\nA Vorlage (; from the German for \"prototype\" or \"template\") is a prior version or manifestation of a text under consideration. It may refer to such a version of a text itself, a particular manuscript of the text, or a more complex manifestation of the text (e.g., a group of copies, or a group of excerpts). Thus, the original-language version of a text which a translator then works into a translation is called the \"Vorlage\" of that translation. For example, the Luther Bible is a translation of the Textus Receptus. So in this case the Textus Receptus is the \"Vorlage\" of the Luther Bible. \n\nSometimes the \"Vorlage\" of a translation may be lost to history. In some of these cases the \"Vorlage\" may be reconstructed from the translation. Such a reconstructed \"Vorlage\" may be called a \"retroversion\", and it invariably is made with some amount of uncertainty. Nevertheless, the \"Vorlage\" may still be reconstructed in some parts at such a level of confidence that the translation and its retroversion can be used as a witness for the purposes of textual criticism. This reconstructed \"Vorlage\" may stand on its own as the sole witness of the original-language text, or it may be compared and used along with other witnesses. Thus, for example, scholars use the reconstructed \"Vorlage\" of the Greek Septuagint translation of the Hebrew Bible at parts to correct the Hebrew Masoretic version when trying to determine oldest version of the Hebrew Bible that they can infer. Or, as another example, the Coptic fragments of Plato's Republic included among the Nag Hammadi library are used to help attest to the original Greek text which Plato himself wrote. For the bulk of the Gospel of Thomas, the \"Vorlage\" exists only as a retroversion of the Coptic translation, as no other witness to the original Greek text for most of the sayings recorded therein is known.\n"}
{"id": "30864554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30864554", "title": "Women's history", "text": "Women's history\n\nWomen's history is the study of the role that women have played in history and the methods required to do so. It includes the study of the history of the growth of woman's rights throughout recorded history, personal achievement over a period of time, the examination of individual and groups of women of historical significance, and the effect that historical events have had on women. Inherent in the study of women's history is the belief that more traditional recordings of history have minimized or ignored the contributions of women to different fields and the effect that historical events had on women as a whole; in this respect, women's history is often a form of historical revisionism, seeking to challenge or expand the traditional historical consensus.\n\nThe main centers of scholarship have been the United States and Britain, where second-wave feminist historians, influenced by the new approaches promoted by social history, led the way. As activists in women's liberation, discussing and analyzing the oppression and inequalities they experienced as women, they believed it imperative to learn about the lives of their fore mothers—and found very little scholarship in print. History was written mainly by men and about men's activities in the public sphere especially in Africa—war, politics, diplomacy and administration. Women are usually excluded and, when mentioned, are usually portrayed in sex-stereotypical roles such as wives, mothers, daughters, and mistresses. The study of history is value-laden in regard to what is considered historically \"worthy.\" Other aspects of this area of study is the differences in women's lives caused by race, economic status, social status, and various other aspects of society.\n\nChanges came in the 19th and 20th centuries; for example, for women, the right to equal pay is now enshrined in law. Women traditionally ran the household, bore and reared the children, were nurses, mothers, wives, neighbours, friends, and teachers. During periods of war, women were drafted into the labor market to undertake work that had been traditionally restricted to men. Following the wars, they invariably lost their jobs in industry and had to return to domestic and service roles.\n\nThe history of Scottish women in the late 19th century and early 20th century was not fully developed as a field of study until the 1980s. In addition, most work on women before 1700 has been published since 1980. Several studies have taken a biographical approach, but other work has drawn on the insights from research elsewhere to examine such issues as work, family, religion, crime, and images of women. Scholars are also uncovering women's voices in their letters, memoirs, poetry, and court records. Because of the late development of the field, much recent work has been recuperative, but increasingly the insights of gender history, both in other countries and in Scottish history after 1700, are being used to frame the questions that are asked. Future work should contribute both to a reinterpretation of the current narratives of Scottish history and also to a deepening of the complexity of the history of women in late medieval and early modern Britain and Europe.\n\nIn Ireland studies of women, and gender relationships more generally, had been rare before 1990; they now are commonplace with some 3000 books and articles in print.\n\nFrench historians have taken a unique approach: there has been an extensive scholarship in women's and gender history despite the lack of women's and gender study programs or departments at the university level. But approaches used by other academics in the research of broadly based social histories have been applied to the field of women's history as well. The high level of research and publication in women's and gender history is due to the high interest within French society. The structural discrimination in academia against the subject of gender history in France is changing due to the increase in international studies following the formation of the European Union, and more French scholars seeking appointments outside Europe.\n\nBefore the 19th century, young women lived under the economic and disciplinary authority of their fathers until they married and passed under the control of their husbands. In order to secure a satisfactory marriage, a woman needed to bring a substantial dowry. In the wealthier families, daughters received their dowry from their families, whereas the poorer women needed to work in order to save their wages so as to improve their chances to wed. Under the German laws, women had property rights over their dowries and inheritances, a valuable benefit as high mortality rates resulted in successive marriages. Before 1789, the majority of women lived confined to society's private sphere, the home.\nThe Age of Reason did not bring much more for women: men, including Enlightenment aficionados, believed that women were naturally destined to be principally wives and mothers. Within the educated classes, there was the belief that women needed to be sufficiently educated to be intelligent and agreeable interlocutors to their husbands. However, the lower-class women were expected to be economically productive in order to help their husbands make ends meet.\n\nIn the newly founded German State (1871), women of all social classes were politically and socially disenfranchised. The code of social respectability confined upper class and bourgeois women to their homes. They were considered socially and economically inferior to their husbands. The unmarried women were ridiculed, and the ones who wanted to avoid social descent could work as unpaid housekeepers living with relatives; the ablest could work as governesses or they could become nuns.\n\nA significant number of middle-class families became impoverished between 1871 and 1890 as the pace of industrial growth was uncertain, and women had to earn money in secret by sewing or embroidery to contribute to the family income.\nIn 1865, the Allgemeiner Deutscher Frauenverein (ADF) was founded as an umbrella organization for women's associations, demanding rights to education, employment, and political participation. Three decades later, the Bund Deutscher Frauenverbände (BDF) replaced ADF and excluded from membership the proletarian movement that was part of the earlier group. The two movements had differing views concerning women's place in society, and accordingly, they also had different agendas. The bourgeois movement made important contributions to the access of women to education and employment (mainly office-based and teaching). The proletarian movement, on the other hand, developed as a branch of the Social Democratic Party. As factory jobs became available for women, they campaigned for equal pay and equal treatment. In 1908 German women won the right to join political parties, and in 1918 they were finally granted the right to vote. The emancipation of women in Germany was to be challenged in following years.\n\nHistorians have paid special attention to the efforts by Nazi Germany to reverse the political and social gains that women made before 1933, especially in the relatively liberal Weimar Republic. The role of women in Nazi Germany changed according to circumstances. Theoretically, the Nazis believed that women must be subservient to men, avoid careers, devote themselves to childbearing and child-rearing, and be helpmates to the traditional dominant fathers in the traditional family. But, before 1933, women played important roles in the Nazi organization and were allowed some autonomy to mobilize other women. After Hitler came to power in 1933, the activist women were replaced by bureaucratic women, who emphasized feminine virtues, marriage, and childbirth.\n\nAs Germany prepared for war, large numbers of women were incorporated into the public sector and, with the need for full mobilization of factories by 1943, all women were required to register with the employment office. Hundreds of thousands of women served in the military as nurses and support personnel, and another hundred thousand served in the Luftwaffe, especially helping to operate the anti-aircraft systems. Women's wages remained unequal and women were denied positions of leadership or control.\n\nMore than two million women were murdered in the Holocaust. The Nazi ideology viewed women generally as agents of fertility. Accordingly, it identified the Jewish woman as an element to be exterminated to prevent the rise of future generations. For these reasons, the Nazis treated women as prime targets for annihilation in the Holocaust.\n\nInterest in the study of women's history in Eastern Europe has been delayed. Representative is Hungary, where the historiography has been explored by Petö and Szapor (2007). Academia resisted incorporating this specialized field of history, primarily because of the political atmosphere and a lack of institutional support. Before 1945, historiography dealt chiefly with nationalist themes that supported the anti-democratic political agenda of the state. After 1945, academia reflected a Soviet model. Instead of providing an atmosphere in which women could be the subjects of history, this era ignored the role of the women's rights movement in the early 20th century. The collapse of Communism in 1989 was followed by a decade of promising developments in which biographies of prominent Hungarian women were published, and important moments of women's political and cultural history were the subjects of research. However, the quality of this scholarship was uneven and failed to take advantage of the methodological advances in research in the West. In addition, institutional resistance continued, as evidenced by the lack of undergraduate or graduate programs dedicated to women's and gender history at Hungarian universities.\n\nWomen's history in Russia started to become important in the Czarist era, and concern was shown in the consciousness and writing of Alexander Pushkin. During the Soviet Era, feminism was developed along with ideals of equality, but in practice and in domestic arrangements, men often dominate.\n\nBy the 1990s new periodicals, especially \"Casus\" and \"Odysseus: Dialogue with Time, Adam and Eve\" stimulated women's history and, more recently, gender history. Using the concept of gender has shifted the focus from women to socially and culturally constructed notions of sexual difference. It has led to deeper debates on historiography and holds a promise of stimulating the development of a new \"general\" history able to integrate personal, local, social, and cultural history.\n\nGeneral overviews of women in Asian history are scarce, since most specialists focus on China, Japan, India, Korea or another traditionally defined region.\n\nPublished work generally deals with women as visible participants in the revolution, employment as vehicles for women's liberation, Confucianism and the cultural concept of family as sources of women's oppression. While rural marriage rituals, such as bride price and dowry, have remained the same in form, their function has changed. This reflects the decline of the extended family and the growth in women's agency in the marriage transaction. In recent scholarship in China, the concept of gender has yielded a bounty of new knowledge in English- and Chinese-language writings.\n\"Zhongguo fu nü sheng Huo shi\" () is a historical book written by Chen Dongyuan in 1928 and published by The Commercial Press in 1937. The book, the first to give a systematic introduction to women's history in China, has strongly influenced further research in this field.\n\nThe book sheds a light on Chinese women's life ranging from ancient times (prior to Zhou Dynasty) to the Republic of China. In the book, sections are separated based on dynasties in China. Sections are divided into segments to introduce different themes, such as marriage, feudal ethical codes, education for women, virtues, positions, the concept of chastity, foot-binding and women's rights movement in modern China. Inspired by the anti-traditional thoughts in New Culture Movement, the author devoted much effort to disclosing and denouncing the unfairness and suppression in culture, institutions, and life that victimize women in China. According to the book, women's conditions are slightly improved until modern China. in the Preface of the book, the author writes: since women in China are always subject to abuse, the history of women is, naturally the history of abuse of women in China. The author revealed the motivation: the book intends to explain how the principle of women being inferior to men evolves; how the abuse to women is intensified over time; and how the misery on women's back experience the history change. The author wants to promote women's liberation by revealing the political and social suppression of women.\n\nMann (2009) explores how Chinese biographers have depicted women over two millennia (221 BCE to 1911), especially during the Han dynasty. Zhang Xuecheng, Sima Qian, and Zhang Huiyan and other writers often study women of the governing class, and their representation in domestic scenes of death in the narratives and in the role of martyrs.\n\nThe historiography of women in the history of Tibet confronts the suppression of women's histories in the social narratives of an exiled community. McGranahan (2010) examines the role of women in the 20th century, especially during the Chinese invasion and occupation of Tibet. She studies women in the Tibetan resistance army, the subordination of women in a Buddhist society, and the persistent concept of menstrual blood as a contaminating agent.\n1998\n\nJapanese women's history was marginal to historical scholarship until the late 20th century. The subject hardly existed before 1945, and, even after that date, many academic historians were reluctant to accept women's history as a part of Japanese history. The social and political climate of the 1980s in particular, favorable in many ways to women, gave opportunities for Japanese women's historiography and also brought the subject fuller academic recognition. Exciting and innovative research on Japanese women's history began in the 1980s. Much of this has been conducted not only by academic women's historians, but also by freelance writers, journalists, and amateur historians; that is, by people who have been less restricted by traditional historical methods and expectations. The study of Japanese women's history has become accepted as part of the traditional topics.\n\nWith a handful of exceptions, there was a little serious history of women in Australia or New Zealand before the 1970s.\n\nA pioneering study was Patricia Grimshaw, \"Women's Suffrage in New Zealand\" (1972), explaining how that remote colony became the first country in the world to give women the vote. Women's history as an academic discipline emerged in the mid-1970s, typified by Miriam Dixson, \"The Real Matilda: Woman and Identity in Australia, 1788 to the Present\" (1976). The first studies were compensatory, filling in the vacuum where women had been left out. In common with developments in the United States and Britain, there was a movement toward gender studies, with a field dominated by feminists.\n\nOther important topics include demography and family history. Of recent importance are studies of the role of women on the homefront, and in military service, during world wars. See Australian women in World War I and Australian women in World War II.\n\nIn the 1980s scholarship began to appear on topics regarding the Middle East.\n\nNumerous short studies have appeared for women's history in African nations.\n\nThere are numerous studies for specific countries and regions, such as Nigeria. and Lesotho.\n\nScholars have turned their imagination to innovative sources for the history of African women, such as songs from Malawi, weaving techniques in Sokoto, and historical linguistics.\n\nApart from individual women, working largely on their own, the first organized systematic efforts to develop women's history came from the United Daughters of the Confederacy (UDC) in the early 20th century. It coordinated efforts across the South to tell the story of the women on the Confederate home front, while the male historians spent their time with battles and generals. The women emphasized female activism, initiative, and leadership. They reported that when all the men left for war, the women took command, found ersatz and substitute foods, rediscovered their old traditional skills with the spinning wheel when factory cloth became unavailable, and ran all the farm or plantation operations. They faced danger without having menfolk in the traditional role of their protectors. Historian Jacquelyn Dowd Hall argue that the UDC was a powerful promoter of women's history:\nThe work of women scholars was ignored by the male-dominated history profession until the 1960s, when the first breakthroughs came. Gerda Lerner in 1963 offered the first regular college course in women's history. The field of women's history exploded dramatically after 1970, along with the growth of the new social history and the acceptance of women into graduate programs in history departments. In 1972, Sarah Lawrence College began offering a Master of Arts Program in Women's History, founded by Gerda Lerner, that was the first American graduate degree in the field. Another important development was to integrate women into the history of race and slavery. A pioneering effort was Deborah Gray White's \"'Ar'n't I a Woman? Female Slaves in the Plantation South\" (1985), which helped to open up analysis of race, slavery, abolitionism, and feminism, as well as resistance, power, and activism, and themes of violence, sexualities, and the body. A major trend in recent years has been to emphasize a global perspective. Although the word \"women\" is the eighth most commonly used word in abstracts of all historical articles in North America, it is only the twenty-third most used word in abstracts of historical articles in other regions. Furthermore, \"gender\" appears about twice as frequently in American history abstracts compared to abstracts covering the rest of the world.\n\nIn recent years, historians of women have reached out to web-oriented students. Examples of these outreach efforts are the websites \"Women and Social Movements in the United States\", maintained by Kathryn Kish Sklar and Thomas Dublin. and \"Click! The Ongoing Feminist Revolution\".\n\nIn the Ancien Régime in France, few women held any formal power; some queens did, as did the heads of Catholic convents. In the Enlightenment, the writings of philosopher Jean Jacques Rousseau provided a political program for reform of the ancien régime, founded on a reform of domestic mores. Rousseau's conception of the relations between private and public spheres is more unified than that found in modern sociology. Rousseau argued that the domestic role of women is a structural precondition for a \"modern\" society.\n\nSalic law prohibited women from rule; however, the laws for the case of a regency, when the king was too young to govern by himself, brought the queen into the centre of power. The queen could ensure the passage of power from one king to another—from her late husband to her young son—while simultaneously assuring the continuity of the dynasty.\n\nEducational aspirations were on the rise and were becoming increasingly institutionalized in order to supply the church and state with the functionaries to serve as their future administrators. Girls were schooled too, but not to assume political responsibility. Girls were ineligible for leadership positions and were generally considered to have an inferior intellect to their brothers. France had many small local schools where working-class children - both boys and girls - learned to read, the better \"to know, love, and serve God.\" The sons and daughters of the noble and bourgeois elites were given gender-specific educations: boys were sent to upper school, perhaps a university, while their sisters - if they were lucky enough to leave the house - would be sent to board at a convent with a vague curriculum. The Enlightenment challenged this model, but no real alternative was presented for female education. Only through education at home were knowledgeable women formed, usually to the sole end of dazzling their salons.\n\nWomen's rights refers to the social and human rights of women. In the United States, the abolition movements sparked an increased wave of attention to the status of women, but the history of feminism reaches to before the 18th century. (See protofeminism.) The advent of the reformist age during the 19th century meant that those invisible minorities or marginalized majorities were to find a catalyst and a microcosm in such new tendencies of reform. The earliest works on the so-called \"woman question\" criticized the restrictive role of women, without necessarily claiming that women were disadvantaged or that men were to blame. In Britain, the Feminism movement began in the 19th century and continues in the present day. Simone de Beauvoir wrote a detailed analysis of women's oppression in her 1949 treatise \"The Second Sex.\" It became a foundational tract of contemporary feminism. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, feminist movements, such as the one in the United States substantially changed the condition of women in the Western world. One trigger for the revolution was the development of the birth control pill in 1960, which gave women access to easy and reliable contraception in order to conduct family planning.\n\nWomen's historians have debated the impact of capitalism on the status of women. Taking a pessimistic side, Alice Clark argued that when capitalism arrived in 17th century England, it made a negative impact on the status of women as they lost much of their economic importance. Clark argues that in the 16th century England, women were engaged in many aspects of industry and agriculture. The home was a central unit of production and women played a vital role in running farms, and in some trades and landed estates. Their useful economic roles gave them a sort of equality with their husbands. However, Clark argues, as capitalism expanded in the 17th century, there was more and more division of labor with the husband taking paid labor jobs outside the home, and the wife reduced to unpaid household work. Middle-class and women were confined to an idle domestic existence, supervising servants; lower-class women were forced to take poorly paid jobs. Capitalism, therefore, had a negative effect on many women. In a more positive interpretation, Ivy Pinchbeck argues that capitalism created the conditions for women's emancipation. Tilly and Scott have to Emphasize the continuity and the status of women, finding three stages in European history. In the preindustrial era, production was mostly for home use and women produce much of the needs of the households. The second stage was the \"family wage economy\" of early industrialization, the entire family depended on the collective wages of its members, including husband, wife and older children. The third or modern stage is the \"family consumer economy,\" in which the family is the site of consumption, and women are employed in large numbers in retail and clerical jobs to support rising standards of consumption.\n\nThe 1870 US Census was the first to count \"Females engaged in each and every occupation\" and provides a snapshot of women's history. It reveals that, contrary to popular myth, not all American women of the Victorian period were \"safe\" in their middle-class homes or working in sweatshops. Women composed 15% of the total workforce (1.8 million out of 12.5). They made up one-third of factory \"operatives,\" and were concentrated in teaching, as the nation emphasized expanding education; dressmaking, millinery, and tailoring. Two-thirds of teachers were women. They also worked in iron and steel works (495), mines (46), sawmills (35), oil wells and refineries (40), gas works (4), and charcoal kilns (5), and held such surprising jobs as ship rigger (16), teamster (196), turpentine laborer (185), brass founder/worker (102), shingle and lathe maker (84), stock-herder (45), gun and locksmith (33), hunter and trapper (2). There were five lawyers, 24 dentists, and 2,000 doctors.\n\nMarriage ages of women can be used as an indicator of the position of women in society. Women's age at marriage could influence economic development, partly because women marrying at higher ages had more opportunities to acquire human capital.\nOn average, across the world, marriage ages of women have been rising. However, countries such as Mexico, China, Egypt, and Russia have shown a smaller increase in this measure of female empowerment than, for example, Japan.\n\nIn the history of sex, the social construction of sexual behavior—its taboos, regulation and social and political effects—has had a profound effect on women in the world since prehistoric times. Absent assured ways of controlling reproduction, women have practiced abortion since ancient times; many societies have also practice infanticide to ensure the survival of older children. Historically, it is unclear how often the ethics of abortion (induced abortion) was discussed in societies. In the latter half of the 20th century, some nations began to legalize abortion. This controversial subject has sparked heated debate and in some cases, violence, as different parts of society have different social and religious ideas about its meaning.\n\nWomen have been exposed to various tortuous sexual conditions and have been discriminated against in various fashions in history. In addition to women being sexual victims of troops in warfare, an institutionalized example was the Japanese military enslaving native women and girls as comfort women in military brothels in Japanese-occupied countries during World War II.\n\nThe social aspects of clothing have revolved around traditions regarding certain items of clothing intrinsically suited different gender roles. In different periods, both women's and men's fashions have highlighted one area or another of the body for attention. In particular, the wearing of skirts and trousers has given rise to common phrases expressing implied restrictions in use and disapproval of offending behavior. For example, ancient Greeks often considered the wearing of trousers by Persian men as a sign of an effeminate attitude. Women's clothing in Victorian fashion was used as a means of control and admiration. Reactions to the elaborate confections of French fashion led to various calls for reform on the grounds of both beauties (Artistic and Aesthetic dress) and health (dress reform; especially for undergarments and lingerie). Although trousers for women did not become fashionable until the later 20th century, women began wearing men's trousers (suitably altered) for outdoor work a hundred years earlier. In the 1960s, André Courrèges introduced long trousers for women as a fashion item, leading to the era of the pantsuit and designer jeans, and the gradual eroding of the prohibitions against girls and women wearing trousers in schools, the workplace, and fine restaurants. Corsets have long been used for fashion, and body modification, such as waistline reduction. There were, and are, many different styles and types of corsets, varying depending on the intended use, corset maker's style, and the fashions of the era.\n\nThe social status of women in the Victoria Era is often seen as an illustration of the striking discrepancy between the nation's power and richness and what many consider its appalling social conditions. Victorian morality was full of contradictions. A plethora of social movements concerned with improving public morals co-existed with a class system that permitted and imposed harsh living conditions for many, such as women. In this period, an outward appearance of dignity and restraint was valued, but the usual \"vices\" continued, such as prostitution. In the Victorian era, the bathing machine was developed and flourished. It was a device to allow people to wade in the ocean at beaches without violating Victorian notions of modesty about having \"limbs\" revealed. The bathing machine was part of sea-bathing etiquette that was more rigorously enforced upon women than men.\n\nThe Roaring Twenties is a term for society and culture in the 1920s in the Western world. It was a period of sustained economic prosperity with a distinctive cultural edge in the United States, Canada, and Western Europe, particularly in major cities.\n\nWomen's suffrage came about in many major countries in the 1920s, including United States, Canada, Great Britain. many countries expanded women's voting rights in representative and direct democracies across the world such as the US, Canada, Great Britain and most major European countries in 1917–21, as well as India. This influenced many governments and elections by increasing the number of voters available. Politicians responded by spending more attention on issues of concern to women, especially pacifism, public health, education, and the status of children. On the whole, women voted much like their menfolk, except they were more pacifistic.\n\nThe 1920s marked a revolution in fashion. The new woman danced, drank, smoked and voted. She cut her hair short, wore make-up and partied. Sometimes she smoked a cigarette. She was known for being giddy and taking risks; she was a flapper. More women took jobs making them more independent and free. With their desire for freedom and independence came as well change in fashion, welcoming a more comfortable style, where the waistline was just above the hips and loosen, and staying away from the Victorian style with a corset and tight waistline.\n\nWith widespread unemployment among men, poverty, and the need to help family members who are in even worse condition, The pressures were heavy on women during the Great Depression across the modern world. A primary role was as a housewife. Without a steady flow of family income, their work became much harder in dealing with food and clothing and medical care. The birthrates fell everywhere, as children were postponed until families could financially support them. The average birthrate for 14 major countries fell 12% from 19.3 births per thousand population in 1930 to 17.0 in 1935. In Canada, half of Roman Catholic women defied Church teachings and used contraception to postpone births.\n\nAmong the few women in the labor force, layoffs were less common in the white-collar jobs and they were typically found in light manufacturing work. However, there was a widespread demand to limit families to one paid job, so that wives might lose employment if their husband was employed. Across Britain, there was a tendency for married women to join the labor force, competing for part-time jobs especially.\n\nIn rural and small-town areas, women expanded their operation of vegetable gardens to include as much food production as possible. In the United States, agricultural organizations sponsored programs to teach housewives how to optimize their gardens and to raise poultry for meat and eggs. In American cities, African American women quiltmakers enlarged their activities, promote collaboration, and trained neophytes. Quilts were created for practical use from various inexpensive materials and increased social interaction for women and promoted camaraderie and personal fulfillment.\n\nOral history provides evidence for how housewives in a modern industrial city handled shortages of money and resources. Often they updated strategies their mothers used when they were growing up in poor families. Cheap foods were used, such as soups, beans and noodles. They purchased the cheapest cuts of meat—sometimes even horse meat—and recycled the Sunday roast into sandwiches and soups. They sewed and patched clothing, traded with their neighbors for outgrown items, and made do with colder homes. New furniture and appliances were postponed until better days. Many women also worked outside the home, or took boarders, did laundry for trade or cash, and did sewing for neighbors in exchange for something they could offer. Extended families used mutual aid—extra food, spare rooms, repair-work, cash loans—to help cousins and in-laws.\n\nIn Japan, official government policy was deflationary and the opposite of Keynesian spending. Consequently, the government launched a nationwide campaign to induce households to reduce their consumption, focusing attention on spending by housewives.\n\nIn Germany, the government tried to reshape private household consumption under the Four-Year Plan of 1936 to achieve German economic self-sufficiency. The Nazi women's organizations, other propaganda agencies and the authorities all attempted to shape such consumption as economic self-sufficiency was needed to prepare for and to sustain the coming war. Using traditional values of thrift and healthy living, the organizations, propaganda agencies and authorities employed slogans that called up traditional values of thrift and healthy living. However, these efforts were only partly successful in changing the behavior of housewives.\n\nThe Hindu, Jewish, Sikh, Islamic and Christian views about women have varied throughout the last two millennia, evolving along with or counter to the societies in which people have lived. For much of history, the role of women in the life of the church, both local and universal, has been downplayed, overlooked, or simply denied.\n\nWarfare always engaged women as victims and objects of protection.\n\nThe First World War has received the most coverage, with the newest trend being coverage of a wide range of gender issues.\n\nDuring the twentieth century of total warfare the female half of the population played increasingly large roles as housewives, consumers, mothers, munitions workers, replacements for men in service, nurses, lovers, sex objects and emotional supporters. One result in many countries was women getting the right to vote, including the United States, Canada, Germany, and Russia, among others.\n\n\nThe following is a list of articles in Wikipedia (and outside links where Wikipedia has no relevant articles) which are either about women's history or containing relevant information, often in a \"History\" section.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2377307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2377307", "title": "Women in heraldry", "text": "Women in heraldry\n\nDue to the differing role of women in past society, special rules grew relating to the blazoning of arms for women. The rules for women and heraldry developed differently from place to place and there is no one single rule that applies everywhere. In general, arms of women were most likely depicted not on shields but on lonzeges or ovals. Different rules exist that depend on the woman's marital status and a married woman would also often make use of her husband's arms in addition to those from her family. In both the English and the Scottish systems of heraldry these differences remain active.\n\nHeraldry has its origins from associations with warfare and the age of chivalry. The traditional shield was also associated with war and so women did not usually display familial arms on escutcheons. Rather, they could display these on various other shapes: more commonly the lozenge, an oval, or a cartouche.\n\nThe crest–a device that sits atop the shield on an armorial achievement–likewise was not accorded to heraldic devices of women as these had associations with warfare.\n\nIn many heraldic traditions, arms generally are passed patrilineally. In other nations, in Canadian heraldry for example, women may inherit arms on an equal basis with their brothers (if any). Women in Canada may also transmit their arms to their heirs, regardless of gender.\n\nIn English, Scottish and Northern Irish heraldry, a woman may bear arms by inheritance from her father or by grant to herself. When unmarried, she displays her arms on a lozenge (a diamond shape) or on an oval or oval-like shape. Traditionally, a woman does not display her arms on a shield, as the shield originated with knights and warfare, and is thus viewed as fitting for a man, but not a woman.\nA married woman may also bear either her own arms or her husband's arms alone on a shield with the shield charged with a small lozenge to distinguish her from her husband.\n\nA widowed woman usually displays the impaled arms on a lozenge-shaped shield, unless she is a heraldic heiress (see below).\n\nIf the woman is an heraldic heiress, her arms are shown on an inescutcheon of pretence, which is a small shield in the centre of her husband's arms. When widowed, instead of showing the impaled arms on a lozenge, she continues to use her marital arms, but placed on a lozenge or oval. In England and Northern Ireland, if there is more than one surviving daughter, each transmits her father's arms on equal terms. In Scotland however, only the eldest surviving daughter transmits her father's undifferenced arms to her offspring.\n\nIn Canadian heraldry, women and men are treated equally for heraldic purpose, reflecting Canadian equality laws. It is therefore common to display the arms of women on shields, rather than on a lozenge or oval, but a woman may still choose to have her arms displayed on a traditional shape.\n\nIn many systems of heraldry, the arms of each living person must be unique. English heraldry has used armorial variants to distinguish the arms of brothers from their father's arms and from each other since the thirteenth century; this is now normally done by the system of marks or \"brisures\" set up by the early Tudor herald John Writhe. Canada adds a unique series of brisures for use by female children who inherit arms. As in other heraldic systems, these cadency marks are not always used; in any case, when the heir succeeds (in Canada, the first child, whether male or female, according to strict primogeniture), the mark of cadency is removed and the heir uses the plain coat of arms.\n\n"}
{"id": "242029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=242029", "title": "Word of mouth", "text": "Word of mouth\n\nWord of mouth or viva voce, is the passing of information from person to person by oral communication, which could be as simple as telling someone the time of day. Storytelling is a common form of word-of-mouth communication where one person tells others a story about a real event or something made up. Oral tradition is cultural material and traditions transmitted by word of mouth through successive generations. Storytelling and oral tradition are forms of word of mouth that play important roles in folklore and mythology. Another example of oral communication is oral history—the recording, preservation and interpretation of historical information, based on the personal experiences and opinions of the speaker. Oral history preservation is the field that deals with the care and upkeep of oral history materials collected by word of mouth, whatever format they may be in.\n\nStorytelling often involves improvisation or embellishment. Stories or narratives have been shared in every culture as a means of entertainment, education, cultural preservation and in order to instill moral values.\n\nThe earliest forms of storytelling were thought to have been primarily oral combined with gesture storytelling for many of the ancient cultures. The Australian Aboriginal people painted symbols from stories on cave walls as a means of helping the storyteller remember the story. The story was then told using a combination of oral narrative, music, rock art, and dance.\n\nTraditionally, oral stories were committed to memory and then passed from generation to generation. However, in literate societies, written and televised media have largely replaced this method of communicating local, family, and cultural histories. Oral storytelling remains the dominant medium of learning in some countries with low literacy rates.\n\nOral tradition (sometimes referred to as \"oral culture\" or \"oral lore\") is cultural material and traditions transmitted orally from one generation to another. The messages or testimony are verbally transmitted in speech or song and may take the form, for example, of folktales, sayings, ballads, songs, or chants. In this way, it is possible for a society to transmit oral history, oral literature, oral law and other knowledges across generations without a writing system.\n\nSociologists emphasize a requirement that the material is held in common by a group of people, over several generations, and thus distinguish oral tradition from testimony or oral history. In a general sense, \"oral tradition\" refers to the transmission of cultural material through vocal utterance, and was long held to be a key descriptor of folklore (a criterion no longer rigidly held by all folklorists). As an academic discipline, it refers both to a set of objects of study and a method by which they are studied—the method may be called variously \"oral traditional theory\", \"the theory of Oral-Formulaic Composition\" and the \"Parry-Lord theory\" (after two of its founders). The study of oral tradition is distinct from the academic discipline of oral history, which is the recording of personal memories and histories of those who experienced historical eras or events. It is also distinct from the study of orality, which can be defined as thought and its verbal expression in societies where the technologies of literacy (especially writing and print) are unfamiliar to most of the population.\n\nOral history is the recording of personal memories and histories of those who experienced historical eras or events. Oral history is a method of historical documentation, using interviews with living survivors of the time being investigated. Oral history often touches on topics scarcely touched on by written documents, and by doing so, fills in the gaps of records that make up early historical documents. Oral history preservation is the field that deals with the care and upkeep of oral history materials, whatever format they may be in.\n\nLong-established systems using word-of-mouth include:\n\n"}
