{"id": "24286785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24286785", "title": "3D data acquisition and object reconstruction", "text": "3D data acquisition and object reconstruction\n\n3D data acquisition and reconstruction is the generation of three-dimensional or spatiotemporal models from sensor data. The techniques and theories, generally speaking, work with most or all sensor types including optical, acoustic, laser scanning, radar, thermal, seismic.\n\nAcquisition can occur from a multitude of methods including 2D images, acquired sensor data and on site sensors.\n\n3D data acquisition and object reconstruction can be performed using stereo image pairs. Stereo photogrammetry or photogrammetry based on a block of overlapped images is the primary approach for 3D mapping and object reconstruction using 2D images. Close-range photogrammetry has also matured to the level where cameras or digital cameras can be used to capture the close-look images of objects, e.g., buildings, and reconstruct them using the very same theory as the aerial photogrammetry. An example of software which could do this is Vexcel FotoG 5. This software has now been replaced by Vexcel GeoSynth. Another similar software program is Microsoft Photosynth.\n\nA semi-automatic method for acquiring 3D topologically structured data from 2D aerial stereo images has been presented by Sisi Zlatanova. The process involves the manual digitizing of a number of points necessary for automatically reconstructing the 3D objects. Each reconstructed object is validated by superimposition of its wire frame graphics in the stereo model. The topologically structured 3D data is stored in a database and are also used for visualization of the objects. Software used for 3D data acquisition using 2D images include e.g. Agisoft Photoscan, RealityCapture, Autodesk 123D Catch, ENSAIS Engineering College TIPHON (Traitement d'Image et PHOtogrammétrie Numérique). CyberCity 3D Modeler, 3D UNDERWORLD SLS.\n\nA method for semi-automatic building extraction together with a concept for storing building models alongside terrain and other topographic data in a topographical information system has been developed by Franz Rottensteiner. His approach was based on the integration of building parameter estimations into the photogrammetry process applying a hybrid modeling scheme. Buildings are decomposed into a set of simple primitives that are reconstructed individually and are then combined by Boolean operators. The internal data structure of both the primitives and the compound building models are based on the boundary representation methods\n\nMultiple images are used in Zeng's approach to surface reconstruction from multiple images. A central idea is to explore the integration of both 3D stereo data and 2D calibrated images. This approach is motivated by the fact that only robust and accurate feature points that survived the geometry scrutiny of multiple images are reconstructed in space. The density insufficiency and the inevitable holes in the stereo data should then be filled in by using information from multiple images. The idea is thus to first construct small surface patches from stereo points, then to progressively propagate only reliable patches in their neighborhood from images into the whole surface using a best-first strategy. The problem thus reduces to searching for an optimal local surface patch going through a given set of stereo points from images.\n\nMulti-spectral images are also used for 3D building detection. The first and last pulse data and the normalized difference vegetation index are used in the process.\n\nNew measurement techniques are also employed to obtain measurements of and between objects from single images by using the projection, or the shadow as well as their combination. This technology is gaining attention given its fast processing time, and far lower cost than stereo measurements. GeoTango SilverEye technology is the first of this kind commercial product that can produce very realistic city models and buildings from single satellite and aerial images.\n\nSemi-Automatic building extraction from LIDAR Data and High-Resolution Images is also a possibility. Again, this approach allows modelling without physically moving towards the location or object. From airborne LIDAR data, digital surface model (DSM) can be generated and then the objects higher than the ground are automatically detected from the DSM. Based on general knowledge about buildings, geometric characteristics such as size, height and shape information are then used to separate the buildings from other objects. The extracted building outlines are then simplified using an orthogonal algorithm to obtain better cartographic quality. Watershed analysis can be conducted to extract the ridgelines of building roofs. The ridgelines as well as slope information are used to classify the buildings per type. The buildings are then reconstructed using three parametric building models (flat, gabled, hipped).\n\nLIDAR and other terrestrial laser scanning technology offers the fastest, automated way to collect height or distance information. LIDAR or laser for height measurement of buildings is becoming very promising. Commercial applications of both airborne LIDAR and ground laser scanning technology have proven to be fast and accurate methods for building height extraction. The building extraction task is needed to determine building locations, ground elevation, orientations, building size, rooftop heights, etc. Most buildings are described to sufficient details in terms of general polyhedra, i.e., their boundaries can be represented by a set of planar surfaces and straight lines. Further processing such as expressing building footprints as polygons is used for data storing in GIS databases.\n\nUsing laser scans and images taken from ground level and a bird's-eye perspective, Fruh and Zakhor present an approach to automatically create textured 3D city models. This approach involves registering and merging the detailed facade models with a complementary airborne model. The airborne modeling process generates a half-meter resolution model with a bird's-eye view of the entire area, containing terrain profile and building tops. Ground-based modeling process results in a detailed model of the building facades. Using the DSM obtained from airborne laser scans, they localize the acquisition vehicle and register the ground-based facades to the airborne model by means of Monte Carlo localization (MCL). Finally, the two models are merged with different resolutions to obtain a 3D model.\n\nUsing an airborne laser altimeter, Haala, Brenner and Anders combined height data with the existing ground plans of buildings. The ground plans of buildings had already been acquired either in analog form by maps and plans or digitally in a 2D GIS. The project was done in order to enable an automatic data capture by the integration of these different types of information. Afterwards virtual reality city models are generated in the project by texture processing, e.g. by mapping of terrestrial images. The project demonstrated the feasibility of rapid acquisition of 3D urban GIS. Ground plans proved are another very important source of information for 3D building reconstruction. Compared to results of automatic procedures, these ground plans proved more reliable since they contain aggregated information which has been made explicit by human interpretation. For this reason, ground plans, can considerably reduce costs in a reconstruction project. An example of existing ground plan data usable in building reconstruction is the Digital Cadastral map, which provides information on the distribution of property, including the borders of all agricultural areas and the ground plans of existing buildings. Additionally information as street names and the usage of buildings (e.g. garage, residential building, office block, industrial building, church) is provided in the form of text symbols. At the moment the Digital Cadastral map is built up as a data base covering an area, mainly composed by digitizing preexisting maps or plans.\n\nSoftware used for airborne laser scanning includes OPALS (Orientation and Processing of Airborne Laser Scanning data), ...\n\n\nAfter the data has been collected, the acquired (and sometimes already processed) data from images or sensors needs to be reconstructed. This may be done in the same program or in some cases, the 3D data needs to be exported and imported into another program for further refining, and/or to add additional data. Such additional data could be gps-location data, ... Also, after the reconstruction, the data might be directly implemented into a local (GIS) map or a worldwide map such as Google Earth.\n\nSeveral software packets are used in which the acquired (and sometimes already processed) data from images or sensors is imported. The software packets include (in alphabetical order):\n\n"}
{"id": "18622896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18622896", "title": "Africa Specialty Group", "text": "Africa Specialty Group\n\nThe Africa Specialty Group is one of many specialty groups within the Association of American Geographers. The group is composed of academic geographers with research interests in Africa. This group publishes the African Geographical Review, a peer-reviewed academic journal.\n\n"}
{"id": "690842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=690842", "title": "Age of Discovery", "text": "Age of Discovery\n\nThe Age of Discovery, or the Age of Exploration (approximately from the beginning of the 15th century until the end of the 18th century) is an informal and loosely defined term for the period in European history in which extensive overseas exploration emerged as a powerful factor in European culture and was the beginning of globalization. It also marks the rise of the period of widespread adoption in Europe of colonialism and mercantilism as national policies. Many lands previously unknown to Europeans were discovered by them during this period, though most were already inhabited. From the perspective of many non-Europeans, the Age of Discovery marked the arrival of invaders from previously unknown continents. \nGlobal exploration started with the Portuguese discoveries of the Atlantic archipelagos of Madeira and the Azores, the coast of Africa, and the discovery of the sea route to India in 1498; and the Crown of Castile (Spain) the trans-Atlantic Voyages of Christopher Columbus to the Americas between 1492 and 1502 and the first circumnavigation of the globe in 1519–1522. These discoveries led to numerous naval expeditions across the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific oceans, and land expeditions in the Americas, Asia, Africa and Australia that continued into the late 19th century, and ended with the exploration of the polar regions in the 20th century.\n\nEuropean overseas exploration led to the rise of global trade and the European colonial empires, with the contact between the \"Old World\" (Europe, Asia and Africa) and the \"New World\" (the Americas and Australia) producing the Columbian Exchange; a wide transfer of plants, animals, food, human populations (including slaves), communicable diseases and culture between the Eastern and Western Hemispheres. This represented one of the most-significant global events concerning ecology, agriculture and culture in history. The Age of Discovery and later European exploration allowed the global mapping of the world, resulting in a new world-view and distant civilizations coming into contact, but also led to the propagation of diseases that decimated populations not previously in contact with Eurasia and Africa and to the enslavement, exploitation, military conquest and economic dominance by Europe and its colonies over native populations. It also allowed for the expansion of Christianity throughout the world: with the spread of missionary activity, it eventually became the world's largest religion.\n\nThe Portuguese began systematically exploring the Atlantic coast of Africa from 1418, under the sponsorship of Prince Henry. Under the direction of Henry the Navigator, the Portuguese developed a new, much lighter ship, the caravel, which could sail further and faster, and, above all, was highly manoeuvrable and could sail much nearer the wind, or \"into the wind\". In 1488 Bartolomeu Dias reached the Indian Ocean by this route. In 1492 the Catholic Monarchs of Castile and Aragon funded Christopher Columbus's plan to sail west to reach the Indies by crossing the Atlantic. He landed on a continent uncharted by Europeans and seen as a new world, the Americas. To prevent conflict between Portugal and Castile (the crown under which Columbus made the voyage), the Treaty of Tordesillas was signed dividing the world into two regions of exploration, where each had exclusive rights to claim newly discovered lands.\n\nIn 1498, a Portuguese expedition commanded by Vasco da Gama reached India by sailing around Africa, opening up direct trade with Asia. While other exploratory fleets were sent from Portugal to northern North America, in the following years Portuguese India Armadas also extended this Eastern oceanic route, touching sometimes South America and by this way opening a circuit from the New World to Asia (starting in 1500, under the command of Pedro Alvares Cabral), and explored islands in the South Atlantic and Southern Indian Oceans. Soon, the Portuguese sailed further eastward, to the valuable Spice Islands in 1512, landing in China one year later. In 1513, Spanish Vasco Núñez de Balboa crossed the Isthmus of Panama and reached the \"other sea\" from the New World. Thus, Europe first received news of the eastern and western Pacific within a one-year span around 1512. East and west exploration overlapped in 1522, when a Castilian (Spanish) expedition, led by Portuguese navigator Ferdinand Magellan and later by Spanish Basque navigator Juan Sebastián Elcano, sailing westward, completed the first circumnavigation of the world, while Spanish \"conquistadors\" explored the interior of the Americas, and later, some of the South Pacific islands.\n\nSince 1495, the French and English and, much later, the Dutch entered the race of exploration after learning of these exploits, defying the Iberian monopoly on maritime trade by searching for new routes, first to the western coasts of North and South America, through the first English and French expeditions (starting with the first expedition of John Cabot in 1497 to the north, in the service of England, followed by the French expeditions to South America and later to North America), and into the Pacific Ocean around South America, but eventually by following the Portuguese around Africa into the Indian Ocean; discovering Australia in 1606, New Zealand in 1642, and Hawaii in 1778. Meanwhile, from the 1580s to the 1640s, Russians explored and conquered almost the whole of Siberia, and Alaska in the 1730s.\nBetween the 12th and 15th centuries the European economy was transformed by the interconnecting of river and sea trade routes, causing Europe to become one of the world's most prosperous trading networks. \n\nBefore the 12th century the main obstacle to trade east of the Strait of Gibraltar was lack of commercial incentive rather than inadequate ship design. Economic growth of Spain followed the reconquest of parts of Muslim Spain and the siege of Lisbon (1147 AD). The decline of Fatimid Caliphate naval strength that started before the First Crusade helped the maritime Italian states, mainly Venice, Genoa and Pisa, dominate trade in the eastern Mediterranean, with Italian merchants becoming wealthy and politically influential. The Norman Conquest of England in the late 11th century allowed for peaceful trade on the North Sea. The Hanseatic League, a confederation of merchant guilds and their towns in northern Germany along the North Sea and Baltic Sea, was instrumental in commercial development of the region. In the 12th century the region of Flanders, Hainault and Braband produced the finest quality textiles in northern Europe, which encouraged merchants from Genoa and Venice to sail there directly. Nicolozzo Spinola made the first recorded direct voyage from Genoa to Flanders in 1277.\n\nTechnological advancements that were important to the Age of Exploration were the adoption of the magnetic compass and advances in ship design. \n\nThe compass was an addition to the ancient method of navigation based on sightings of the sun and stars. The compass had been used for navigation in China by the 11th century and was adopted by the Arab traders in the Indian Ocean. The compass spread to Europe by the late 12th or early 13th century. Use of the compass for navigation in the Indian Ocean was first mentioned in 1232. The first mention of use of the compass in Europe was in 1180. The Europeans used a \"dry\" compass, with a needle on a pivot. The compass card was also a European invention.\n\nShips grew in size, required smaller crews and were able to sail longer distances without stopping. This led to significant lower long distance shipping costs by the 14th century.\n\nThe Periplus of the Erythraean Sea, a document dating from 40-60 AD, describes a newly discovered route through the Red Sea to India, with descriptions of the markets in towns around Red Sea, Persian Gulf and the Indian Ocean, including along the eastern coast of Africa, which states \"for beyond these places the unexplored ocean curves around toward the west, and running along by the regions to the south of Aethiopia and Libya and Africa, it mingles with the western sea (possible reference to the Atlantic Ocean)\". European medieval knowledge about Asia beyond the reach of the Byzantine Empire was sourced in partial reports, often obscured by legends, dating back from the time of the conquests of Alexander the Great and his successors. \nAnother source was the Radhanite Jewish trade networks of merchants established as go-betweens between Europe and the Muslim world during the time of the Crusader states.\nIn 1154, the Arab geographer Muhammad al-Idrisi created a description of the world and a world map, the Tabula Rogeriana, at the court of King Roger II of Sicily, but still Africa was only partially known to either Christians, Genoese and Venetians, or the Arab seamen, and its southern extent unknown. There were reports of great African Sahara, but the factual knowledge was limited for the Europeans to the Mediterranean coasts and little else since the Arab blockade of North Africa precluded exploration inland. Knowledge about the Atlantic African coast was fragmented and derived mainly from old Greek and Roman maps based on Carthaginian knowledge, including the time of Roman exploration of Mauritania. The Red Sea was barely known and only trade links with the Maritime republics, the Republic of Venice especially, fostered collection of accurate maritime knowledge.\n\nIndian Ocean trade routes were sailed by Arab traders. Between 1405 and 1421, the Yongle Emperor of Ming China sponsored a series of long range tributary missions under the command of Zheng He (Cheng Ho). The fleets visited Arabia, East Africa, India, Maritime Southeast Asia and Thailand. But the journeys, reported by Ma Huan, a Muslim voyager and translator, were halted abruptly after the emperor's death and were not followed up, as the Chinese Ming Dynasty retreated in the \"haijin\", a policy of isolationism, having limited maritime trade.\n\nBy 1400 a Latin translation of Ptolemy's \"Geographia\" reached Italy coming from Constantinople. The rediscovery of Roman geographical knowledge was a revelation, both for mapmaking and worldview, although reinforcing the idea that the Indian Ocean was landlocked.\n\nA prelude to the Age of Discovery was a series of European expeditions crossing Eurasia by land in the late Middle Ages. Although the Mongols had threatened Europe with pillage and destruction, Mongol states also unified much of Eurasia and, from 1206 on, the \"Pax Mongolica\" allowed safe trade routes and communication lines stretching from the Middle East to China. A series of Europeans took advantage of these to explore eastwards. Most were Italians, as trade between Europe and the Middle East was controlled mainly by the Maritime republics. The close Italian links to the Levant raised great curiosity and commercial interest in countries which lay further east.\n\nThere are a few accounts of merchants from North Africa and the Mediterranean region who traded in the Indian Ocean in late medieval times.\n\nChristian embassies were sent as far as Karakorum during the Mongol invasions of the Levant, from which they gained a greater understanding of the world. The first of these travellers was Giovanni da Pian del Carpine, dispatched by Pope Innocent IV to the Great Khan, who journeyed to Mongolia and back from 1241 to 1247. About the same time, Russian prince Yaroslav of Vladimir, and subsequently his sons Alexander Nevsky and Andrey II of Vladimir, travelled to the Mongolian capital. Though having strong political implications, their journeys left no detailed accounts. Other travellers followed, like French André de Longjumeau and Flemish William of Rubruck, who reached China through Central Asia. Marco Polo, a Venetian merchant, dictated an account of journeys throughout Asia from 1271 to 1295, describing being a guest at the Yuan Dynasty court of Kublai Khan in \"Travels\", and it was read throughout Europe.\n\nIn 1291, in a first Atlantic exploration attempt, merchant brothers Vadino and Ugolino Vivaldi sailed from Genoa with two galleys but disappeared off the Moroccan coast, feeding the fears of oceanic travel. From 1325 to 1354, a Moroccan scholar from Tangier, Ibn Battuta, journeyed through North Africa, the Sahara desert, West Africa, Southern Europe, Eastern Europe, the Horn of Africa, the Middle East and Asia, having reached China. After returning, he dictated an account of his journeys to a scholar he met in Granada, the \"Rihla\" (\"The Journey\"), the unheralded source on his adventures. Between 1357 and 1371 a book of supposed travels compiled by John Mandeville acquired extraordinary popularity. Despite the unreliable and often fantastical nature of its accounts it was used as a reference for the East, Egypt, and the Levant in general, asserting the old belief that Jerusalem was the centre of the world.\n\nFollowing the period of Timurid relations with Europe, in 1439 Niccolò de' Conti published an account of his travels as a Muslim merchant to India and Southeast Asia and, later in 1466–1472, Russian merchant Afanasy Nikitin of Tver travelled to India, which he described in his book \"A Journey Beyond the Three Seas\".\n\nThese overland journeys had little immediate effect. The Mongol Empire collapsed almost as quickly as it formed and soon the route to the east became more difficult and dangerous. The Black Death of the 14th century also blocked travel and trade. The rise of the Ottoman Empire further limited the possibilities of European overland trade.\n\nThe Chinese had wide connections through trade in Asia and had been sailing to Arabia, East Africa, and Egypt since the Tang Dynasty (AD 618–907). Between 1405 and 1421 the third Ming emperor Yongle sponsored a series of long range tributary missions in the Indian Ocean under the command of admiral Zheng He (Cheng Ho).\n\nA large fleet of new junk ships was prepared for these international diplomatic expeditions. The largest of these junks—that the Chinese termed \"bao chuan\" (treasure ships)—may have measured 121 metres (400 feet) stem to stern, and thousands of sailors were involved. The first expedition departed in 1405. At least seven well-documented expeditions were launched, each bigger and more expensive than the last. The fleets visited Arabia, East Africa, India, Malay Archipelago and Thailand (at the time called Siam), exchanging goods along the way. They presented gifts of gold, silver, porcelain and silk; in return, received such novelties as ostriches, zebras, camels, ivory and giraffes. After the emperor's death, Zheng He led a final expedition departing from Nanking in 1431 and returning to Beijing in 1433. It is very likely that this last expedition reached as far as Madagascar. The travels were reported by Ma Huan, a Muslim voyager and translator who accompanied Zheng He on three of the seven expeditions, his account published as \"Ying-Yai Sheng-Lam\" (Overall Survey of the Ocean's Shores) (1433).\n\nThese long distance journeys were not followed up, as the Chinese Ming dynasty retreated in the \"haijin\", a policy of isolationism, having limited maritime trade. Travels were halted abruptly after the emperor's death, as the Chinese lost interest in what they termed barbarian lands turning inward, and successor emperors felt the expeditions were harmful to the Chinese state; Hongxi Emperor ended further expeditions and Xuande Emperor suppressed much of the information about Zheng He's voyages.\n\nFrom the 8th century until the 15th century, the Republic of Venice and neighbouring maritime republics held the monopoly of European trade with the Middle East. The silk and spice trade, involving spices, incense, herbs, drugs and opium, made these Mediterranean city-states phenomenally rich. Spices were among the most expensive and demanded products of the Middle Ages, as they were used in medieval medicine, religious rituals, cosmetics, perfumery, as well as food additives and preservatives. They were all imported from Asia and Africa.\n\nMuslim traders—mainly descendants of Arab sailors from Yemen and Oman—dominated maritime routes throughout the Indian Ocean, tapping source regions in the Far East and shipping for trading emporiums in India, mainly Kozhikode, westward to Ormus in the Persian Gulf and Jeddah in the Red Sea. From there, overland routes led to the Mediterranean coasts. Venetian merchants distributed the goods through Europe until the rise of the Ottoman Empire, that eventually led to the fall of Constantinople in 1453, barring Europeans from important combined-land-sea routes.\n\nForced to reduce their activities in the Black Sea, and at war with Venice, the Genoese had turned to North African trade of wheat, olive oil (valued also as an energy source) and a search for silver and gold. Europeans had a constant deficit in silver and gold, as coin only went one way: out, spent on eastern trade that was now cut off. Several European mines were exhausted, the lack of bullion leading to the development of a complex banking system to manage the risks in trade (the very first state bank, \"Banco di San Giorgio\", was founded in 1407 at Genoa). Sailing also into the ports of Bruges (Flanders) and England, Genoese communities were then established in Portugal, who profited from their enterprise and financial expertise.\n\nEuropean sailing had been primarily close to land cabotage, guided by portolan charts. These charts specified proven ocean routes guided by coastal landmarks: sailors departed from a known point, followed a compass heading, and tried to identify their location by its landmarks. For the first oceanic exploration Western Europeans used the compass, as well as progressive new advances in cartography and astronomy. Arab navigational tools like the astrolabe and quadrant were used for celestial navigation.\n\nIn 1297, with the Portuguese part of the reconquista completed, King Dinis of Portugal took personal interest in exports and in 1317 he made an agreement with Genoese merchant sailor Manuel Pessanha (Pesagno), appointing him first admiral of the Portuguese navy, with the goal of defending the country against Muslim pirate raids. Outbreaks of bubonic plague led to severe depopulation in the second half of the 14th century: only the sea offered alternatives, with most population settling in fishing and trading coastal areas. Between 1325 and 1357 Afonso IV of Portugal encouraged maritime commerce and ordered the first explorations. The Canary Islands, already known to the Genoese, were claimed as officially discovered under patronage of the Portuguese but in 1344 Castile disputed them, expanding their rivalry into the sea.\n\nTo ensure their monopoly on trade, Europeans (beginning with the Portuguese) attempted to install a mediterranean system of trade which used military might and intimidation to divert trade through ports they controlled; there it could be taxed. In 1415, Ceuta was conquered by the Portuguese aiming to control navigation of the African coast. Young prince Henry the Navigator was there and became aware of profit possibilities in the Trans-Saharan trade routes. For centuries slave and gold trade routes linking West Africa with the Mediterranean passed over the Western Sahara Desert, controlled by the Moors of North Africa.\n\nHenry wished to know how far Muslim territories in Africa extended, hoping to bypass them and trade directly with West Africa by sea, find allies in legendary Christian lands to the south like the long-lost Christian kingdom of Prester John and to probe whether it was possible to reach the Indies by sea, the source of the lucrative spice trade. He invested in sponsoring voyages down the coast of Mauritania, gathering a group of merchants, shipowners and stakeholders interested in new sea lanes. Soon the Atlantic islands of Madeira (1419) and the Azores (1427) were reached. In particular, they were discovered by voyages launched by the command of Prince Henry the Navigator. The expedition leader himself, who established settlements on the island of Madeira, was João Gonçalves Zarco.\n\nAt the time, Europeans did not know what lay beyond Cape Non (Cape Chaunar) on the African coast, and whether it was possible to return once it was crossed. Nautical myths warned of oceanic monsters or an edge of the world, but Prince Henry's navigation challenged such beliefs: starting in 1421, systematic sailing overcame it, reaching the difficult Cape Bojador that in 1434 one of Prince Henry's captains, Gil Eanes, finally passed.\n\nA major advance was the introduction of the caravel in the mid-15th century, a small ship able to sail windward more than any other in Europe at the time. Evolved from fishing ships designs, they were the first that could leave the coastal cabotage navigation and sail safely on the open Atlantic. For celestial navigation the Portuguese used the Ephemerides, which experienced a remarkable diffusion in the 15th century. These were astronomical charts plotting the location of the stars over a distinct period of time. Published in 1496 by the Jewish astronomer, astrologer, and mathematician Abraham Zacuto, the Almanach Perpetuum included some of these tables for the movements of stars. These tables revolutionized navigation, allowing the calculation of latitude. Exact longitude, however, remained elusive, and mariners struggled to determine it for centuries. Using the caravel, systematic exploration continued ever more southerly, advancing on average one degree a year. Senegal and Cape Verde Peninsula were reached in 1445 and in 1446, Álvaro Fernandes pushed on almost as far as present-day Sierra Leone.\n\nIn 1453 the fall of Constantinople to the hands of the Ottomans was a blow to Christendom and the established business relations linking with the east. In 1455 Pope Nicholas V issued the bull \"Romanus Pontifex\" reinforcing the previous \"Dum Diversas\" (1452), granting all lands and seas discovered beyond Cape Bojador to King Afonso V of Portugal and his successors, as well as trade and conquest against Muslims and pagans, initiating a \"mare clausum\" policy in the Atlantic. The king, who had been inquiring of Genoese experts about a seaway to India, commissioned the Fra Mauro world map, which arrived in Lisbon in 1459.\n\nIn 1456 Diogo Gomes reached the Cape Verde archipelago. In the next decade several captains at the service of Prince Henry – including the Genoese Antonio da Noli and Venetian Alvise Cadamosto – discovered the remaining islands which were occupied during the 15th century. The Gulf of Guinea would be reached in the 1460s.\n\nIn 1460 Pedro de Sintra reached Sierra Leone. Prince Henry died in November that year after which, given the meagre revenues, exploration was granted to Lisbon merchant Fernão Gomes in 1469, who in exchange for the monopoly of trade in the Gulf of Guinea had to explore each year for five years. With his sponsorship, explorers João de Santarém, Pedro Escobar, Lopo Gonçalves, Fernão do Pó, and Pedro de Sintra made it even beyond those goals. They reached the Southern Hemisphere and the islands of the Gulf of Guinea, including São Tomé and Príncipe and Elmina on the Gold Coast in 1471. (In the Southern Hemisphere, they used the Southern Cross as the reference for celestial navigation.) There, in what came to be called the \"Gold Coast\" in what is today Ghana, a thriving alluvial gold trade was found among the natives and Arab and Berber traders.\n\nIn 1478 (during the War of the Castilian Succession), near the coast at Elmina was fought a large battle between a Castilian armada of 35 caravels and a Portuguese fleet for hegemony of the Guinea trade (gold, slaves, ivory and melegueta pepper). The war ended with a Portuguese naval victory followed by the official recognition by the Catholic Monarchs of Portuguese sovereignty over most of the disputed West African territories embodied in the Treaty of Alcáçovas, 1479. (See entry on Elmina.) This was the first colonial war among European powers.\n\nIn 1481 the recently crowned João II decided to build São Jorge da Mina factory. In 1482 the Congo River was explored by Diogo Cão, who in 1486 continued to Cape Cross (modern Namibia).\n\nThe next crucial breakthrough was in 1488, when Bartolomeu Dias rounded the southern tip of Africa, which he named \"Cape of Storms\" (Cabo das Tormentas), anchoring at Mossel Bay and then sailing east as far as the mouth of the Great Fish River, proving that the Indian Ocean was accessible from the Atlantic. Simultaneously Pêro da Covilhã, sent out travelling secretly overland, had reached Ethiopia having collected important information about the Red Sea and Quenia coast, suggesting that a sea route to the Indies would soon be forthcoming. Soon the cape was renamed by king John II of Portugal the \"Cape of Good Hope\" (Cabo da Boa Esperança), because of the great optimism engendered by the possibility of a sea route to India, proving false the view that had existed since Ptolemy that the Indian Ocean was land-locked.\n\nBased on much later stories of the phantom island known as Bacalao and the carvings on Dighton Rock some have speculated that Portuguese explorer João Vaz Corte-Real discovered Newfoundland in 1473, but the sources cited are considered by mainstream historians to be unreliable and unconvincing.\n\nPortugal's neighbouring fellow Iberian rival, Castile, had begun to establish its rule over the Canary Islands, located off the west African coast, in 1402, but then became distracted by internal Iberian politics and the repelling of Islamic invasion attempts and raids through most of the 15th century. Only late in the century, following the unification of the crowns of Castile and Aragon and the completion of the \"reconquista\", did an emerging modern Spain become fully committed to the search for new trade routes overseas. The Crown of Aragon had been an important maritime potentate in the Mediterranean, controlling territories in eastern Spain, southwestern France, major islands like Sicily, Malta, and the Kingdom of Naples and Sardinia, with mainland possessions as far as Greece. In 1492 the joint rulers conquered the Moorish kingdom of Granada, which had been providing Castile with African goods through tribute, and decided to fund Christopher Columbus's expedition in the hope of bypassing Portugal's monopoly on west African sea routes, to reach \"the Indies\" (east and south Asia) by travelling west. Twice before, in 1485 and 1488, Columbus had presented the project to king John II of Portugal, who rejected it.\n\nOn the evening of 3 August 1492, Columbus departed from Palos de la Frontera with three ships; one larger carrack, \"Santa María\", nicknamed \"Gallega\" (\"the Galician\"), and two smaller caravels, \"Pinta\" (\"the Painted\") and \"Santa Clara\", nicknamed \"Niña\". Columbus first sailed to the Canary Islands, where he restocked for what turned out to be a five-week voyage across the ocean, crossing a section of the Atlantic that became known as the Sargasso Sea.\n\nLand was sighted on 12 October 1492, and Columbus called the island (now The Bahamas) \"San Salvador\", in what he thought to be the \"West Indies\". Columbus also explored the northeast coast of Cuba (landed on 28 October) and the northern coast of Hispaniola, by 5 December. He was received by the native cacique Guacanagari, who gave him permission to leave some of his men behind.\nOn the return, a storm forced him to dock in Lisbon, on 4 March 1493. After a week in Portugal, he set sail for Spain and on 15 March 1493 arrived in Barcelona, where he reported to Queen Isabella and King Ferdinand. Word of his discovery of new lands rapidly spread throughout Europe.\n\nColumbus and other Spanish explorers were initially disappointed with their discoveries—unlike Africa or Asia, the Caribbean islanders had little to trade with the Castilian ships. The islands thus became the focus of colonization efforts. It was not until the continent itself was explored that Spain found the wealth it had sought.\n\nShortly after Columbus's return from what would later be called the \"West Indies\", a division of influence became necessary to avoid conflict between the Spanish and Portuguese. On 4 May 1493, two months after Columbus's arrival, the Catholic Monarchs received a bull (\"Inter caetera\") from Pope Alexander VI stating that all lands west and south of a pole-to-pole line 100 leagues west and south of the Azores or the Cape Verde Islands should belong to Castile and, later, all mainlands and islands then belonging to India. It did not mention Portugal, which could not claim newly discovered lands east of the line.\n\nKing John II of Portugal was not pleased with the arrangement, feeling that it gave him far too little land—preventing him from reaching India, his main goal. He then negotiated directly with King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella of Spain to move the line west, and allowing him to claim newly discovered lands east of it.\n\nAn agreement was reached in 1494, with the Treaty of Tordesillas that divided the world between the two powers. In this treaty the Portuguese received everything outside Europe east of a line that ran 370 leagues west of the Cape Verde islands (already Portuguese), and the islands discovered by Christopher Columbus on his first voyage (claimed for Castile), named in the treaty as Cipangu and Antilia (Cuba and Hispaniola). This gave them control over Africa, Asia and eastern South America (Brazil). The Spanish (Castile) received everything west of this line. At the time of negotiation, the treaty split the known world of Atlantic islands roughly in half, with the dividing line about halfway between Portuguese Cape Verde and the Spanish discoveries in the Caribbean.\n\nPedro Álvares Cabral encountered in 1500 what is now known as the Brazilian coast, originally thought to be a large island. Since it was east of the dividing line, he claimed it for Portugal and this was respected by the Spanish. Portuguese ships sailed west into the Atlantic to get favourable winds for the journey to India, and this is where Cabral was headed on his journey, in a corridor the treaty was negotiated to protect. Some suspect the Portuguese had secretly discovered Brazil earlier, and this is why they had the line moved eastward and how Cabral found it, but there is no reliable evidence of this. Others suspect Duarte Pacheco Pereira secretly discovered Brazil in 1498, but this not considered credible by mainstream historians.\n\nLater the Spanish territory would prove to include huge areas of the continental mainland of North and South America, though Portuguese-controlled Brazil would expand across the line, and settlements by other European powers ignored the treaty.\n\nVery little of the divided area had actually been seen by Europeans, as it was only divided by a geographical definition rather than control on the ground. Columbus's first voyage in 1492 spurred maritime exploration and, from 1497, a number of explorers headed west.\n\nThat year John Cabot, also a commissioned Italian, got letters patent from King Henry VII of England. Sailing from Bristol, probably backed by the local Society of Merchant Venturers, Cabot crossed the Atlantic from a northerly latitude hoping the voyage to the \"West Indies\" would be shorter and made a landfall somewhere in North America, possibly Newfoundland.\nIn 1499 João Fernandes Lavrador was licensed by the King of Portugal and together with Pêro de Barcelos they first sighted Labrador, which was granted and named after him. After returning he possibly went to Bristol to sail in the name of England. Nearly at the same time, between 1499 and 1502 brothers Gaspar and Miguel Corte Real explored and named the coasts of Greenland and also Newfoundland. Both explorations are noted in the 1502 Cantino planisphere.\n\nIn 1497, newly crowned King Manuel I of Portugal sent an exploratory fleet eastwards, fulfilling his predecessor's project of finding a route to the Indies. In July 1499 news spread that the Portuguese had reached the \"true indies\", as a letter was dispatched by the Portuguese king to the Spanish Catholic Monarchs one day after the celebrated return of the fleet.\n\nThe third expedition by Columbus in 1498 was the beginning of the first successful Castilian (Spanish) colonization in the West Indies, on the island of Hispaniola. Despite growing doubts, Columbus refused to accept that he had not reached the Indies. During the voyage he discovered the mouth of the Orinoco River on the north coast of South America (now Venezuela) and thought that the huge quantity of fresh water coming from it could only be from a continental land mass, which he was certain was the Asian mainland.\n\nAs shipping between Seville and the West Indies grew, knowledge of the Caribbean islands, Central America and the northern coast of South America grew.\nOne of these Spanish fleets, that of Alonso de Ojeda and Amerigo Vespucci in 1499–1500, reached land at the coast of what is now Guyana, when the two explorers seem to have separated in opposite directions. Vespucci sailed southward, discovering the mouth of the Amazon River in July 1499, and reaching 6°S, in present-day north east Brazil, before turning around.\n\nIn the beginning of 1500 Vicente Yáñez Pinzon was blown off course by a storm and reached what is now the north east coast of Brazil on 26 January 1500, exploring as far south as the present-day state of Pernambuco. His fleet was the first to fully enter the Amazon River estuary which he named \"Río Santa María de la Mar Dulce\" (\"Saint Mary's River of the Freshwater Sea\"). However, the land was too far east for the Castilians to claim under the Treaty of Tordesillas, but the discovery created Castilian (\"Spanish\") interest, with a second voyage by Pinzon in 1508 (an expedition that coasted the northern coast to the Central American coastal mainland, in search of a passage to the East) and a voyage in 1515–16 by a navigator of the 1508 expedition, Juan Díaz de Solís. The 1515–16 expedition was spurred on by reports of Portuguese exploration of the region (see below). It ended when de Solís and some of his crew disappeared when exploring a River Plate river in a boat, but what it found re-ignited Spanish interest, and colonization began in 1531.\n\nIn April 1500, the second Portuguese India Armada, headed by Pedro Álvares Cabral, with a crew of expert captains, including Bartolomeu Dias and Nicolau Coelho, encountered the Brazilian coast as it swung westward in the Atlantic while performing a large \"volta do mar\" to avoid becalming in the Gulf of Guinea. On 21 April 1500 a mountain was seen and was named \"Monte Pascoal\", and on 22 April Cabral landed on the coast. On 25 April the entire fleet sailed into the harbour they named \"Porto Seguro\" (Port Secure). Cabral perceived that the new land lay east of the line of Tordesillas, and sent an envoy to Portugal with the discovery in letters, including the letter of Pero Vaz de Caminha. Believing the land to be an island, he named it Ilha de Vera Cruz (Island of the True Cross). Some historians have suggested that the Portuguese may have encountered the South American bulge earlier while sailing the \"volta do mar\", hence the insistence of John II in moving the line west of Tordesillas in 1494—so his landing in Brazil may not have been an accident; although John's motivation may have simply been to increase the chance of claiming new lands in the Atlantic. From the east coast, the fleet then turned eastward to resume the journey to the southern tip of Africa and India. Cabral was the first captain to touch four continents, leading the first expedition that connected and united Europe, Africa, the New World, and Asia.\n\nAt the invitation of King Manuel I of Portugal, Amerigo Vespucci—a Florentine who had been working for a branch of the Medici Bank in Seville since 1491, fitting oceanic expeditions and travelling twice to The Guianas with Juan de la Cosa in the service of Spain—participated as observer in these exploratory voyages to the east coast of South America. The expeditions became widely known in Europe after two accounts attributed to him, published between 1502 and 1504, suggested that the newly discovered lands were not the Indies but a \"New World\", the \"Mundus novus\", Latin title of a contemporary document based on Vespucci letters to Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco de' Medici, which had become widely popular in Europe. It was soon understood that Columbus had not reached Asia but had found a new continent, the Americas. The Americas were named in 1507 by cartographers Martin Waldseemüller and Matthias Ringmann, probably after Amerigo Vespucci.\n\nIn 1501–1502, one of these Portuguese expeditions, led by Gonçalo Coelho (and/or André Gonçalves or Gaspar de Lemos), sailed south along the coast of South America to the bay of present-day Rio de Janeiro. Amerigo Vespucci's account states that the expedition reached the latitude \"South Pole elevation 52° S\", in the \"cold\" latitudes of what is now southern Patagonia (possibly near the Strait), before turning back. Vespucci wrote that they headed toward the southwest and south, following \"a long, unbending coastline\" (apparently coincident with the southern South American coast). This seems controversial, since he changed part of his description in the subsequent letter, stating a shift, from about 32° S (Southern Brazil), to south-southeast, to open sea; maintaining, however, that they reached 50°/52° S (if it was by his own decision or by D. Manuel's censors who had to pressure him to alter his account, because he had revealed far too much to Lorenzo de' Medici and into the public domain, is unknown).\n\nIn 1503, Binot Paulmier de Gonneville, challenging the Portuguese policy of \"mare clausum\", led one of the earliest French Normand and Breton expeditions to Brazil. He intended to sail to the East Indies, but near the Cape of Good Hope his ship was diverted to west by a storm, and landed in the present day state of Santa Catarina (southern Brazil), on 5 January 1504.\nIn 1511–1512, Portuguese captains João de Lisboa and Estevão de Fróis reached the River Plate estuary in present-day Uruguay and Argentina, and went as far south as the present-day Gulf of San Matias at 42°S (recorded in the \"Newen Zeytung auss Pressilandt\" meaning \"New Tidings from the Land of Brazil\"). The expedition reached a cape extending north to south which they called Cape of \"Santa Maria\" (Punta del Este, keeping the name the Cape nearby); and after 40°S they found a \"Cape\" or \"a point or place extending into the sea\", and a \"Gulf\" (in June and July). After they had navigated for nearly to round the cape, they again sighted the continent on the other side, and steered towards the northwest, but a storm prevented them from making any headway. Driven away by the \"Tramontane\" or north wind, they retraced their course. Also gives the first news of the \"White King\" and the \"people of the mountains\" to the interior (the Inca Empire), and a gift, an ax of silver, obtained from the Charrúa natives on their return (\"to the coast or side of \"Brazil\"\"), and \"to West\" (along the coast and the River Plate estuary), and offered to King Manuel I. Christopher de Haro, a Flemish of Sephardic origin (one of the financiers of the expedition along with D. Nuno Manuel), who would serve the Spanish Crown after 1516, believed that the navigators had discovered a southern \"strait\" to west and Asia.\n\nIn 1519, an expedition sent by the Spanish Crown to find a way to Asia was led by the experienced Portuguese navigator Ferdinand Magellan. The fleet explored the rivers and bays as it charted the South American coast until it found a way to the Pacific Ocean through the Strait of Magellan.\n\nIn 1524–1525, Aleixo Garcia, a Portuguese conquistador (possibly a veteran of the Solís expedition of 1516), led a private expedition of a few shipwrecked Castilian and Portuguese adventurers, that recruited about 2000 Guaraní Indians. They explored the territories of present-day southern Brazil, Paraguay and Bolivia, using the native trail network, the \"Peabiru\". They were also the first Europeans to cross the Chaco and reach the outer territories of the Inca Empire on the hills of the Andes, near Sucre.\n\nProtected from direct Spanish competition by the treaty of Tordesillas, Portuguese eastward exploration and colonization continued apace. Twice, in 1485 and 1488, Portugal officially rejected Christopher Columbus's idea of reaching India by sailing westwards. King John II of Portugal's experts rejected it, for they held the opinion that Columbus's estimation of a travel distance of was undervalued, and in part because Bartolomeu Dias departed in 1487 trying the rounding of the southern tip of Africa, therefore they believed that sailing east would require a far shorter journey. Dias's return from the Cape of Good Hope in 1488, and Pêro da Covilhã's travel to Ethiopia overland indicated that the richness of the Indian Sea was accessible from the Atlantic. A long-overdue expedition was prepared.\n\nUnder new king Manuel I of Portugal, on July 1497 a small exploratory fleet of four ships and about 170 men left Lisbon under the command of Vasco da Gama. By December the fleet passed the Great Fish River—where Dias had turned back—and sailed into unknown waters. On 20 May 1498, they arrived at Calicut. The efforts of Vasco da Gama to get favourable trading conditions were hampered by the low value of their goods, compared with the valuable goods traded there. Two years and two days after departure, Gama and a survivor crew of 55 men returned in glory to Portugal as the first ships to sail directly from Europe to India.\n\nIn 1500, a second, larger fleet of thirteen ships and about 1500 men were sent to India. Under command of Pedro Álvares Cabral they made a first landfall on the Brazilian coast; later, in the Indian Ocean, one of Cabral's ships reached Madagascar (1501), which was partly explored by Tristão da Cunha in 1507; Mauritius was discovered in 1507, Socotra occupied in 1506. In the same year Lourenço de Almeida landed in Sri Lanka, the eastern island named \"Taprobane\" in remote accounts of Alexander the Great's and 4th-century BC Greek geographer Megasthenes. On the Asiatic mainland the first factories (trading-posts) were established at Kochi and Calicut (1501) and then Goa (1510).\n\nIn 1511, Afonso de Albuquerque conquered Malacca for Portugal, then the centre of Asian trade. East of Malacca, Albuquerque sent several diplomatic missions: Duarte Fernandes as the first European envoy to the Kingdom of Siam (modern Thailand).\n\nGetting to know the secret location of the so-called \"spice islands\"—the Maluku Islands, mainly the Banda, then the single world source of nutmeg and cloves, was the main purpose for the travels in the Indian sea—he sent an expedition led by António de Abreu to Banda (via Java and the Lesser Sunda Islands), where they were the first Europeans to arrive in early 1512, after taking a route through which they also reached first the islands of Buru, Ambon and Seram. From Banda Abreu returned to Malacca, while his vice-captain Francisco Serrão, after a separation forced by a shipwreck and heading north, reached once again Ambon and sank off Ternate, where he obtained a license to build a Portuguese fortress-factory: the Fort of São João Baptista de Ternate, which founded the Portuguese presence in the Malay Archipelago.\n\nIn May 1513 Jorge Álvares, one of the Portuguese envoys, reached China. Although he was the first to land on Lintin Island in the Pearl River Delta, it was Rafael Perestrello—a cousin of the famed Christopher Columbus—who became the first European explorer to land on the southern coast of mainland China and trade in Guangzhou in 1516, commanding a Portuguese vessel with a crew from a Malaysian junk that had sailed from Malacca. Fernão Pires de Andrade visited Canton in 1517 and opened up trade with China. The Portuguese were defeated by the Chinese in 1521 at the Battle of Tunmen and in 1522 at the Battle of Xicaowan, during which the Chinese captured Portuguese breech-loading swivel guns and reverse engineered the technology, calling them \"Folangji\" 佛郎機 (Frankish) guns, since the Portuguese were called \"Folangji\" by the Chinese. After a few decades, hostilities between the Portuguese and Chinese ceased and in 1557 the Chinese allowed the Portuguese to occupy Macau.\n\nTo enforce a trade monopoly, Muscat, and Hormuz in the Persian Gulf, were seized by Afonso de Albuquerque in 1507 and in 1515, respectively. He also entered into diplomatic relations with Persia. In 1513 while trying to conquer Aden, an expedition led by Albuquerque cruised the Red Sea inside the Bab al-Mandab, and sheltered at Kamaran island. In 1521, a force under António Correia conquered Bahrain, ushering in a period of almost eighty years of Portuguese rule of the Gulf archipelago. In the Red Sea, Massawa was the most northerly point frequented by the Portuguese until 1541, when a fleet under Estevão da Gama penetrated as far as Suez.\n\nIn 1513, about south of Acandí, in present-day Colombia, Spanish Vasco Núñez de Balboa heard unexpected news of an \"other sea\" rich in gold, which he received with great interest. With few resources and using information given by \"caciques\", he journeyed across the Isthmus of Panama with 190 Spaniards, a few native guides, and a pack of dogs.\n\nUsing a small brigantine and ten native canoes, they sailed along the coast and made landfalls. On September 6, the expedition was reinforced with 1,000 men, fought several battles, entered a dense jungle and climbed the mountain range along the Chucunaque River from where this \"other sea\" could be seen. Balboa went ahead and, before noon September 25, he saw in the horizon an undiscovered sea, becoming the first European to have seen or reached the Pacific from the New World. The expedition descended towards the shore for a short reconnaissance trip, thus becoming the first Europeans to navigate the Pacific Ocean off the coast of the New World. After travelling more than , Balboa named the bay where they ended up \"San Miguel\". He named the new sea \"Mar del Sur\" (South Sea), since they had travelled south to reach it. Balboa's main purpose in the expedition was the search for gold-rich kingdoms. To this end, he crossed through the lands of \"caciques\" to the islands, naming the largest one \"Isla Rica\" (Rich Island, today known as Isla del Rey). He named the entire group \"Archipiélago de las Perlas\", which they still keep today.\n\nIn 1515–1516, the Spanish fleet led by Juan Díaz de Solís sailed down the east coast of South America as far as Río de la Plata, which Solís named shortly before he died, while trying to find a passage to the \"South Sea\".\n\nAt the same time, the Portuguese in Southeast Asia made the first European report on the western Pacific, having identified Luzon east of Borneo and named its inhabitants the \"Luções\", in the modern Philippines.\n\nBy 1516 several Portuguese navigators, conflicting with King Manuel I of Portugal, had gathered in Seville to serve the newly crowned Charles I of Spain. Among them were explorers Diogo and Duarte Barbosa, Estêvão Gomes, João Serrão and Ferdinand Magellan, cartographers Jorge Reinel and Diogo Ribeiro, cosmographers Francisco and Ruy Faleiro and the Flemish merchant Christopher de Haro. Ferdinand Magellan—who had sailed in India for Portugal up to 1513, when the Maluku Islands were reached, kept contact with Francisco Serrão living there—developed the theory that the islands were in the Tordesillas Spanish area, supported on studies by Faleiro brothers.\n\nAware of the efforts of the Spanish to find a route to India by sailing west, Magellan presented his plan to Charles I of Spain. The king and Christopher de Haro financed Magellan's expedition. A fleet was put together, and Spanish navigators such as Juan Sebastián Elcano joined the enterprise. On August 10, 1519, they departed from Seville with a fleet of five ships—the flagship \"Trinidad\" under Magellan's command, \"San Antonio\", \"Concepcion\", \"Santiago\" and \"Victoria\", the first being a caravel, and all others rated as carracks or \"naus\"—with a crew of about 237 men from several nations, with the goal of reaching the Maluku Islands by travelling west, trying to reclaim it under Spain's economic and political sphere.\nThe fleet sailed further and further south, avoiding the Portuguese territories in Brazil, and became the first to reach Tierra del Fuego at the tip of the Americas. On October 21, starting in Cape Virgenes, they began an arduous trip through a 373-mile (600 km) long strait that Magellan named \"Estrecho de Todos los Santos\", the modern Strait of Magellan. On November 28, three ships entered the Pacific Ocean—then named \"Mar Pacífico\" because of its apparent stillness. The expedition managed to cross the Pacific. Magellan died in the battle of Mactan in the Philippines, leaving the Spaniard Juan Sebastián Elcano the task of completing the voyage, reaching the Spice Islands in 1521. On September 6, 1522 \"Victoria\" returned to Spain, thus completing the first circumnavigation of the globe. Of the men who set out on five ships, only 18 completed the circumnavigation and managed to return to Spain in this single vessel led by Elcano. Seventeen others arrived later in Spain: twelve captured by the Portuguese in Cape Verde some weeks earlier, and between 1525 and 1527, and five survivors of the \"Trinidad\". Antonio Pigafetta, a Venetian scholar and traveller who had asked to be on board and become a strict assistant of Magellan, kept an accurate journal that become the main source for much of what we know about this voyage.\n\nThis round-the-world voyage gave Spain valuable knowledge of the world and its oceans which later helped in the exploration and settlement of the Philippines. Although this was not a realistic alternative to the Portuguese route around Africa (the Strait of Magellan was too far south, and the Pacific Ocean too vast to cover in a single trip from Spain) successive Spanish expeditions used this information to explore the Pacific Ocean and discovered routes that opened up trade between Acapulco, New Spain (present-day Mexico) and Manila in the Philippines.\n\nSoon after Magellan's expedition, the Portuguese rushed to seize the surviving crew and built a fort in Ternate. In 1525, Charles I of Spain sent another expedition westward to colonize the Maluku Islands, claiming that they were in his zone of the Treaty of Tordesillas. The fleet of seven ships and 450 men was led by García Jofre de Loaísa and included the most notable Spanish navigators: Juan Sebastián Elcano and Loaísa, who lost their lives then, and the young Andrés de Urdaneta.\n\nNear the Strait of Magellan one of the ships was pushed south by a storm, reaching 56° S, where they thought seeing \"earth's end\": so Cape Horn was crossed for the first time. The expedition reached the islands with great difficulty, docking at Tidore. The conflict with the Portuguese established in nearby Ternate was inevitable, starting nearly a decade of skirmishes.\n\nAs there was not a set eastern limit to the Tordesillas line, both kingdoms organized meetings to resolve the issue. From 1524 to 1529 Portuguese and Spanish experts met at Badajoz-Elvas trying to find the exact location of the antimeridian of Tordesillas, which would divide the world into two equal hemispheres. Each crown appointed three astronomers and cartographers, three pilots and three mathematicians. Lopo Homem, Portuguese cartographer and cosmographer was in the board, along with cartographer Diogo Ribeiro on the Spanish delegation. The board met several times, without reaching an agreement: the knowledge at that time was insufficient for an accurate calculation of longitude, and each group gave the islands to its sovereign. The issue was settled only in 1529, after a long negotiation, with the signing of Treaty of Zaragoza, that attributed the Maluku Islands to Portugal and the Philippines to Spain.\n\nBetween 1525 and 1528 Portugal sent several expeditions around the Maluku Islands. Gomes de Sequeira and Diogo da Rocha were sent north by the governor of Ternate Jorge de Menezes, being the first Europeans to reach the Caroline Islands, which they named \"Islands de Sequeira\". In 1526, Jorge de Meneses docked on Biak and Waigeo islands, Papua New Guinea. Based on these explorations stands the theory of Portuguese discovery of Australia, one among several competing theories about the early discovery of Australia, supported by Australian historian Kenneth McIntyre, stating it was discovered by Cristóvão de Mendonça and Gomes de Sequeira.\n\nIn 1527 Hernán Cortés fitted out a fleet to find new lands in the \"South Sea\" (Pacific Ocean), asking his cousin Álvaro de Saavedra Cerón to take charge. On October 31 of 1527 Saavedra sailed from New Spain, crossing the Pacific and touring the north of New Guinea, then named \"Isla de Oro\". In October 1528 one of the vessels reached the Maluku Islands. In his attempt to return to New Spain he was diverted by the northeast trade winds, which threw him back, so he tried sailing back down, to the south. He returned to New Guinea and sailed northeast, where he sighted the Marshall Islands and the Admiralty Islands, but again was surprised by the winds, which brought him a third time to the Moluccas. This westbound return route was hard to find, but was eventually discovered by Andrés de Urdaneta in 1565.\n\nRumours of undiscovered islands northwest of Hispaniola had reached Spain by 1511 and king Ferdinand II of Aragon was interested in forestalling further exploration. While Portuguese were making huge gains in the Indian Ocean, the Spanish invested in exploring inland in search of gold and valuable resources. The members of these expeditions, the \"conquistadors\", came from a variety of backgrounds including artisans, merchants, clergy, lesser nobility and freed slaves. They usually supplied their own equipment in exchange for a share in profits, having no direct connection with the royal army, and often no professional military training or experience.\n\nIn the Americas the Spanish found a number of empires that were as large and populous as those in Europe. However, small bodies of \"conquistadors\", with large armies of Indigenous Americans groups, managed to conquer these states. During this time, pandemics of European disease such as smallpox devastated the indigenous populations. Once Spanish sovereignty was established, the Spanish focused on the extraction and export of gold and silver.\n\nIn 1512, to reward Juan Ponce de León for exploring Puerto Rico in 1508, king Ferdinand urged him to seek these new lands. He would become governor of discovered lands, but was to finance himself all exploration. With three ships and about 200 men, Léon set out from Puerto Rico in March 1513. In April they sighted land and named it \"La Florida\"—because it was Easter (Florida) season—believing it was an island, becoming credited as the first European to land in the continent. The arrival location has been disputed between St. Augustine, Ponce de León Inlet and Melbourne Beach. They headed south for further exploration and on April 8 encountered a current so strong that it pushed them backwards: this was the first encounter with the Gulf Stream that would soon become the primary route for eastbound ships leaving the Spanish Indies bound for Europe. They explored down the coast reaching Biscayne Bay, Dry Tortugas and then sailing southwest in an attempt to circle Cuba to return, reaching Grand Bahama on July.\n\nIn 1517 Cuba's governor Diego Velázquez de Cuéllar commissioned a fleet under the command of Hernández de Córdoba to explore the Yucatán peninsula. They reached the coast where Mayans invited them to land, but were attacked at night and only a remnant of the crew returned. Velázquez then commissioned another expedition led by his nephew Juan de Grijalva, who sailed south along the coast to Tabasco, part of the Aztec empire. In 1518 Velázquez gave the mayor of the capital of Cuba, Hernán Cortés, the command of an expedition to secure the interior of Mexico but, due to an old gripe between them, revoked the charter.\n\nIn February 1519 Cortés went ahead anyway, in an act of open mutiny. With about 11 ships, 500 men, 13 horses and a small number of cannons he landed in Yucatán, in Mayan territory, claiming the land for the Spanish crown. From Trinidad he proceeded to Tabasco and won a battle against the natives. Among the vanquished was La Malinche, his future mistress, who knew both (Aztec) Nahuatl language and Maya, becoming a valuable interpreter and counsellor. Through her, Cortés learned about the wealthy Aztec Empire.\n\nIn July his men took over Veracruz and he placed himself under direct orders of new king Charles I of Spain. There Cortés asked for a meeting with Aztec Emperor Montezuma II, who repeatedly refused. They headed to Tenochtitlan and on the way made alliances with several tribes. In October, accompanied by about 3,000 Tlaxcaltec they marched to Cholula, the second largest city in central Mexico. Either to instill fear upon the Aztecs waiting for him or (as he later claimed) wishing to make an example when he feared native treachery, they massacred thousands of unarmed members of the nobility gathered at the central plaza and partially burned the city.\n\nArriving in Tenochtitlan with a large army, on November 8 they were peacefully received by Moctezuma II, who deliberately let Cortés enter the heart of the Aztec Empire, hoping to know them better to crush them later. The emperor gave them lavish gifts in gold which enticed them to plunder vast amounts. In his letters to King Charles, Cortés claimed to have learned then that he was considered by the Aztecs to be either an emissary of the feathered serpent god Quetzalcoatl or Quetzalcoatl himself—a belief contested by a few modern historians. But he soon learned that his men on the coast had been attacked, and decided to hostage Moctezuma in his palace, demanding a ransom as tribute to King Charles.\n\nMeanwhile, Velasquez sent another expedition, led by Pánfilo de Narváez, to oppose Cortès, arriving in Mexico in April 1520 with 1,100 men. Cortés left 200 men in Tenochtitlan and took the rest to confront Narvaez, whom he overcame, convincing his men to join him. In Tenochtitlán one of Cortés's lieutenants committed a massacre in the Great Temple, triggering local rebellion. Cortés speedily returned, attempting the support of Moctezuma but the Aztec emperor was killed, possibly stoned by his subjects. The Spanish fled for the Tlaxcaltec during the \"Noche Triste\", where they managed a narrow escape while their back guard was massacred. Much of the treasure looted was lost during this panicked escape. After a battle in Otumba they reached Tlaxcala, having lost 870 men. Having prevailed with the assistance of allies and reinforcements from Cuba, Cortés besieged Tenochtitlán and captured its ruler Cuauhtémoc in August 1521. As the Aztec Empire ended he claimed the city for Spain, renaming it Mexico City.\n\nA first attempt to explore western South America was undertaken in 1522 by Pascual de Andagoya. Native South Americans told him about a gold-rich territory on a river called Pirú. Having reached San Juan River (Colombia), Andagoya fell ill and returned to Panama, where he spread news about \"Pirú\" as the legendary El Dorado. These, along with the accounts of success of Hernán Cortés, caught the attention of Pizarro.\n\nFrancisco Pizarro had accompanied Balboa in the crossing of the Isthmus of Panama. In 1524 he formed a partnership with priest Hernando de Luque and soldier Diego de Almagro to explore the south, agreeing to divide the profits. They dubbed the enterprise the \"Empresa del Levante\": Pizarro would command, Almagro would provide military and food supplies, and Luque would be in charge of finances and additional provisions.\n\nOn 13 September 1524, the first of three expeditions left to conquer Peru with about 80 men and 40 horses. The expedition was a failure, reaching no farther than Colombia before succumbing to bad weather, hunger and skirmishes with hostile locals, where Almagro lost an eye. The place names bestowed along their route, \"Puerto deseado\" (desired port), \"Puerto del hambre\" (port of hunger) and \"Puerto quemado\" (burned port), attest to the difficulties of their journey. Two years later they began a second expedition with reluctant permission from the Governor of Panama. In August 1526, they left with two ships, 160 men and several horses. Upon reaching San Juan River they separated, Pizarro staying to explore the swampy coasts and Almagro sent back for reinforcements. Pizarro's main pilot sailed south and, after crossing the equator, captured a raft from Tumbes. To his surprise, it carried textiles, ceramic and much-desired gold, silver, and emeralds, becoming the central focus of the expedition. Soon Almagro joined with reinforcements and they resumed. After a difficult voyage facing strong winds and currents, they reached Atacames where they found a large native population under Inca rule, but they did not land.\n\nPizarro remained safe near the coast, while Almagro and Luque went back for reinforcements with proof of the rumoured gold. The new governor outright rejected a third expedition and ordered two ships to bring everyone back to Panama. Almagro and Luque grasped the opportunity to join Pizarro. When they arrived at the \"Isla de Gallo\", Pizarro drew a line in the sand, saying: \"There lies Peru with its riches; Here, Panama and its poverty. Choose, each man, what best becomes a brave Castilian.\" Thirteen men decided to stay and became known as \"The Famous Thirteen\". They headed for \"La Isla Gorgona\", where they remained for seven months before the arrival of provisions.\n\nThey decided to sail south and, by April 1528, reached the northwestern Peruvian Tumbes Region and were warmly received by local \"Tumpis\". Two of Pizarro's men reported incredible riches, including gold and silver decorations around the chief's house. They saw for the first time a llama which Pizarro called \"little camels\". The natives named the Spanish \"Children of the Sun\" for their fair complexion and brilliant armours. They decided then to return to Panama to prepare a final expedition. Before leaving they sailed south through territories they named such as Cabo Blanco, port of Payta, Sechura, Punta de Aguja, Santa Cruz, and Trujillo, reaching the ninth degree south.\n\nIn the spring of 1528 Pizarro sailed for Spain, where he had an interview with king Charles I. The king heard of his expeditions in lands rich in gold and silver and promised to support him. The \"Capitulación de Toledo\" authorized Pizarro to proceed with the conquest of Peru. Pizarro was then able to convince many friends and relatives to join: his brothers Hernándo Pizarro, Juan Pizarro, Gonzalo Pizarro and also Francisco de Orellana, who would later explore the Amazon River, as well as his cousin Pedro Pizarro.\n\nPizarro's third and final expedition left Panama for Peru on 27 December 1530. With three ships and one hundred and eighty men they landed near Ecuador and sailed to Tumbes, finding the place destroyed. They entered the interior and established the first Spanish settlement in Peru, San Miguel de Piura. One of the men returned with an Incan envoy and an invitation for a meeting. Since the last meeting, the Inca had begun a civil war and Atahualpa had been resting in northern Peru following the defeat of his brother Huáscar. After marching for two months, they approached Atahualpa. He refused the Spanish, however, saying he would \"be no man's tributary.\" There were fewer than 200 Spanish to his 80,000 soldiers, but Pizarro attacked and won the Incan army in the Battle of Cajamarca, taking Atahualpa captive at the so-called ransom room. Despite fulfilling his promise of filling one room with gold and two with silver, he was convicted for killing his brother and plotting against Pizarro, and was executed.\n\nIn 1533, Pizarro invaded Cuzco with indigenous troops and wrote to King Charles I: \"This city is the greatest and the finest ever seen in this country or anywhere in the Indies ... it is so beautiful and has such fine buildings that it would be remarkable even in Spain.\" After the Spanish had sealed the conquest of Peru, Jauja in fertile Mantaro Valley was established as Peru's provisional capital, but it was too far up in the mountains, and Pizarro founded the city of Lima on 18 January 1535, which Pizarro considered one of the most important acts in his life.\n\nIn 1543 three Portuguese traders accidentally became the first Westerners to reach and trade with Japan. According to Fernão Mendes Pinto, who claimed to be in this journey, they arrived at Tanegashima, where the locals were impressed by firearms that would be immediately made by the Japanese on a large scale.\n\nThe Spanish conquest of the Philippines was ordered by Philip II of Spain, and Andrés de Urdaneta was the designated commander. Urdaneta agreed to accompany the expedition but refused to command and Miguel López de Legazpi was appointed instead. The expedition set sail on November 1564. After spending some time on the islands, Legazpi sent Urdaneta back to find a better return route. Urdaneta set sail from San Miguel on the island of Cebu on June 1, 1565, but was obliged to sail as far as 38 degrees North latitude to obtain favourable winds.\nHe reasoned that the trade winds of the Pacific might move in a gyre as the Atlantic winds did. If in the Atlantic, ships made the \"Volta do mar\" to pick up winds that would bring them back from Madeira, then, he reasoned, by sailing far to the north before heading east, he would pick up trade winds to bring him back to North America. His hunch paid off, and he hit the coast near Cape Mendocino, California, then followed the coast south. The ship reached the port of Acapulco, on October 8, 1565, having travelled in 130 days. Fourteen of his crew died; only Urdaneta and Felipe de Salcedo, nephew of López de Legazpi, had strength enough to cast the anchors.\n\nThus, a cross-Pacific Spanish route was established, between Mexico and the Philippines. For a long time these routes were used by the Manila galleons, thereby creating a trade link joining China, the Americas, and Europe via the combined trans-Pacific and trans-Atlantic routes.\n\nNations outside Iberia refused to acknowledge the Treaty of Tordesillas. France, the Netherlands and England each had a long maritime tradition and had been engaging in privateering. Despite Iberian protections, the new technologies and maps soon made their way north.\n\nIn 1568 the Dutch rebelled against the rule of Philip II of Spain leading to the Eighty Years' War. War between England and Spain also broke out. In 1580 Philip II became King of Portugal, as heir to the Crown. The combined empires were simply too big to go unchallenged by European rivals.\n\nPhilip's troops conquered the important trading cities of Bruges and Ghent. Antwerp, then the most important port in the world, fell in 1585. The Protestant population was given two years to settle affairs before leaving the city. Many settled in Amsterdam. Those were mainly skilled craftsmen, rich merchants of the port cities and refugees that fled religious persecution, particularly Sephardi Jews from Portugal and Spain and, later, the Huguenots from France. The Pilgrim Fathers also spent time there before going to the New World. This mass immigration was an important driving force: a small port in 1585, Amsterdam quickly transformed into one of the most important commercial centres in the world. After the defeat of the Spanish Armada in 1588 there was a huge expansion of maritime trade even though the defeat of the English Armada would confirm the naval supremacy of the Spanish navy over the emergent competitors.\n\nThe emergence of Dutch maritime power was swift and remarkable: for years Dutch sailors had participated in Portuguese voyages to the east, as able seafarers and keen mapmakers. In 1592, Cornelis de Houtman was sent by Dutch merchants to Lisbon, to gather as much information as he could about the Spice Islands. In 1595, merchant and explorer Jan Huyghen van Linschoten, having travelled widely in the Indian Ocean at the service of the Portuguese, published a travel report in Amsterdam, the \"Reys-gheschrift vande navigatien der Portugaloysers in Orienten\" (\"Report of a journey through the navigations of the Portuguese in the East\"). This included vast directions on how to navigate between Portugal and the East Indies and to Japan. That same year Houtman followed this directions in the Dutch first exploratory travel that discovered a new sea route, sailing directly from Madagascar to Sunda Strait in Indonesia and signing a treaty with the Banten Sultan.\n\nDutch and British interest, fed on new information, led to a movement of commercial expansion, and the foundation of English (1600), and Dutch (1602) chartered companies. Dutch, French, and English sent ships which flouted the Portuguese monopoly, concentrated mostly on the coastal areas, which proved unable to defend against such a vast and dispersed venture.\n\nThe 1497 English expedition led by Italian Venetian John Cabot (Giovanni Caboto) was the first of a series of French and English missions exploring North America. Spain put limited efforts into exploring the northern part of the Americas, as its resources were concentrated in Central and South America where more wealth had been found. These expeditions were hoping to find an oceanic Northwest Passage to Asian trade. This was never discovered, but other possibilities were found, and in the early 17th century colonists from a number of Northern European states began to settle on the east coast of North America. In 1520–1521 the Portuguese João Álvares Fagundes, accompanied by couples of mainland Portugal and the Azores, explored Newfoundland and Nova Scotia (possibly reaching the Bay of Fundy on the Minas Basin), and established a fishing colony on the Cape Breton Island, that would last until at least the 1570s or near the end of the century.\n\nIn 1524, Italian Giovanni da Verrazzano sailed at the behest of Francis I of France, who was motivated by indignation over the division of the world between Portuguese and Spanish. Verrazzano explored the Atlantic Coast of North America, from South Carolina to Newfoundland, and was the first recorded European to visit what would later become the Virginia Colony and the United States. In the same year Estevão Gomes, a Portuguese cartographer who had sailed in Ferdinand Magellan's fleet, explored Nova Scotia, sailing South through Maine, where he entered New York Harbor, the Hudson River and eventually reached Florida in August 1525. As a result of his expedition, the 1529 Diogo Ribeiro world map outlines the East coast of North America almost perfectly. From 1534 to 1536, French explorer Jacques Cartier, believed to have accompanied Verrazzano to Nova Scotia and Brazil, was the first European to travel inland in North America, describing the Gulf of Saint Lawrence, which he named \"The Country of Canadas\", after Iroquois names, claiming what is now Canada for Francis I of France.\n\nEuropeans explored the Pacific Coast beginning in the mid-16th century. Francisco de Ulloa explored the Pacific coast of present-day Mexico including the Gulf of California, proving that Baja California was a peninsula. Despite his discoveries, the myth persisted in Europe that California was an island. His account provided the first recorded use of the name \"California\". João Rodrigues Cabrilho, a Portuguese navigator sailing for the Spanish Crown, was the first European to set foot in California, landing on September 28, 1542 on the shores of San Diego Bay and claiming California for Spain. He also landed on San Miguel, one of the Channel Islands, and continued as far as Point Reyes. After his death the crew continued exploring as far north as Oregon.\n\nThe English naval commander Francis Drake sailed along the coast in 1579 somewhere north of Cabrillo's landing site—the actual location of Drake's landing was secret and is still undetermined\n—and claimed the land for England, calling it Nova Albion. The term \"Nova Albion\" was therefore used on many European maps to designate territory north of the Spanish settlements.\n\nBetween 1609 and 1611, after several voyages on behalf of English merchants to explore a prospective Northeast Passage to India, Kingdom of England's Henry Hudson, under the auspices of the Dutch East India Company (VOC), explored the region around present-day New York City, while looking for a western route to Asia. He explored the Hudson River and laid the foundation for Dutch colonization of the region. Hudson's final expedition ranged farther north in search of the Northwest Passage, leading to his discovery of the Hudson Strait and Hudson Bay. After wintering in the James Bay, Hudson tried to press on with his voyage in the spring of 1611, but his crew mutinied and they cast him adrift.\n\nFrance, the Netherlands, and England were left without a sea route to Asia, either via Africa or South America. When it became apparent that there was no route through the heart of the Americas, attention turned to the possibility of a passage through northern waters, which English called the Northwest Passage. The desire to establish such a route motivated much of the European exploration of both coasts of North America and in Russia. In Russia the idea of a possible seaway connecting the Atlantic and the Pacific was first put forward by the diplomat Gerasimov in 1525, although Russian settlers on the coast of the White Sea, the Pomors, had been exploring parts of the route as early as the 11th century.\n\nIn 1553 English explorer Hugh Willoughby with chief pilot Richard Chancellor were sent out with three vessels in search of a passage by London's Company of Merchant Adventurers to New Lands. During the voyage across the Barents Sea, Willoughby thought he saw islands to the north, and islands called Willoughby's Land were shown on maps published by Plancius and Mercator into the 1640s. The vessels were separated by \"terrible whirlwinds\" in the Norwegian Sea and Willoughby sailed into a bay near the present border between Finland and Russia. His ships with the frozen crews, including Captain Willoughby and his journal, were found by Russian fishermen a year later. Richard Chancellor was able to drop anchor in the White Sea and trudge his way overland to Moscow and Ivan the Terrible's Court, opening trade with Russia and the Company of Merchant Adventurers became the Muscovy Company.\n\n5 June 1594, Dutch cartographer Willem Barentsz departed from Texel in a fleet of three ships to enter the Kara Sea, with the hopes of finding the Northeast Passage above Siberia. At Williams Island the crew encountered a polar bear for the first time. They managed to bring it on board, but the bear rampaged and was killed. Barentsz reached the west coast of Novaya Zemlya and followed it northward, before being forced to turn back in the face of large icebergs.\n\nThe following year, Prince Maurice of Orange named him chief pilot of a new expedition of six ships, loaded with merchant wares that the Dutch hoped to trade with China. The party came across Samoyed \"wild men\" but eventually turned back upon discovering the Kara Sea frozen. In 1596, the States-General offered a high reward for anybody who \"successfully\" navigated the Northeast Passage. The Town Council of Amsterdam purchased and outfitted two small ships, captained by Jan Rijp and Jacob van Heemskerk, to search for the elusive channel, under the command of Barents. They set off on May, and on June discovered Bear Island and Spitsbergen, sighting its northwest coast. They saw a large bay, later called Raudfjorden and entered Magdalenefjorden, which they named \"Tusk Bay\", sailing into the northern entrance of Forlandsundet, which they called \"Keerwyck\", but were forced to turn back because of a shoal. On 28 June they rounded the northern point of Prins Karls Forland, which they named \"Vogelhoek\", on account of the large number of birds, and sailed south, passing Isfjorden and Bellsund, which were labelled on Barentsz's chart as \"Grooten Inwyck\" and \"Inwyck\".\n\nThe ships once again reached Bear Island on 1 July, which led to a disagreement. They parted ways, with Barentsz continuing northeast, while Rijp headed north. Barentsz reached Novaya Zemlya and, to avoid becoming entrapped in ice, headed for the Vaigatch Strait but became stuck within the icebergs and floes. Stranded, the 16-man crew was forced to spend the winter on the ice. The crew used lumber from their ship to build a lodge they called \"Het Behouden Huys\" (The Kept House). Dealing with extreme cold, they used the merchant fabrics to make additional blankets and clothing and caught Arctic foxes in primitive traps, as well as polar bears. When June arrived, and the ice had still not loosened its grip on the ship, scurvy-ridden survivors took two small boats out into the sea. Barentsz died at sea on 20 June 1597, while studying charts. It took seven more weeks for the boats to reach Kola where they were rescued by a Russian merchant vessel. Only 12 crewmen remained, reaching Amsterdam in November. Two of Barentsz' crewmembers later published their journals, Jan Huyghen van Linschoten, who had accompanied him on the first two voyages, and Gerrit de Veer who had acted as the ship's carpenter on the last.\n\nIn 1608, Henry Hudson made a second attempt, trying to go across the top of Russia. He made it to Novaya Zemlya but was forced to turn back. Between 1609 and 1611, Hudson, after several voyages on behalf of English merchants to explore a prospective Northern Sea Route to India, explored the region around modern New York City while looking for a western route to Asia under the auspices of the Dutch East India Company (VOC).\n\n\"Terra Australis Ignota\" (Latin, \"the unknown land of the south\") was a hypothetical continent appearing on European maps from the 15th to the 18th centuries, with roots in a notion introduced by Aristotle. It was depicted on the mid-16th-century Dieppe maps, where its coastline appeared just south of the islands of the East Indies; it was often elaborately charted, with a wealth of fictitious detail. The discoveries reduced the area where the continent could be found; however, many cartographers held to Aristotle's opinion, like Gerardus Mercator (1569) and Alexander Dalrymple even so late as 1767 argued for its existence, with such arguments as that there should be a large landmass in the Southern Hemisphere as a counterweight to the known landmasses in the Northern Hemisphere. As new lands were discovered, they were often assumed to be parts of this hypothetical continent.\n\nJuan Fernandez, sailing from Chile in 1576, claimed he had discovered the Southern Continent. Luis Váez de Torres, a Galician navigator working for the Spanish Crown, proved the existence of a passage south of New Guinea, now known as Torres Strait. Pedro Fernandes de Queirós, a Portuguese navigator sailing for the Spanish Crown, saw a large island south of New Guinea in 1606, which he named La Australia del Espiritu Santo. He represented this to the King of Spain as the Terra Australis incognita. In fact, it was not Australia but an island in present-day Vanuatu.\n\nDutch navigator and colonial governor, Willem Janszoon sailed from the Netherlands for the East Indies for the third time on December 18, 1603, as captain of the \"Duyfken\" (or \"Duijfken\", meaning \"Little Dove\"), one of twelve ships of the great fleet of Steven van der Hagen. Once in the Indies, Janszoon was sent to search for other outlets of trade, particularly in \"the great land of Nova Guinea and other East and Southlands.\" On November 18, 1605, the \"Duyfken\" sailed from Bantam to the coast of western New Guinea. Janszoon then crossed the eastern end of the Arafura Sea, without seeing the Torres Strait, into the Gulf of Carpentaria. On February 26, 1606, he made landfall at the Pennefather River on the western shore of Cape York in Queensland, near the modern town of Weipa. This is the first recorded European landfall on the Australian continent. Janszoon proceeded to chart some of the coastline, which he thought was a southerly extension of New Guinea. In 1615, Jacob le Maire and Willem Schouten's rounding of Cape Horn proved that Tierra del Fuego was a relatively small island.\n\nIn 1642–1644 Abel Tasman, also a Dutch explorer and merchant in the service of the VOC, circumnavigated New Holland proving that Australia was not part of the mythical southern continent. He was the first known European expedition to reach the islands of Van Diemen's Land (now Tasmania) and New Zealand and to sight the Fiji islands, which he did in 1643. Tasman, his navigator Visscher, and his merchant Gilsemans also mapped substantial portions of Australia, New Zealand and the Pacific Islands.\n\nIn the mid-16th century the Tsardom of Russia conquered the Tatar khanates of Kazan and Astrakhan, thus annexing the entire Volga Region and opening the way to the Ural Mountains. The colonization of the new easternmost lands of Russia and further onslaught eastward was led by the rich merchants Stroganovs. Tsar Ivan IV granted vast estates near the Urals as well as tax privileges to Anikey Stroganov, who organized large scale migration to these lands. Stroganovs developed farming, hunting, saltworks, fishing, and ore mining on the Urals and established trade with Siberian tribes.\n\nAround 1577, Semyon Stroganov and other sons of Anikey Stroganov hired a Cossack leader called Yermak to protect their lands from the attacks of Siberian Khan Kuchum. By 1580 Stroganovs and Yermak came up with the idea of the military expedition to Siberia, in order to fight Kuchum in his own land. In 1581 Yermak began his voyage into the depths of Siberia. After a few victories over the khan's army, Yermak's people defeated the main forces of Kuchum on Irtysh River in a 3-day Battle of Chuvash Cape in 1582. The remains of the khan's army retreated to the steppes, and thus Yermak captured the Siberia Khanate, including its capital Qashliq near modern Tobolsk. Kuchum still was strong and suddenly attacked Yermak in 1585 in the dead of night, killing most of his people. Yermak was wounded and tried to swim across the Wagay River (Irtysh's tributary), but drowned under the weight of his own chain mail. The Cossacks had to withdraw from Siberia completely, but thanks to Yermak's having explored all the main river routes in West Siberia, Russians successfully reclaimed all his conquests just several years later.\nIn the early 17th century the eastward movement of Russians was slowed by the internal problems in the country during the Time of Troubles. However, very soon the exploration and colonization of the huge territories of Siberia was resumed, led mostly by Cossacks hunting for valuable furs and ivory. While Cossacks came from the Southern Urals, another wave of Russians came by the Arctic Ocean. These were Pomors from the Russian North, who already had been making fur trade with Mangazeya in the north of the Western Siberia for quite a long time. In 1607 the settlement of Turukhansk was founded on the northern Yenisei River, near the mouth of Lower Tunguska, and in 1619 Yeniseysky ostrog was founded on the mid-Yenisei at the mouth of the Upper Tunguska.\n\nBetween 1620 and 1624 a group of fur hunters led by Demid Pyanda left Turukhansk and explored some of the Lower Tunguska, wintering in the proximity of the Vilyuy and Lena rivers. According to later legendary accounts (folktales collected a century after the fact), Pyanda discovered the Lena River. He allegedly explored some of its length, reaching as far as central Yakutia. He returned up the Lena until it became too rocky and shallow, and portaged to the Angara River. In this way, Pyanda may have become the first Russian to meet Yakuts and Buryats. He built new boats and explored some of the Angara, finally reaching Yeniseysk and discovering that the Angara (a Buryat name) and Upper Tunguska (Verkhnyaya Tunguska, as initially known by Russians) are one and the same river.\n\nIn 1627 Pyotr Beketov was appointed Yenisei voevoda in Siberia. He successfully carried out the voyage to collect taxes from Zabaykalye Buryats, becoming the first Russian to step in Buryatia. He founded the first Russian settlement there, Rybinsky ostrog. Beketov was sent to the Lena River in 1631, where in 1632 he founded Yakutsk and sent his Cossacks to explore the Aldan and farther down the Lena, to found new fortresses, and to collect taxes.\n\nYakutsk soon turned into a major starting point for further Russian expeditions eastward, southward and northward. Maksim Perfilyev, who earlier had been one of the founders of Yeniseysk, founded Bratsky ostrog on the Angara in 1631, and in 1638 he became the first Russian to step into Transbaikalia, travelling there from Yakutsk.\nIn 1643 Kurbat Ivanov led a group of Cossacks from Yakutsk to the south of the Baikal Mountains and discovered Lake Baikal, visiting its Olkhon Island. Later Ivanov made the first chart and description of Baikal.\n\nIn 1639 a group of explorers led by Ivan Moskvitin became the first Russians to reach the Pacific Ocean and to discover the Sea of Okhotsk, having built a winter camp on its shore at the Ulya River mouth. The Cossacks learned from the locals about the large Amur River far to the south. In 1640 they apparently sailed south, explored the south-eastern shores of the Okhotsk Sea, perhaps reaching the mouth of the Amur River and possibly discovering the Shantar Islands on their way back. Based on Moskvitin's account, Kurbat Ivanov drew the first Russian map of the Far East in 1642.\n\nIn 1643, Vasily Poyarkov crossed the Stanovoy Range and reached the upper Zeya River in the country of the Daurs, who were paying tribute to the Manchu Chinese. After wintering, in 1644 Poyarkov pushed down the Zeya and became the first Russian to reach the Amur River. He sailed down the Amur and finally discovered the mouth of that great river from land. Since his Cossacks provoked the enmity of the locals behind, Poyarkov chose a different way back. They built boats and in 1645 sailed along the Sea of Okhotsk coast to the Ulya River and spent the next winter in the huts that had been built by Ivan Moskvitin six years earlier. In 1646 they returned to Yakutsk.\nIn 1644 Mikhail Stadukhin discovered the Kolyma River and founded Srednekolymsk. A merchant named Fedot Alekseyev Popov organized a further expedition eastward, and Semyon Dezhnyov became a captain of one of the kochi. In 1648 they sailed from Srednekolymsk down to the Arctic and after some time they rounded Cape Dezhnyov, thus becoming the first explorers to pass through the Bering Strait and to discover Chukotka and the Bering Sea. All their kochi and most of their men (including Popov himself) were lost in storms and clashes with the natives. A small group led by Dezhnyov reached the mouth of the Anadyr River and sailed up it in 1649, having built new boats from the wreckage. They founded Anadyrsk and were stranded there, until Stadukhin found them, coming from Kolyma by land. Subsequently, Stadukhin set off south in 1651 and discovered Penzhin Bay on the northern coast of the Okhotsk Sea. He also may have explored the western shores of Kamchatka.\n\nIn 1649–50 Yerofey Khabarov became the second Russian to explore the Amur River. Through Olyokma, Tungur and Shilka Rivers he reached Amur (Dauria), returned to Yakutsk and then back to Amur with a larger force in 1650–53. This time he was met with armed resistance. He built winter quarters at Albazin, then sailed down Amur and found Achansk, which preceded the present-day Khabarovsk, defeating or evading large armies of Daurian Manchu Chinese and Koreans on his way. He charted the Amur in his \"Draft of the Amur river\". Subsequently, Russians held on to the Amur Region until 1689, when by the Treaty of Nerchinsk this land was assigned to Chinese Empire (it was returned, however, by the Treaty of Aigun in 1858).\n\nIn 1659–65 Kurbat Ivanov was the next head of Anadyrsky ostrog after Semyon Dezhnyov. In 1660 he sailed from Anadyr Bay to Cape Dezhnyov. Atop his earlier pioneering charts, Ivanov is credited with creation of the early map of Chukotka and Bering Strait, which was the first to show on paper (very schematically) the yet undiscovered Wrangel Island, both Diomede Islands and Alaska, based on the data collected from the natives of Chukotka.\n\nSo, by the mid-17th century, Russians established the borders of their country close to modern ones, and explored almost the whole of Siberia, except the eastern Kamchatka and some regions north of the Arctic Circle. The conquest of Kamchatka later would be achieved in the early 1700s by Vladimir Atlasov, while the discovery of the Arctic coastline and Alaska would be completed by the Great Northern Expedition in 1733–1743.\n\nEuropean overseas expansion led to the contact between the Old and New Worlds producing the Columbian Exchange, named after Columbus. It involved the transfer of goods unique to one hemisphere to another. Europeans brought cattle, horses, and sheep to the New World, and from the New World Europeans received tobacco, potatoes and maize. Other items becoming important in global trade were the sugarcane and cotton crops of the Americas, and the gold and silver brought from the Americas not only to Europe but elsewhere in the Old World.\n\nThe new trans-oceanic links and their domination by the European powers led to the Age of Imperialism, where European colonial powers came to control most of the planet. The European appetite for trade, commodities, empire and slaves greatly affected many other areas of the world. Spain participated in the destruction of aggressive empires in the Americas, only to substitute its own, and forcibly replaced the original religions. The pattern of territorial aggression was repeated by other European empires, most notably the Dutch, Russian, French and British. Christianity replaced older \"pagan\" rituals, as were new languages, political and sexual cultures, and in some areas like North America, Australia, New Zealand and Argentina, the indigenous peoples were abused and driven off most of their lands, being reduced to small, dependent minorities.\n\nSimilarly, in coastal Africa, local states supplied the appetite of European slave traders, changing the complexion of coastal African states and fundamentally altering the nature of African slavery, causing impacts on societies and economies deep inland. (See Atlantic slave trade).\n\nAboriginal peoples were living in North America at this time and still do today. There were many conflicts between Europeans and Natives. The Europeans had many advantages over the natives. They gave them diseases that they had not been exposed to before and this wiped out 50–90% of their population. (See Population history of indigenous peoples of the Americas.)\n\nMaize and manioc were introduced into Africa in the 16th century by the Portuguese. They are now important staple foods, replacing native African crops. Alfred W. Crosby speculated that increased production of maize, manioc, and other New World crops led to heavier concentrations of population in the areas from which slavers captured their victims.\n\nIn the 16th-century economy of China, the Ming Dynasty was stimulated by trade with the Portuguese, Spanish, and Dutch. China became involved in a new global trade of goods, plants, animals, and food crops known as the Columbian Exchange. Trade with European powers and the Japanese brought in massive amounts of silver, which then replaced copper and paper banknotes as the common medium of exchange in China. During the last decades of the Ming the flow of silver into China was greatly diminished, thereby undermining state revenues and indeed the entire Ming economy. This damage to the economy was compounded by the effects on agriculture of the incipient Little Ice Age, natural calamities, crop failure, and sudden epidemics. The ensuing breakdown of authority and people's livelihoods allowed rebel leaders such as Li Zicheng to challenge Ming authority.\n\nNew crops that had come to Asia from the Americas via the Spanish colonizers in the 16th century contributed to the Asia's population growth. Although the bulk of imports to China were silver, the Chinese also purchased New World crops from the Spanish Empire. This included sweet potatoes, maize, and peanuts, foods that could be cultivated in lands where traditional Chinese staple crops—wheat, millet, and rice—could not grow, hence facilitating a rise in the population of China. In the Song Dynasty (960–1279), rice had become the major staple crop of the poor; after sweet potatoes were introduced to China around 1560, it gradually became the traditional food of the lower classes.\n\nThe arrival of the Portuguese to Japan in 1543 initiated the Nanban trade period, with the Japanese adopting several technologies and cultural practices, like the arquebus, European-style cuirasses, European ships, Christianity, decorative art, and language. After the Chinese had banned direct trade by Chinese merchants with Japan, the Portuguese filled this commercial vacuum as intermediaries between China and Japan. The Portuguese bought Chinese silk and sold it to the Japanese in return for Japanese-mined silver; since silver was more highly valued in China, the Portuguese could then use Japanese silver to buy even larger stocks of Chinese silk. However, by 1573—after the Spanish established a trading base in Manila—the Portuguese intermediary trade was trumped by the prime source of incoming silver to China from the Spanish Americas.\n\nItalian Jesuit Matteo Ricci (1552–1610) was the first European allowed into the Forbidden City. He taught the Chinese how to construct and play the spinet, translated Chinese texts into Latin and vice versa, and worked closely with his Chinese associate Xu Guangqi (1562–1633) on mathematical work.\n\nAs a wider variety of global luxury commodities entered the European markets by sea, previous European markets for luxury goods stagnated. The Atlantic trade largely supplanted pre-existing Italian and German trading powers which had relied on their Baltic, Russian and Islamic trade links. The new commodities also caused social change, as sugar, spices, silks and chinawares entered the luxury markets of Europe.\n\nThe European economic centre shifted from the Mediterranean to Western Europe. The city of Antwerp, part of the Duchy of Brabant, became \"the centre of the \"entire\" international economy\", and the richest city in Europe at this time. Centred in Antwerp first and then in Amsterdam, \"Dutch Golden Age\" was tightly linked to the Age of Discovery. Francesco Guicciardini, a Venetian envoy, stated that hundreds of ships would pass Antwerp in a day, and 2,000 carts entered the city each week. Portuguese ships laden with pepper and cinnamon would unload their cargo. With many foreign merchants resident in the city and governed by an oligarchy of banker-aristocrats forbidden to engage in trade, the economy of Antwerp was foreigner-controlled, which made the city very international, with merchants and traders from Venice, Ragusa, Spain and Portugal and a policy of toleration, which attracted a large Orthodox Jewish community. The city experienced three booms during its golden age, the first based on the pepper market, a second launched by New World silver coming from Seville (ending with the bankruptcy of Spain in 1557), and a third boom, after the Treaty of Cateau-Cambresis, in 1559, based on the textiles industry.\n\nDespite initial hostilities, by 1549 the Portuguese were sending annual trade missions to Shangchuan Island in China. In 1557 they managed to convince the Ming court to agree on a legal port treaty that would establish Macau as an official Portuguese trade colony. The Portuguese friar Gaspar da Cruz (c. 1520 February 5, 1570) wrote the first complete book on China and the Ming Dynasty that was published in Europe; it included information on its geography, provinces, royalty, official class, bureaucracy, shipping, architecture, farming, craftsmanship, merchant affairs, clothing, religious and social customs, music and instruments, writing, education, and justice.\nFrom China the major exports were silk and porcelain, adapted to meet European tastes. The Chinese export porcelains were held in such great esteem in Europe that, in English, \"china\" became a commonly–used synonym for \"porcelain\". Kraak porcelain (believed to be named after the Portuguese carracks in which it was transported) was among the first Chinese ware to arrive in Europe in mass quantities. Only the richest could afford these early imports, and Kraak often featured in Dutch still life paintings. Soon the Dutch East India Company established a lively trade with the East, having imported 6 million porcelain items from China to Europe between the years 1602 to 1682. The Chinese workmanship impressed many. Between 1575 and 1587 Medici porcelain from Florence was the first successful attempt to imitate Chinese porcelain. Although Dutch potters did not immediately imitate Chinese porcelain, they began to do it when the supply to Europe was interrupted, after the death of Wanli Emperor in 1620. Kraak, mainly the blue and white porcelain, was imitated all over the world by potters in Arita, Japan and Persia—where Dutch merchants turned when the fall of the Ming Dynasty rendered Chinese originals unavailable—and ultimately in Delftware. Dutch and later English Delftware inspired by Chinese designs persisted from about 1630 to the mid-18th century alongside European patterns.\n\nAntonio de Morga (1559–1636), a Spanish official in Manila, listed an extensive inventory of goods that were traded by Ming China at the turn of the 16th to 17th century, noting there were \"rarities which, did I refer to them all, I would never finish, nor have sufficient paper for it\". After noting the variety of silk goods traded to Europeans, Ebrey writes of the considerable size of commercial transactions: In one case a galleon to the Spanish territories in the New World carried over 50,000 pairs of silk stockings. In return China imported mostly silver from Peruvian and Mexican mines, transported via Manila. Chinese merchants were active in these trading ventures, and many emigrated to such places as the Philippines and Borneo to take advantage of the new commercial opportunities.\n\nThe increase in gold and silver experienced by Spain coincided with a major inflationary cycle both within Spain and Europe, known as the price revolution. Spain had amassed large quantities of gold and silver from the New World. In the 1520s large scale extraction of silver from Mexico's Guanajuato began. With the opening of the silver mines in Zacatecas and Bolivia's Potosí in 1546 large shipments of silver became the fabled source of wealth. During the 16th century, Spain held the equivalent of US$1.5 trillion (1990 terms) in gold and silver from New Spain. Being the most powerful European monarch at a time full of war and religious conflicts, the Habsburg rulers spent the wealth in wars and arts across Europe. \"I learnt a proverb here\", said a French traveller in 1603: \"Everything is dear in Spain except silver\". The spent silver, suddenly spread throughout a previously cash-starved Europe, caused widespread inflation. The inflation was worsened by a growing population with a static production level, low salaries and a rising cost of living, which damaged local industry. Increasingly, Spain became dependent on the revenues flowing in from the mercantile empire in the Americas, leading to Spain's first bankruptcy in 1557 due to rising military costs. Phillip II of Spain defaulted on debt payments in 1557, 1560, 1575 and 1596. The increase in prices as a result of currency circulation fuelled the growth of the commercial middle class in Europe, the \"bourgeoisie\", which came to influence the politics and culture of many countries.\n\nOne effect of the inflation, particularly in Great Britain, was that tenant farmers who held long term leases from lords saw real decreases in rent. Some lords opted to sell their leased land, giving rise to small land-owing farmers such as yeoman and gentlemen farmers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38819300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38819300", "title": "Ambrose Channel pilot cable", "text": "Ambrose Channel pilot cable\n\nThe Ambrose Channel pilot cable, also called the Ambrose Channel leader cable, was a cable laid in Ambrose Channel at the entrance to the Port of New York and New Jersey that provided an audio tone for guiding ships in and out of port at times of low visibility. The cable was laid during 1919 and 1920; it had been removed from the channel and replaced by wireless technology by the end of the 1920s.\nAmbrose Channel is the only shipping channel in and out of the Port of New York and New Jersey, an important commercial port. Delays posed a major problem for shipping en route to New York City, and bad weather could close the channel for days. Ships were forced to wait at the harbor's entrance for conditions to clear. These delays cost shipping companies substantial amounts of money, with each ship costing between $500 and $4000 per hour it was stopped (roughly $5,700 to $46,000 in 2013 dollars).\n\nThe Ambrose leader cable was an armored cable with a single internal conductor (see picture) that acted like a long radio antenna laid on the channel floor. It originated at Fort Lafayette (near the present day Verrazano-Narrows Bridge), then extended 16 miles down the Ambrose Channel to the vicinity of Lightship Ambrose offshore. It was powered by a generator at Fort Lafayette that produced 500 Hz (cycles per second) current at 400 volts, resulting in an alternating electromagnetic field along the length of the cable that could be detected to approximately a thousand yards away. The current was mechanically keyed to send the word \"NAVY\" in Morse Code.\n\nA ship received by a pair of induction coils hung on opposite sides of the ship, and fed through an amplifier into a headset (see diagram, below). By switching between coils, the relative strength of the signal on each side could be compared. The ship maintained a course parallel to the cable by maneuvering to keep the signal strength constant.\n\nThe pilot cable required a series of prior discoveries and inventions. In 1882, A. R. Sennett patented the use of a submerged electrical cable to communicate with a ship at a fixed location. Around the same time Charles Stevenson patented a means of navigating ships over an electrically charge cable using a galvanometer. The method became practical when Earl Hanson adapted early vacuum tube circuits to amplify the signal.\n\nRobert H. Marriott was a radio pioneer employed by the Navy in Puget Sound, where he conducted early experiments with underwater pilot cables. His results were sufficiently promising that he recommended further development to Commander Stanford C. Hooper. In October, 1919 Commander Hooper instructed A. Crossley, an expert radio aid, to develop and test the concept on a larger scale at the New London Naval Base. Crossley installed a longer version of the cable that Marriott had designed. He used a wooden hulled launch for the first round of tests before moving to a steel-hulled submarine for later tests. Both types of vessel picked up the signal and followed the underwater test cable without problem.\n\nFollowing the successful tests at New London, the Navy proceeded to large scale testing in Ambrose Channel late in 1919. The minelayer \"Ord\" laid a pilot cable composed of 2,000 feet of leaded and armored cable, 2,000 feet of leaded cable, and 83,000 feet of standard rubber-insulated cable. The USS \"O'Brien\" was fitted with receiving equipment and attempted to follow the cable out of the channel. Unfortunately, it was unable to detect a signal past the 1,000 foot mark, where a break in the cable had prevented the signal from continuing. The break in the cable was repaired, but over the course of the winter of 1919-1920, crews found that the cable had broken in a total of fifty-two different places due to the strain placed on it while it was being laid. The damage was irreparable. Going back to the drawing board, engineers tested 150-foot segments of three different types of cable and used the results to design a new full-size pilot cable. The Navy ordered 87,000 feet of cable from the Simplex Wire and Cable Company in Boston.\n\nOnce complete, the cable was loaded onto the USS \"Pequot\" in the Boston Navy Yard. The ship arrived in New York on July 31, 1920. Ambrose Channel was already crossed by three telegraph cables, owned by Western Union, the Army, and the police, all of which had to be raised to the surface so the pilot cable could be laid underneath them. The installation of the cable was completed on August 6, 1920, and by August 28, electrical tests showed that both the sending and receiving circuits were functioning properly. The Navy tested the cable using the seagoing tug USS \"Algorma\". It then invited \"representatives of various radio companies, shipping interests, pilots' associations, governmental bureaus, naval attaches, and others\" for a public demonstration on board the destroyer USS \"Semmes\" from October 6 through October 9. The ship's windows were covered with canvas and the captains took turns navigating using only the audio cues from the cable.\n\nThe cable was well received. Even before the New London tests, the Washington Post called it \"the greatest development in marine travel since the invention of the steam turbine\" and the Los Angeles Times declared the technology to be \"one of the greatest peacetime gifts that science has devised.\" Once operational, the latter newspaper called it \"the greatest safeguard devised for shipping in modern history\". According to a 1921 trade magazine, leader cables had five functions: \"to enable a ship to make a good landfall in thick weather, to lead a ship up the harbor, to lead a ship from open water through a restricted channel to open water on the far side, to give warning of outlying dangers, and to assist a vessel to keep a straight course from port to port and thus save fuel.\"\nIn 1922, the publication \"Radio World\" stated that the cable's first two years of operation had been successful. Also in 1922, \"Radio Broadcast\" boasted about the money saved by the cable as well as the ease of using it. The cable itself was paid for using public funds, but it was the responsibility of ship owners to outfit their vessels with receiving equipment. Installation of the cable cost roughly $50,000 and the listening apparatus installed on each ship using the channel cost $1,200, compared with hourly costs of delays that ranged from $500 to $4,000. \"Radio Broadcast\" expressed the belief that navigation cables would become common for both ships and aircraft: \"...there is a future for the audio cable... Its fullest usefulness at American ports and elsewhere waits, however, on that large appreciation of radio devices for sea as well as air navigation which pilots, both on the sea and in the air, expect, but do not as yet demand.\"\n\nDespite the media hype, it appears that the Ambrose Channel pilot cable never met with large scale commercial success. Initially, some contemporaries of the cable proposed that it be extended several miles past the Ambrose light. Such plans never came to fruition, as advances in technology rendered the pilot cable obsolete. By 1929 the \"Baltimore Sun\" reported ships navigating the Channel blindly without making any reference to the cable. In that year, Marriott publicly complained that navigation cables still had unrealized potential for guiding ships. \n\nLeader cable systems appear to have been made obsolete by the refinement of radio direction finding and the placement of radio beacons (low-power radio transmitters) at strategic locations. Those beacons are analogous to lighthouses, but can be \"seen\" in all weather, and are used for navigation in the same way as regular lighthouses. The first successful application of these radio beacons as \"radio fog signals\" were three stations installed near New York in 1921. In 1924, there were eleven stations in operation in the United States and nearly three hundred ships suitably equipped. By 1930, an article in the \"Journal of the Royal Society of Arts\" declared that \"wireless aids and echo sounding have superseded [the leader cable]\". Today, more modern navigation tools such as radar, GPS, and lighted buoys help ships navigate Ambrose Channel.\n\nEarl Hanson, one of the key players in designing the Ambrose Channel cable, writing for \"Popular Mechanics,\" viewed it as a step toward applying radio cable technology in vast swaths of everyday life, including guiding aircraft and navigating and powering automobiles. The Ambrose Channel cable was removed from the channel and used in testing an early system of autolanding. The cable found no more success in that role than it did in guiding ships. The Blind Landing Experimental Unit later tried a similar system briefly before also abandoning it in favor of wireless.\n\nNotes\nCited sources\n\n"}
{"id": "34425520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34425520", "title": "Botanical garden of Upper Brittany", "text": "Botanical garden of Upper Brittany\n\nThe Botanical garden of Upper Brittany (French: Jardin botanique de Haute-Bretagne) is a private estate, open to the public, with an area of 25 hectares, located in the Ille-et-Vilaine department of Brittany, near the medieval city of Fougères. The park is part of the estate of \"La Foltière\", where stands the \"Château de la Foltière\", built in 1847.\n\nThe Botanical garden of Upper Brittany is located on the village of Le Châtellier (Ille-et-Vilaine), approximately 10 kilometers from the city of Fougères, between Rennes and the Mont Saint-Michel, near the A84 motorway.\n\n\"Foltiere\" is the name of the estate, which means \"ground where beech trees grow\", the word \"fou\" being ancient french for \"beech tree\".\nThe park was created in 1847, around the Château de la Foltière. In 1796 the old manor house was the headquarters of an uprising against the government of the French Republic led by Count Joseph de Puisaye. In 1820, the Estate of \"La Foltière\" is bought by the family Frontin des Buffards. In 1847, the land surrounding the pond in the park was redesigned as an English romantic landscape garden, with winding paths that follow the terrain, and a view from the lawn in front of the house to the church tower in the village.\n\n \n\nThe botanical park is made up of three parts :\n\nThe first part : Arcadia refers to classical antiquity and the youthfulness of the garden.\n\nThe second part represents maturity and plenitude - construction of the manor house and development and perfection of the gardens. Here is a romantic landscape garden where dreams and exotism are part of everyday life.\n\nThe third part offers a timeless composition which represents the development of the garden, old age and twilight of life.\n\nThe French Ministry of Culture classified the Parc botanique de Haute-Bretagne as a \"Jardin remarquable\", Notable gardens of France.\nThe French Ministry of Tourism allotted to the botanical garden the label « Qualité Tourisme » in 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41588566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41588566", "title": "Bouldergaine", "text": "Bouldergaine\n\nBouldergaine is a variant sport combining the disciplines of bouldering and rogaining.\n\nThe sport takes place in a large boulder field, which is mapped in a similar way to a traditional rogaine. Teams of 2 people choose which checkpoints to visit within a time limit with the intent of maximizing their score. At each checkpoint is at least one extra bonus point station, which requires scrambling or climbing to access. A successful team will require a mixture of fitness, climbing ability and map skills.\n\nThe world's first bouldergaine was held on March 15, 2014 at Kura Tawhiti / Castle Hill in Canterbury, New Zealand. The event was organised by the New Zealand Alpine Club, with over 100 participants.\n"}
{"id": "741729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=741729", "title": "CLLI code", "text": "CLLI code\n\nCLLI code (sometimes referred to as CLLI name or COMMON LANGUAGE Location Identifier Code, and often pronounced as \"silly\") is a Common Language Information Services identifier used within the North American telecommunications industry to specify the location and function of telecommunications equipment or of a relevant location such as an international border or a supporting equipment location, like a manhole or pole. Originally, they were used by Bell Telephone companies, but since all other telecommunications carriers needed to interconnect with the dominant Bell companies, CLLI code adoption eventually became universal. CLLI codes are now maintained and issued by Telcordia, which claims trademarks on the names \"Common Language\" and \"CLLI\".\n\nCLLI codes are useful to telecommunications companies for ordering phone service, for the rating of call detail records for billing purposes, and to assist in tracing calls. CLLI codes are associated with Vertical and Horizontal coordinates (frequently abbreviated to \"V and H coordinates\"), which were developed by AT&T researcher Jay K. Donald to provide a relatively simple method of calculating distance between two network locations. Various mileage-sensitive services are priced according to the V and H coordinates associated with the two endpoints' CLLI codes.\n\nThe first six characters of a CLLI code represent the place the code refers to and contain two code elements:\n\n\nFor the various code formats, the remaining two or five characters contain one of:\n\nThere are four CLLI code formats.\n\nA Network Site code represents any existing or proposed building, structure, or enclosure, where there is a need to uniquely identify one or more network functions. Network Site codes are typically used to identify building locations, such as central office buildings.\n\n\nCLLI codes in the Network Entity format are the most commonly used CLLI codes. Network Entity codes are eleven-character codes used to describe the location and function of network equipment.\n\n\nA Network Support Site code represents any non-building structures or outside plant equipment such as Wireless Access Points, International Boundary Crossing Points, End-Points, Fiber Nodes, Junctions, Manholes, Poles, Base Transceiver Station / Radio Equipment and Repeaters.\n\nThis format contains 6 characters representing location and a 5-character Network Support Site Code element.\n\n\nThe code for a communications satellite is STLT (satellite) EO (earth orbit) Q (radio location) then a four-digit identifier.\n\nA Customer Site code is used to uniquely identify customer locations. These locations are required to identify customers, circuit terminations, facilities, or equipment for each specific customer for facility provisioning or other requirements. This format contains 6 characters representing location and a 5-character Customer Site Code element.\n\n\nEntities within client-owned buildings (such as Centrex installations) are coded in the same format as telephone company buildings.\n\nHSTNTXMOCG0\n\nThis code shows two characteristics: \n\nPTLDOR12DS0\n\nSome telephone companies named their central offices, but did not reflect this name in the CLLI code, as in the above example with a numeric location code.\n\nPTLEORTEDS0\n\nThe item to note in the above example is that Portland is usually abbreviated as \"PTLD\", but because of the relatively small number of possible combinations available in the two-character location code, the city abbreviation must occasionally be modified for locations added later, usually by incrementing the fourth character in the code.\n\nDLLSTXRNDS1\n\nNote that this location is actually in Richardson, Texas, not Dallas. Apparently, the organizational structure of Southwestern Bell Telephone at the time considered Richardson to be within its own Dallas organization, although the cities themselves have always been legally separate.\n\nSWASONXTSG1\n\nNorthernTel's +1-705-642 exchange at 5 Cameron Avenue, Swastika was a throwback to a simpler era in which mechanical stepping switches rotated in response to dial pulses from rotary dial telephones. As a step-by-step exchange offers none of the calling features of an electronic or digital switch, these are becoming increasingly rare as mechanical switching equipment is displaced by electronics. This one held out a little longer than most as it was a small community in formerly independent telco territory, but was ultimately replaced by a digital remote station SWASONXTRSA controlled from Timmins TMNSONXTCG0.\n\nOTWAON080MD\n\nRogers is not a landline incumbent but a rival mobile telephone carrier with a block of 220000 Ottawa numbers. The Iona Street office (OTWAON08) is a co-location facility which hosts a landline exchange (incumbent Bell Canada's OTWAON08 -CG0) and three rival mobile switches (-0MD is Rogers, -3MD is Telus, -AMD is Bell Mobility), one for each major wireless carrier.\n\nSimilar naming conventions apply for CLEC exchanges at a point of interconnection to incumbent carrier networks. The suffix -MD nominally refers to \"miscellaneous other termination entities\".\n\nMALTON22CG1\n\nThe city of Mississauga is a sprawling half-million person suburb directly west of Toronto. It is in Peel Region and therefore in a different local interconnection region, a different area code (905 instead of 416) and different, multiple rate centres (Clarkson, Streetsville, Cooksville, Malton, Port Credit; Bell Canada has no named \"Mississauga\" exchange despite the city's incorporation in 1973).\n\nThis individual exchange, MALTON22CG1, serves multiple rate centres with different local calling areas for each. It is located 1800 metres west of the boundary between Toronto and Mississauga, serving a major international airport (in Mississauga) and that airport's hotel strip (directly across the town line, therefore in Toronto). Callers from Markham would be a local call to the hotels but long-distance to the airport itself, even though both destinations are served by the same physical Digital Multiplex System switch.\n\nThis CLLI code identifies a wire centre (the location of the switch) only. A similar exchange on the other side of the town line (such as TOROON29DS0, located 900 metres east of Toronto's western city limits at 40 Old Burnhamthorpe Road, Etobicoke and serving multiple rate centres) would be issued a Toronto CLLI to reflect the location of the switch itself, but follow the same pattern of a more restrictive calling area for individual subscribers outside city limits. Wire centre CLLI codes therefore do not suffice to identify a rate centre or V/H co-ordinates for toll billing; any +1-416 numbers are billed as if they were in downtown Toronto.\n\nWFISON15RS0\n\nThis is an unattended, automated remote switch housed in a small, square windowless brick building on a side street in Marysville village. It serves about 1400 people on Wolfe and Simcoe Islands in the Thousand Islands.\n\nA Remote Switching Centre (RSC) has limited capability. It can operate autonomously to connect calls within the same exchange, but otherwise relies entirely on control via a single uplink to a host office (in this case, mainland Digital Multiplex System exchange KGTNON08CG0).\n\nAn electronic or digital exchange in a small city surrounded by rural villages most often will act as an upstream host for multiple remote switching centres, one in each local village.\n"}
{"id": "25602514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25602514", "title": "Cartographic expeditions to Greenland", "text": "Cartographic expeditions to Greenland\n\nThis is a list of recognised pioneering expeditions to Greenland that contributed to the cartography of the territory.\n\n"}
{"id": "1251637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1251637", "title": "Community Identification Number", "text": "Community Identification Number\n\nThe Official Municipality Key, formerly also known as the Official Municipality Characteristic Number or Municipality Code Number, is a number sequence for the identification of politically independent municipalities or unincorporated areas. Other classifications for the identification of areas include postal codes, NUTS codes or FIPS codes.\n00923105059929\n\nThe municipality identifier consists of five digits in Austria, which are generated as follows: The designates the number of the Austrian state, the designate the district, and the designate the municipality.\n\n : Rappottenstein\n\n\n\n\n\nSee Code officiel géographique.\n\nIn Germany the Official Municipality Key serves statistical purposes and is issued by the statistics offices of individual German states. The municipality key is to be indicated in instances such as changing residence on the notice of departure or registration documents. This is done at the registration office in every town's city hall.\n\nThe municipality key consists of eight digits, which are generated as follows: The designate the individual German state. The designates the government district (in areas without government districts a zero is used instead). The designate the number of the urban area (in a district-free city) or the district (in a city with districts). The indicate the municipality or the number of the unincorporated area.\n\n : Stuttgart\n\n\n\n\n\nUsually known as the municipal code or , the number comprises nine digits rrppmmbbb, for which rr = region code, pp = province code, code, bbb = barangay code.\n\nFor example, the municipality of Ubay, Bohol has a code of 071246000 meaning region 07 (Central Visayas), province 12 (Bohol), municipality 46 (Ubay) with barangay code of zero signifying \"not at this level.\" Bongbong, one of its constituent barangays, has a code of 071246007.\n\nThe province code is unique and is independent of the region code. All PSGCs, are therefore, unique.\n\nThe Swiss Federal Statistical Office generates code numbers with up to four digits, which are sequentially assigned in accordance with the official order of the cantons, districts, and municipalities.\n\nA kommunkod (municipal code) is a numerical code given to all Swedish municipalities by the Swedish tax authorities. The code consists of four digits, the first two indicating which county the municipality is situated in, and the last two specific for the municipality.\n\nThe code system was introduced with the municipal reform of 1952. There were three different categories of municipalities at the time, which affected the number that they were allocated. Those with stad-status (cities) were given codes ending in 80 to 99, smaller towns (köping) 60 to 79 and rural municipalities 01 to 59. The county seats were allocated codes ending in 80.\n\nAs part of the reform in the early 1970s, the categorization of municipalities was abolished, but the code was in most cases preserved. When several municipalities were merged, the code for the biggest municipality was kept.\n\n"}
{"id": "1195462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1195462", "title": "Environmental studies", "text": "Environmental studies\n\nEnvironmental studies is a multidisciplinary academic field which systematically studies human interaction with the environment in the interests of solving complex problems. Environmental studies brings together the principles of the physical sciences, commerce/economics and social sciences so as to solve contemporary environmental problems. It is a broad field of study that includes the natural environment, the built environment, and the sets of relationships between them. The field encompasses study in basic principles of ecology and environmental science, as well as associated subjects such as ethics, geography, anthropology, policy, politics, urban planning, law, economics, philosophy, sociology and social justice, planning, pollution control and natural resource management. There are also many degree programs in Environmental Studies including the Master of Environmental Studies and the Bachelor of Environmental Studies.\n\nThe New York State College of Forestry at Syracuse University established a BS in environmental studies degree in the 1950s, awarding its first degree in 1956. Middlebury College established the major there in 1965.\n\nThe Environmental Studies Association of Canada (ESAC) was established in 1993 \"to further research and teaching activities in areas related to environmental studies in Canada\". ESAC's magazine, \"\" was first published by Robert A. Paehlke on 4 July 1971.\n\nThe Association for Environmental Studies and Sciences (AESS) was founded in 2008 as the first professional association in the interdisciplinary field of environmental studies in the United States. In 2010, the National Council for Science and the Environment (NCSE) agreed to advise and support the Association. The Association's scholarly journal, the \"Journal of Environmental Studies and Sciences\" (JESS), commenced publication in March 2011.\n\nIn the United States, many high school students are able to take environmental science as a college-level course. Over 500 colleges and universities in the United States offer environmental studies as a degree.\n\n"}
{"id": "11672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11672", "title": "Far East", "text": "Far East\n\nThe Far East is a geographical term in English that usually refers to East Asia (including Northeast Asia), the Russian Far East (part of North Asia), and Southeast Asia. South Asia is sometimes also included for economic and cultural reasons. The term \"Far East\" came into use in European geopolitical discourse in the 12th century, denoting the Far East as the \"farthest\" of the three \"easts\", beyond the Near East and the Middle East. Likewise, in Qing Dynasty of the 19th and early 20th centuries the term \"Tàixī ()\" – i.e. anything further west than the Arab world – was used to refer to the Western countries.\n\nSince the 1960s, East Asia has become the most common term for the region in international mass media outlets.\n\nPrior to the colonial era, \"Far East\" referred to anything further east than the Middle East. In the 16th century, King John III of Portugal called India a \"rich and interesting country in the Far East (\"Extremo Oriente\").\" The term was popularized during the period of the British Empire as a blanket term for lands to the east of British India.\n\nIn pre-World War I European geopolitics, the \"Near East\" referred to the relatively nearby lands of the Ottoman Empire, the \"Middle East\" denoted northwestern South Asia and Central Asia, and the \"Far East\" meant countries along the western Pacific Ocean and eastern Indian Ocean. Many European languages have analogous terms, such as the French ('), Spanish ('), Portuguese ('), German ('), Italian ('), Polish ('), Norwegian (') and Dutch (').\n\nSignificantly, the term evokes cultural as well as geographic separation; the \"Far East\" is not just geographically distant, but also culturally exotic. It never refers, for instance, to the culturally Western nations of Australia and New Zealand, which lie even farther to the east of Europe than East Asia itself. This combination of cultural and geographic subjectivity was well illustrated in 1939 by Robert Menzies, a Prime Minister of Australia. Reflecting on his country's geopolitical concerns with the onset of war, Menzies commented that: \n\n\"Far East\" in its usual sense is comparable to terms such as \"the Orient\", which means East; the \"Eastern world\"; or simply the \"East\". Southeast Asia, the Russian Far East, and occasionally the Indian Subcontinent might be included in the Far East to some extent.\n\nConcerning the term, John K. Fairbank and Edwin O. Reischauer, professors of East Asian Studies at Harvard University, wrote (in \"East Asia: The Great Tradition\"): \"When Europeans traveled far to the east to reach Cathay, Japan and the Indies, they naturally gave those distant regions the general name 'Far East.' Americans who reached China, Japan and Southeast Asia by sail and steam across the Pacific could, with equal logic, have called that area the 'Far West.' For the people who live in that part of the world, however, it is neither 'East' nor 'West' and certainly not 'Far.' A more generally acceptable term for the area is 'East Asia,' which is geographically more precise and does not imply the outdated notion that Europe is the center of the civilized world.\"\n\nToday, the term remains in the names of some longstanding institutions, including the Far Eastern Federal University in Vladivostok, Far Eastern University in Manila, and the Far East University in South Korea. Furthermore, the United Kingdom and United States have historically used \"Far East\" for several military units and commands in the region:\n"}
{"id": "447502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=447502", "title": "Financial district", "text": "Financial district\n\nA financial district is the central area in some large cities where banks, insurance companies and other large corporations have head offices. Financial districts are often home to skyscrapers.\n\nNotable financial districts of the world include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31846623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31846623", "title": "Geo-enable", "text": "Geo-enable\n\nGeo-Enable is a neologism, a portmanteau of Geospatial or Geographic and Enablement. Associated words include Geo-Enablment and Geo-Enabling.\n\nAs a verb it is increasingly used in the fields of Geographic Information System (GIS), Web Development, Mobility, Information Management (IM) and IT. Similar to the terms 'Web-Enabled' or 'GPS-Enabled' - 'Geo-Enable' suggests the application of location or geospatial information as part of business processes or using 'location intelligence' to augment non-spatial information systems and/or Business Intelligence (BI).\n\nGeospatial Enablement can be thought of as the integrated use of Geographic Information, as opposed to using Geographic Information within a geographic and technology-centric environment of something such as a GPS or GIS.\n\nA definition given by GeoEnable Ltd is:\n\n'Geo-Enablement n.:\n1. Embedding and leveraging the power of location and geography within workflows and business processes.\n2. The act of deriving and utilising geography within non-spatial information.\n3. The state of being enabled using location information.' \n\nAnother definition by the US Government is:\n\n'To geo-enable is to apply geospatial capabilities to a business process in order to establish the authoritative spatial location of business data, and enable contextual spatial analysis.' \n\n"}
{"id": "51208627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51208627", "title": "Geographic data and information", "text": "Geographic data and information\n\nGeographic data and information are defined in the ISO/TC 211 series of standards as data and information having an implicit or explicit association with a location relative to the Earth.\n\nIt is also called geospatial data and information, georeferenced data and information, as well as geodata and geoinformation.\n\nApproximately 90% of government sourced data has a location component.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10179411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10179411", "title": "Geographic information retrieval", "text": "Geographic information retrieval\n\nGeographic information retrieval (GIR) or geographical information retrieval is the augmentation of information retrieval with geographic information. GIR aims at solving textual queries that include a geographic dimension, such as \"What wars were fought in Greece?\" or \"restaurants in Beirut\". It is common in GIR to separate the text indexing and analysis from the geographic indexing. Semantic similarity and word-sense disambiguation are important components of GIR. To identify place names, GIR often relies on gazetteers.\n\nGIR involves extracting and resolving the meaning of locations in unstructured text. This is known as Geoparsing. After identifying location references in text, a GIR system must index this information for search and retrieval. GIR systems can commonly be broken down into the following stages: GeoTagging, text and geographic indexing, data storage, geographic relevance ranking (with respect to a geographic query) and browsing results (commonly with a map interface).\n\n\nIn 2005 the Cross-Language Evaluation Forum added a geographic track, GeoCLEF. GeoCLEF was the first TREC style evaluation forum for GIR systems and provided participants a chance to compare systems. \n\n"}
{"id": "160420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=160420", "title": "Juan Rodríguez Cabrillo", "text": "Juan Rodríguez Cabrillo\n\nJuan Rodríguez Cabrillo (1497 – January 3, 1543) was a Spanish explorer born in Palma del Rio, Córdoba, Spain, although he is also claimed by tradition as a native of Portugal. Among other things he was a maritime navigator known for exploring the West Coast of North America on behalf of the Spanish Empire. Cabrillo was the first European to navigate the coast of present-day California. He is best known for his exploration of the coast of California in 1542–1543. Juan Rodríguez Cabrillo served under the command of Pánfilo de Narváez and aided him in the conquest of Cuba about 1518.\n\nCabrillo's nationalityPortuguese or Spanishhas been debated for centuries. He was described as Portuguese by Spanish chronicler Antonio de Herrera y Tordesillas; in his \"Historia General de los hechos de los Castellanos en las Islas y tierra firme del Mar Oceano\", written 60 years after Cabrillo's death, Herrera referred to Cabrillo as \"Juan Rodriguez Cabrillo Português\". Several locations in Portugal claim to be his birthplace (e.g. Lapela (Cabril), Portugal). However, the source for Herrera's description is unknown.\n\nSome historians have long believed that Cabrillo was from Spain, and a set of documents discovered in 2015 gave strength to that opinion. A witness from a 1532 lawsuit, named Juan Rodriguez Cabrillo, testified under oath that he was born in Palma de Micergilio (now Palma del Río), a town in the province of Córdoba in Spain. Other details of the witness's biography match known facts about the explorer. A leader of San Diego's Portuguese community cautioned that the new evidence must be carefully evaluated, and requested that copies of the documents be turned over to the Portuguese government for study.\n\nLapela, in the parish of Cabril and a municipality of Montalegre (Portugal), is the region where allegedly the nickname \"Cabrilha\" originated. It became the surname Cabrilho and was pronounced at the time \"Cabrilhe\" in Galician and \"Cabrillo\" in Spanish, according to the historian João Soares Tavares, biographer of João Rodrigues Cabrilho. The name still exists in Portugal as a surname, and several localities named Cabril in Beira Alta and neighboring regions as Castro Daire, Viseu or Pampilhosa da Serra have been claimed as Cabrillo's birthplace. In Lapela there is an ancient house where local tradition claims he was born. Local people, and alleged local descendants of branches of his ancient family with the same surname (\"Rodrigues Cabrilho\"), call the house \"Casa do Galego\" (\"House of the Galician\") and \"Casa do Americano\" (\"House of the American\").\n\nCabrillo shipped for Havana as a young man and joined forces with Hernán Cortés in Mexico (then called New Spain). Later, his success in mining gold in Guatemala made him one of the richest of the conquistadores in Mexico. According to his biographer Harry Kelsey, he took an indigenous woman as his common-law wife and sired several children, including at least three daughters. Later he married Beatriz Sanchez de Ortega in Seville during a hiatus in Spain. She returned to Guatemala with him and bore him two sons.\n\nCabrillo benefited from the encomienda system that enslaved the Native peoples of the Americas. In Honduras, for example, he broke up families, sending the men to the mines for gold and to the forest to harvest materials he needed for ship building. The women and girls he gave over to his soldiers and sailors, presumably as slaves.\n\nHe accompanied Francisco de Orozco to subdue the indigenous Mixtec people at what would eventually become the city of Oaxaca, in Mexico. Little is known of what Cabrillo did there.\n\nIn 1539, Francisco de Ulloa, who had been commissioned by Cortés, discovered the Gulf of California and reached nearly as far north as the 30th parallel. Cabrillo was then commissioned by the new Viceroy of New Spain, Antonio de Mendoza, to lead an expedition up the Pacific coast in search of trade opportunities, perhaps to find a way to China (for the full extent of the northern Pacific was unknown) or to find the mythical Strait of Anián (or Northwest Passage) connecting the Pacific Ocean with Hudson Bay. Cabrillo built and owned the flagship of his venture (two or three ships), and stood to profit from any trade or treasure.\nIn 1540 the fleet sailed from Acajutla, El Salvador, and reached Navidad, Mexico on Christmas Day. While in Mexico, Pedro de Alvarado went to the assistance of the town of Nochistlán, which was under siege by hostile natives, and was killed when his horse fell on him, crushing his chest. Following Alvarado's death, the viceroy took possession of Alvarado's fleet. Part of the fleet was sent off to the Philippine Islands under Ruy Lopez de Villalobos and two of the ships were sent north under the command of Cabrillo.\n\nOn June 27, 1542, Cabrillo set out from Navidad with three ships: the 200-ton galleon and flagship \"San Salvador\", the smaller \"La Victoria\" (c. 100 tons), and the lateen-rigged, twenty-six oared \"fragata\" or \"bergantin\" \"San Miguel\". On August 1, Cabrillo anchored within sight of Cedros Island. Before the end of the month they had passed Baja Point (named \"Cabo del Engaño\" by de Ulloa in 1539) and entered \"uncharted waters, where no Spanish ships had been before\". On September 28, he landed in what is now San Diego Bay and named it \"San Miguel\". A little over a week later he reached Santa Catalina Island (October 7), which he named \"San Salvador\", after his flagship. On sending a boat to the island \"a great crowd of armed Indians appeared\" — whom, however, they later \"befriended\". Nearby San Clemente Island was named \"Victoria\", in honor of the third ship of the fleet. The next morning, October 8, Cabrillo came to San Pedro Bay, which was named \"Baya de los Fumos\" (English: Smoke Bay). The following day they anchored overnight in Santa Monica Bay. Going up the coast Cabrillo saw Anacapa Island, which they learned from the Indians was uninhabited. The fleet spent the next week in the islands, mostly anchored in Cuyler Harbor, a bay on the northeastern coast of San Miguel Island. On October 18 the expedition saw Point Conception, which they named \"Cabo de Galera\".\n\nCabrillo's expedition recorded the names of numerous Chumash villages on the California coast and adjacent islands in October 1542 — then located in the two warring provinces of \"Xexo\" (ruled by an \"old woman\", now Santa Barbara County, California) and \"Xucu\" (now Ventura County, California).\n\nOn November 13 they sighted and named \"Cabo de Piños\" (possibly either Point Pinos or Point Reyes), but missed the entrance to San Francisco Bay, a lapse that mariners would repeat for the next two centuries and more. The expedition reached as far north as the Russian River before autumn storms forced them to turn back. Coming back down the coast, Cabrillo entered Monterey Bay, naming it \"Bahia de Los Piños\".\n\nOn November 23, 1542, the little fleet arrived back in \"San Salvador\" (Santa Catalina Island) to overwinter and make repairs. There, around Christmas Eve, Cabrillo stepped out of his boat and splintered his shin when he stumbled onto a jagged rock while trying to rescue some of his men from attacking Tongva warriors. The injury became infected and developed gangrene, and he died on January 3, 1543 and was buried. A possible headstone was later found on San Miguel Island. His second-in-command brought the remainder of the party back to Navidad, where they arrived April 14, 1543.\n\nA notary's official report of Cabrillo's expedition was lost; all that survives is a summary of it made by another investigator, Andrés de Urdaneta, who also had access to ships' logs and charts. No printed account of Cabrillo's voyage appeared before historian Antonio de Herrera's account early in the 17th century.\n\nHis discoveries went largely unnoticed at the time, so none of his place names were permanently adopted. Despite this, Cabrillo is now remembered as the first European to travel the California coast, and many parks, schools, buildings and streets in California bear his name.\n\nMost notably, the National Park Service operates Cabrillo National Monument, overlooking the bay and ocean from Point Loma in San Diego, commemorating his first landing in California and offering views of San Diego and the Pacific Ocean. The monument features a larger-than-life statue of Cabrillo, donated by the government of Portugal, as well as a plaque honoring him donated in 1935 by the Portuguese ambassador to the United States. A museum in the park focuses on Cabrillo and his voyages of discovery. Every September Cabrillo Festival Inc. hosts the Cabrillo Festival, an annual three-day celebration of his discovery of San Diego Bay, including a re-enactment of his landing at Ballast Point.\n\nAnother Cabrillo Monument is located on San Miguel Island.\n\nIn the state of California, September 28 is officially \"Cabrillo Day\".\n\nA civic organization of Portuguese-Americans primarily in California is called the Cabrillo Club.\n\nIn northern California, the Point Cabrillo Light is named after him. San Pedro, part of the city of Los Angeles, has Cabrillo Beach and the Cabrillo Marine Aquarium.\n\nSchools named for him include Cabrillo College in Aptos, California, high schools in Lompoc and Long Beach, and several middle and elementary schools.\n\nThe portion of California State Route 1 that runs from Las Cruces in Santa Barbara County north to San Francisco is called the Cabrillo Highway. The Cabrillo Bridge and Cabrillo Freeway (California State Route 163) running through San Diego's Balboa Park are also named for him. There are streets named for him in many cities in California.\n\nThe SS \"Cabrillo\" was a wooden steamer launched in 1914 to serve as a ferry across the San Pedro Channel to Santa Catalina Island. It was later requisitioned by the United States Army and served as a troop transport in northern California during World War II.\n\nIn 1992, the United States Postal Service issued a 29¢ stamp in honor of Cabrillo.\n\nThe Maritime Museum of San Diego, in partnership with Cabrillo National Monument, has built a full-sized, fully functional, and historically accurate replica of Juan Rodriquez Cabrillo’s flagship, \"San Salvador\". The construction of the replica was based on historical and archeological research into early Spanish and Portuguese shipbuilding techniques.\n\nThe construction was carried out in full public view on the shores of San Diego Bay by professional boat builders, assisted by scores of volunteers. Her keel was laid in April 2011; her first official public unveiling was in September 2015 when she led a parade of tall ships. The replica ship now sails on regular tours in the waters of the Southern California coast as an educational historical resource.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18584787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18584787", "title": "Land information system", "text": "Land information system\n\nA land Information System (LIS) is a geographic information system for cadastral and land-use mapping, typically used by local governments.\n\nA LIS consists of an accurate, current and reliable land record cadastre and its associated attribute and spatial data that represent the legal boundaries of land tenure and provides a vital base layer capable of integration into other geographic systems or as a standalone solution that allows data stewards to retrieve, create, update, store, view, analyze and publish land information.\n\n"}
{"id": "38262946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38262946", "title": "Land systems", "text": "Land systems\n\nLand systems constitute the terrestrial component of the Earth system and encompass all processes and activities related to the human use of land, including socioeconomic, technological and organizational investments and arrangements, as well as the benefits gained from land and the unintended social and ecological outcomes of societal activities. Changes in land systems have large consequences for the local environment and human well-being and are at the same time pervasive factors of global environmental change. Land provides vital resources to society, such as food, fuel, fibres and many other ecosystem services that support production functions, regulate risks of natural hazards, or provide cultural and spiritual services. By using the land, society alters and modifies the quantity and quality of the provision of these services.\n\nLand system changes are the direct result of human decision making at multiple scales ranging from local land owners decisions to national scale land use planning and global trade agreements. The aggregate impact of many local land system changes has far reaching consequences for the Earth System, that feedback on ecosystem services, human well-being and decision making. As a consequence, land system change is both a cause and consequence of socio-ecological processes.\n\nThe Global Land Programme (GLP) of Future Earth is an interdisciplinary community of science and practice fostering the study of land systems and the co-design of solutions for global sustainability.\n"}
{"id": "1034969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1034969", "title": "Levelling", "text": "Levelling\n\nLevelling (British English) or leveling (American English); is a branch of surveying, the object of which is to establish or verify or measure the height of specified points relative to a datum. It is widely used in cartography to measure geodetic height, and in construction to measure height differences of construction artifacts.\n\nOptical levelling employs an optical level,which consists of a precision telescope with crosshairs and Stadia marks. The cross hairs are used to establish the level point on the target, and the stadia allow range-finding; stadia are usually at ratios of 100:1, in which case one metre between the stadia marks on the levelling staff represents 100 metres from the target.\nThe complete unit is normally mounted on a tripod, and the telescope can freely rotate 360° in a horizontal plane. The surveyor adjusts the instrument's level by coarse adjustment of the tripod legs and fine adjustment using three precision levelling screws on the instrument to make the rotational plane horizontal. The surveyor does this with the use of a bull's eye level built into the instrument mount.\nThe surveyor looks through the eyepiece of telescope while an assistant holds a vertical level staff which is a graduated in inches or centimeters. The level staff is placed with its foot on the point for which the level measurement is required. The telescope is rotated and focused until the level staff is plainly visible in the crosshairs. In the case of a high accuracy manual level, the fine level adjustment is made by an altitude screw, using a high accuracy bubble level fixed to the telescope. This can be viewed by a mirror whilst adjusting or the ends of the bubble can be displayed within the telescope, which also allows assurance of the accurate level of the telescope whilst the sight is being taken. However, in the case of an automatic level, altitude adjustment is done automatically by a suspended prism due to gravity, as long as the coarse levelling is accurate within certain limits. When level, the staff graduation reading at the crosshairs is recorded, and an identifying mark or marker placed where the level staff rested on the object or position being surveyed.\n\nA typical procedure for a linear track of levels from a known datum is as follows. Set up the instrument within of a point of known or assumed elevation. A rod or staff is held vertical on that point and the instrument is used manually or automatically to read the rod scale. This gives the height of the instrument above the starting (backsight) point and allows the height of the instrument (H.I.) above the datum to be computed.\nThe rod is then held on an unknown point and a reading is taken in the same manner, allowing the elevation of the new (foresight) point to be computed. The procedure is repeated until the destination point is reached. It is usual practice to perform either a complete loop back to the starting point or else close the traverse on a second point whose elevation is already known. The closure check guards against blunders in the operation, and allows residual error to be distributed in the most likely manner among the stations.\n\nSome instruments provide three crosshairs which allow stadia measurement of the foresight and backsight distances. These also allow use of the average of the three readings (3-wire leveling) as a check against blunders and for averaging out the error of interpolation between marks on the rod scale.\n\nThe two main types of levelling are single-levelling as already described, and double-levelling (Double-rodding). In double-levelling, a surveyor takes two foresights and two backsights and makes sure the difference between the foresights and the difference between the backsights are equal, thereby reducing the amount of error. Double-levelling costs twice as much as single-levelling.\n\nWhen using an optical level, the endpoint may be out of the effective range of the instrument. There may be obstructions or large changes of elevation between the endpoints. In these situations, extra setups are needed. Turning is a term used when referring to moving the level to take an elevation shot from a different location.\n\nTo \"turn\" the level, one must first take a reading and record the elevation of the point the rod is located on. While the rod is being kept in exactly the same location, the level is moved to a new location where the rod is still visible. A reading is taken from the new location of the level and the height difference is used to find the new elevation of the level gun. This is repeated until the series of measurements is completed.\n\nThe level must be horizontal to get a valid measurement. Because of this, if the horizontal crosshair of the instrument is lower than the base of the rod, the surveyor will not be able to sight the rod and get a reading. The rod can usually be raised up to 25 feet high, allowing the level to be set much higher than the base of the rod.\n\nThe curvature of the earth means that a line of sight that is horizontal at the instrument will be higher and higher above a spheroid at greater distances. The effect may be significant for some work at distances under 100 meters.\n\nThe line of sight is horizontal at the instrument, but is not a straight line because of refraction in the air. The change of air density with elevation causes the line of sight to bend toward the earth.\n\nThe combined correction for refraction and curvature is approximately: \nFor precise work these effects need to be calculated and corrections applied. For most work it is sufficient to keep the foresight and backsight distances approximately equal so that the refraction and curvature effects cancel out. Refraction is generally the greatest source of error in leveling. For short level lines the effects of temperature and pressure are generally insignificant, but the effect of the temperature gradient \"dT / dh\" can lead to errors.\n\nAssuming error-free measurements, if the Earth's gravity field were completely regular and gravity constant, leveling loops would always close precisely:\n\naround a loop. In the real gravity field of the Earth, this happens only approximately; on small loops typical of engineering projects, the loop closure is negligible, but on larger loops covering regions or continents it is not.\n\nInstead of height differences, \"geopotential differences\" do close around loops:\n\nwhere formula_5 stands for gravity at the leveling interval \"i\". For precise leveling networks on a national scale, the latter formula should always be used.\n\nshould be used in all computations, producing geopotential values formula_7 for the benchmarks of the network.\n\n The wye level is the oldest and bulkiest of the older style optical instruments. A low-powered telescope is placed in a pair of clamp mounts, and the instrument then leveled using a spirit level, which is mounted parallel to the main telescope.\n\nThe dumpy level was developed by English civil engineer William Gravatt, while surveying the route of a proposed railway line from London to Dover. More compact and hence both more robust and easier to transport, it is commonly believed that dumpy levelling is less accurate than other types of levelling, but such is not the case. Dumpy levelling requires shorter and therefore more numerous sights, but this fault is compensated by the practice of making foresights and backsights equal.\n\nPrecise level designs were often used for large leveling projects where utmost accuracy was required. They differ from other levels in having a very precise spirit level tube and a micrometer adjustment to raise or lower the line of sight so that the crosshair can be made to coincide with a line on the rod scale and no interpolation is required.\n\nAutomatic levels make use of a compensator that ensures that the line of sight remains horizontal once the operator has roughly leveled the instrument (to within maybe 0.05 degree). The surveyor sets the instrument up quickly and doesn't have to relevel it carefully each time he sights on a rod on another point. It also reduces the effect of minor settling of the tripod to the actual amount of motion instead of leveraging the tilt over the sight distance. Three level screws are used to level the instrument.\n\nLaser levels project a beam which is visible and/or detectable by a sensor on the leveling rod. This style is widely used in construction work but not for more precise control work. An advantage is that one person can perform the levelling independently, whereas other types require one person at the instrument and one holding the rod.\n\nThe sensor can be mounted on earth-moving machinery to allow automated grading.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1750893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1750893", "title": "List of Commonwealth visits made by Elizabeth II", "text": "List of Commonwealth visits made by Elizabeth II\n\nQueen Elizabeth II became Head of the Commonwealth upon the death of her father, King George VI, on 6 February 1952. Since then, she has toured the Commonwealth of Nations and their territories and dependencies widely. She has visited all except Cameroon and Rwanda, two of the most recent members.\n\nTours of the British Islands are excluded from the list below.\n\n"}
{"id": "265595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=265595", "title": "List of IATA-indexed railway stations", "text": "List of IATA-indexed railway stations\n\nThis is a list of IATA-indexed railway stations, which are assigned codes by the IATA, similar to IATA airport codes. Such railway stations are typically used in air-rail alliances or code sharing agreements (commonly known as \"Rail Fly\") between airlines and rail lines, particularly in Europe. By assigning railway stations an IATA code, passengers on trips involving those stations can be ticketed all the way. Sometimes they can get checked straight through to their final destination, without the bother of having to claim their baggage and check-in again when changing between the rail and air portions of a trip. At other places passengers have to carry their baggage on the train, but anyway need no separate train booking process.\n\nRail lines at airports include:\n\n\n\n\n\n(AIRail Service with Deutsche Bahn).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe IATA codes for railway stations normally begin with Q, X or Z, except when the station shares the code with an airport. For some smaller cities the railway station in the city has the same code as the airport outside the city (several kilometers distance). A connection involving transfer between them can appear when searching travel possibilities. A taxi ride, a train, or a bus transfer is usually needed then.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31258121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31258121", "title": "List of international presidential trips made by Benigno Aquino III", "text": "List of international presidential trips made by Benigno Aquino III\n\nThis is a list of foreign presidential trips made by Benigno Aquino III, the 15th President of the Philippines. During his presidency, which began with his inauguration on June 30, 2010 and ended on June 30, 2016, Benigno Aquino III made 40 international trips to 24 countries internationally, including Vatican City. Aquino said he limited his foreign trips in order to focus on domestic issues. The number of visits per country where he travelled are:\n\nIn 2010, President Aquino made 3 official visits.\n\nPresident Aquino attended the 65th United Nations General Assembly and met with US President Barack Obama and leaders of several business sectors in New York City and San Francisco, California. The President talked at the UNGA regarding the status of the Philippine efforts to achieve the UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). He also met with members of the Filipino-American communities in both cities.\n\nPresident Aquino flew to Hanoi for a two-day State Visit following the personal invitation of Vietnamese President Nguyen Minh Triet. The President met with the Vietnamese President for bilateral talks, Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung and with General Secretary of the Communist Party Nong Duc Manh. The visit of the President further strengthened the bilateral ties between the two countries which have grown for the past 34 years. President Aquino also met with the Filipino community living and working in Vietnam who are mostly in higher positions such as managerial and supervisory. After his State Visit, the President participated at the 17th ASEAN Summit and Related Meetings where Vietnam was the current chair. On the sidelines of the summit, the President also had several bilateral meetings with neighboring countries such as Japan, Myanmar, South Korea, and Thailand among others.\n\nPresident Aquino participated at the 18th Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Economic Leaders' Meeting (AELM) in Yokohama, Japan. With the theme \"Change and Action\", this year's APEC Summit focuses on Regional Economic Integration, Growth Strategy, Human Security and Economic and Technical Cooperation. The President hold a bilateral meetings with the other Heads of State attending the summit. President Aquino already met with Prime Minister Naoto Kan during the ASEAN Summit in Hanoi, Vietnam last month, as the government of Japan approved a 21.4 billion peso Official Development Assistance (ODA) to fund major infrastructure projects in the Philippines.\n\nIn 2011, President Aquino made 11 official visits.\n\nPresident Aquino embarks on his first state visit to the Republic of Indonesia. He met with Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono and was accorded ceremonial honors befitting a Head of State, such as an official welcome ceremony at the Istana Merdeka (Presidential Palace) and a state banquet at the Istana Negara (State Palace). The President's visit comes at an opportune time as both the Philippines and Indonesia enjoy strong bilateral relations for more than sixty years, marked by frequent exchange of visits by the Heads of State and high-level officials. President Aquino is on a three-day state visit to Singapore, after coming from Indonesia, to likewise strengthen bilateral and regional ties with fellow Association of Southeast Asian Nations member nations. He called on Singaporean President S.R. Nathan and met Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong to discuss government's Public-Private Partnership (PPP) initiatives and various issues of bilateral and regional concern. The President also served as keynote speaker in the Singapore Business Forum/International Enterprise Singapore Eminent Leaders Lecture entitled \"Philippines-Partnership for Progress\" and the Ho Rih Hwa Leadership in Asia Public Lecture Series at the Singapore Management University. He also met members of the Filipino community and toured the Changi Water Reclamation Plant. At the Singapore Botanic Gardens, a new orchid breed was named after the visiting President as part of courtesies.\n\nPresident Aquino returned to Indonesia to attend the 18th ASEAN Leaders' Meeting. With the theme \"Towards an ASEAN Community in a Global Community of Nations,\" the agenda focuses on a people-centered ASEAN: A Caring and Sharing Community adopted during the 12th ASEAN summit that was held in the Philippines last 2006. Some of the topics that will be discussed by the ten (10) member countries include the enhancement of sub-regional cooperation and narrowing its development gap, the critical role of Private-Public Partnership (PPP) and the ASEAN single window in which the Philippines will maximize the opportunities provided by the ASEAN economic integration through the free trade areas (FTAs). The meeting will also expedite the expansion of the East Asian Summit and other priority concerns such as maritime security, transnational crime, human rights and democracy.\n\nPresident Aquino undertook his first official visit to the Kingdom of Thailand to meet with Thai Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva. The Chief Executive was accorded with ceremonial honors befitting a head of state like an official welcome ceremony at the Government House in Dusit, Bangkok. The Philippines and Thailand celebrated 62 years of bilateral relations on June 14 and the visit is expected to further strengthen the mutual ties between the two countries. It will also enhance Thai investments in the Philippines as well as boost Filipino companies present in Bangkok. The President was given an \"honoris causa\" degree in Economics by Kasetsart University, the first agricultural university and the third oldest university in Thailand. President Aquino met with the Filipino community in Bangkok.\n\nPresident Aquino conducts a two-day state visit to Brunei Darussalam, following his successful trip to Thailand, to further strengthen bilateral relations with the Sultanate. The President will be received by His Royal Highness The Crown Prince Al-Muhtadee Billah upon his arrival at Bandar Seri Begawan International Airport, and will be given welcoming honors at Istana Nurul Iman, where he will be introduced to the Royal Family and the Grand Chamberlain. The President is also set to have an audience with His Majesty Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah. President Aquino met with some Bruneian businessmen and with the Filipino community here. He will also visit the New Philippine Embassy Chancery, where he will unveil the commemorative marker as part of the inaugural activities.\n\nPresident Aquino held a one-on-one meeting with MILF chairman Al Haj Murad Ibrahim and met other Filipino Muslim rebel groups, discussing peace process in Mindanao.\n\nPresident Aquino embarked on a four-day state visit to the People's Republic of China. The visit was upon the invitation of President Hu Jintao, aimed to strengthen bilateral relations and to promote a people-centered partnership between the Philippines and China. President Aquino first visited Beijing, where he met with President Hu, Chairman Wu Bangguo and Premier Wen Jiabao. He also had a series of meetings with businessmen and witnessed the signing of several Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) in the areas of trade, investments, media, culture, education and tourism. In Shanghai, President Aquino convened with the civic officials led by the Secretary of Communist Party of China (CPC) Shanghai Municipal Committee, Yu Zhengsheng. He spoke before Yangtze River Delta Economic Zone officials and other business enterprise managers in a high-level forum. The President also welcomed possible trade investments during his meeting with various Filipino and Chinese businessmen based in Shanghai. On the last leg of his state visit, President Aquino went to Xiamen, Fujian, where he met with local officials before visiting Hongjian Village, the ancestral seat of the Cojuangco Family. There, he offered incense at the ancestral temple and interacted with some of his distant relatives.\n\nPresident Aquino heads to New York and Washington DC for a Working Visit to the United States of America. In New York, President Aquino participated in the launching of the Open Government Partnership (OGP) upon the invitation of United States President Barack Obama. OGP is a new multilateral initiative that aims to secure concrete commitments from governments to promote transparency, empower citizens, fight corruption and harness new technologies to strengthen governance. The Philippines is one of 2 Asian countries that is part of the 8-country steering committee of the OGP. The President hold several business meetings in New York and lead the ringing of the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange. In Washington DC, President Aquino delivered a public lecture at the 2011 Annual Meetings of the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund, as well as meet with United States Senator Daniel Inouye and the Filipino Community from the District of Columbia (DC), Virginia and Maryland. At a recent press briefing, the President said that \"the drives we have already been achieving in the Philippines are already being highlighted by World Bank.\"\n\nPresident Aquino embarks on his second official visit to Japan to further strengthen diplomatic ties and elevate trade and economic relations, as well as socio-cultural, with one of the country's most cordial and dynamic partners in the region. The President's visit is set to focus on the promotion of the Philippines to investors, discussions on the use of nuclear energy and political-security issues, particularly the territorial disputes in the South China Sea, and other things of interests to both countries. President Aquino gave a keynote speech on the Philippine Economic Forum to inform the Japanese business community of investment opportunities and the renewed business climate under his administration. President Aquino's engagement includes a state call on Emperor Akihito and a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda. He thanked Japan for its continuing assistance to the Philippines and wants to return the favour when he visits the Ishinomaki City in Miyagi. President Aquino met with top business leaders in Japan, members of the Filipino community, high-level officials of the Japan-Philippines Economic Cooperation Committee (JPECC), International Friendship Exchange Council, and Japan Ship-owners' Association is also included among his official activities.\n\nPresident Aquino participates at the APEC Summit in Honolulu.\n\nPresident Aquino participates at the 19th ASEAN Summit in Bali.\n\nIn 2012, President Aquino made 9 official visits.\n\nPresident Aquino participated at the 20th Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Summit and the Celebration of the 45th Anniversary of ASEAN in Phnom Penh. He joined with other leaders of ASEAN member-countries in the discussions, where North Korea's planned long-range missile launch will most likely to be discussed, as well as other issues of mutual concerns. The President had a coffee meeting with the Philippine media covering the summit on April 3 and met the Filipino community in Cambodia on his third day of visit here.\n\nPresident Aquino had a bilateral meeting with British Prime Minister David Cameron when he visited London. Both leaders discussed Philippines-U.K political and economic cooperation, the U.K's participation in the International Contact Group, regional and international issues, and anti-corruption and good governance practices of both the Philippine and U.K governments. The President also met HRH The Prince Andrew, Duke of York. U.S President Barack Obama welcomed President Aquino to the White House. The Philippines is a long-standing friend and ally of the United States, both President looks forward to discussing the close strategic, economic and people to people ties between the two countries, and cooperation in the Asia-Pacific region. The two leaders will also discuss ways to deepen bilateral cooperation.\n\nPresident Aquino attended the APEC Russia 2012 in Vladivostok.\n\nPresident Aquino attended the wedding of the daughter of Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah, Princess Hajah Hafizah Sururul Bolkiah.\n\nPresident Aquino embarks on a state visit to New Zealand and Australia, the President held a meeting with Prime Minister John Key, Governor-General Quentin Bryce and Prime Minister Julia Gillard.\n\nPresident Aquino attended the 10th ASEAN-Europe Meeting (ASEM) in Vientiane.\n\nPresident Aquino attended the 21st ASEAN Summit in Phnom Penh.\n\nIn 2013, President Aquino made 7 official visits.\n\nPresident Aquino attended the 2013 World Economic Forum in Davos.\n\nPresident Aquino attended the 22nd ASEAN Summit in Bandar Seri Begawan.\n\nPresident Aquino attended the World Economic Forum on East Asia in Naypyidaw.\n\nPresident Aquino attended the APEC Indonesia 2013 in Bali, the 23rd ASEAN Summit and the 8th East Asia Summit in Bandar Seri Begawan.\n\nState visit, the President met with President Park Geun-hye.\n\nPresident Aquino attended the 40th ASEAN-Japan Commemorative Summit in Tokyo.\n\nIn 2014, President Aquino made 13 official visits.\n\nState visit, meeting with Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak focusing on the Comprehensive Agreement on the Bangsamoro. He also attended the Business Opportunities Forum.\n\nPresident Aquino attended the 24th ASEAN Summit in Naypyidaw.\n\nOn June 24, 2014, President Aquino undertook a one-day working visit to Japan that cost ₱8.8 million. He first traveled to Tokyo to meet with Prime Minister Shinzō Abe at his official residence for a summit meeting, working lunch, and a joint press conference. During their 45-minute meeting, President Aquino and Prime Minister Abe discussed ways to strengthen their nations' strategic cooperation with the intensifying tensions over the territorial disputes in the South China Sea, where the Prime Minister had agreed to urge the reinterpretation of Article 9 of the Japanese Constitution which would allow the Japan Self-Defense Forces to assist in defending Japan's allies, to which the President expressed support. He later traveled to Hiroshima to address the \"Consolidation for Peace for Mindanao\" conference organized by the Japan International Cooperation Agency and the Research and Education for Peace council from the Universiti Sains Malaysia. The conference expressed Japan's support over the peace process with Bangsamoro. In his address, President Aquino thanked Japan for their support and associated the peace process with the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki that occurred during World War II nearly seventy years prior. After addressing the conference, the President visited the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park, where he laid a wreath at the Memorial Cenotaph and toured the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum, before departing for Manila later that evening.\n\nOn his European trip, President Aquino traveled to Madrid (September 14–15), Brussels (September 15–17), Paris (September 17–19), and Berlin (September 19–20) to enhance bilateral and economic cooperation between the Philippines and the countries of the said cities. After his European trip, President Aquino traveled across the Atlantic Ocean to the United States for a working visit in Boston (September 20–22), New York City (September 22–24), and San Francisco (September 24), where he also attended the United Nations Climate Summit in New York upon the invitation of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and U.S. President Barack Obama.\n\nOn Sunday, September 14, President Aquino and his delegation arrived at Torrejón Air Base in Madrid at approximately 7:22 am CEST. He met with former Prime Minister José María Aznar, witnessed the signing of a memorandum of understanding for the Madrid Fusión-Manila gastronomic event to be held in Manila in April 2015, and laid a wreath at a local monument honoring José Rizal, replicating the Rizal Monument in Manila. He also addressed the Filipino community in Spain at the Colegio Nuestra Señora de las Maravillas. After, President Aquino held a series of business meetings with seven Spanish firms, namely Acciona, Abengoa, Indra Sistemas, , Grupo ACS, , and Calidad Pascual. Finally, President Aquino addressed the Networking with the Philippine Business Delegation event, where he urged investment in the Philippines.\nOn Monday, September 15, President Aquino met with Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy at to discuss bilateral economic cooperation with the economic growth of both their countries. During their bilateral meeting, President Aquino informed Prime Minister Rajoy of the situations regarding the territorial disputes in the South China Sea, urging support over the Philippines' proposed Triple Action Plan, and thanked the Prime Minister for Spain's provision of aid to the victims of Super Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda), the Zamboanga City crisis, and the 2013 Bohol earthquake. The two heads of government also discussed efforts to cease illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and a bilateral air transport agreement to allow non-stop flights between the two countries. President Aquino then headed to the Palace of Zarzuela to meet with King Felipe VI. At around noon, President Aquino and his delegation headed to Torrejón Air Base to depart Madrid for Brussels, arriving in Brussels at around 2:05 pm CEST. After arriving, President Aquino visited the Berlaymont building, the headquarters of the European Commission, to meet with European Commission President José Manuel Barroso and seek support from the European Union to peacefully resolve the territorial disputes in the South China Sea. The two presidents also discussed the Philippines' cooperation with the European Commission's Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries to \"prevent, deter and eliminate\" illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. Later that afternoon, President Aquino met with King Philippe at the Royal Palace of Brussels. President Aquino thanked King Philippe for Belgium's support in the rehabilitation of the damage caused by Super Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) and their support over the Bangsamoro peace process. In the evening, President Aquino met with around 800 members of the Filipino communities in Belgium and Luxembourg at the Cathedral of St. Michael and St. Gudula.\n\nOn Tuesday, September 16, President Aquino met with European Council President Herman Van Rompuy to discuss the cooperation between the Philippines and the European Union with the signing of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, the Bangsamoro peace process, the Maritime Security Strategy, and the European Union's contributions to resolving the territorial disputes in the South China Sea. After their meeting, President Aquino met with Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo at the Prime Minister's official residence in Rue de la Loi, where the two heads of government discussed trade relations. In the afternoon, President Aquino participated at a conference organized by the Philippine Department of Trade and Industry in association with Eurochambres and Friends of Europe, aimed at urging Belgian businesses to invest in the Philippines' public-private partnership programs. He later held a series of business meetings with officials from Royal Dutch Shell, HSBC, and Asia House. In the evening, President Aquino headed to the Château of Val-Duchesse to meet with the Egmont Institute. Upon arriving at the chateau, the President's convoy was greeted by protesters from Migrante Europe and other Filipino human rights organizations, who demand his resignation after \"four years of massive corruption, blatant subservience to US imperialist dictates and brutal leadership,\" according to Migrante Europe chairman Garry Martinez. Upon meeting with the Egmont Institute, the President delivered a speech on addressing local and global issues through international cooperation.\nOn Wednesday, September 17, President Aquino and his delegation departed Brussels and arrived at Paris Orly Airport at around 10:05 am CEST. President Aquino's visit to France, the first of a Philippine President since President Fidel V. Ramos's visit in 1994, was aimed to \"reap economic, political and cultural gains\" to enhance bilateral cooperation between the two countries, according to French Ambassador Gilles Garachon. After arriving, the President attended a wreath laying ceremony with military honors at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier under the Arc de Triomphe. President Aquino then headed to the Élysée Palace to meet with President François Hollande. During their bilateral meeting, the two presidents discussed ways to enhance bilateral cooperation and efforts to alleviate climate change. President Hollande also expressed his support to resolve the territorial disputes in the South China Sea. The two presidents later witnessed the signing of bilateral agreements on air services, education, and cultural ties, before participating in a working lunch and a joint press conference. After his meeting with President Hollande, President Aquino held business meetings with executives from Airbus, Schneider Electric, and Teleperformance. He later met with Prime Minister Manuel Valls at Hôtel Matignon to discuss the Filipino community in France and their contributions to the French economy. In the evening, the President met with and addressed the Filipino community in France at Chapelle Sainte Bernadette.\n\nOn Thursday, September 18, President Aquino participated in the Philippines–France Business Leaders' Roundtable, where he met with 20 Filipino and French business executives to discuss ways to improve bilateral trade and investment, as well as to promote business opportunities for both countries. After, the President addressed the Philippine Business Opportunities Forum at the InterContinental Paris Le Grand Hotel. In his speech, he urged French businesses to invest in the Philippines, saying that the current state of the Philippine economy has been appreciated as a \"renaissance\" from an economy that was \"kept in the darkness of apathy and hopelessness by an administration motivated only by self-service, as opposed to public service.\" At the hotel, the President also met with officials from the Ayala Corporation, Alstom–Bouygues, and the Egis Group to discuss their expansion plans in the Philippines, having worked on the South Extension of the Manila Light Rail Transit System Line 1. President Aquino later toured the European Headquarters of Dassault Systèmes in Vélizy-Villacoublay. In the evening, President Aquino addressed a forum organized by the Institut français des relations internationales. The President also toured the Louvre later that evening.\nOn Friday, September 19, President Aquino and his delegation departed Paris for Berlin, the last stop of his European trip before heading to the United States. He arrived at Berlin Tegel Airport at around 10:45 am CEST. From there, the President traveled to the German Chancellery to meet with Chancellor Angela Merkel, where he was given military honors. During their meeting, Chancellor Merkel agreed to support the Philippines in resolving the territorial disputes in the South China Sea upon President Aquino's request. They also witnessed the signing of bilateral agreements on social security, skills training, and trade, which was followed by a working lunch and a joint press statement. After, President Aquino headed to the Bellevue Palace to meet with President Joachim Gauck. Later that afternoon, President Aquino met with officials from SAP SE, before addressing a policy forum organized by and the Asia-Pacific Committee of German Business. He later witnessed the signing of a health care agreement between the Ayala Corporation and Siemens and met with officials from Knauf, Investor AB, Saab Group, and Stihl, as well as former Federal Minister of Economic Affairs and Energy Michael Glos. In the evening, the President met with the Filipino community in Germany.\n\nOn Saturday, September 20, President Aquino visited the Philippine embassy in Berlin, where he was awarded a Freedom Medal from the Friedrich Naumann Foundation for \"his successful reforms in the areas of education, anti-corruption and rule of law.\" Before departing Berlin for the United States, the President toured the Berlin Hauptbahnhof and the Berlin Wall. President Aquino and his delegation departed Berlin Tegel Airport at around 6:30 pm CEST, ending his week-long European trip with $2.3 billion worth of investment pledges to the Philippines from 19 European-based companies. He arrived at the Logan International Airport in Boston at approximately 8:33 pm EDT, beginning his four-day working visit to the United States. It marked the President's first visit to Boston since the assassination of his father, former Senator Benigno Aquino, Jr., in 1983 upon returning from exile in Boston.\n\nOn Sunday, September 21, President Aquino first met with family friends for a private lunch. In the afternoon, he visited Boston College where he celebrated Mass at the college's Parish of St. Ignatius of Loyola and attended a convocation with the local Filipino-American community. In his speech, the President updated the community on improvements made in the Philippines regarding the economy, education, and liability of officials, among others. He also recalled moments from his family's three-year exile in Boston, which he calls his \"formative years\".\n\nOn Monday, September 22, President Aquino dined with Representative Joseph P. Kennedy III at a local pizzeria in Newton. The President then visited his former neighborhood in Chestnut Hill, where he visited his former residence, met with its current owner, as well as former neighbors. Later that afternoon, President Aquino was interviewed by radio journalist Jeremy Hobson on his program \"Here and Now\" on WBUR-FM, where he was asked on his response to climate change, ahead of the United Nations Climate Summit, and the threat of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. In the evening, President Aquino delivered a policy speech at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, where he discussed how the school's teachings shaped the skills of many Filipino politicians in his administration, including several members of his Cabinet, to work towards redeveloping the Philippines from the effects of former President Ferdinand Marcos's administration with the declaration of martial law to the administration of his predecessor Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, saying: \"Like JFK, Ninoy, and Cory, each one has the capacity to dream, to die, to live, to fight, to stand for something, to ask 'why not' when the challenges seem insurmountable. Thus can we transform the world for the better.\" After his speech, President Aquino and his delegation departed Boston for New York City, arriving at the Newark Liberty International Airport at approximately 8:27 pm EDT, where he was greeted by Philippine Ambassador to the United Nations Libran N. Cabactulan.\n\nOn the morning of Tuesday, September 23, President Aquino headed to the United Nations Headquarters to participate in the United Nations Climate Summit. In his four-minute speech, the President urged the international community to assist the Philippines, a major victim to the effects of climate change being frequently visited by typhoons, in combating climate change through funding and the provision of technology, saying: \"We [the Philippines] have never lacked in resolve. What we lack is the access to technology, financing, and investment that would allow us to accelerate our strategy.\" Following the summit, President Aquino participated in a round table discussion with business executives from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the US-ASEAN Business Council, and the US-Philippines Society to discuss economic expansion and investment in the Philippines. Later that day, President Aquino participated in the World Leaders Forum at the Low Memorial Library of Columbia University, where he delivered a speech and answered questions from the audience. In his speech, the President spoke on the importance of reforms to address challenges faced constantly by the Philippines. While answering an audience member's question, President Aquino was interrupted by at least three protesters who demanded a response from the President regarding alleged acts of impunity in the Philippines and corruption over Typhoon Haiyan aid. President Aquino refused to respond and Columbia University President Lee Bollinger apologized over the incident.\n\nOn the last day of his trip, Wednesday, September 24, President Aquino and his delegation departed Newark and traveled across the United States for a brief visit to San Francisco, the last stop of his working visit to the United States. He arrived at San Francisco International Airport at approximately 9:38 am PDT. In San Francisco, President Aquino held business meetings with senior officials from Caesars Entertainment Corporation, International Development, and Wells Fargo. Outside the Wells Fargo headquarters on Haight Street, President Aquino was met by protesters from Filipino-American communities in California, the largest of Filipino-American communities in the United States, who were disappointed by the President's decision to decline their invitation and prioritize business meetings, instead of meeting with the community. President Aquino and his delegation departed San Francisco for Manila at around 4:40 pm PDT, ending his 10-day trip to Europe and the United States.\n\nPresident Aquino attended the 7th Bali Democracy Forum in Nusa Dua, Bali. He, along with Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, co-chaired the forum aimed at reinforcing democracy in the region. On the sidelines of the forum, President Aquino was awarded the Bintang Republik Indonesia Adipurna (\"Star of the Republic of Indonesia\") by President Yudhoyono, the highest award honored by the Government of Indonesia, becoming the first Filipino to receive such award.\n\nPresident Aquino traveled to Beijing to attend the 26th APEC Summit (November 9–11) and Naypyidaw to attend the 25th ASEAN Summit and the Ninth East Asia Summit (November 11–13). The summit meetings were a chance for President Aquino to share the Philippines' plans to contribute to economic integration and regional growth, as well as the country's eagerness to tackle global issues, including human trafficking and pollution. The government spent ₱24 million on the trip.\n\nOn Sunday, November 9, President Aquino arrived at the Beijing Capital International Airport at around 1:20 pm CST. In Beijing, he first headed to the China National Convention Center to attend the APEC CEO Summit, where he addressed business leaders on the economic growth of the Philippines through economic reforms and innovation. He also emphasized the country's transition from being called the \"Sick Man of Asia\" to \"Asia's Rising Tiger\". He then met with Vietnamese President Trương Tấn Sang at the Philippine embassy in Beijing, where the two presidents developed an agenda for a strategic partnership that would improve economic and social ties. In the evening, the President met with Moody's Corporation CEO Raymond W. McDaniel Jr., where they discussed efforts on preventing the Ebola virus epidemic from reaching the Philippines and rehabilitation efforts on Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda). The President also met with executives from Sanofi and Johnson & Johnson. \n\nOn Monday, November 10, President Aquino returned to the Philippine embassy in Beijing to hold a series of bilateral meetings with Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper, Thai Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha, New Zealand Prime Minister John Key, and Papuan Prime Minister Peter O'Neill. With Prime Minister Harper, the two heads of government discussed rehabilitation efforts on Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) and the Philippines' status in Canada's Global Markets Action Plan. With Prime Minister Prayut, the two heads of government discussed strengthening economic ties between the Philippines and Thailand, particularly on supporting small and medium-sized enterprises and local farmers. With Prime Minister Key, the two heads of government discussed rehabilitation efforts on Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) and the expansion of air routes between New Zealand and the Philippines. The President also thanked the Prime Minister for New Zealand's support for the peace process with Bangsamoro. With Prime Minister O'Neill, the two heads of government discussed the enhancement of cooperation between Papua New Guinea and the Philippines on trade, investment, health services, and agriculture. In the afternoon, President Aquino attended the APEC Business Advisory Council. In the evening, the President joined the other APEC leaders in attending the APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting Welcome Dinner at the Beijing National Aquatics Center, hosted by Chinese President Xi Jinping and First Lady Peng Liyuan. For the occasion, the President and the other APEC leaders wore a modified version of the Mao suit, as part of the APEC tradition of the leaders wearing the host nation's traditional outfit.\n\nOn the morning of Tuesday, November 11, President Aquino and the other APEC leaders participated in the APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting Retreat at the International Conference Center in , where he was given the chance to share the Philippines' views on advancing economic integration to promote economic growth, infrastructure development, and innovation, among others. After, the APEC leaders participated in a tree planting ceremony at the Summer Garden, outside the International Conference Center. After the ceremony, President Aquino met briefly with President Xi for a ten-minute discussion regarding the territorial disputes in the South China Sea, in which both presidents agreed to resolve the disputes in \"constructive ways\". In the afternoon, President Aquino and the other APEC leaders participated in the second session of the meeting, before attending a working lunch. In the evening, President Aquino departed Beijing and arrived at the Naypyidaw International Airport in Myanmar at around 11:05 pm MST.\n\nOn Wednesday, November 12, President Aquino first attended the opening ceremony of the 25th ASEAN Summit, before attending the plenary session at around 10:15 am MST, where the President was given the chance to share his views on political security and sociocultural development in the region. During the session, President Aquino also urged the finalization of a code of conduct to resolve the territorial disputes in the South China Sea. In the afternoon, President Aquino and the other ASEAN leaders participated in a series of summits with the leaders of neighboring nations to further enhance cooperation between ASEAN and the said neighboring nations, beginning with the 12th ASEAN–India Summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, followed by the 17th ASEAN–Japan Summit with Prime Minister Shinzō Abe, and concluding with the 40th ASEAN–Australia Commemorative Summit with Prime Minister Tony Abbott. In between, the ASEAN leaders also attended the 6th ASEAN–United Nations Summit with Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, where the Secretary-General urged ASEAN leaders to renew their commitment to addressing issues regarding peace and security. In the evening, the ASEAN leaders attended a gala dinner hosted by President Thein Sein and First Lady Khin Khin Win. \n\nOn Thursday, November 13, President Aquino attended the Ninth East Asia Summit Plenary Session, where the President was given the chance to share his views on issues regarding peace and stability, climate change, and the spread of pandemic diseases, as well as ways to further enhance Asia-Pacific economic integration. President Aquino and the other ASEAN leaders later participated in the 2nd ASEAN–United States Summit with President Barack Obama, aimed at enhancing cooperation between ASEAN and the United States to maintain regional peace and stability. After, the ASEAN leaders participated in the 17th ASEAN–China Summit with Premier Li Keqiang, where discussions focused on reinforcing ASEAN–China relations despite the ongoing territorial disputes in the South China Sea between China and a number of ASEAN nations. President Aquino then met with Indian Prime Minister Modi, where the two presidents discussed mutual interests on the ASEAN–India Free Trade Agreement and the information technology and business process management sectors, as well as India's support over a peaceful resolution on the South China Sea territorial disputes. Later that afternoon, the ASEAN leaders joined Chinese Premier Li, Japanese Prime Minister Abe, and South Korean President Park Geun-hye at the 17th ASEAN Plus Three Summit to discuss enhancing the cooperation between ASEAN and China, Japan, and South Korea. The ASEAN leaders also attended ASEAN Leaders' Meeting with ASEAN Business Advisory Council, an opportunity for ASEAN nations to be given feedback from the council and guidance to achieve economic integration. In the evening, the ASEAN leaders attended the closing ceremony of the 25th ASEAN Summit. President Aquino then headed to the Naypyidaw International Airport, where he was greeted by Overseas Filipinos in Myanmar before departing for Manila. He departed Naypyidaw at around 8:30 pm MST.\n\nPresident Aquino traveled to Singapore for a two-day working visit that cost ₱11.6 million. He arrived at Changi Airport at 11:28 am SST. After arriving, President Aquino headed to the Istana to meet with Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong and President Tony Tan Keng Yam, the latter of whom hosted a luncheon for President Aquino. In the evening, President Aquino attended \"The Economist\"'s \"The World in 2015\" Gala Dinner as a keynote speaker. During his interview with executive editor Daniel Franklin regarding his predictions for the following year, the President discussed his domestic and foreign policies, his recent meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping, the Philippines' interest in joining the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and the Philippine government's efforts in re-establishing damaged areas caused by Super Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda). The following day, President Aquino met with business executives at a roundtable discussion organized by the Philippine Trade and Investment Center and the Singapore Business Federation, where he urged executives to invest in the Philippines, citing a 6.3 percent growth in GDP from 2010 to 2014 as a form of conviction. He also met with executives from the SIA Engineering Company, Temasek Holdings, Keppel Corporation, and GIC Private Limited. In the afternoon, the President dined at a Jollibee branch at Lucky Plaza, where he was met by a crowd of Filipinos, before departing Singapore for Manila at around 3:10 pm SST.\n\nPresident Aquino traveled to South Korea to attend the two-day 25th ASEAN–Republic of Korea Commemorative Summit in Busan. He initially canceled the trip in order to assist his country from the effects of Typhoon Hagupit (Ruby), but later decided to push through with the trip after being satisfied with the government's efforts and would instead monitor the situation from Busan. President Aquino arrived at Gimhae Air Base at around 1:40 pm KST. On the sidelines of the summit, the President met with President Park Geun-hye. According to Presidential Communications Operations Office Secretary Sonny Coloma, who accompanied him during the trip, President Aquino announced his intention to form a \"comprehensive strategic partnership\" that would further boost Philippines–South Korea relations during their bilateral meeting. The two presidents also discussed issues regarding regional security, education, and the safety of South Koreans in the Philippines. President Aquino also held a bilateral meeting with Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak. After, the President joined President Park and the other nine ASEAN leaders in viewing a traditional Korean arts and crafts exhibit at the Busan Exhibition and Convention Center, before attending a dinner and cultural performance hosted by President Park.\n\nThe following day, at around 9:30 am KST, President Aquino attended the first Commemorative Summit session chaired by South Korea, which focused on the multilateral cooperation between the ASEAN countries and South Korea. At around 10:50 am KST, the President attended the second Commemorative Summit session chaired by , which focused on security cooperation, climate change, and emergency management. After the summit, President Aquino and the other ASEAN leaders attended a luncheon hosted by President Park. Before departing for Manila, President Aquino inspected one of the 12 KAI T-50 Golden Eagle aircraft that the Philippines had purchased from the Korea Aerospace Industries at the tarmac of Gimhae Air Base. The President departed Gimhae Air Base at around 5:20 pm KST.\n\nIn 2015, President Aquino made 8 official visits.\n\nPresident Aquino attended the 26th ASEAN Summit in Kuala Lumpur and Langkawi.\n\nIn April 2015, Deputy Presidential Spokeswoman Abigail Valte announced that President Aquino would embark on a three-day state visit to Canada from May 7 to 9, 2015, accepting the invitation from Governor General David Johnston, along with a brief working visit to Chicago in the United States beforehand and a state visit to Japan in June.\n\nOn Wednesday, May 6, President Aquino arrived at the Chicago O'Hare International Airport at approximately 1:14 pm CT to begin his four-day North American trip. He then headed to the JW Marriott Chicago, where he was met by Mayor Rahm Emanuel, who presented him with a Chicago City Council Resolution. After, the President headed to the TransUnion headquarters to attend a round table discussion with representatives from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the US-ASEAN Business Council, and the National Center for APEC. During the discussion, several executives of United States firms expressed interest in investing in the Philippines, praising the country's economic growth and development and the \"competence and talent\" of Filipino workers. In the evening, President Aquino met with the Filipino community in Chicago at the JW Marriott Chicago, where he also addressed an economic update on the Philippines, citing a 6.3 percent increase in GDP, a 479 percent increase in foreign investment from 2010 to 2014, and the country's ranking improvements in the World Bank Group's Ease of doing business index and the World Economic Forum's \"Global Competitiveness Report\", among others. \n\nOn Thursday, May 7, President Aquino departed Chicago in the morning and arrived at Macdonald–Cartier International Airport in Ottawa at approximately 12:10 pm EDT, beginning his four-day state visit to Canada. After his arrival, the President arrived at an official welcome ceremony with military honors on a landau driven by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police at Rideau Hall, where he was met by Governor General Johnston and his wife Sharon. After the ceremony, President Aquino paid a courtesy call to Governor General Johnston inside Rideau Hall. During their meeting, Governor General Johnston praised President Aquino for his administration's efforts in contributing to the Philippines' economic growth, to which the President cited good governance, the Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program, and backlog-clearing programs, while the President thanked Governor General Johnston for Canada's efforts in aiding the victims of Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) and their advocation for the Bangsamoro peace process. After the meeting, President Aquino participated in a ceremonial planting of a red spruce outside Rideau Hall, which is adjacent to the red maple planted by his mother, former President Corazon Aquino, during her visit in 1989. In the evening, the Johnstons hosted a state dinner for President Aquino. \n\nOn Friday, May 8, President Aquino met with Prime Minister Stephen Harper at the Centre Block of Parliament Hill. At their bilateral meeting, the two heads of government discussed the regional developments on the territorial disputes in the South China Sea, the safety of the Overseas Filipino Workers in Canada, and trade between Canada and the Philippines. President Aquino and Prime Minister Harper witnessed the signing of several bilateral agreements on labor, trade, and development, before attending a joint press conference, followed by a tour of the Library of Parliament. Prime Minister Harper hosted a working luncheon for President Aquino, before the latter headed to Macdonald–Cartier International Airport to depart for Toronto. President Aquino arrived at Toronto Pearson International Airport at 2:28 pm EDT and headed to the Fairmont Royal York to attend a round table business meeting with the Asia Pacific Foundation of Canada, where opportunities for trade and investment between Canadian and Filipino businesses were discussed. Prime Minister Harper, who had traveled to Toronto, hosted a reception at Roy Thomson Hall for President Aquino to meet with over 2,000 members of the Filipino community in Canada. During his remarks, President Aquino addressed to the Filipino community a progress report on the economic growth of the Philippines, stating a 6.3 percent increase in GDP and 1.04 million jobs filled in 2014. With these statistics, he also added that the Philippines had transformed from \"the sick man of Asia\" to \"the darling of Asia.\" In the evening, the President headed back to the Fairmont Royal York to meet with Justin Trudeau, leader of the Liberal Party, and Ontario Premier Kathleen Wynne. He also held a coffee meeting with the Filipino media.\n\nOn Saturday, May 9, President Aquino departed Toronto for Vancouver, the final stop of his three-day state visit to Canada, as well as his four-day visit to North America. The President and his delegation arrived at Vancouver International Airport past noon, where he was welcomed by Minister of National Defence and Multiculturalism and Citizenship Jason Kenney and British Columbia Attorney General Suzanne Anton. After arriving, President Aquino headed to the Pan Pacific Vancouver Hotel to meet with British Columbia Premier Christy Clark, where they also witnessed the signing of a memorandum of understanding between Philippine Labor and Employment Secretary Rosalinda Baldoz and British Columbia International Trade Minister Teresa Wat, aimed at strengthening the employment abilities of Filipinos in British Columbia, as well as their protection. President Aquino also met with executives of the Aquilini Investment Group who had invested in renewable energy in the Philippines, particularly Cebu. During their meeting, the Aquilini Investment Group also expressed interest in investing in the tourism and the agricultural sectors of the Philippines. Finally, the President met with the Filipino community at the Vancouver Convention Centre. In the evening, President Aquino and his delegation departed Vancouver International Airport for Manila.\n\nPresident Aquino traveled to Tokyo for a four-day state visit from June 2 to 5, 2015, aimed at promoting business deals with Japanese investors and seeking support from Japan to resolve the territorial disputes in the South China Sea.\n\nOn Tuesday, June 2, President Aquino arrived at Haneda Airport. After arriving, he headed to the Imperial Hotel to meet with Japanese businessmen, before meeting with the Filipino community at Hotel Okura.\n\nOn Wednesday, June 3, President Aquino was received by Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko at the Imperial Palace. During their meeting, President Aquino was awarded the Grand Cordon of the Order of the Chrysanthemum by Emperor Akihito, who in return was awarded the Grand Collar (\"Supremo\") of the Order of Lakandula by President Aquino for bolstering the Japan–Philippines relations. President Aquino also attended the 21st International Conference on The Future of Asia organized by Nikkei 225 at Hotel Okura, where he delivered a keynote speech. During his keynote speech, President Aquino urged China to reconsider their land reclamation activities in the West Philippine Sea, as it breaches the conditions of the 2002 ASEAN–China Declaration on the Conduct of Parties, comparing China's actions to Nazi Germany's territorial expansion before World War II. Later that afternoon, President Aquino addressed a joint session of the National Diet, seeking Japan's assistance to resolve the territorial disputes. In the evening, Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko hosted a state dinner for President Aquino at the Imperial Palace.\n\nOn Thursday, June 4, President Aquino attended the Philippine Investment Forum at the Hotel New Otani, attended by over 1,000 Japanese businessmen, urging them to invest in information technology, infrastructure, and manufacturing in the Philippines. He then headed to the Akasaka Palace to meet with Prime Minister Shinzō Abe for a bilateral meeting, followed by a joint press conference and an official dinner in the evening. The two heads of government discussed the enhancement of the strategic partnership between Japan and the Philippines, as well as developments over the territorial disputes in the South China Sea. President Aquino also thanked Prime Minister Abe for Japan's efforts in aiding the victims of Typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) and their support towards the Bangsamoro peace process. They then witnessed the signing of the Memorandum of Cooperation for Healthcare, signed by the Philippine Department of Health and the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare to further enhance universal health care.\n\nOn Friday, June 5, President Aquino held a joint press conference with the Japan National Press Club, where he announced his intentions for a Visiting Forces Agreement with Japan in order for Japanese troops to assist in defense over the territorial disputes in the South China Sea. He was also met by Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko at the Imperial Hotel, before heading to Haneda Airport to depart Tokyo for Manila with ₱13.5 billion investment pledges from eleven companies and ₱136.9 billion of concessional loans for infrastructure projects.\n\nPresident Aquino attended the 27th ASEAN Summit and the Tenth East Asia Summit in Kuala Lumpur, his last before stepping down from office. During the ASEAN Summit, President Aquino and the other ASEAN leaders announced the creation of the ASEAN Economic Community, an economic integration between ASEAN member states to begin on December 31, 2015. After the summit, the ASEAN leaders signed the ASEAN Convention on Trafficking in Persons (ACTIP) to address the issue of human trafficking, especially within women and children.\n\nDuring an interview at the APEC CEO Summit on November 16, President Aquino announced his participation in the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris, amidst the aftermath of the recent Paris attacks. On November 26, Department of Foreign Affairs Assistant Secretary Maria Cleofe Natividad announced that President Aquino would also undertake a working visit to Rome, where he would meet with Italian President Sergio Mattarella and Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi and have an audience with Pope Francis in Vatican City to reciprocate the pope's visit to the Philippines the previous January. At the Climate Change Conference in Paris, President Aquino delivered a three-minute speech \"that highlights Philippine response to the impact of climate change and campaign for the inclusion of human rights, the vulnerability of indigenous peoples and gender issues in the Paris agreement.\"\n\nPresident Aquino arrived at the Paris–Le Bourget Airport on Sunday, November 29, at around 6:15 pm CET.\n\nIn 2016, President Aquino made his last official visit.\n\nPresident Aquino attended the special United States-ASEAN Summit hosted by U.S. President Barack Obama from February 15 to 16 at the Sunnylands estate in Rancho Mirage, California, joining the other leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). According to a statement released by the White House, the summit aims to strengthen cooperation on \"political, security and economic issues\" between the United States and the ASEAN member states under the United States-ASEAN strategic partnership signed in November 2015. Aquino is also expected to raise the issue on the territorial disputes in the South China Sea which the Philippines is a claimant along with Brunei, Malaysia, and Vietnam. On February 16, after participating in the summit, Aquino visited Los Angeles to address the Los Angeles World Affairs Council, which according to the council is regarding the \"new defense agreement between Manila and Washington, security in East Asia, and the future for economic growth in the Philippines and its neighbors in Southeast Asia,\" at the InterContinental hotel in Century City. On February 17, President Aquino received an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree from the Loyola Marymount University \"in recognition of his dedication to his country, his integrity, and his embodiment of a Jesuit education.\" He also met with Los Angeles-based investors and the Filipino-American community in Los Angeles, before departing for Manila.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54095900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54095900", "title": "List of international prime ministerial trips made by Atal Bihari Vajpayee", "text": "List of international prime ministerial trips made by Atal Bihari Vajpayee\n\nThis is a list of international trips made by Atal Bihari Vajpayee during his prime ministership of India.\n"}
{"id": "57933733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57933733", "title": "List of international prime ministerial trips made by Benjamin Netanyahu", "text": "List of international prime ministerial trips made by Benjamin Netanyahu\n\nThe following is a list of international prime ministerial trips made by Benjamin Netanyahu as Prime Minister of Israel.\n\nSince May 14, 2015, Netanyahu heads the thirty-fourth government of Israel, acting both as Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs.\n"}
{"id": "31260502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31260502", "title": "List of longest mountain chains on Earth", "text": "List of longest mountain chains on Earth\n\nThe world's longest above-water mountain range is the Andes, about long. The range stretches from north to south through seven countries in South America, along the west coast of the continent: Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Chile, and Argentina. Aconcagua is the highest peak, at about . \n\nThis list does not include submarine mountain ranges. If submarine mountains are included, the longest is the global mid-ocean ridge system which extends for about .\n\nMountain chains are typically formed by the process of plate tectonics. Tectonic plates slide very slowly over the Earth's mantle, a lower place of rock that is heated from the Earth's interior. Several huge sections of the earth’s crust are impelled by heat currents in the mantle, producing tremendous forces that can buckle the material at the edges of the plates to form mountains. Usually one plate is forced underneath the other, and the lower plate is slowly absorbed by the mantle. Where the two plates pass one another, heated rock from the mantle can burst through the crust to form volcanoes. The movement of the plates against one another can also cause earthquakes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55105766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55105766", "title": "List of political and geographical subdivisions by population", "text": "List of political and geographical subdivisions by population\n\nThis is a list of continents, countries, and first level administrative country subdivisions such as states, provinces, and territories, as well as certain political and geographic features of substantial population. Some divisions are listed twice, with one listing including territory that is excluded in the other for various reasons, including territorial disputes.\n"}
{"id": "11485939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11485939", "title": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/cityname: G", "text": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/cityname: G\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11486264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11486264", "title": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/cityname: Y", "text": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/cityname: Y\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59050048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59050048", "title": "Medigeshi", "text": "Medigeshi\n\nMedigeshi or Midigeshi is a village in Madhugiri Taluk, Tumkur district in Karnataka, India. It has a population of 2,649 according to 2011 census. The village has a fort which is a tourist attraction.\n"}
{"id": "7621464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7621464", "title": "North Pacific Exploring and Surveying Expedition", "text": "North Pacific Exploring and Surveying Expedition\n\nThe North Pacific Exploring and Surveying Expedition, also known as the Rodgers-Ringgold Expedition was a United States scientific and exploring project from 1853 to 1856. \n\nCommander Cadwalader Ringgold (1802–1867) led the expedition until he was relieved of command in Hong Kong by a commission convened by Commodore Matthew Perry. Lt. John Rodgers (1812–1882) then commanded the expedition until its conclusion.\n\nRinggold sailed on USS \"Porpoise\", a ship he had commanded during the U.S. Exploring Expedition years before. USS \"John Hancock\", commanded by Lt. John Rodgers and three other vessels including USS \"Vincennes\" would be the other vessels in the expedition.\n\n\"Porpoise\" joined the squadron at Hampton Roads, and with it, stood out to sea 11 June 1853. After stopping at Funchal, Madeira Islands; Porto Praya; and Simonstown, False Bay; the expedition arrived Batavia, Java, 12 December and in China in March 1854. \n\nFive months were devoted to surveying the waters surrounding the large islands off the coast of Southeast Asia. Early in May 1854, \"John Hancock\", with Rodgers commanding, departed for Hong Kong, where she arrived 24 May. The squadron operated from that port as its base throughout the summer, surveying nearby coasts, islands and rivers. At this time China was plagued by rebellion and pirates endangering foreigners and threatening their property. The American ships helped protect American citizens and interests. While steaming up the Canton River, two armed boats from \"John Hancock\" were fired upon by rebel batteries, which \"Hancock\"'s cannon promptly silenced.\n\nIn July 1854, Ringgold became sick with malaria and was sent home, according to at least one source. However, Nathaniel Philbrick, in his book \"Sea of Glory\" about the U.S. Exploring Expedition, writes that in the later expedition Ringgold \"began to act strangely\" once in China, keeping his ships in port \"ceaselessly repairing his vessels\". Commodore Perry, on his own expedition, sailed in and convened an official panel which relieved Ringgold from command of the expedition and sent him home. Philbrick quotes Perry as declaring Ringgold \"insane.\" John Rodgers was given full command of the expedition and completed it.\n\nThe squadron headed north along the coast as far as the Bering Sea, surveying as it went.\nThe squadron at that time also explored islands well off the coast of Asia, including the Bonins, the Ladrones, and the Marianas. \"Porpoise\" parted company with the other vessels 21 September 1854 between Formosa and China, and was never heard from again. It is supposed that she foundered in a heavy typhoon which occurred a few days after her separation from the squadron.\n\nAt the Bering sea, the expedition turned south along the western coast of North America. In March 1856, the expedition arrived at Puget Sound to help suppress Indian uprisings which threatened to wipe out white settlements and Army outposts established in the early 1850s.\n\nBesides greatly increasing knowledge of the western and northern Pacific, stimulating commerce, and easing navigation in previously unknown seas, the expedition has been credited with helping to establish friendly relations between the United States and several nations of East Asia.\n"}
{"id": "9893695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9893695", "title": "Notice to mariners", "text": "Notice to mariners\n\nA notice to mariners (NTM) advises mariners of important matters affecting navigational safety, including new hydrographic information, changes in channels and aids to navigation, and other important data.\n\nOver 60 countries which produce nautical charts also\nproduce a notice to mariners. About one third of these are\nweekly, another third are bi-monthly or monthly, and the\nrest irregularly issued according to need. For example, the United Kingdom Hydrographic Office issues weekly updates.\n\nThe U.S. \"Notice to Mariners\" is made available weekly by the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA), prepared jointly with the National Ocean Service (NOS) and the U.S. Coast Guard. The information in the \"Notice to Mariners\" is formatted to simplify the correction of paper charts, \"List of Lights\", \"Light Lists\", \"United States Coast Pilots\", and other publications produced by NGA, NOS, and the U.S. Coast Guard.\n\nInformation for the \"Notice to Mariners\" is contributed\nby: the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (Department of Defense) for waters\noutside the territorial limits of the United States; National\nOcean Service (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,\nDepartment of Commerce), which is charged\nwith surveying and charting the coasts and harbors of the\nUnited States and its territories; the U.S. Coast Guard (Department of Homeland Security) which is responsible for the safety of life at sea and the establishment and operation of aids to navigation; and the Army Corps of Engineers (Department of Defense), which is charged with the\nimprovement of rivers and harbors of the United States. In\naddition, important contributions are made by foreign hydrographic\noffices and cooperating observers of all\nnationalities.\n\nThe Notice consists of a page of Hydrograms listing\nimportant items in the Notice, a chart correction\nsection organized by ascending chart number, a product catalog corrections section, a publications\ncorrection section, a summary of broadcast\nnavigation warnings, and a page of additional miscellaneous information. It is the responsibility of users to decide which of their\ncharts and publications require correction.\nMariners are requested to cooperate in the correction of\ncharts and publications by reporting all discrepancies between\npublished information and conditions actually\nobserved and by recommending appropriate improvements. A reporting form is provided in the back of each\n\"Notice to Mariners\".\n\nIssue No. 1 of each year contains important\ninformation on a variety of subjects which supplements\ninformation not usually found on charts and in navigational\npublications. This information is published as Special Notice\nto Mariners Paragraphs. Additional items considered\nof interest to the mariner are also included in this Notice.\n\nMuch of the data\nin the U.S. \"Notice to Mariners\" is obtained from foreign\nnotices.\n\nIn Canada, the Canadian Coast Guard (CCG) Notice to Mariners publication informs mariners of important navigational safety matters affecting Canadian Waters. This electronic publication is published on a monthly basis and can be downloaded from the Notices to Mariners (NOTMAR) Web site. The information in the Notice to Mariners is formatted to simplify the correction of paper charts and navigational publications.\n\nThe NOTMAR.gc.ca site is a free 24/7 service providing mariners with up-to-date safety advisories. It provides mariners with a quick and easy to use interface to access Notices to Mariners information. This system also generates weekly and monthly notification mailers, for its registered users. These on-line mail services provides the monthly Notices to Mariners publications as well as the weekly(section II - chart corrections) notices that advise the mariner of the notices that have been issued against their chart selections. These mail services simplify the process for registered clients to update their publications and charts as required under the Canada Shipping Act.\n\nThe NOTMAR web site also includes the historical Chart corrections and historical Sailing Direction corrections; as well, it provides access to downloadable Chart Patches, contains links to CHS’s Chart Number 1, instructions for applying Notices to mariners to manually update their paper charts, and other useful information.\n\nA close companion to the \"Notice to Mariners\" is the Summary of Corrections. The \"Summary\" is published in five volumes. Each volume covers a major portion of the earth including several chart regions and many subregions. Volume 5 also includes special charts and publications corrected\nby the \"Notice to Mariners\". Since the Summaries contain cumulative corrections, any chart, regardless of its print date, can be corrected with the proper volume of the Summary and all subsequent \"Notice to Mariners\".\n\n\nThe text of this article originated from sections 418 and 419 of The American Practical Navigator, a document produced by the government of the United States of America.\n\n"}
{"id": "28715097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28715097", "title": "Nyavani", "text": "Nyavani\n\nNyavani is a small village situated along the R81 route to Punda Maria in the Kruger National Park. The nearest towns from Nyavani are Malamulele and Thohoyandou. Nyavani falls under Collins Chavani Local Municipality. It borders the villages Tshikonelo to the north and Murhaga to the west.\n\nThe two dominant languages spoken in the area are Venda and Tsonga. There are two schools in Nyavani: Dlamani High School and Nyavani Primary School.\n"}
{"id": "9881335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9881335", "title": "Passage planning", "text": "Passage planning\n\nPassage planning or voyage planning is a procedure to develop a complete description of a vessel's voyage from start to finish. The plan includes leaving the dock and harbor area, the \"en route\" portion of a voyage, approaching the destination, and mooring, the industry term for this is 'berth to berth'. According to international law, a vessel's captain is legally responsible for passage planning, The duty of passage planning is usually delegated to the ship's navigation officer, typically the second officer on merchant ships.\n\nStudies show that human error is a factor in 80 percent of navigational accidents and that in many cases the human making the error had access to information that could have prevented the accident. The practice of voyage planning has evolved from penciling lines on nautical charts to a process of risk management.\n\nPassage planning consists of four stages: appraisal, planning, execution, and monitoring. These stages are specified in \"International Maritime Organization Resolution A.893(21), Guidelines For Voyage Planning,\" which are, in turn, reflected in the local laws of IMO signatory countries. The \"Guidelines\" specify fifty elements of passage planning, some of which are only applicable in certain situations.\n\nThe \"Guidelines\" specify three key items to consider in the practice of voyage planning:\n\n\nVoyage planning starts with the appraisal stage. Before each voyage begins, the navigator should develop a detailed mental model of how the entire voyage will proceed. The appraisal stage consists of gathering and contemplating all information relevant to the voyage. Much of this appraisal is done by consulting nautical charts, nautical publications and performing a number of technical tasks such as weather forecasting, prediction of tides and currents, and checks of local regulations and warnings.\n\nNautical publications are a valuable guide to local conditions and regulations, but they must be updated and actually read to be of any use. These publications could include Sailing Directions and Coast Pilots or similar texts produced by other authorities.\n\nThe next stage of the process is known as the planning stage. Once information is gathered and considered, the navigator can begin the process of actually laying out the voyage. The process involves projecting various future events including landfalls, narrow passages, and course changes expected during the voyage. This mental model becomes the standard by which the navigator measures progress toward the goal of a safe and efficient voyage, and it is manifested in a passage plan.\n\nA good passage plan will include a track line laid out upon the best-scale charts available. This track is judged with respect to at least nine separate criteria given in the \"Guidelines\" including under-keel clearance, safe speed, air draft, the use of routing and reporting services (TSS and VTS), and the availability of contingencies in case of emergency.\n\nThe navigator will draw and redraw the track line until it is safe, efficient, and in line with all applicable laws and regulations. When the track is finished, it is becoming common practice to also enter it into electronic navigation tools such as an Electronic Chart Display and Information System, a chartplotter, an ARPA system, or a GPS unit.\n\nWhen working in a team environment, the passage plan should be communicated to the navigation team in a pre-voyage conference in order to ensure that all members of the team share the same mental model of the entire trip.\n\nThe third stage of passage planning is the execution stage. The IMO was careful to include execution as part of the process of passage planning. This underscores the fact that the \"Guidelines\" list a number of tasks that are to executed during the course of the voyage. It also reiterates the captain's responsibility to treat the plan as a \"living document\" and to review or change it in case of any special circumstances that should arise.\n\nThe fourth and final stage of voyage planning is the monitoring stage. Once the voyage has begun the progress of the vessel along its planned route must be monitored. This requires that the ship's position be determined, using standard methods including dead reckoning, celestial navigation, pilotage, and electronic navigation.\n\nAccording to the \"Guidelines,\" the passage plan should always be available to the officer on watch on the bridge. The \"Guidelines\" also specify that deviations from the plan should be clearly recorded and be consistent with other provisions of the \"Guidelines.\"\n\nIn modern times, computer software can greatly simplify the passage planning process and ensure that nothing important is overlooked. Passage planning software may include functions such as waypoint management, distance calculators, tide and tidal current\npredictors, celestial navigational calculators, consumables estimators for fuel, oil, water, and stores, and other useful applications.\n\n"}
{"id": "43579996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43579996", "title": "Permanent adjustments of theodolites", "text": "Permanent adjustments of theodolites\n\nThe permanent adjustments of theodolites are made to establish fixed relationship between the instrument's fundamental lines. The fundamental lines or axis of a transit theodolite include the following:-\nThese adjustments once made last for a long time. These are important for accuracy of observations taken from the instrument. The permanent adjustments in case of transit theodolite are:-\nThe horizontal axis must be perpendicular to the vertical axis.\nThe vertical circle must read zero when the line of collimation is horizontal.\nThe axis of altitude level must be parallel to the line of collimation.\nThe line of collimation or line of sight should coincide with axis of the telescope. The line of sight should also be perpendicular to the horizontal axis at its intersection with the vertical axis . Also, the optical axis , the axis of the objective slide, and the line of sight should coincide.\nThe axis of plate levels must be perpendicular to the vertical axis.\n\n"}
{"id": "25437026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25437026", "title": "Polar exploration", "text": "Polar exploration\n\nPolar exploration is the process of exploration of the polar regions of the Earth - the Arctic region and Antarctica - particularly with the goal of reaching the North Pole and South Pole, respectively. Historically, this was accomplished by explorers making often arduous travels on foot or by sled in these regions, known as a polar expedition. More recently, exploration has been accomplished with technology, particularly with satellite imagery.\n\nFrom 600 BC to 300 BC Greek Philosophers theorized that the planet was a Spherical Earth with North and South Polar regions. By 150 AD Ptolemy published Geographia, which notes a hypothetical Terra Australis Incognita. However, due to harsh weather conditions, the poles themselves would not be reached for centuries after that. When they finally were reached, the achievement was realized only a few years apart.\n\nThere are two claims, both disputed, about who was the first person to reach the geographic North Pole. Frederick Cook, accompanied by two Inuit men, Ahwelah and Etukishook claimed to have reached the Pole on April 21, 1908, although this claim is generally doubted. On April 6, 1909, Robert Peary claimed to be the first person in recorded history to reach the North Pole, accompanied by his employee Matthew Henson and four Inuit men Ootah, Seegloo, Egingway, and Ooqueah (although whether he actually reached the Pole is doubted by some).\n\nNorwegian explorer Roald Amundsen had planned to reach the North Pole by means of an extended drift in an icebound ship. He obtained the use of Fridtjof Nansen's polar exploration ship \"Fram\", and undertook extensive fundraising. Preparations for this expedition were disrupted when Cook and Peary each claimed to have reached the North Pole. Amundsen then changed his plan and began to prepare for a conquest of the geographic South Pole; uncertain of the extent to which the public and his backers would support him, he kept this revised objective secret. When he set out in June 1910, he led even his crew to believe they were embarking on an Arctic drift, and revealed their true Antarctic destination only when \"Fram\" was leaving their last port of call, Madeira.\n\nAmundsen's South Pole expedition, with Amundsen and four others, arrived at the pole on 14 December 1911, five weeks ahead of a British party led by Robert Falcon Scott as part of the Terra Nova Expedition. Amundsen and his team returned safely to their base, and later learned that Scott and his four companions had died on their return journey.\n\n"}
{"id": "10712487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10712487", "title": "Polynesian navigation", "text": "Polynesian navigation\n\nTraditional Polynesian navigation was used for thousands of years to make long voyages across thousands of miles of the open Pacific Ocean. Navigators travelled to small inhabited islands using wayfinding techniques and knowledge passed by oral tradition from master to apprentice, often in the form of song. Generally each island maintained a guild of navigators who had very high status; in times of famine or difficulty they could trade for aid or evacuate people to neighboring islands. As of 2014, these traditional navigation methods are still taught in the Polynesian outlier of Taumako Island in the Solomons.\n\nPolynesian navigation used some navigational instruments, which predate and are distinct from the machined metal tools used by European navigators (such as the sextant, first produced in 1730; the sea astrolabe, from around late 15th century; and the marine chronometer, invented in 1761). However, they also relied heavily on close observation of sea sign and a large body of knowledge from oral tradition.\n\nBoth wayfinding techniques and outrigger canoe construction methods have been kept as guild secrets, but in the modern revival of these skills, they are being recorded and published.\n\nBetween about 3000 and 1000 BC speakers of Austronesian languages spread through the islands of Southeast Asia – almost certainly starting out from Taiwan, as tribes whose natives were thought to have previously arrived from mainland South China about 8000 years ago – into the edges of western Micronesia and on into Melanesia. In the archaeological record there are well-defined traces of this expansion which allow the path it took to be followed and dated with a degree of certainty. In the mid-2nd millennium BC a distinctive culture appeared suddenly in north-west Melanesia, in the Bismarck Archipelago, the chain of islands forming a great arch from New Britain to the Admiralty Islands. This culture, known as Lapita, stands out in the Melanesian archeological record, with its large permanent villages on beach terraces along the coasts. Particularly characteristic of the Lapita culture is the making of pottery, including a great many vessels of varied shapes, some distinguished by fine patterns and motifs pressed into the clay. Within a mere three or four centuries between about 1300 and 900 BC, the Lapita culture spread 6000 km further to the east from the Bismarck Archipelago, until it reached as far as Tonga and Samoa. Lapita pottery persisted in places such as Samoa, Tonga, and Fiji for many years after its upbringing to Western and Central Polynesia. However, pottery-making died out in most of Polynesia due to the scarcity of clay on the islands. In this region, the distinctive Polynesian culture developed. The Polynesians are then believed to have spread eastward from the Samoan Islands into the Marquesas, the Society Islands, the Hawaiian Islands and Easter Island; and south to New Zealand. The pattern of settlement also extended to the north of Samoa to the Tuvaluan atolls, with Tuvalu providing a stepping stone to migration into the Polynesian Outlier communities in Melanesia and Micronesia.\n\nThe Polynesians encountered nearly every island within the vast Polynesian Triangle using outrigger canoes or double-hulled canoes. The double-hulled canoes were two large hulls, equal in length, and lashed side by side. The space between the paralleled canoes allowed for storage of food, hunting materials, and nets when embarking on long voyages. Polynesians used strategic and natural navigation aides such as the stars, ocean currents, and wind patterns.\n\nThere are numerous traditional Polynesian devices used for navigating and/or teaching navigation. These include charts, spatial representations of islands and the conditions around them, and navigational instruments, such as those for measuring the elevation of celestial objects. They also include non-physical devices such as songs and stories for memorizing the properties of stars, islands, and navigational routes.\n\nNavigation relies heavily on constant observation and memorization; you must constantly be aware of your surroundings. You cannot simply look up at the stars and know where you are. You are only able to know where you are if you are able to memorize where you have sailed from. The sun was the main guide for voyagers because they could follow its exact points as it rose and set; then, at night time they'd switch to using the stars rising and setting points. With constant observation, comes the knowledge of knowing and remembering the speed of your canoe (when it speeds up and slows down), what direction you are facing, and what time of the day or night it is. In the ancient days, they did not have watches, compasses or speedometers but they had their minds and the ability to memorize their surroundings. When there are no stars because of a cloudy night or during midday, the navigator would use the winds and swells to guide them.\nPolynesian navigators employed a whole range of techniques including use of the stars, the movement of ocean currents and wave patterns, the air and sea interference patterns caused by islands and atolls, the flight of birds, the winds and the weather.\n\nCertain seabirds such as the White tern and Noddy tern feed on fish in the morning and return to rest on land at night time. Navigators use these birds to guide them to land by following where the birds are flying from in the morning and flying toward at night. Birds habits change during nesting season which is another thing navigators must be mindful of when voyaging. Generally speaking, if a navigator can see a large group of birds, that is a much more reliable sign for land than following one, two or a small group of birds.\nHarold Gatty suggested that long-distance Polynesian voyaging followed the seasonal paths of bird migrations. In \"The Raft Book\", a survival guide he wrote for the U.S. military during World War II, Gatty outlined various Polynesian navigation techniques Allied sailors or aviators wrecked at sea could use to find their way to land. There are some references in their oral traditions to the flight of birds and some say that there were range marks onshore pointing to distant islands in line with the West Pacific Flyway. A voyage from Tahiti, the Tuamotus or the Cook Islands to New Zealand might have followed the migration of the long-tailed cuckoo (\"Eudynamys taitensis\") just as the voyage from Tahiti to Hawaii would coincide with the track of the Pacific golden plover (\"Pluvialis fulva\") and the bristle-thighed curlew (\"Numenius tahitiensis\"). It is also believed that Polynesians employed shore-sighting birds as did many seafaring peoples. One theory is that they would have taken a frigatebird (\"Fregata\") with them. These birds refuse to land on the water as their feathers will become waterlogged making it impossible to fly. When the voyagers thought they were close to land they may have released the bird, which would either fly towards land or else return to the canoe.\n\nThe positions of the stars helped guide Polynesians through their voyaging routes. Stars- as opposed to planets are able to hold a steady position year-round. The only thing that changes is the time the star rises which changes seasonally. Polynesian voyagers would follow stars near the horizon whether they were just rising or about to set and they used these specific stars for guidance. These stars were used to set the direction for their canoe up until the point when those stars rise too high and are no longer easy to follow. Once the star they've used to guide them rises too high, they use the next star that rises from the previous stars exact rising point to guide them next. The canoes latitude and the course being followed determines how many stars the navigator will need to get him to his destination.\nFor navigators near the equator celestial navigation is simplified since the whole celestial sphere is exposed. Any star that passes the zenith (overhead) is on the celestial equator, the basis of the equatorial coordinate system. Each star has a specific declination, and when they rise or set, they give a bearing for navigation. Stars are learned by compass point, making a star compass (star compasses list ~150 stars, in some systems). A simplified compass might list only a couple of dozen stars. For example, in the Caroline Islands Mau Piailug taught natural navigation using a star compass diagrammed here. The development of \"sidereal compasses\" has been studied and theorized to have developed from an ancient pelorus.\n\nThe Polynesians also took measurements of stellar elevation to determine their latitude. The latitudes of specific islands were also known, and the technique of \"sailing down the latitude\" was used.\n\nThe Polynesians also use wave and swell formations to navigate. Many of the habitable areas of the Pacific Ocean are groups of islands (or atolls) in chains hundreds of kilometers long. Island chains have predictable effects on waves and on currents. Navigators who lived within a group of islands would learn the effect various islands had on their shape, direction, and motion and would have been able to correct their path in accordance with the changes they perceived. When they arrived in the vicinity of a chain of islands they were unfamiliar with, they may have been able to transfer their experience and deduce that they were nearing a group of islands. Once they had arrived fairly close to a destination island, they would have been able to pinpoint its location by sightings of land-based birds, certain cloud formations, as well as the reflections shallow water made on the undersides of clouds. It is thought that the Polynesian navigators may have measured the time it took to sail between islands in \"canoe-days\" or a similar type of expression.\nThe energy that is transferred from the wind to the sea are wind waves. The waves that are created when the energy travels down away from the source area (like ripples) are known as swell. When the winds are strong at the source area, the swell is larger. The longer the wind blows, the longer the swell lasts. Because the swells of the ocean can remain consistent for days, navigators relied on them to carry their canoe in a straight line from one house on the star compass to a house of the same name on the opposite side of the horizon. Navigators were not always able to see stars; because of this, they relied on the swells of the ocean. Swell patterns are a much more reliable method of navigation than the actual waves which are determined by the local winds. Swells move in a straight direction which makes it easier for the navigator to determine whether the canoe is heading in the correct direction.\n\nOn his first voyage of Pacific exploration, Captain James Cook had the services of a Polynesian navigator, Tupaia, who drew a chart of the islands within a radius (to the north and west) of his home island of Ra'iatea. Tupaia had knowledge of 130 islands and named 74 on his chart. Tupaia had navigated from Ra'iatea in short voyages to 13 islands. He had not visited western Polynesia, as since his grandfather's time the extent of voyaging by Raiateans had diminished to the islands of eastern Polynesia. His grandfather and father had passed to Tupaia the knowledge as to the location of the major islands of western Polynesia and the navigation information necessary to voyage to Fiji, Samoa and Tonga. Tupaia was hired by Joseph Banks, the ship's naturalist, who wrote that Cook ignored Tupaia's chart and his skills as a navigator.\n\nThere is academic debate on the furthest southern extent of Polynesian expansion.\n\nThere is material evidence of Polynesian visits to some of the subantarctic islands to the south of New Zealand, which are outside Polynesia proper. Remains of a Polynesian settlement dating back to the 13th century were found on Enderby Island in the Auckland Islands. Descriptions of a shard of early Polynesian pottery buried on the Antipodes Islands are unsubstantiated, and the Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa, where it was supposedly stored, has stated that \"The Museum has not been able to locate such a shard in its collection, and the original reference to the object in the Museum's collection documentation indicates no reference to Polynesian influences.\" \n\nOral history describes Ui-te-Rangiora, around the year 650, leading a fleet of Waka Tīwai south until they reached, \"\"a place of bitter cold where rock-like structures rose from a solid sea\".\" The brief description might match the Ross Ice Shelf or possibly the Antarctic mainland, but may be a description of icebergs surrounded by sea Ice found in the Southern Ocean. The account also describes snow.\n\nIn the mid-20th century, Thor Heyerdahl proposed a new theory of Polynesian origins (one which did not win general acceptance), arguing that the Polynesians had migrated from South America on balsa-log boats.\n\nThe presence in the Cook Islands of sweet potato that is a plant native to the Americas (called \"kūmara\" in Māori), which have been radiocarbon-dated to 1000 CE, has been cited as evidence that Americans could have traveled to Oceania. The current thinking is that sweet potato was brought to central Polynesia circa 700 CE and spread across Polynesia from there, possibly by Polynesians who had traveled to South America and back. An alternative explanation posits biological dispersal; plants and/or seeds could float across the Pacific without any human contact.\n\nA 2007 study published in the \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\" examined chicken bones at El Arenal near the Arauco Peninsula, Arauco Province, Chile. The results suggested Oceania-to-America contact. Chickens originated in southern Asia and the \"Araucana\" breed of Chile was thought to have been brought by Spaniards around 1500. However, the bones found in Chile were radiocarbon-dated to between 1304 and 1424, well before the documented arrival of the Spanish. DNA sequences taken were exact matches to those of chickens from the same period in American Samoa and Tonga, both over 5000 miles (8000 kilometers) away from Chile. The genetic sequences were also similar to those found in Hawaii and Easter Island, the closest island at only 2500 miles (4000 kilometers), and unlike any breed of European chicken.\nAlthough this initial report suggested a Polynesian pre-Columbian origin a later report looking at the same specimens concluded:\n\nA published, apparently pre-Columbian, Chilean specimen and six pre-European Polynesian specimens also cluster with the same European/Indian subcontinental/Southeast Asian sequences, providing no support for a Polynesian introduction of chickens to South America. In contrast, sequences from two archaeological sites on Easter Island group with an uncommon haplogroup from Indonesia, Japan, and China and may represent a genetic signature of an early Polynesian dispersal. Modeling of the potential marine carbon contribution to the Chilean archaeological specimen casts further doubt on claims for pre-Columbian chickens, and definitive proof will require further analyses of ancient DNA sequences and radiocarbon and stable isotope data from archaeological excavations within both Chile and Polynesia.\n\nHowever, in a later study, the original authors extended and elaborated their findings, concluding:\n\nThis comprehensive approach demonstrates that the examination of modern chicken DNA sequences does not contribute to our understanding of the origins of Chile’s earliest chickens. Interpretations based on poorly sourced and documented modern chicken populations, divorced from the archaeological and historical evidence, do not withstand scrutiny. Instead, this expanded account will confirm the pre-Columbian age of the El Arenal remains and lend support to our original hypothesis that their appearance in South America is most likely due to Polynesian contact with the Americas in prehistory.\nIn the last 20 years, the dates and anatomical features of human remains found in Mexico and South America have led some archaeologists to propose that those regions were first populated by people who crossed the Pacific several millennia before the Ice Age migrations; according to this theory, these would have been either eliminated or absorbed by the Siberian immigrants. However, current archaeological evidence for human migration to and settlement of remote Oceania (i.e., the Pacific Ocean eastwards of the Solomon Islands) is dated to no earlier than approximately 3,500 BP; trans-Pacific contact with the Americas coinciding with or pre-dating the Beringia migrations of at least 11,500 BP is highly problematic, except for movement along intercoastal routes.\n\nRecently, linguist Kathryn A. Klar of University of California, Berkeley and archaeologist Terry L. Jones of California Polytechnic State University have proposed contacts between Polynesians and the Chumash and Gabrielino of Southern California, between 500 and 700. Their primary evidence consists of the advanced sewn-plank canoe design, which is used throughout the Polynesian Islands, but is unknown in North America – except for those two tribes. Moreover, the Chumash word for \"sewn-plank canoe\", \"tomolo'o\", may have been derived from \"kumulaa'au\", a Hawaiian word meaning \"useful tree\".\n\nIn 2008, an expedition starting on the Philippines sailed two modern Wharram-designed catamarans loosely based on a Polynesian catamaran found in Auckland Museum New Zealand. The boats were built in the Philippines by an experienced boat builder to Wharram designs using modern strip plank with epoxy resin glue built over plywood frames. The catamarans had modern Dacron sails, Terylene stays and sheets with modern roller blocks. Wharram says he used Polynesian navigation to sail along the coast of Northern New Guinea and then sailed 150 miles to an island for which he had modern charts, proving that it is possible to sail a modern catamaran along the path of the Lapita Pacific migration. Unlike many other modern Polynesian \"replica\" voyages the Wharram catamarans were not towed or escorted by a modern vessel with modern GPS navigation system, nor were they fitted with a motor.\n\nPolynesian contact with the prehispanic Mapuche culture in central-south Chile has been suggested because of apparently similar cultural traits, including words like \"toki\" (stone axes and adzes), hand clubs similar to the Māori \"wahaika\", the sewn-plank canoe as used on Chiloe island, the \"curanto\" earth oven (Polynesian \"umu\") common in southern Chile, fishing techniques such as stone wall enclosures, a hockey-like game, and other potential parallels. Some strong westerlies and El Niño wind blow directly from central-east Polynesia to the Mapuche region, between Concepcion and Chiloe. A direct connection from New Zealand is possible, sailing with the Roaring Forties. In 1834, some escapees from Tasmania arrived at Chiloe Island after sailing for 43 days.\n\nThe first settlers who sailed to the Hawaiian Islands are said to have arrived as early as 400 C.E by Polynesians from the Marquesas Islands. Captain James Cook was the first European to arrive to the island of Kaua’i in 1778. He returned a year later and was killed in an altercation with natives at Kealakekua Bay. In 1973, Ben Finney established the Polynesian Voyaging Society to test the contentious question of how Polynesians found their islands. The team claimed to be able to replicate ancient Hawaiian double-hulled canoes capable of sailing across the ocean using strictly traditional voyaging techniques. In 1980, a Hawaiian named Nainoa Thompson invented a new method of non-instrument navigation (called the \"modern Hawaiian wayfinding system\"), enabling him to complete the voyage from Hawaii to Tahiti and back. In 1987, a Māori named Matahi Whakataka (Greg Brightwell) and his mentor Francis Cowan sailed from Tahiti to Aotearoa without instruments.\n\nIn New Zealand, a leading Māori navigator and ship builder is Hector Busby who was also inspired and influenced by Nainoa Thompson and Hokulea's voyage there in 1985.\n\nKnowledge of the traditional Polynesian methods of navigation was widely lost after contact with and colonization by Europeans. This caused debates over the reasons for the presence of the Polynesians in such isolated and scattered parts of the Pacific. According to Andrew Sharp, the explorer Captain James Cook, already familiar with Charles de Brosses's accounts of large groups of Pacific islanders who were driven off course in storms and ended up hundreds of miles away with no idea where they were, encountered in the course of one of his own voyages a castaway group of Tahitians who had become lost at sea in a gale and blown 1000 miles away to the island of Atiu. Cook wrote that this incident \"will serve to explain, better than the thousand conjectures of speculative reasoners, how the detached parts of the earth, and, in particular, how the South Seas, may have been peopled\".\n\nBy the late 19th century to the early 20th century, a more generous view of Polynesian navigation had come into favor, creating a much romanticized view of their seamanship, canoes, and navigational expertise. Late 19th and early 20th centuries writers such as Abraham Fornander and Percy Smith told of heroic Polynesians migrating in great coordinated fleets from Asia far and wide into present-day Polynesia.\n\nAnother view was presented by Andrew Sharp who challenged the \"heroic vision\" hypothesis, asserting instead that Polynesian maritime expertise was severely limited in the field of exploration and that as a result the settlement of Polynesia had been the result of luck, random island sightings, and drifting, rather than as organized voyages of colonization. Thereafter the oral knowledge passed down for generations allowed for eventual mastery of traveling between known locations. Sharp's reassessment caused a huge amount of controversy and led to a stalemate between the romantic and the skeptical views.\n\nBy the mid-to-late 1960s it was time for a new hands-on approach. Anthropologist David Lewis sailed his catamaran from Tahiti to New Zealand using stellar navigation without instruments. Anthropologist and historian Ben Finney built \"Nalehia\", a replica of a Hawaiian double canoe. Finney tested the canoe in a series of sailing and paddling experiments in Hawaiian waters. At the same time, ethnographic research in the Caroline Islands in Micronesia brought to light the fact that traditional stellar navigational methods were still very much in everyday use there. The building and testing of proa canoes (\"wa\") inspired by traditional designs, the harnessing of knowledge from skilled Micronesians, as well as voyages using stellar navigation, allowed practical conclusions about the seaworthiness and handling capabilities of traditional Polynesian canoes and allowed a better understanding of the navigational methods that were likely to have been used by the Polynesians and of how they, as people, were adapted to seafaring. Recent re-creations of Polynesian voyaging have used methods based largely on Micronesian methods and the teachings of a Micronesian navigator, Mau Piailug.\n\nIn accordance with Polynesian oral tradition, the geography of Polynesian navigation pathways are said to resemble the geometric qualities of an octopus with head centred on Ra'iātea (French Polynesia) and tentacles spread out across the Pacific. In oral tradition the octopus is known by various names such as Taumata-Fe'e-Fa'atupu-Hau (Grand Octopus of Prosperity), Tumu-Ra'i-Fenua (Beginning-of-Heaven-and-Earth) and Te Wheke-a-Muturangi (The Octopus of Muturangi).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22642052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22642052", "title": "Q-guidance", "text": "Q-guidance\n\nQ-guidance is a method of missile guidance used in some U.S. ballistic missiles and some civilian space flights. It was developed in the 1950s by J. Halcombe Laning and Richard Battin at the MIT Instrumentation Lab.\n\nQ-guidance is used for missiles whose trajectory consists of a relatively short boost phase (or powered phase) during which the missile's propulsion system operates, followed by a ballistic phase during which the missile coasts to its target under the influence of gravity. (Cruise missiles use different guidance methods). The objective of Q-guidance is to hit a specified target at a specified time (if there is some flexibility as to the time the target should be hit then other types of guidance can be used).\n\nAt the time Q-guidance was developed the main competitive method was called Delta-guidance. According to Mackenzie, Titan, some versions of Atlas, Minuteman I and II used Delta-guidance, while Q-guidance was used for Thor IRBM and Polaris, and presumably Poseidon. It appears, from monitoring of test launches, that early Soviet ICBMs used a variant of Delta-guidance.\n\nDelta-guidance is based on adherence to a planned reference trajectory, which is developed before the flight using ground-based computers and stored in the missile's guidance system. In flight, the actual trajectory is modeled mathematically as a Taylor series expansion around the reference trajectory. The guidance system attempts to zero the linear terms of this expression, i.e. to bring the missile back to the planned trajectory. For this reason, Delta-guidance is sometimes referred to as \"fly [along] the wire\", where the (imaginary) wire refers to the reference trajectory.\n\nIn contrast, Q-guidance is a dynamic method, reminiscent of the theories dynamic programming or state based feedback. In essence, it says \"never mind where we were supposed to be, given where we are what should we do to make progress towards the goal of reaching the required target at the required time\". To do this it relies on the concept of \"velocity to be gained\".\n\nAt a given time \"t\" and for a given vehicle position \"r\", the correlated velocity vector \"V\" is defined as follows: if the vehicle had the velocity \"V\" and the propulsion system was turned off, then the missile would reach the desired target at the desired time under the influence of gravity. In some sense, \"V\" is the desired velocity.\n\nThe actual velocity of the missile is denoted by \"V\" and the missile is subject to both the acceleration due to gravity \"g\" and that due to the engines \"a\". The velocity to be gained is defined as the difference between \"V\" and \"V\":\n\nA simple guidance strategy is to apply acceleration (i.e. engine thrust) in the direction of \"V\". This will have the effect of making the actual velocity come closer to \"V\". When they become equal (i.e. when \"V\" becomes identically zero) it is time to shut off the engines, since the missile is by definition able to reach the desired target at the desired time on its own.\n\nThe only remaining issue is how to compute \"V\" easily from information available on board the vehicle.\n\nA remarkably simple differential equation can be used to compute the velocity to be gained:\n\nwhere the \"Q\" matrix is defined by\n\nwhere \"Q\" is a symmetric 3 by 3 time-varying matrix. (The vertical bar refers to the fact that the derivative must be evaluated for a given target position \"r\" and time of free flight \"t\".) The calculation of this matrix is non-trivial, but can be performed offline before the flight; experience shows that the matrix is only slowly time varying, so only a few values of Q corresponding to different times during the flight need to be stored on board the vehicle.\n\nIn early applications the integration of the differential equation was performed using analog hardware, rather than a digital computer. Information about vehicle acceleration, velocity and position is supplied by the onboard Inertial measurement unit.\n\nDerivation of the equation\n\nNotation:\n\n\"t\" the current time\n\n\"r\" the current vehicle position vector\n\n\"V\" the current vehicle velocity vector\n\n\"T\" the time the vehicle will reach the target\n\n\"t\" the time of free flight for the correlated vehicle, i.e. t-T\n\nA reasonable strategy to gradually align the thrust vector to the \"V\" vector is to steer at a rate proportional to the cross product between them. A simple control strategy that does this is to steer at the rate\n\nwhere formula_5 is a constant. This implicitly assumes that \"V\" remains roughly constant during the maneuver. A somewhat more clever strategy can be designed that takes into account the rate of time change of \"V\" as well, since this is available from the differential equation above.\n\nThis second control strategy is based on Battin's insight that \"If you want to drive a vector to zero, it is [expedient] to align the time rate of change of the vector with the vector itself\". This suggests setting the auto-pilot steering rate to\n\nEither of these methods are referred to as cross-product steering, and they are easy to implement in analog hardware.\n\nFinally, when all components of \"V\" are small, the order to cut-off engine power can be given.\n\n"}
{"id": "43273958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43273958", "title": "Road curve", "text": "Road curve\n\nRoad curves are regular bends in roads to bring a gradual change of direction. Similar curves are on railways and canals.\n\nCurves provided in the horizontal plane are known as horizontal curves and are generally circular or parabolic.\n\nFour types of circular curves are on roads:\n\nA simple curve has the same radius throughout and is a single arc of a circle, with two tangents meeting at the intersection (B in this diagram).\n\nA compound curve has two or more simple curves with different radii that bend the same way and are on the same side of a common tangent. In this diagram, MN is the common tangent.\n\nAlso called a serpentine curve, it is the reverse of a compound curve, and two simple curves bent in opposite directions are on opposite sides of the common tangent.\n\nA deviation curve is simply a combination of two reverse curves. It is used when it is necessary to deviate from a given straight path to avoid intervening obstructions such as a building, a body of water, or other significant site.\n\n"}
{"id": "57352318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57352318", "title": "Rosgen Stream Classification", "text": "Rosgen Stream Classification\n\nThe Rosgen Stream Classification is a system for natural rivers in which morphological arrangements of stream characteristics are organized into relatively homogeneous stream types. This is a widely-used method for classifying streams and rivers based on common patterns of channel morphology. The specific objectives of this stream classification system are as follows: 1) predict a rivers behavior from its appearance; 2) develop specific hydrologic and sediment relationships for a given stream type and its state; 3) provide mechanisms to extrapolate site-specific data to stream reaches having similar characteristics; and 4) provide a consistent frame of reference for communicating stream morphology and condition among a variety of disciplines and interested parties. These objectives are met through Rosgen's four hierarchical levels (I-IV) of river morphology.\n\nLevel I categorize stream types into letters A - G based on their geomorphic characteristics that result from the integration of basin relief, land form, and valley morphology. This is a general way in which the morphology of a stream can be described. Many of the Level I criteria can be determined through topographic and landform maps, aerial imagery, and geospatial data.\n\nLevel II characterizes stream type by using numbers 1 - 6, in addition to letters A - G, to include the assessments of the channel cross-section, longitudinal profile, and plan-form pattern. Cross-section measurements include a streams entrenchment ratio, width/depth ratio, and dominant substrate. The longitudinal and plan-form measurements consist of slope, stream bed features, sinuosity, and meander width ratio. Level II is a quantitative morphological assessment of the stream reach which provides greater detail from data collected in the field for the implementation into land management decisions.\n\nLevel III describes the existing condition of a stream as it relates to its stability, response potential, and function. This level includes additional measurements such as, sediment supply, channel stability, and flow regime which further describe the condition or “state” of the stream.\n\nLevel IV verifies the process relationships inferred from the previous three levels of classification. The objective of this level is to determine empirical relationships for use in prediction (e.g. to develop Manning’s n values from measured velocity)\n\nThe Rosgen Stream Classification is probably best applied as a communication tool to describe channel form. Other uses for the Rosgen Stream Classification include fish habitat indices, surveys of riparian communities, stream restoration and mitigation, engineering, evaluating livestock grazing related to stream type, and the utilization of sediment and hydraulic data by stream type.\n\nProblems with the use of the Rosgen Stream Classification are encountered with identifying bankfull dimensions, particularly in incising channels and with the mixing of bed and bank sediment into a single population. Its use for engineering design and restoration may be flawed by ignoring some processes governed by force and resistance, and the imbalance between sediment supply and transporting power in unstable systems\n\nLimitations for Level II classification involve time dependence, uncertain applicability across physical environments, difficulty in identification of a true equilibrium condition, and uncertain process significance of classification criteria. Implications of using the Rosgen Stream Classification, include: (1) acceptance of the limitations, (2) acceptance of the risk of classifying streams incorrectly, and (3) classification results may be used inappropriately\n"}
{"id": "18138370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18138370", "title": "Safe space", "text": "Safe space\n\nThe term safe space refers to places created for individuals who feel marginalized to come together to communicate regarding their experiences with marginalization, most commonly located on university campuses in the western world, but also at workplaces, as in the case of Nokia.\n\nThe terms safe space (or safe-space), safer space, and positive space may also indicate that a teacher, educational institution or student body does not tolerate violence, harassment or hate speech, thereby creating a safe place for all students.\n\nThe Islamic Council of Victoria (ICV) which claims to represent 200,000 Muslims in Victoria stated that the Muslim community suffered mental health and other problems due to the suspicions to which it is subjected. \n\nThe ICV proposed that Islamic community groups be given funds to create \"safe spaces\" where \"inflammatory\" issues could be discussed without being judged. Government rejected the proposal and instigated a review of government funding towards the ICV.\n\nPositive Space initiatives have been prevalent in post-secondary institutions across Canada including the University of Western Ontario, McGill University, the University of Toronto, Algonquin College, the University of British Columbia, and Queen's University.\n\nIn early 2015 the increasing adoption of safe spaces in UK universities aroused controversy due to accusations that they were used to stifle free speech and differing political views.\n\nIn April 2016, a member of the Edinburgh University Students' Association was subject to a vote on whether to be expelled from a meeting within a safe-space for violating rules about making gestures of disagreement; the vote went in her favour. She had waved her arms in disgust with a claim made against her by another speaker.\n\nIn September 2016, Prime Minister Theresa May hit out at universities for implementing \"safe space\" policies amid concerns that self-censorship is curtailing freedom of speech on campuses. The Prime Minister said it was \"quite extraordinary\" for universities to ban the discussion of certain topics which could cause offence. She warned that stifling free speech could have a negative impact on Britain's economic and social success.\n\nIn the United States the concept originated in the women's movement, where it \"implies a certain license to speak and act freely, form collective strength, and generate strategies for resistance...a means rather than an end and not only a physical space but also a space created by the coming together of women searching for community.\" The first safe spaces were gay bars and consciousness raising groups.\n\nIn 1989 Gay & Lesbian Urban Explorers (GLUE) developed a safe spaces program. During their events including diversity-training sessions and antihomophobia workshops, they passed out magnets with an inverted pink triangle, \"ACT UP's...symbol\", surrounded by a green circle to, \"symbolize universal acceptance,\" and asked, \"allies to display the magnets to show support for gay rights and to designate their work spaces free from homophobia.\"\n\nAdvocates for Youth states on their website that a safe-space is \"A place where anyone can relax and be fully self-expressed, without fear of being made to feel uncomfortable, unwelcome or challenged on account of biological sex, race/ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, cultural background, age, or physical or mental ability; a place where the rules guard each person's self-respect, dignity and feelings and strongly encourage everyone to respect others.\" However, some people consider safe space culture as a violation of the First Amendment and a mechanism for retreating from opinions which contrast with one's own.\n\nIn general, these may be individuals or institutions which support a safe space for LGBT students and employees. They may offer or mandate staff training on diversity, include being a safe space in the organization's mission statement, develop and post a value statement in the organization's office, online, or on printed documents, or, if part of a coalition, encourage the coalition to include being a safe space in its mission and values.\n\nThe idea of safe spaces has been criticized on the grounds that it stifles freedom of speech.\n\nWriting for \"The New York Times\" in 2015, journalist Judith Shulevitz distinguished between meetings where participants mutually consent to provide a safe space, and attempts to make entire dormitories or student newspapers safe spaces. \n\nAccording to Shulevitz, the latter is a logical consequence of the former: \"Once you designate some spaces as safe, you imply that the rest are unsafe. It follows that they should be made safer.\" She gave the example of a safe space at Brown University, when libertarian Wendy McElroy, who was known for criticizing the term \"rape culture\" was invited to give a speech: \"The safe space ... was intended to give people who might find comments 'troubling' or 'triggering,' a place to recuperate. The room was equipped with cookies, coloring books, bubbles, Play-Doh, calming music, pillows, blankets and a video of frolicking puppies, as well as students and staff members trained to deal with trauma.\"\n\nIn 2015, journalist Conor Friedersdorf criticized the use of outdoor safe spaces to block press coverage of student protests. According to Friedersdorf, such uses reverse the intent of safe spaces: \"This behavior is a kind of safe-baiting: using intimidation or initiating physical aggression to violate someone's rights, then acting like your target is making you unsafe.\"\n\nIn 2016, British actor and writer Stephen Fry criticized safe spaces and trigger warnings as infantilizing students and possibly eroding free speech. Frank Furedi of the \"Los Angeles Times\" and Candace Russell of \"HuffPost\" have similarly stated that safe spaces contribute to echo chambers surrounded by like minded people, insulating those inside said chambers from hostile or negative speech.\n\nOther known speakers who have criticized the concept of safe spaces include Christina Hoff Sommers and Steven Crowder.\n\n\"The Atlantic\" reported in 2016 that safe spaces were considered by some to be re-segregation.\n\n\"Safe Space\", a 2015 episode of the animated comedy series \"South Park\", parodied the concept of safe-spaces.\n\nThe country duo of Chad Prather and Steve \"Mudflap\" McGrew turned the 1990 Garth Brooks song \"Friends in Low Places\" into \"Friends in Safe Spaces\", which parodied the practice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "474419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=474419", "title": "Spatial scale", "text": "Spatial scale\n\nIn sciences such as physics, geography, astronomy, meteorology and statistics, the term scale or spatial scale is used for describing or classifying with large approximation the extent or size of a length, distance or area studied or described. For instance, in physics an object or phenomenon can be called microscopic if too small to be visible. In climatology, a micro-climate is a climate which might occur in a mountain, valley or near a lake shore, whereas in statistics a megatrend is a political, social, economical, environmental or technological trend which involves the whole planet or is supposed to last a very large amount of time.\n\nIn physics, the concept of scale is closely related to the more accurate concept of order of magnitude.\n\nThese divisions are somewhat arbitrary; where, on this table, \"mega-\" is assigned global scope, it may only apply continentally or even regionally in other contexts. The interpretations of \"meso-\" and \"macro-\" must then be adjusted accordingly.\n\n"}
{"id": "751489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=751489", "title": "Summit", "text": "Summit\n\nA summit is a point on a surface that is higher in elevation than all points immediately adjacent to it. Mathematically, a summit is a local maximum in elevation. The topographic terms \"acme\", \"apex\", \"peak\", and \"zenith\" are synonymous.\n\nThe term \"\" is generally used only for a mountain peak that is located some distance from the nearest point of higher elevation. For example, a big massive rock next to the main summit of a mountain is not considered a summit. Summits near a higher peak, with some prominence or isolation, but not reaching a certain cutoff value for the quantities, are often considered \"subsummits\" (or \"subpeaks\") of the higher peak, and are considered part of the same mountain. A pyramidal peak is an exaggerated form produced by ice erosion of a mountain top.\nSummit may also refer to the highest point along a line, trail, or route.\n\nThe highest summit in the world is Everest with height of 8844.43 m above sea level (29,029 ft). The first official ascent was made by Tenzing Norgay and Sir Edmund Hillary. They reached the mountain`s peak in 1953. The UIAA definition is that a summit is independent if it has a prominence of or more; it is a mountain if it has a prominence of at least . This can be summarised as follows:\n\nIn many parts of the western United States, the term \"summit\" refers to the highest point along a road, highway, or railroad. For example, the highest point along Interstate 80 in California is referred to as Donner Summit and the highest point on Interstate 5 is Siskiyou Mountain Summit.\n\nA summit climbing differs from the common mountaineering. Summit expedition requires: 1+ year of training, a good physical shape, and a special gear. Although a huge part of climber’s stuff can be left and taken at the base camps or given to porters, there is a long list of personal equipment. In addition to common mountaineers’ gear, Summit climbers need to take Diamox (anti-altitude sickness medication), masks, and bottles of oxygen. There are also special requirements for crampons, ice axe, rappel device, clothing, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48776333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48776333", "title": "Sun compass in animals", "text": "Sun compass in animals\n\nMany animals are able to navigate using the Sun as a compass. Orientation cues from the position of the Sun in the sky are combined with an indication of time from the animal's internal clock.\n\nThere is evidence that some animals can navigate using celestial cues, such as the position of the Sun. Since the Sun apparently moves in the sky, navigation by this means also requires an internal clock. Many animals depend on such a clock to maintain their circadian rhythm. Animals that use sun compass orientation are fish, birds, sea turtles, butterflies, bees, sandhoppers, reptiles, and ants.\n\nSun compass orientation is using the Sun's position in the sky as a directional guide. The azimuth can be used along with sun compass orientation to help animals navigate. The Sun's azimuth can be defined as the direction of a celestial object from the observer, expressed as the angular distance from the north or south point of the horizon to the point at which a vertical circle passing through the object intersects the horizon.\n\nSun compass orientation can be used as a daily guide for animals but for some, including sea turtles, they use the sun as a migratory guide. Turtles use the sun’s azimuth compensation schedule in order to find their specific breeding locations each year.\n\nSandhoppers use the sun daily to determine where their home lays. With this experiment a group of sandhoppers were subjected to six hours of artificial lights and their movements were monitored when exposed to normal sunlight. The sandhopper's orientation when finally exposed to normal sunlight, showed that their orientation was off by 90 degrees when in respect to their home. This study helped show how an artificial light can alter the species relationship to the sun and how it can throw off the species basic directional abilities \n\nIn terms of high elevations, sun compass decreases its precision when providing information to animals. A study was performed to see if dung beetles respond better to orientations provided by the sun compass or skylight compass. The results of this study showed that dung beetles use their original bearings (i.e. sun compass) a majority of the time and rarely use skylight compass.\n\nFish larva find safety in the coral reefs for predators. The particular coral reef is one that the larva have been to before. The larva can recognize the area by the smell, sound, and direction of the particular reef. Fish larvae drift away from the reef and swim in order to relocate their reef. They use sun compass as one of their tools. Different cues are learned and remembered by the fish larva which allows them to return to their reef. It was also concluded that the learning process happens when the fish larvae are young and location can be memorized and become second nature. This is a useful tool that helps fish larva return to their respective reefs.\n\nDesert ants use sun compass as a reference to the amount of walking distance to their specific destination. Ants, like bees, compensate for the sun’s daily movements as it moves and rotates about the Earth. They communicate to other ants who have already been out and base their directions on the direction they should go. In addition to sun compass, insects such as ants also use a tool called azimuthal position of the sun. These are additional cues determined by ants and passed on to other ants when they communicate.\n\nSandhoppers (such as \"Talitrus saltator\", also called sand fleas) are small shrimp-like crustaceans that live on beaches. When taken off a beach, they easily find their way back down to the sea. An experiment described by Lockley showed that this was not simply by moving downhill or towards the sight or sound of the sea. A group of sandhoppers were acclimatised to a day/night cycle under artificial lighting, whose timing was gradually changed until it was 12 hours out of phase with the natural cycle. Then, the sandhoppers were placed on the beach in natural sunlight. They moved roughly 180° from the correct direction down to the sea, up the beach. The experiment implied that the sandhoppers use the sun and their internal clock to determine their heading, and that they had learnt the actual direction down to the sea on their particular beach.\n\nLockley's experiments with Manx shearwaters (\"Puffinus puffinus\") showed that when released \"under a clear sky\" far from their nests (in Skokholm), the seabirds first oriented themselves and then \"flew off in a direct line for Skokholm\", making the journey rapidly. For example, one of the birds, released at Boston airport, arrived in Skokholm 12½ days later; Lockley calculated that if the birds flew for 12 hours per day, they must have travelled at 20 miles per hour, their full normal speed, so they could not have deviated significantly from a straight line course or searched at random for their destination. The birds behaved like this regardless of whether the direct heading took the birds over sea or land. But if the sky was overcast at the time of release, the shearwaters flew around in circles \"as if lost\" and returned slowly or not at all. Lockley therefore concluded that it was essential for the birds that \"at the moment of release the sun was visible by day, or the stars by night\". Lockley did not claim to understand how the birds knew their position relative to their destination, but merely observed that they behaved as if they did know it.\n\nA study demonstrated that monarch butterflies use the sun as a compass to guide their southwesterly autumn migration from Canada to Mexico. Migrating butterflies were captured and held for cycles of 12 hours of light and 12 of dark. One group's light began each day at 7:00 am, while the other group's began 6 hours earlier at 1:00 am. The monarchs were held in captivity for a few days and then released in a flight cage under natural daylight conditions. This allowed them to fly in the direction that they wanted to go while keeping them in the test arena. The butterflies that had their biological clocks set to the natural fall cycle (lights turned on at 7:00 am) tried to fly to the southwest, while those whose clocks had been shifted 6 hours earlier oriented 90 degrees toward the left.\n\nThe ability of birds to tune their compensation mechanisms so well to the true changes in sun azimuth suggests that the respective processes of pre-programmed learning are generating a sun azimuth/time/direction function that reflects the true sun azimuth curve very closely. It suggests that birds record the sun’s direction at rather short intervals and store this information together with the information on time in their memory. A study performed testing the sun compass orientation in pigeons showed that animals must compensate for the movement of the sun with their internal clocks. The sun’s azimuth plays an important role in doing so. The azimuth allows the birds to tell the time of day, and ultimately determine which direction to go for reasons such as migration or possible sources of food.\n\nFor some animals, the sun is a form of visual stimulus used as a tool for navigation. As seen in birds and bees, the animal will orient their body at a certain angle in relation to the sun and the time of day. This external stimuli activates a portion of the brain (in necessary for navigation and allows the organism to adjust their orientation in relation to the sun). That is to say, if the animal leaves its nest in the morning when the sun is low in the sky and plans to head in a known direction, the animal will travel in a certain direction with the sun in a position related to its body (e.g. to travel West, the sun could be on the animal's right side during navigation). This form of navigation is not as simple as observing a stimulus and acting accordingly. Studies have shown that animals may use other \"tricks\" like the length and direction of shadows to determine where the sun is during time shifts and then calculate the direction they should travel. For example, above the Tropic of Cancer, the sun will always be South at its zenith (highest point) so short shadows will point North. Animals tend to incorporate several types of navigation techniques, like magnetic orientation and landmarks, to their repertoire in order to perform normal navigation or to migrate.\n\nWhen animals use the sun for compass orientation, they must compensate for the apparent movement of the sun with the help of their internal clock. Animals associate the sun azimuth with time of day provided by their internal clock and a reference direction provided by their magnetic compass.\n"}
{"id": "23788022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23788022", "title": "Tape correction (surveying)", "text": "Tape correction (surveying)\n\nIn surveying, tape correction(s) refer(s) to correcting measurements for the effect of slope angle, expansion or contraction due to temperature, and the tape's sag, which varies with the applied tension. Not correcting for these effects gives rise to systematic errors, i.e. effects which act in a predictable manner and therefore can be corrected by mathematical methods.\n\nformula_1\n\nWhere \n\nWhen distances are measured along the slope, the equivalent horizontal distance may be determined by applying a slope correction.\n\nThe vertical slope angle of the length measured must be measured. (Refer to the figure on the other side) Thus,\n\nWhere:\n\nThe correction formula_9 is subtracted from formula_12 to obtain the equivalent horizontal distance on the slope line:\n\nWhen measuring or laying out distances, the standard temperature of the tape and the temperature of the tape at time of measurement are usually different. A difference in temperature will cause the tape to lengthen or shorten, so the measurement taken will not be exactly correct. A correction can be applied to the measured length to obtain the correct length.\n\nThe correction of the tape length due to change in temperature is given by:\n\nWhere:\n\nThe correction formula_15 is added to formula_19 to obtain the corrected distance:\n\nFor common tape measurements, the tape used is a steel tape with coefficient of thermal expansion C equal to 0.000,011,6 units per unit length per degree Celsius change. This means that the tape changes length by 1.16 mm per 10 m tape per 10 °C change from the standard temperature of the tape. For a 30 meter long tape with standard temperature of 20 °C used at 40 °C, the change in length is 7 mm over the length of the tape.\n\nA tape not supported along its length will sag and form a catenary between end supports. The correction due to sag must be calculated separately for each unsupported stretch separately and is given by:\n\nEvaluated at L=0, it vanishes and so does not contribute a Taylor series term. The second derivative of formula_22 is\n\nAgain, when evaluated at L=0 it vanishes. When evaluated at L=0, the third derivative survives, however.\n"}
{"id": "4472911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4472911", "title": "Traverse (surveying)", "text": "Traverse (surveying)\n\nTraverse is a method in the field of surveying to establish control networks. It is also used in geodesy. Traverse networks involve placing survey stations along a line or path of travel, and then using the previously surveyed points as a base for observing the next point. Traverse networks have many advantages, including:\n\n\nThe traverse is more accurate than triangulateration (a combined function of the triangulation and trilateration practice).\n\nFrequently in surveying engineering and geodetic science, control points (CP) are setting/observing distance and direction (bearings, angles, azimuths, and elevation). The CP throughout the control network may consist of monuments, benchmarks, vertical control, etc.There are mainly two types of traverse.Traverse may be either a closed traverse or an open traverse.\n1.Closed traverse: the traverse which either originates from a station and returns to the same station completing a circuit or runs between two known stations,is called a closed traverse.\nA compound traverse is where an open traverse is linked at its ends to an existing traverse to form a closed traverse. The closing line may be defined by coordinates at the end points which have been determined by previous survey. The difficulty is, where there is linear misclosure, it is not known whether the error is in the new survey or the previous survey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29313782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29313782", "title": "Turn-by-turn navigation", "text": "Turn-by-turn navigation\n\nTurn-by-turn Navigation is a feature of some GPS navigation devices where directions for a selected route are continually presented to the user in the form of spoken or visual instructions. The system keeps the user up-to-date about the best route to the destination, and is often updated according to changing factors such as traffic and road conditions. Turn-by-turn systems typically use an electronic voice to inform the user whether to turn left or right, the street name, and how much distance to the turn.\nMathematically, turn by turn navigation is based on the shortest path problem within graph theory, which examines how to identify the path that best meets some criteria (shortest, cheapest, fastest, etc.) between two points in a large network.\n\nMajor mapping services that offer turn-by-turn navigation, grouped by map data provider:\n"}
{"id": "8331945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8331945", "title": "Ultra-short baseline", "text": "Ultra-short baseline\n\nUSBL (ultra-short baseline, also sometimes known as SSBL for super short base line) is a method of underwater acoustic positioning. A complete USBL system consists of a transceiver, which is mounted on a pole under a ship, and a transponder or responder on the seafloor, on a towfish, or on an ROV. A computer, or \"topside unit\", is used to calculate a position from the ranges and bearings measured by the transceiver.\n\nAn acoustic pulse is transmitted by the transceiver and detected by the subsea transponder, which replies with its own acoustic pulse. This return pulse is detected by the shipboard transceiver. The time from the transmission of the initial acoustic pulse until the reply is detected is measured by the USBL system and is converted into a range.\n\nTo calculate a subsea position, the USBL calculates both a range and an angle from the transceiver to the subsea beacon. Angles are measured by the transceiver, which contains an array of transducers. The transceiver head normally contains three or more transducers separated by a baseline of 10 cm or less. A method called “phase-differencing” within this transducer array is used to calculate the direction to the subsea transponder.\n\nUSBLs have also begun to find use in \"inverted\" (iUSBL) configurations, with the transceiver mounted on an autonomous underwater vehicle, and the transponder on the target. In this case, the \"topside\" processing happens inside the vehicle to allow it to locate the transponder for applications such as automatic docking and target tracking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11634454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11634454", "title": "Urban semiotics", "text": "Urban semiotics\n\nUrban semiotics is the study of meaning in urban form as generated by signs, symbols, and their social connotations.\n\nMost urban semiotic theory is based on social semiotics, which considers social connotations, including meanings related to ideology and power structures, in addition to denotative meanings of signs. As such, urban semiotics focuses on material objects of the built environment, such as streets, squares, parks, and buildings, but also unbuilt cultural products such as building codes, planning documents, unbuilt designs, real estate advertising, and popular discourse about the city, such as architectural criticism and real estate blogs.\n\nTheorists who take a social semiotic approach to urban semiotics define their discipline in opposition to the methods of behavioral geography, beginning with the work of Kevin Lynch in \"The Image of the City\", which they criticize for being limited by its exclusive focus on the denotative level of communication (recognition of spatial elements, such as paths, as conceptual objects), ignoring the connotative meanings associated with urban forms; instead, urban semioticians argue that urban structures often become recognizable because they have symbolic meaning beyond their functional meanings. The social semiotic approach to urban semiotics also grew out of a critique of architectural semiotics, which was perceived to be overly attached to linguistic models of semiosis and thus unable to adequately consider the social connotations of signs.\n\nSome theorists have used semiotic models in empirical studies of the construction of meaning in urban environments. Raymond Ledrut has used questionnaires and interviews about viewers' responses to sets of photographs in order to examine the role of class in shaping mental models of the city. Martin Krampen conducted studies of photograph recognition in order to discover the level of facade detail required to identify building types, and to examine the role of socioeconomic status in shaping preference for building styles.\n\nRoland Barthes\nFrancoise Choay\nUmberto Eco\nMark Gottdiener\nAlgirdas Julien Greimas\nMartin Krampen\nAlexandros Lagopoulos\nRaymond Ledrut\nHenri Lefebvre\n\n"}
{"id": "15131800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15131800", "title": "Vautrin Lud Prize", "text": "Vautrin Lud Prize\n\nThe Prix International de Géographie Vautrin Lud, known in English as the Vautrin Lud Prize, is the highest award in the field of geography. Established in 1991, the award is modeled on the Nobel Prize, and colloquially called the \"Nobel Prize for Geography\". The award is named after the 16th Century French scholar Vautrin Lud who is credited with naming the New World America after Amerigo Vespucci. The award is given in the autumn of each year at the International Geography Festival in Saint-Dié-des-Vosges, France (the home town of Vautrin Lud) and decided upon by a five-person international jury.\n\n\n"}
