{"id": "46588607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46588607", "title": "Agnesium", "text": "Agnesium\n\nAgnesium is a neologism coined to describe a powerful, efficient and effective organization as an entity. Agnesium is a combination of Agnes (Latin for powerful, efficient and effective) and the suffix -ium (indicating a biological structure).\n\nThe basic principle of Agnesium is that for complex structures/organizations there are many interdependencies between the members that are not known, understood or leveraged. By recognizing, understanding and leveraging these hidden interdependencies an organization can be proactive, adaptive and exploitive.\n"}
{"id": "13712439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13712439", "title": "Available-to-promise", "text": "Available-to-promise\n\nAvailable-to-promise (ATP) is a business function that provides a response to customer order enquiries, based on resource availability. It generates available quantities of the requested product, and delivery due dates. Therefore, ATP supports order promising and fulfillment, aiming to manage demand and match it to production plans.\n\nAvailable-to-promise functions are IT-enabled and usually integrated in enterprise management software packages. However, ATP execution may need to be adjusted for the way a certain company operates.\n\nA fundamental distinction between ATP functions is based on the push-pull strategy. Push-based ATP is based on forecasts regarding future demand - based on anticipation of demand, ATP quantities and availability dates are computed. A prominent example is the traditional determination of ATP based on the Master Production Schedule. The push-based approach is fundamentally limited by dependence on forecasts, which may prove inaccurate. Gross ATP represents the total available supply, and net ATP represents the supply remaining to support new demands, after existing commitments to customers have been accounted for.\n\nPull-based models, on the other hand, dynamically allocate resources in response to actual customer orders. This means that pull-based ATP is able to balance forecast-driven resource replenishment with order-triggered resource utilization, but because resources are allocated with each coming order, the process will yield myopic results.\n\nATP functions can be executed in real time, driven by each individual order, or in batch mode – meaning that at a certain time interval, the system checks availability for orders piled up in that period of time. The process is triggered by the need to check resource availability before making a commitment to deliver an order. For example, ATP calculation using SAP software depends on the level of \"stock, planned receipts (production orders, purchase orders, planned orders and so on), and planned requirements (sales orders, deliveries, reservations, etc.)\"\n\n"}
{"id": "38722262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38722262", "title": "Ayasdi", "text": "Ayasdi\n\nAyasdi is a machine intelligence software company that offers a software platform and applications to organizations looking to analyze and build predictive models using big data or highly dimensional data sets. Organizations and governments have deployed Ayasdi's software across a variety of use cases including the development of clinical pathways for hospitals, anti-money laundering, fraud detection, trading strategies, customer segmentation, oil and gas well development, drug development, disease research, information security, anomaly detection, and national security applications.\n\nAyasdi focuses on hypothesis-free, automated analytics at scale. In effect, the Ayasdi system consumes the target data set, runs many different unsupervised and supervised machine learning algorithms on the data, automatically finds and ranks best fits, and then applies topological data analysis to find similar groups within the resultant data. It presents the end analysis in the form of a network similarity map, which is useful for an analyst to use to further explore the groupings and correlations that the system has uncovered. This reduces the risk of bias since the system surfaces \"what the data says\" in an unbiased fashion, rather than relying on analysts or data scientists manually running algorithms in support of pre-existing hypotheses. Ayasdi then generates mathematical models which are deployed in predictive and operational systems and applications.\n\nOrganizations using Ayasdi have found Ayasdi's automated, platform-based approach to machine intelligence to be two to five orders of magnitude more efficient than existing approaches to big data analytics, as measured in the amount of time and expense required to complete analysis and build models using large and complex data sets. One widely reported example at a top five global systemically important bank was that to build models required for the annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process took 1,800 person-months with traditional manual big data analytics and machine learning tools, but took 6 person-months with Ayasdi. A project at a second global systemically important bank showed Ayasdi reducing the time to build risk models from 3,000 person-hours to 10 minutes.\n\nAyasdi was founded in 2008 by Gunnar Carlsson, Gurjeet Singh, and Harlan Sexton after 12 years of research and development at Stanford University. While at Stanford, the founders received $1.25 million in DARPA and IARPA grants for \"high-risk, high-payoff research\". In 2012 Ayasdi landed a Series A round of funding led by Floodgate Capital and Khosla Ventures for $10.25 million. On July 16, 2013, Ayasdi closed $30.6 million in Series B funding from Institutional Venture Partners, GE Ventures, and Citi Ventures. On March 25, 2015, Ayasdi announced a new $55 million round of Series C funding, led by Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, and joined by four current investors, Institutional Venture Partners, Khosla Ventures, Floodgate Capital, Citi Ventures, and two new investors, Centerview Capital Technology and Draper Nexus.\n\nAyasdi is a machine intelligence platform. It includes dozens of statistical and both supervised and unsupervised machine learning algorithms and can be extended to include whatever algorithms are required for a particular class of analysis. The platform is extensively automated and is in production at scale at many global 100 companies and at governments in the world. It features Topological Data Analysis as a unifying analytical framework, which automatically calculates groupings and similarity across large and highly dimensional data sets, generating network maps with greatly assist analysts in understanding how data clusters and which variables are relevant. When compared with manual approaches to statistical analysis and machine learning, results with Ayasdi will typically be achieved much faster to achieve and more accurate due to the automation and scalability built into the platform. The Ayasdi platform also develops mathematical models, including predictive models, based on the results of the analysis. This allows Ayasdi to deployed as an operational system, or as a part of operational systems, and not just for analysis.\n\nAyasdi can be deployed on-premises using Intel-based servers, or on either public or private cloud infrastructure. The platform runs on Linux and Hadoop.\n\nAyasdi also develops machine intelligence applications. One example is Ayasdi Care, which is a suite of cloud-based applications for healthcare providers that is focused on managing and improving patient outcomes, revenue and population health. For example, Ayasdi clinical variation, one of the applications in Ayasdi Care, automatically discovers the ideal care paths for medical procedures based on analyzing historical patient data, billing records and insurance claims.\n\nAyasdi customers include many large enterprises, medical research institutions and governments across industries including health care, financial services, oil and gas, security, life sciences, and the public sector.\n\n"}
{"id": "9516940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9516940", "title": "Brand development index", "text": "Brand development index\n\nThe brand development index or BDI quantifies how well a brand performs in a market, compared with its average performance among all markets. That is, it measures the relative sales strength of a brand within a specific market (e.g., the Pepsi brand among 10–50-year-olds).\n\nThe purpose of the BDI metric is to quantify the relative performance of a brand within specified customer groups. The index helps marketers identify strong and weak segments (usually demographic or geographic) for individual brands.\n\nThe BDI is especially useful in conjunction with the category development index (CDI). It can be used in deciding the allocations in the media to which a specific brand is advertised. It can also be used to determine how much advertising, or promotion effort is, or should be put in that specific market.\n\nBDI: An index of how well a brand performs within a given market group, relative to its performance in the market as a whole.\n\nFor example, one might hypothesize that sales per capita of Ben & Jerry's brand ice cream would be greater in the brand's home state, Vermont, than in the rest of the country. By calculating Ben & Jerry's BDIs for Vermont and for the rest of the country, marketers could test this hypothesis quantitatively.\n\nGovoni also defined the BDI as the index of brand sales to category sales, though this ratio is more commonly referred to as market share.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37179317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37179317", "title": "Business Intelligence Markup Language", "text": "Business Intelligence Markup Language\n\nBusiness Intelligence Markup Language (Biml) is a domain-specific XML dialect for defining business intelligence (BI) assets. Biml authored BI assets can currently be used by the BIDS Helper add-on for Microsoft SQL Server Business Intelligence Development Studio (BIDS) and the Varigence Mist (now called BimlStudio) integrated development environment; both tools translate Biml metadata into SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) assets for the Microsoft SQL Server platform. However, emitters can be created to compile Biml for any desired BI platform.\n\nWhile Biml’s declarative design is sufficient to author BI assets, BimlScript extends the language by enabling authors to embed C# or VB.NET code within Biml, similar to how ASP.NET includes .NET code within static HTML markup. BimlScript is used to merge changes into existing Biml assets, automatically generate Biml code, and apply changes across multiple Biml files during compilation.\n\nBiml is an XML dialect that specifies all aspects of a BI solution, including relational models, data transformation packages, multi-dimensional models, and tabular models.\n\nUnlike other BI solutions, Biml has a \"write once, target any platform\" philosophy. This enables Biml users to switch their target platform without needing to change their code. Currently, Biml targets SQL Server versions 2005, 2008, 2008 R2, 2012 and 2014, emitting SSIS packages and SSAS cubes.\n\nBecause Biml is XML, it can leverage the vast ecosystem of tools for XML based languages. This also makes it human readable/writeable, so it is easier to edit by hand than the SSIS/SSAS files it generates.\n\nIn late 2009, Biml was extended with BimlScript. BimlScript allows C# or VB.NET code nuggets to be embedded directly within Biml. BimlScript's goal is to automate repetitive work in reusable scripts. Additionally, it's been used to automate package generation and build reusable patterns for BI tasks. BimlScript is also used to take metadata from various sources (relational database structure, relational data, flat files, annotations, etc...) and automatically generate Biml code from it.\n\nMist is an IDE for authoring Biml code and building BI assets. Mist leverages visual design capabilities and debugging features to simultaneously edit entire business intelligence models, including relational tables, SSIS packages, and cubes. Mist also incorporates modern programming IDE features, including text editors with syntax highlighting, Intelliprompt and quick-info displays, source control integration, and multi-monitor support.\n\nAs Biml’s popularity has grown, key portions of the Biml engine, including dynamic package generation, have been contributed to the BIDS Helper open source project hosted on CodePlex.\n\nBimlScript.com is a community website for developing and sharing Biml solutions to BI problems, and contributing Biml content to share with others. Along with tutorials, walkthroughs, and videos, the site provides an online Biml editor.\n\nBiml files are compiled to produce BI assets for a chosen platform. Currently, it’s possible to generate assets for Microsoft’s SSIS, SSAS, and SQL Server platforms, for the 2005, 2008 (R2), 2012 and 2014 releases. Other platforms may be targeted in the future.\n\nBiml has a syntax that’s common to all XML languages. Tags begin and end with < and >, respectively. Furthermore, tags can have attributes and nested elements.\n\nBiml documents begin with a common declaration\nBiml has a well-defined set of root types, indicating the various kinds of BI assets that can be created\n\n\nThis is an example of the AdventureWorks DimCurrency table, authored in Biml\n\nAll BimlScript tags begin and end with <# and #> delimiters, respectively. Special types of BimlScript tags use augmented versions of these delimiters, to indicate specific usages.\n\nA Biml file, with BimlScript, begins with at least one directive. Directives provide instructions to the Biml engine, regarding how to process the BimlScript and generate its Biml. Directives are single tags that begin with <#@. Each directive begins with a single term, followed by attributes that supply required values.\n\nThe two most common directives are template and import.\n\nThis directive indicates that the file's BimlScript uses the C# programming language.\nThis directive specifies .NET namespaces that should be imported for the file. It is functionally equivalent to the C# using statement or VB.NET Imports statement.\nWhen authoring BimlScript, additional delimiters may be used. These delimiters match the behavior of T4 template delimiters.\n\nThis BimlScript example imports a database's assets via a connection, declared in a separate file, named \"AdventureWorksLT\". Each schema and table from the imported database is then embedded directly within the Schemas and Tables collections, respectively.\nThis example shows how developers can use Biml and BimlScript to:\n\n"}
{"id": "8613151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8613151", "title": "Business economics", "text": "Business economics\n\nBusiness economics is a field in applied economics which uses economic theory and quantitative methods to analyze business enterprises and the factors contributing to the diversity of organizational structures and the relationships of firms with labour, capital and product markets. A professional focus of the journal \"Business Economics\" has been expressed as providing \"practical information for people who apply economics in their jobs.\"\nBusiness economics is an integral part of traditional economics. It is an extension of economic concepts to the real business situations. It is an applied science in the sense of a tool of managerial decision-making and forward planning by management. In other words, Business economics is concerned with the application of economic theory to business management.\n\nBusiness economics is concerned with economic issues and problems related to business organization, management, and strategy. Issues and problems include: an explanation of why \"corporate\" firms emerge and exist; why they expand: horizontally, vertically and spacially; the role of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship; the significance of organizational structure; the relationship of firms with the employees, the providers of capital, the customers, the government; the interactions between firms and the business environment.\n\nThe term 'business economics' is used in a variety of ways. Sometimes it is used as synonymously with industrial economics/industrial organisation, managerial economics, and economics for business. Still, there may be substantial differences in the usage of 'economics for business' and 'managerial economics' with the latter used more narrowly.\nOne view of the distinctions between these would be that business economics is wider in its scope than industrial economics in that it would be concerned not only with \"industry\" but also businesses in the service sector. Economics for business looks at the major principles of economics but focuses on applying these economic principles to the real world of business. Managerial economics is the application of economic methods in the managerial decision-making process.\n\nMany universities offer courses in business economics and offer a range of interpretations as to the meaning of the word.\n\nThe Bachelor of Business Economics (BBE) Program at University of Delhi is designed to meet the growing need for an analytical and quantitative approach to problem solving in the changing corporate world by the application of the latest techniques evolved in the fields of economics and business.\n\nThe Autonomous University of Barcelona (UAB), the Universidad Pública de Navarra (UPNa) and the University of the Balearic Islands (UIB) developed an official Master of Science in Management, Organization and Business Economics focused on management and business topics to train professionals in the study of organizations, on a conceptual and quantitative basis. To achieve this, advanced analysis tools are used from the fields of Neoclassical economics, New institutional economics, Statistics, Econometrics and Operations research. This focus is complemented with contributing ideas and theories to develop the necessary instruments to facilitate the management of sophisticated and complex organizations.\n\nThe program at Harvard University uses economic methods to analyze practical aspects of business, including business administration, management, and related fields of business economics.\n\nThe University of Miami defines business economics as involving the study of how we use our resources for the production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services. This requires business economists to analyze social institutions, banks, the stock market, the government and their relationships with labor negotiations, taxes, international trade, and urban and environmental issues.\n\nCourses at the University of Manchester interpret business economics to be concerned with the economic analysis of how businesses contribute to welfare of society rather than on the welfare of an individual or a business. This is done via an examination of the relationship between ownership, control and firm objectives; theories of the growth of the firm; the behavioural theory of the firm; theories of entrepreneurship; the factors that influence the structure, conduct and performance of business at the industry level.\n\nItalian Universities borrow their concept of business economics from the tradition of Gino Zappa, for example a standard course at the Politecnico di Milano involves studying corporate governance, accounting, investment analysis, budgeting and business strategy.\n\nLa Trobe University of Melbourne, Australia associates business economics with the process of demand, supply and equilibrium coordinating the behaviour of individuals and businesses in the market. Also, business economics extends to government policy, economic variables and international factors which influence business and competition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25059538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25059538", "title": "Center for Business and Economic Research", "text": "Center for Business and Economic Research\n\nThe Ball State University Center for Business and Economic Research (CBER), formerly the Bureau of Business Research, is an economic policy and forecasting research center housed within the Miller College of Business at Ball State University in Muncie, Indiana, USA. CBER research encompasses health care, public finance, regional economics, transportation, and energy sector studies. In addition to research, CBER serves as the forecasting element in the Muncie area – hosting five state and federal economic forecasting roundtables.\n\nThe Center for Business and Economic Research was founded the late 1960s as the Bureau of Business Research at Ball State University. The founding was initiated by Dr. Robert P. Bell soon after being hired as the first dean of the College of Business. Dr. Joseph Brown from the University of Georgia became the first director of the bureau. The focus of the bureau was to look for research opportunities and provide faculty with help pursuing those opportunities. Also, focus was placed on using faculty in applied business research.\n\nThe focus of the center has changed significantly since its inception. An official name change from the Bureau of Business Research to the Center for Business and Economic Research occurred in 2008. Currently, the center works in the community through services of economic policy research, national, state, and local forecasting, and data analysis.\n\nCBER regularly releases studies and publications on various topics including health care, public finance, regional economics, transportation, and energy.\n\nCBER houses the managing office of the American Journal of Business, a peer-reviewed journal that publishes articles aimed at improving business practices or enhancing instructional efforts through application, transfer, and interpretation of knowledge.\n\nCBER also publishes the online publication, Indiana Business Bulletin (IBB). The IBB provides weekly economic analysis, forecasting, and leading economic indicators to the business community, media, and policymakers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22846990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22846990", "title": "Center for International Business Education and Research", "text": "Center for International Business Education and Research\n\nThe Centers for International Business Education and Research (CIBERs) are resources for international business education in the United States funded by through the United States Department of Education. The centers were established in 1988 as part of the Omnibus Foreign Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 As part of the legislation, CIBERs are mandated to provide six specific services among their services. There are CIBERs at 17 universities in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "36910423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36910423", "title": "Customer delight", "text": "Customer delight\n\nCustomer delight is surprising a customer by exceeding his or her expectations and thus creating a positive emotional reaction. This emotional reaction leads to word of mouth. Customer delight directly affects sales and profitability of a company as it helps to distinguish the company and its products and services from the competition.\nIn the past customer satisfaction has been seen as a key performance indicator. Customer satisfaction measures the extent to which the expectations of a customer are met (compared to expectations being exceeded). However, it has been discovered that mere customer satisfaction does not create brand loyalty nor does it encourage positive word of mouth.\n\nCustomer delight can be created by the product itself, by accompanied standard services and by interaction with people at the front line. The interaction is the greatest source of opportunities to create delight as it can be personalized and tailored to the specific needs and wishes of the customer. During contacts with touch points in the company, more than just customer service can be delivered. The person at the front line can surprise by showing a sincere personal interest in the customer, offer small attentions that might please or find a solution specific to particular needs. Those front-line employees are able to develop a relationship between the customer and the brand. Elements in creating motivated staff are: recruiting the right people, motivating them continuously and leading them in a clear way.\n\nThere are three objectives when implementing Customer Delight:\nThe effect of achieving those objectives, according to Reichheld as described in The Ultimate Question 2.0, only 9% of the world’s major firms achieve real sustainable profit and growth over 10- year period from 1999 to 2009. Customer Delight is the only kind of growth that can be sustained over the long term according to Reichheld and Markey. The authors mention that their company Bain & Company have researched and concluded that a 5% increase in customer retention could yield anywhere between 25% to 100% increase in profits. The book explains the Net Promoter Score; a system which measures what customers are feeling and thus creating accountability for the customer experience.\n\nIn order to consistently deliver Customer Delight at all customer touch points throughout the company, a customer-centric corporate culture is key. With this corporate culture all processes, systems, people and leadership are aligned: everyone in the organization shares the same set of values, attitudes and practices. Developing the culture is a continuous exercise of innovation and improvement, involving every employee of the company. An absolutely necessary step is linking Customer Delight behaviour to the core values of the brand. Core values are operating principles that guide an organization’s internal conduct as well as its relationship with customers, partners and shareholders. Once core values are clearly outlined it is critical to incorporate them into every process, from hiring, to employee appraisals and decision making.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21687181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21687181", "title": "Customer involvement management", "text": "Customer involvement management\n\nCustomer involvement management, \"CIM\", is a marketing management method that takes customer orientation further than customer relationship management. CIM identifies and develops ways to involve customers in the business and product development process, such as design, marketing, sales, customer service, etc. The degree of involvement can be as far as to make the customer a part of the product, experience, and delivery.\n\nWithin CIM, the product is considered a subset in what meets the customer's need of identification, problem solving, and consumption. The possibility to influence the design and the consumption itself is assumed to be of great importance for the customers buying decision and loyalty.\n\nOne example of a company that uses CIM is Nike. With the concept NikeiD they let the customers design their own sport shoes.\n\nMore recently companies have started to build Web portals that involve customers in the idea generation, selection, development, and commercialization.\n"}
{"id": "33616691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33616691", "title": "Fayolism", "text": "Fayolism\n\nFayolism was a theory of management that analyzed and synthesized the role of management in organizations, developed around 1900 by the French management theorist Henri Fayol (1841–1925). It was through Fayol's work as a philosopher of administration that he contributed most widely to the theory and practice of organizational management.\nFayol believed by focusing on managerial practices he could minimize misunderstandings and increase efficiency in organizations. He enlightened managers on how to accomplish their managerial duties, and the practices in which they should engage. In his book \"General and Industrial Management\" (published in French in 1916, then published in English in 1949), Fayol outlined his theory of general management, which he believed could be applied to the administration of myriad industries. His concern was with the administrative apparatus (or functions of administration), and to that end he presented his \"administrative theory\", that is, principles and elements of management.\n\nHis theories and ideas were ideally a result of his environment—a post revolutionized France with an emerging republic bourgeois. A bourgeois himself, he believed in controlling workers to achieve greater productivity over all other managerial considerations. However, through reading \"General and Industrial Management,\" it is apparent that Fayol advocated a flexible approach to management, one he believed could be applied to any circumstance whether in the home, the workplace, or within the state. He stressed the importance and the practice of forecasting and planning in order to apply these ideas and techniques, which demonstrated his ability and emphasis in being able to adapt to any sort of situation. In \"General and Industrial Management\" he outlines an agenda whereby, under an accepted theory of management, every citizen is exposed and taught some form of management education and allowed to exercise management abilities first at school and later on in the workplace.\n\nFayol has been regarded by many as the father of the modern operational management theory, and his ideas have become a fundamental part of modern management concepts. Fayol is often compared to Frederick Winslow Taylor who developed Scientific Management. Taylor's Scientific Management deals with the efficient organization of production in the context of a competitive enterprise that is concerned with controlling its production costs. Taylor's system of scientific management is the cornerstone of classical theory. Fayol was also a classical theorist, and referred to Taylor in his writing and considered him a visionary and pioneer in the management of organizations.\n\nHowever, Fayol differed from Taylor in his focus. Taylor's main focus was on the task, whereas Fayol was more concerned with management. Another difference between the two theorists is their treatment of workers. Fayol appears to have slightly more respect for the worker than Taylor had, as evidenced by Fayol's proclamation that workers may indeed be motivated by more than just money. Fayol also argued for equity in the treatment of workers.\n\nAccording to Claude George (1968), a primary difference between Fayol and Taylor was that Taylor viewed management processes from the bottom up, while Fayol viewed it from the top down. In Fayol's book \"General and Industrial Management,\" Fayol wrote that He suggests that Taylor has staff analysts and advisors working with individuals at lower levels of the organization to identify the ways to improve efficiency. According to Fayol, the approach results in a \"negation of the principle of unity of command\". Fayol criticized Taylor’s functional management in this way. Those eight, Fayol said, were \nThis, he said, was an unworkable situation, and that Taylor must have somehow reconciled the dichotomy in some way not described in Taylor's works.\n\nFayol's desire for teaching a generalized theory of management stemmed from the belief that each individual of an organization at one point or another takes on duties that involve managerial decisions. Unlike Taylor, however, who believed management activity was the exclusive duty of an organizations dominant class. Fayol's approach was more in sync with his idea of Authority, which stated, \"...that the right to give orders should not be considered without the acceptance and understanding of responsibility.\"\n\nNoted as one of the early fathers of the \"Human Relations\" movements, Fayol expressed ideas and practices different from Taylor, in that they showed flexibility and adaptation, and stressed the importance of interpersonal interaction among employees.\n\nDuring the early 20th century, Fayol developed 14 principles of management to help managers manage their affairs more effectively. Organizations in technologically advanced countries interpret these principles quite differently from the way they were interpreted during Fayol's time as well. These differences in interpretation are in part a result of the cultural challenges managers face when implementing this framework. The fourteen principles are: \nWithin his theory, Fayol outlined five elements of management that depict the kinds of behaviors managers should engage in so that the goals and objectives of an organization are effectively met. The five elements of management are:\n\n\nFayol believed that animosity and unease within the workplace occurred among employees in different departments. Many of these \"misunderstandings\" were thought to be caused by improper communication, mainly through letters (or in present-day emails). Among scholars of organizational communication and psychology, letters were perceived to induce or solidify a hierarchical structure within the organization. Through this type of vertical communication, many individuals gained a false feeling of importance. Furthermore, it gave way to selfish thinking and eventual conflict among employees in the workplace.\n\nThis concept was expressed in Fayol's book, \"General and Industrial Management\", by stating,\" in some firms... employees in neighboring departments with numerous points of contact, or even employees within a department, who could quite easily meet, communicate with each other in writing... there is to be observed a certain amount of animosity prevailing between different departments or different employees within a department. The system of written communication usually brings this result. There is a way of putting an end to this deplorable system ... and that is to forbid all communication in writing which could easily and advantageously be replaced by verbal ones.\"\n\nFayol believed that managerial practices were key to predictability and efficiency in organizations. The Administrative theory views communication as a necessary ingredient to successful management and many of Fayol's practices are still alive in today's workplace. The elements and principles of management can be found in modern organizations in several ways: as accepted practices in some industries, as revamped versions of the original principles or elements, or as remnants of the organization's history to which alternative practices and philosophies are being offered. The U.S. military is a prime example of an organization that has continued to use these principles.\n\n"}
{"id": "3349994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3349994", "title": "List of business terms", "text": "List of business terms\n\nThe following terms are in everyday use in financial regions, such as commercial business and the management of large organisations such as corporations.\n\n"}
{"id": "401046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401046", "title": "Management process", "text": "Management process\n\nManagement process is a process of setting goals, planning and/or controlling the organizing and leading the execution of any type of activity, such as: \n\nAn organization's senior management is responsible for carrying out its management process. However, this is not always the case for all management processes, for example, it is the responsibility of the project manager to carry out a project management process.\n\"'Planning,\" it determines the objectives, evaluate the different alternatives and choose the best\nOrganizing, define group's functions, establish relationships and defining authority irresponsibility\nStaffing, recruitment or placement and selection or training takes place for the development of members in the firm\ndirecting, is to give the Direction to the employes.\n\n"}
{"id": "19975724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19975724", "title": "Open Options Corporation", "text": "Open Options Corporation\n\nOpen Options Corporation is a privately owned business strategy consulting company that specializes in applied game theory and business war games where there are multiple stakeholders who can all influence the final outcome of a particular situation.\n\nOpen Options’ original software development was funded by the CIA through a company called Waterloo Engineering Software. The software was designed to help the American government better anticipate the collapse of the Soviet Union into many different breakaway republics. The software was based on academic research by Dr. Niall Fraser from the University of Waterloo. Dr. Fraser has written several books on game theory including Mathematical Modeling of Resolutions of Conflict and Conflict Analysis: Models and Resolutions.\n\nOpen Options uses a type of game theory called Ordinal Non-cooperative Game Theory which is a less well-known sub-section of game theory. However, this approach and proprietary software enables Open Options to analyze millions of possible outcomes.\n\nbusiness ideas\n\n"}
{"id": "26604528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26604528", "title": "Oxford Global Islamic Branding and Marketing Forum", "text": "Oxford Global Islamic Branding and Marketing Forum\n\nThe Oxford Global Islamic Branding and Marketing Forum is a two-day forum that brings together over 250 business leaders, branding and marketing experts and thought leaders to discuss and understand the key issues that face the growth of the Muslim market.\n\nAccording to the Pew Research Center a comprehensive demographic study (Mapping the Global Muslim Population) of more than 200 countries finds that there are 1.57 billion Muslims of all ages living in the world today, representing 23% of an estimated 2009 world population of 6.8 billion. Not only is the Muslim population a significant percentage of the global population but AT Kearney also point out that the market for sharia compliant products or services – that is products and services that confirm to Islamic Law – totals US$2trillion annually and is growing rapidly.\n\nAs Muslim countries develop, there is an expressed need to develop and market their own brands to the rest of the world. Additionally, there is massive interest amongst non-Muslim companies in how to enter and penetrate this global market, which spans many industries, including finance, food and beverage, cosmetics, healthcare, pharmaceuticals, logistics, tourism, fashion, and others.\n\nThis Forum brings Muslim and non-Muslim leaders and companies from a variety of business sectors together to discuss how to develop better trade and business relations and to learn from each other about the markets involved and to facilitate greater understanding of each other. This is a new and growing area of marketing and branding that has not been fully understood but is gaining interest from the business world. \nIslam is one religion, but within the Islamic global population there are many markets that behave differently from cultural and business perspectives and both Muslim and non-Muslim marketers seek to understand these differences effectively to address their needs.\n\nThe confirmed role players include The Honourable Dato' Sri Mohd Najib Tun Razak, Prime Minister of Malaysia; H.E. Shaukat Aziz, former Prime Minister of Pakistan; Lord Nazir Ahmed, Life Peer of the House of Lords of the UK Parliament; Mr Miles Young, CEO of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide; Rafi-uddin Shikoh, CEO, The Dinar Standard; Tan Sri Dato’ H. Muhammad-Ali, President & CEO, Johor Corporation; Arif Zaman, Principal Consultant, Reputation Institute; Datuk Seri Farid Ridzuan, CEO, Media Prima, Malaysia\n\nIssues in Islamic Branding & Marketing:\n\nThe organiser is the Executive Education Department of the Said Business School of Oxford University.\n\n"}
{"id": "3265765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3265765", "title": "Ralph Kimball", "text": "Ralph Kimball\n\nRalph Kimball (born 1944) is an author on the subject of data warehousing and business intelligence. He is one of the original architects of data warehousing and is known for long-term convictions that data warehouses must be designed to be understandable and fast. \nHis methodology, also known as dimensional modeling or the Kimball methodology, has become the de facto standard in the area of decision support.\n\nHe is the principal author of the best-selling books \"The Data Warehouse Toolkit\", \"The Data Warehouse Lifecycle Toolkit\", \"The Data Warehouse ETL Toolkit\" and \"The Kimball Group Reader\", published by Wiley and Sons.\n\nAfter receiving a Ph.D. in 1973 from Stanford University in electrical engineering (specializing in man-machine systems), Ralph joined the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center (PARC). At PARC Ralph was a principal designer of the Xerox Star Workstation, the first commercial product to use mice, icons and windows.\n\nKimball then became vice president of applications at Metaphor Computer Systems, a decision support software and services provider. He developed the Capsule Facility in 1982. The Capsule was a graphical programming technique which connected icons together in a logical flow, allowing a very visual style of programming for non-programmers. The Capsule was used to build reporting and analysis applications at Metaphor.\n\nKimball founded Red Brick Systems in 1986, serving as CEO until 1992. Red Brick Systems was acquired by Informix, which is now owned by IBM. Red Brick was known for its relational database optimized for data warehousing. Their claim to fame was the use of bit-map Indexes in order to achieve performance gains that amounted to almost 10 times that of other Database vendors at that time.\n\nRalph Kimball Associates incorporated in 1992 to provide data warehouse consulting and education.\n\nThe Kimball Group, founded by Kimball, formalized existing long-term relationships between Ralph Kimball Associates, DecisionWorks Consulting, and InfoDynamics LLC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25539116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25539116", "title": "Relational contract", "text": "Relational contract\n\nA relational contract is a contract whose effect is based upon a relationship of trust between the parties to which it pertains. The explicit terms of the contract are just an outline as there are implicit terms and understandings which determine the behaviour of the parties.\n\nRelational contract theory was originally developed in the United States by the legal scholars Ian Roderick Macneil and Stewart Macaulay. According to Macneil it offered a response to the so-called “Death of Contract” school’s nihilistic argument that contract was not a fit subject for study as a whole; each different type of contract (e.g., sales, employment, negotiable instruments) could be studied individually, but not “contracts-in-gross”.\n\nMacneil explains that this is only one of a number of possible relational theories of contracts, and accordingly renamed his own version “essential contract theory”.\n\nRelational contract theory is characterized by a view of contracts as relations rather than as discrete transactions (which, Macneil argued, traditional “classical” or \"neo-classical contract\" theory treats contracts as being). Thus, even a simple transaction can properly be understood as involving a wider social and economic context. For instance, if A purchases a packet of cigarettes from a shop he has never been into before and will never enter again, that seems quite discrete. However, A will almost certainly have a loyalty to a particular brand of cigarettes and expectations about quality about which he would be prepared to complain to the manufacturer, although he has no contractual privity with the manufacturer. There is also an understanding that A will pay for the cigarettes, not simply run off with them, and that if he tenders a £10 note in exchange for the cigarettes which are priced at £6, the paper money will be acceptable and change of £4 will be given. None of this is explicitly stated between the parties, whose conversation is likely limited to “20 Marlboro, please” on A’s part and “That’ll be £6, please” on the part of the retailer. Thus, even the simplest transaction has a good deal that is unstated and dependent on a wider web of social and economic relations. How far outwards into that web one needs to investigate will depend on the transaction and on the purpose for which it is being examined.\n\nAlthough earlier writing may be taken in places to suggest that the substantive rules of contract law need to be reframed to acknowledge the relational, non-discrete nature of contracts, this has not been subsequently pursued and current scholars have argued that it is neither possible nor necessary to reform the law of contract itself to work effectively with relationally-constituted contracts.\n\nOther characteristics of relational contract theory are that “contract” is understood to cover economic exchange in general, not just contracts that would be recognized as legally enforceable agreements by courts in any given jurisdiction, that relations are mostly held together by their own internal values and wider social/economic factors, and, at least in relational theory in the Macneil mould, that exchange relations are governed by a number of norms. This last is not to say that relational contract theory is normative in nature, setting out what ought to be the case properly, but rather that there are actual observable normal characteristics or factors at play in relations. Macneil’s essential contract theory offers some 14 norms.\n\nThe English contracts scholar Richard Austen-Baker has more recently proposed an alternative version of relational contract theory, called “comprehensive contract theory”, which posits four “comprehensive contract norms” in place of Macneil’s 14, though Austen-Baker does not deny the validity of Macneil’s norms as a complex tool of analysis. The Japanese scholar Takashi Uchida has proposed a version of relational contract theory inspired by Macneil, relating it to the Japanese situation. Other notable contributions to relational contract theory have been made by Stewart Macaulay (U.S.), Lisa Bernstein (U.S.), David Campbell (England) and John Wightman (England).\n\nRecent research from the International Association for Contract and Commercial Management, the University of Tennessee and Lindahl law firm takes the relational contracting theories expressed by Macneil, Macaulay and others and makes them relevant for contracting practitioners trying to craft strategic, collaborative relationships with their procurement and outsourced business partners.\nThe white paper, outlines basic tenets that are foundational to relational contracting, including: communication, risk allocation, problem solving, no-blame culture, joint working, gain and pain sharing, mutual objectives, performance measurement and continuous improvement.\nThe Unpacking Relational Contracting white paper also describes a five-step process for developing a relational contract:\n\n"}
{"id": "990677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=990677", "title": "SAS (software)", "text": "SAS (software)\n\nSAS (previously \"Statistical Analysis System\") is a software suite developed by SAS Institute for advanced analytics, multivariate analyses, business intelligence, data management, and predictive analytics.\n\nSAS was developed at North Carolina State University from 1966 until 1976, when SAS Institute was incorporated. SAS was further developed in the 1980s and 1990s with the addition of new statistical procedures, additional components and the introduction of JMP. A point-and-click interface was added in version 9 in 2004. A social media analytics product was added in 2010.\n\nSAS is a software suite that can mine, alter, manage and retrieve data from a variety of sources and perform statistical analysis on it. SAS provides a graphical point-and-click user interface for non-technical users and more advanced options through the SAS language.\n\nSAS programs have DATA steps, which retrieve and manipulate data, and PROC steps, which analyze the data. Each step consists of a series of statements.\n\nThe DATA step has executable statements that result in the software taking an action, and declarative statements that provide instructions to read a data set or alter the data's appearance. The DATA step has two phases: compilation and execution. In the compilation phase, declarative statements are processed and syntax errors are identified. Afterwards, the execution phase processes each executable statement sequentially. Data sets are organized into tables with rows called \"observations\" and columns called \"variables\". Additionally, each piece of data has a descriptor and a value.\n\nThe PROC step consists of PROC statements that call upon named procedures. Procedures perform analysis and reporting on data sets to produce statistics, analyses, and graphics. There are more than 300 procedures and each one contains a substantial body of programming and statistical work. PROC statements can also display results, sort data or perform other operations.\n\nSAS macros are pieces of code or variables that are coded once and referenced to perform repetitive tasks.\n\nSAS data can be published in HTML, PDF, Excel and other formats using the Output Delivery System, which was first introduced in 2007. The SAS Enterprise Guide is SAS's point-and-click interface. It generates code to manipulate data or perform analysis automatically and does not require SAS programming experience to use.\n\nThe SAS software suite has more than 200 components Some of the SAS components include:\n\nThe development of SAS began in 1966 after North Carolina State University re-hired Anthony Barr to program his analysis of variance and regression software so that it would run on IBM System/360 computers. The project was funded by the National Institute of Health and was originally intended to analyze agricultural data to improve crop yields. Barr was joined by student James Goodnight, who developed the software's statistical routines, and the two became project leaders. In 1968, Barr and Goodnight integrated new multiple regression and analysis of variance routines. In 1972, after issuing the first release of SAS, the project lost its funding. According to Goodnight, this was because NIH only wanted to fund projects with medical applications. Goodnight continued teaching at the university for a salary of $1 and access to mainframe computers for use with the project, until it was funded by the University Statisticians of the Southern Experiment Stations the following year. John Sall joined the project in 1973 and contributed to the software's econometrics, time series, and matrix algebra. Another early participant, Caroll G. Perkins, contributed to SAS' early programming. Jolayne W. Service and Jane T. Helwig created SAS' first documentation.\n\nThe first versions of SAS were named after the year in which they were released. In 1971, SAS 71 was published as a limited release. It was used only on IBM mainframes and had the main elements of SAS programming, such as the DATA step and the most common procedures in the PROC step. The following year a full version was released as SAS 72, which introduced the MERGE statement and added features for handling missing data or combining data sets. In 1976, Barr, Goodnight, Sall, and Helwig removed the project from North Carolina State and incorporated it into SAS Institute, Inc.\n\nSAS was re-designed in SAS 76 with an open architecture that allowed for compilers and procedures. The INPUT and INFILE statements were improved so they could read most data formats used by IBM mainframes. Generating reports was also added through the PUT and FILE statements. The ability to analyze general linear models was also added as was the FORMAT procedure, which allowed developers to customize the appearance of data. In 1979, SAS 79 added support for the CMS operating system and introduced the DATASETS procedure. Three years later, SAS 82 introduced an early macro language and the APPEND procedure.\n\nSAS version 4 had limited features, but made SAS more accessible. Version 5 introduced a complete macro language, array subscripts, and a full-screen interactive user interface called Display Manager. In 1985, SAS was rewritten in the C programming language. This allowed for the SAS' Multivendor Architecture that allows the software to run on UNIX, MS-DOS, and Windows. It was previously written in PL/I, Fortran, and assembly language.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, SAS released a number of components to complement Base SAS. SAS/GRAPH, which produces graphics, was released in 1980, as well as the SAS/ETS component, which supports econometric and time series analysis. A component intended for pharmaceutical users, SAS/PH-Clinical, was released in the 1990s. The Food and Drug Administration standardized on SAS/PH-Clinical for new drug applications in 2002. Vertical products like SAS Financial Management and SAS Human Capital Management (then called CFO Vision and HR Vision respectively) were also introduced. JMP was developed by SAS co-founder John Sall and a team of developers to take advantage of the graphical user interface introduced in the 1984 Apple Macintosh and shipped for the first time in 1989. Updated versions of JMP were released continuously after 2002 with the most recent release being from 2016.\n\nSAS version 6 was used throughout the 1990s and was available on a wider range of operating systems, including Macintosh, OS/2, Silicon Graphics, and Primos. SAS introduced new features through dot-releases. From 6.06 to 6.09, a user interface based on the windows paradigm was introduced and support for SQL was added. Version 7 introduced the Output Delivery System (ODS) and an improved text editor. ODS was improved upon in successive releases. For example, more output options were added in version 8. The number of operating systems that were supported was reduced to UNIX, Windows and z/OS, and Linux was added. SAS version 8 and SAS Enterprise Miner were released in 1999.\n\nIn 2002, the Text Miner software was introduced. Text Miner analyzes text data like emails for patterns in Business Intelligence applications. In 2004, SAS Version 9.0 was released, which was dubbed \"Project Mercury\" and was designed to make SAS accessible to a broader range of business users. Version 9.0 added custom user interfaces based on the user's role and established the point-and-click user interface of SAS Enterprise Guide as the software's primary graphical user interface (GUI). The Customer Relationship Management (CRM) features were improved in 2004 with SAS Interaction Management. In 2008 SAS announced Project Unity, designed to integrate data quality, data integration and master data management.\n\nSAS sued World Programming, the developers of a competing implementation, World Programming System, alleging that they had infringed SAS's copyright in part by implementing the same functionality. This case was referred from the United Kingdom's High Court of Justice to the European Court of Justice on 11 August 2010. In May 2012, the European Court of Justice ruled in favor of World Programming, finding that \"the functionality of a computer program and the programming language cannot be protected by copyright.\"\n\nA free version was introduced for students in 2010. SAS Social Media Analytics, a tool for social media monitoring, engagement and sentiment analysis, was also released that year. SAS Rapid Predictive Modeler (RPM), which creates basic analytical models using Microsoft Excel, was introduced that same year. JMP 9 in 2010 added a new interface for using the R programming language from JMP and an add-in for Excel. The following year, a High Performance Computing appliance was made available in a partnership with Teradata and EMC Greenplum. In 2011, the company released Enterprise Miner 7.1. The company introduced 27 data management products from October 2013 to October 2014 and updates to 160 others. At the 2015 SAS Global Forum, it announced several new products that were specialized for different industries, as well as new training software.\n\nSAS had many releases since 1972. Since release 9.3, SAS/STAT has its own release numbering.\nAs of 2011 SAS's largest set of products is its line for customer intelligence. Numerous SAS modules for web, social media and marketing analytics may be used to profile customers and prospects, predict their behaviors and manage and optimize communications. SAS also provides the SAS Fraud Framework. The framework's primary functionality is to monitor transactions across different applications, networks and partners and use analytics to identify anomalies that are indicative of fraud. SAS Enterprise GRC (Governance, Risk and Compliance) provides risk modeling, scenario analysis and other functions in order to manage and visualize risk, compliance and corporate policies. There is also a SAS Enterprise Risk Management product-set designed primarily for banks and financial services organizations.\n\nSAS' products for monitoring and managing the operations of IT systems are collectively referred to as SAS IT Management Solutions. SAS collects data from various IT assets on performance and utilization, then creates reports and analyses. SAS' Performance Management products consolidate and provide graphical displays for key performance indicators (KPIs) at the employee, department and organizational level. The SAS Supply Chain Intelligence product suite is offered for supply chain needs, such as forecasting product demand, managing distribution and inventory and optimizing pricing. There is also a \"SAS for Sustainability Management\" set of software to forecast environmental, social and economic effects and identify causal relationships between operations and an impact on the environment or ecosystem.\n\nSAS has product sets for specific industries, such as government, retail, telecommunications and aerospace and for marketing optimization or high-performance computing.\n\nIn a 2005 article for the \"Journal of Marriage and Family\" comparing statistical packages from SAS and its competitors Stata and SPSS, Alan C. Acock wrote that SAS programs provide \"extraordinary range of data analysis and data management tasks,\" but were difficult to use and learn. SPSS and Stata, meanwhile, were both easier to learn (with better documentation) but had less capable analytic abilities, though these could be expanded with paid (in SPSS) or free (in Stata) add-ons. Acock concluded that SAS was best for power users, while occasional users would benefit most from SPSS and Stata. A comparison by the University of California, Los Angeles, gave similar results.\n\nCompetitors such as Revolution Analytics and Alpine Data Labs advertise their products as considerably cheaper than SAS'. In a 2011 comparison, Doug Henschen of \"InformationWeek\" found that start-up fees for the three are similar, though he admitted that the starting fees were not necessarily the best basis for comparison. SAS' business model is not weighted as heavily on initial fees for its programs, instead focusing on revenue from annual subscription fees.\n\nAccording to IDC, SAS is the largest market-share holder in \"advanced analytics\" with 35.4 percent of the market as of 2013. It is the fifth largest market-share holder for business intelligence (BI) software with a 6.9% share and the largest independent vendor. It competes in the BI market against conglomerates, such as SAP BusinessObjects, IBM Cognos, SPSS Modeler, Oracle Hyperion, and Microsoft BI. SAS has been named in the Gartner Leader's Quadrant for Data Integration Tool and for Business Intelligence and Analytical Platforms.\nA study published in 2011 in \"BMC Health Services Research\" found that SAS was used in 42.6 percent of data analyses in health service research, based on a sample of 1,139 articles drawn from three journals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6874024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6874024", "title": "Sales outsourcing", "text": "Sales outsourcing\n\nSales outsourcing is a way for companies to attract increased, high volumes of sales for their products or services by using a third party. The company typically uses outsourcing companies to improve sales volumes without links to the sales teams that carry out those campaigns. The company that undertakes the outsourcing will normally be paid based on the results they are able to generate, and therefore creates a mutually beneficial situation for both client and the outsourcing company. \n\nFull 'sales outsourcing' is observed when companies have an external third party sales force. It is differentiated from value added reselling or distribution in that the business model can be based on shared risk, although there are models where the outsourcer is paid for all of their activity - just as with a hired direct sales force, but the outsourcer provides rapidity, flexibility and experience. \nOther names for sales outsourcing include 'indirect sales' and 'channel sales'.\n\nFull sales outsourcing is different from telemarketing in that it requires direct recruitment of sales personnel with specific backgrounds for each sales campaign. Usually the sales executives will be part of a team that may include telemarketing, marketing, tools systems and methodologies as well as sales management.\n\nSales outsourcing firms provide accountability regarding all sales results and activities while representing the brand of the client. For the end-customer, it usually appears as if the sales team sold the product themselves rather than the sales outsourcing firm. The outsourcing firm is, in essence, an extension of the client but is responsible for all operations associated with direct sales activities, often receiving sales engineering and initial product/service training support from the client.\n\nThe sole purpose of a contract sales organization is to provide sales resource to its clients, without taking title to their products. Sales outsourcing providers include manufacturers' representatives, contract sales organizations, sales agents or sales outsourcing consultants. One way of organising the sales effort, especially when product delivery is erratic, is to replace or supplement internal resources with functionality and expertise brought in from contract sales organisations.\n\nSales outsourcing is quite different from large-scale service outsourcing, which has its advantages but also requires pro-active contract and relationship management. In addition to full sales outsourcing, many partial models are observed, particularly in large firms.\n\nA variety of sales activities may be outsourced such as:\n\nAny of the following may also be considered as partial sales outsourcing or sales out-tasking:\n\nSales outsourcing is expected to be cheaper than the fully loaded cost of employing salespeople, but calculating the cost comparison over time is far from straightforward. Nevertheless, replacing fixed costs with variable costs is attractive to budget-holders. However, unlike many forms of outsourcing, the advantages of sales outsourcing does not often come from saving costs but rather increasing revenue or providing speed of response or flexibility.\n\nThe business case for sales outsourcing should also include consideration of the cost of controlling the contract. Difficulty in measuring the link between sales activity and sales performance leads to a preference for employed salespeople. However, the issues internally are often the same and the internal hire has many other corporate \"distractions\" that do not occur with external resources.\n\nCompanies may also choose sales outsourcing as a means of accessing the best sales skills. Although the pejorative term “rent-a-rep” is still used, there is some evidence that contractors are perceived as good performers against qualitative as well as quantitative performance criteria. Even so, the reputational risk of third parties handling customer relationships has been observed as a factor restricting sales outsourcing. One could argue that an employee is often using a company to gain 2–3 years salary and experience whereas a sales outsourcing firm would usually be looking at a long term contract even though the staff may change during that time. So the aims of an outsourcer can be closely aligned with the aims and objectives of the contracting company.\n\nA recent study has highlighted flexibility as an important driver for outsourcing sales. Uncertain business environments accentuate the need to turn sales resource on and off quickly. Industries and companies undergoing rapid change may need to avoid hiring and firing costs and risks. Contract sales organizations can absorb employment risk, enabling their clients to respond to short-term opportunities or competitor activity (see Lean startup). However, an outsourcer may build in more of a premium to the rate or commission if excessive flexibility is required on a contract.\n\nContract sales organizations are growing in volume and influence, able to provide both tactical activity and long-term strategic support to their clients.\n\nSpeed of response is seen as a key reason to use an outsourcer. If a company was looking to enter a market it may take several months to recruit the local manager which then takes several months to find an office and build a team. With an outsourcer, a full working team can oftentimes be operational within a matter of days or weeks.\n\nSales outsourcing can also be used as a market entry strategy and avoids permanent establishment risk.\n\nThe experience of many organizations over the past several years demonstrates that indirect channels can be critical to expanding market coverage. This has been particularly true in the electronics, communications and high tech sectors. For example, the indirect channel now accounts for 66 percent of overall technology sales, up from 53 percent in 1997.\n\nSome examples of communications companies who employ indirect sales forces to their internal sales efforts include: AireSpring, AT&T, Comcast, Earthlink Business, Integra Telecom, Level 3 Communications, Time Warner Cable, TelePacific, tw telecom, XO Communications, and Windstream. Some top sales agencies who sell voice and data services for these carriers include Telarus, based in Salt Lake City, Utah, Intelisys, based in Petaluma, California, and Telecom Brokerage Inc (TBI), based in Chicago, Illinois.\n"}
{"id": "37040021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37040021", "title": "Single customer view", "text": "Single customer view\n\nA single customer view is an aggregated, consistent and holistic representation of the data held by an organisation about its customers that can be viewed in one place, such as a single page. The advantage to an organisation of attaining this unified view comes from the ability it gives to analyse past behaviour in order to better target and personalise future customer interactions. A single customer view is also considered especially relevant where organisations engage with customers through multichannel marketing, since customers expect those interactions to reflect a consistent understanding of their history and preferences. However, some commentators have challenged the idea that a single view of customers across an entire organisation is either natural or meaningful, proposing that the priority should instead be consistency between the multiple views that arise in different contexts.\n\nWhere representations of a customer are held in more than one data set, achieving a single customer view can be difficult: firstly because customer identity must be traceable between the records held in those systems, and secondly because anomalies or discrepancies in the customer data must be data cleansed. As such, the acquisition by an organisation of a single customer view is one potential outcome of successful master data management. Since 31 December, 2010, maintaining a single customer view, and submitting it within 72 hours, has become mandatory for financial institutions in the United Kingdom due to new rules introduced by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.\n\n"}
