{"id": "1690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1690", "title": "Amati", "text": "Amati\n\nAmati is the last name of a family of Italian violin makers who lived at Cremona from about 1538 to 1740. Their importance is considered equal to those of the Bergonzi, Guarneri, and Stradivari families. Today, violins created by Nicolò Amati are valued at around $600,000.\n\nAndrea Amati () designed and created the violin, viola and cello known as the \"violin family\". He standardized the basic form, shape, size, materials and method of construction. Makers from nearby Brescia experimented, such as Gasparo da Salò, Micheli, Zanetto and Pellegrino, but it was Andrea Amati in Cremona, Italy, who gave the modern violin family their definitive profile.\n\nThe first violin was ordered by Lorenzo de' Medici in 1555. His letter to Amati stated the instrument was to be \"made of the highest quality materials like that of a lute, but simple to play\". What became of this first violin is not known. A number of his instruments survived for some time, dating between 1538 (Amati made the first Cello called \"The King\" in 1538 [1]) and 1574. The largest number these are from 1560, a set for an entire orchestra of 38 ordered by Catherine de Médicis the regent queen of France and bore hand painted royal French decorations in gold including the motto and coat of arms of her son Charles IX of France. Of these 38 instruments ordered, Amati created violins of two sizes, violas of two sizes and large-sized cellos. They were in use until the French revolution of 1789 and only 14 of these instruments survived. His work is marked by selection of the finest materials, great elegance in execution, soft clear amber, soft translucent varnish, and an in depth use of acoustic and geometrical principles in design.\nAndrea Amati was succeeded by his sons Antonio Amati (–1607) and Girolamo Amati (–1630). \"The Brothers Amati\", as they were known, implemented far-reaching innovations in design, including the perfection of the shape of the f-holes. They are also thought to have pioneered the modern alto format of viola, in contrast to older tenor violas, but the widespread belief that they were the first ones to do so is incorrect given that Gasparo da Salo made violas ranging from altos of 39 cm to tenors of 44.7 cm.\n\nNicolò Amati (December 3, 1596April 12, 1684) was the son of Girolamo Amati. He was the most eminent of the family. He improved the model adopted by the rest of the Amatis and produced instruments capable of yielding greater power of tone. His pattern was unusually small, but he also made a wider model now known as the \"Grand Amati\", which have become his most sought-after violins.\n\nOf his pupils, the most famous were Antonio Stradivari and Andrea Guarneri, the first of the Guarneri family of violin makers. (There is much controversy regarding the apprenticeship of Antonio Stradivari. While the label on Stradivari's first known violin states that he was a pupil of Amati, the validity of his statement is questioned.)\n\nThe last maker of the family was Nicolò's son, Girolamo Amati, known as Hieronymus II (February 26, 1649February 21, 1740). Although he improved on the arching of his father's instruments, by and large they are inferior and no match for the greatest maker of his day, Antonio Stradivari.\n\nInstruments in the UK include Andrea Amati violins from the set delivered to Charles IX of France in 1564.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1695", "title": "Amazons", "text": "Amazons\n\nIn Greek mythology, the Amazons (, ', singular , ') were a tribe of women warriors related to Scythians and Sarmatians. Apollonius Rhodius, at Argonautica, mentions that Amazons were the daughters of Ares and Harmonia (a nymph of the Akmonian Wood). They were brutal and aggressive, and their main concern in life was war.\n\nHerodotus and Strabo place them on the banks of the Thermodon, while Diodorus giving the account of Dionysius of Mitylene, who, on his part, drew on Thymoetas, states that before the Amazons of the Thermodon there were, much earlier in time, the Amazons of Libya. These Amazons started from Libya, passed through Egypt and Syria, and stopped at the Caïcus in Aeolis, near which they founded several cities. Later, he says, they established Mytilene a little way beyond the Caïcus. Aeschylus, in Prometheus Bound, places the original home of the Amazons in the country about Lake Maeotis and they later moved to Themiscyra on the Thermodon. Homer tells that the Amazons were sought and found somewhere near Lycia.\n\nNotable queens of the Amazons are Penthesilea, who participated in the Trojan War, and her sister Hippolyta, whose magical girdle, given to her by her father Ares, was the object of one of the labours of Heracles. Diodorus mentions that the Amazons traveled from Libya under Queen Myrina. Amazon warriors were often depicted in battle with Greek warriors in amazonomachies in classical art.\n\nArchaeological discoveries of burial sites with female warriors on the Eurasian steppes suggest that the Scythian women may have inspired the myth. From the early modern period, their name has become a term for female warriors in general. Amazons were said to have founded the cities and temples of Smyrna, Sinope, Cyme, Gryne, Ephesus, Pitania, Magnesia, Clete, Pygela, Latoreria and Amastris; according to legend, the Amazons also invented the cavalry.\n\nPalaephatus, who was trying to rationalize the Greek myths in his work \"On Unbelievable Tales\" or \"On Incredible Tales\" (), stated that the Amazons most probably were men mistaken for women by their enemies because they wore clothing which reached their feet, tied up their hair in headbands and shaved their beards, and also, since they did not exist during his time, most probably they did nοt exist in the past either.\n\nThe origin of the word is uncertain. It may be derived from an Iranian ethnonym \"*ha-mazan-\" \"warriors\", a word attested indirectly through a derivation, a denominal verb in Hesychius of Alexandria's gloss (\"\"\": 'to make war' in Persian\"), where it appears together with the Indo-Iranian root \"*kar-\" \"make\" (from which Sanskrit \"karma\" is also derived).\n\nIt may also be derived from \"\" \"manless, without husbands\" (\"a-\" privative and a derivation of \"*man-\" also found in Slavic \"muzh\") has been proposed, an explanation deemed \"unlikely\" by Hjalmar Frisk. 19th-century scholarship also connected the term to the ethnonym Amazigh. A further explanation proposes Iranian *\"ama-janah\" \"virility-killing\" as source.\n\nAmong Classical Greeks, \"amazon\" was given a folk etymology as originating from ' () and ' (), \"without breast\", connected with an etiological tradition once claimed by Marcus Justinus who alleged that Amazons had their right breast cut off or burnt out. There is no indication of such a practice in ancient works of art, in which the Amazons are always represented with both breasts, although one is frequently covered. Adrienne Mayor suggests the origin of this myth was due to the word's etymology.\n\nGreeks also used some descriptive phrases for them. Herodotus used the \"Androktones\" (, singular , ') (\"killers of men\") and \"Androleteirai\" (, singular , ') (\"destroyers of men, murderesses\"), in the Iliad they are also called \"Antianeirai\" (, singular , \"\") (\"against men\") and Aeschylus, in his work \"Prometheus Bound\", used \"styganor\" () (\"those who loathe all men\").\n\nHerodotus and Strabo placed them on the banks of the Thermodon and Themiscyra. Herodotus also mentions that some Amazons lived at Scythia because after the Greeks defeated the Amazons in battle, they sailed away carrying in three ships as many Amazons as they had been able to take alive, but out at sea the Amazons attacked the crews and killed them, then these Amazons landed at Scythian lands. Strabo writes that the original home of the Amazons was in Themiscyra and the plains about Thermodon and the mountains that lie above them, but were later driven out of these places, and during his time they were said to live in the mountains above Caucasian Albania (not to be confused with the modern Albania), but he also states that some others, among them Metrodorus of Scepsis and Hypsicrates, say that after Themiscyra, the Amazons traveled and lived on the borders of the Gargarians, in the northerly foothills of those parts of the Caucasian Mountains which are called Ceraunian. Diodorus giving the account of Dionysius of Mitylene, who, on his part, drew on Thymoetas states that before the Amazons of the Thermodon there were, much earlier in time, the Amazons of Libya. These Amazons started from Libya passed through Egypt and Syria, and stopped at the Caïcus in Aeolis, near which they founded several cities. Later, he says, they established Mitylene a little way beyond the Caïcus. Aeschylus, in \"Prometheus Bound\", places the original home of the Amazons in the country about Lake Maeotis and they later moved to Themiscyra on the Thermodon. According to Pseudo-Plutarch, the Amazons lived in and about the Tanais () river (modern Don river), formerly called the Amazonian or Amazon () river, because the Amazons bathed themselves therein. The Amazons later moved to Themiscyra (speculated to be modern Terme, though no ruins exist) on the River Thermodon (the Terme river in northern Turkey).\nPlutarch mentions that the campaign(s) of Heracles and Theseus against the Amazons was at Euxine Sea (modern Black Sea). Homer tells that the Amazons were sought and found somewhere near Lycia.\nThe Amazons were supposed to have founded many towns, amongst them Smyrna, Ephesus, Cyme, Myrina, Sinope, Paphos, Mitylene. At Patmos there was a place called Amazonium. Also, on the island of Lemnos, there was another Myrina. The cities of Myrina had this name after the amazon Myrina.\n\nApollonius Rhodius, at Argonautica, mentions that at Thermodon the Amazons were not gathered together in one city, but scattered over the land, parted into three tribes. In one part dwelt the Themiscyreians (), in another the Lycastians (), and in another the Chadesians ().\n\nGreeks also used other descriptive phrases for them. Herodotus used the \"Androktones\" (, singular , ') (\"killers/slayers of men\") and \"Androleteirai\" (, singular , ') (\"destroyers of men, murderesses\"), in the Iliad they are also called \"Antianeirai\" (, singular , \"\") (\"equivalent to men\") and Aeschylus used the \"Styganor\" () (\"those who loathe all men\") in his work Prometheus Bound.\n\nHerodotus stated that in the Scythian language they were called \"Oiorpata\", \"oior\" meaning \"man\", and \"pata\" meaning \"to slay\".\n\nIn some versions of the myth, no men were permitted to have sexual encounters or reside in Amazon country; but once a year, in order to prevent their race from dying out, they visited the Gargareans, a neighbouring tribe.\n\nStrabo, giving credits to Metrodorus of Scepsis and Hypsicrates, mentions that at his time the Amazons were believed to live on the borders of the Gargareans. There were two special months in the spring in which they would go up into the neighboring mountain which separates them and the Gargareans. The Gargareans also, in accordance with an ancient custom, would go there to offer sacrifice with the Amazons and also to have intercourse with them for the sake of begetting children. They did this in secrecy and darkness, any Gargareans at random with any Amazon, and after making them pregnant they would send them away. Any females that were born are retained by the Amazons themselves, but the males would be taken to the Gargareans to be brought up; and each Gargarean to whom a child is brought would adopt the child as his own, regarding the child as his son because of his uncertainty. He also stated that the Gargareans went up from Themiscyra into this region with the Amazons, then, in company with some Thracians and Euboeans who had wandered thus far, waged war against them. They later ended the war against the Amazons and made a compact that they should have dealings with one another only in the matter of children, and that each people should live independent of the other.\nIn addition, he states that the right breasts of all Amazons are seared when they are infants, so that they can easily use their right arm for every needed purpose, and especially that of throwing the javelin and use the bow.\nHerodotus mentions that when Greeks defeated the Amazons at war, they sailed away carrying in three ships as many Amazons as they had been able to take alive, but out at sea the Amazons attacked the crews and killed them. But the Amazons knew nothing about ships so they were driven about by waves and winds and they were disembarked at the land of the Scythians, there they met first with a troop of horses feeding, they seized them and mounted upon these they plundered the property of the Scythians. The Scythians were not able to understand them because they did not know either their speech or their dress or the race to which they belonged, and they thought that they were men. Scythians fought a battle against them, and after the battle the Scythians got possession of the bodies of the dead, and thus they discovered that they were women. After the battle Scythians sent young men and told them to encamp near the Amazons and to do whatsoever they should do. If the women should come after them, they were not to fight but to retire before them, and when the women stopped, they were to approach near and encamp. This plan was adopted by the Scythians because they desired to have children born from them. When the Amazons perceived that they had not come to do them any harm, they let them alone; and the two camps approached nearer to one another every day: and the young men, like the Amazons, had nothing except their arms and their horses and got their living, as the Amazons did, by hunting and by taking booty. One day a Scythian and an Amazon came close. They could not speak to each other because they were speaking different languages but the Amazon made signs to him with her hand to come. Later the young Scythians and the Amazons joined their camps and lived together, each man having for his wife her with whom he had had dealings at first. The men were not able to learn the language of the Amazons, but the women learned Scythian.\nApollonius Rhodius, at Argonautica, mentions that Amazons were the daughters of Ares and Harmonia (a nymph of the Akmonian Wood). They were brutal and aggressive, and their main concern in life was war. According to him, the Amazons were not gathered together in one city, but scattered over the land, parted into three tribes. In one part dwelt the Themiscyreians (), in another the Lycastians (), and in another the Chadesians (). Also, he mention that on an island, the Queens of the Amazons, Otrere () and Antiope (), built a marble temple of Ares. On this desert island there were ravening birds, which in countless numbers haunt it. The island mentioned is the Aretias. Argonauts passed by Themiscyra on their journey to Colchis. Zeus sent Boreas (the North Wind), and with his help the Argonauts stood out from the shore near Themiscyra where the Themiscyreian Amazons were arming for battle.\n\nThe King Iobates sent Bellerophon against Amazons, hoping that they would kill him, but Bellerophon killed them all.\n\nThe Amazons appear in Greek art of the Archaic period and in connection with several Greek legends. The tomb of Myrine is mentioned in the \"Iliad\"; later interpretation made of her an Amazon: according to Diodorus,\n\nAccording to Diodorus, the Amazons under the rule of Queen Myrina, invaded the lands of the Atlantians. Amazons defeated the army of the Atlantian city of Cerne, treated the captives savagely, killed all the men, led into slavery the children and women, and razed the city. When the terrible fate of the inhabitants of Cerne became known among the other Atlantians, they were struck with terror, surrendered their cities on terms of capitulation and announced that they would do whatever should be commanded them. Queen Myrina bearing herself honourably towards the Atlantians, established friendship with them and founded a city to bear her name in place of the city of Cerne which had been razed; and in it she settled both the captives and any native who so desired. Atlantians presented her with magnificent presents and by public decree voted to her notable honours, and she in return accepted their courtesy and in addition promised that she would show kindness to their nation. Diodorus also mentions that the Amazons of Queen Myrina used the skins of gigantic snakes, from Libya, to protect themselves at battle. Later Queen Myrine led her Amazons to victory against the Gorgons. After the battle against the Gorgons, Myrina accorded a funeral to her fallen comrades on three pyres and raised up three great heaps of earth as tombs, which are called \"Amazon Mounds\" ().\n\nOne of the tasks imposed upon Hercules by Eurystheus was to obtain possession of the girdle of the Amazonian queen Hippolyta. He was accompanied by his friend Theseus, who carried off the princess Antiope, sister of Hippolyta, an incident which led to a retaliatory invasion of Attica, in which Antiope perished fighting by the side of Theseus. In some versions, however, Theseus marries Hippolyta and in others, he marries Antiope and she does not die; by this marriage with the Amazon Theseus had a son Hippolytus. \nIn another version of this myth, Theseus made this voyage on his own account, after the time of Heracles.\nThe battle between the Athenians and Amazons is often commemorated in an entire genre of art, amazonomachy, in marble bas-reliefs such as from the Parthenon or the sculptures of the Mausoleum of Halicarnassus.\nPlutarch, in his work Parallel Lives-The Life of Theseus, mentions that Bion said that the Amazons, were naturally friendly to men, and did not fly from Theseus when he touched upon their coasts.\n\nAmazons attacked the Phrygians, who were assisted by Priam, then a young man. In his later years, however, towards the end of the Trojan War, his old opponents took his side against the Greeks under their queen Penthesilea \"of Thracian birth\", who was slain by Achilles.\n\nThe god Dionysus and his entourage fought the amazons at Ephesus, the Amazons fled to Samos, but Dionysus pursued them and at Samos he killed a great number of them on a spot which was, from that occurrence, called Panaema (), which means blood-soaked field. In another myth Dionysus united with the Amazons to fight against Cronus and the Titans.\n\nThe Amazons are also said to have undertaken an expedition against the island of Leuke, at the mouth of the Danube, where the ashes of Achilles had been deposited by Thetis. The ghost of the dead hero appeared and so terrified the horses, that they threw and trampled upon the invaders, who were forced to retire. Pompey is said to have found them in the army of Mithridates.\n\nThey are heard of in the time of Alexander, when some of the king's biographers make mention of Amazon Queen Thalestris visiting him and becoming a mother by him (the story is known from the \"Alexander Romance\"). However, several other biographers of Alexander dispute the claim, including the highly regarded secondary source, Plutarch. In his writing he makes mention of a moment when Alexander's secondary naval commander, Onesicritus, was reading the Amazon passage of his Alexander history to King Lysimachus of Thrace who was on the original expedition: the king smiled at him and said \"And where was I, then?\"\n\nThe Roman writer Virgil's characterization of the Volscian warrior maiden Camilla in the \"Aeneid\" borrows heavily from the myth of the Amazons.\n\nJordanes' \"Getica\" (), purporting to give the earliest history of the Goths, relates that the Goths' ancestors, descendants of Magog, originally dwelt within Scythia, on the Sea of Azov between the Dnieper and Don Rivers. After a few centuries, following an incident where the Goths' women successfully fended off a raid by a neighboring tribe, while the menfolk were off campaigning against Pharaoh Vesosis, the women formed their own army under Marpesia and crossed the Don, invading Asia. Her sister Lampedo remained in Europe to guard the homeland. They procreated with men once a year. These Amazons conquered Armenia, Syria, and all of Asia Minor, even reaching Ionia and Aeolia, holding this vast territory for 100 years. Jordanes also mentions that they fought with Hercules, and in the Trojan War, and that a smaller contingent of them endured in the Caucasus Mountains until the time of Alexander. He mentions by name the Queens Menalippe, Hippolyta, and Penthesilea.\n\nIn the Grottaferrata Version of \"Digenes Akritas\", the twelfth century medieval epic of Basil, the Greek-Syrian knight of the Byzantine frontier, the hero battles with and kills the female warrior Maximo.\n\n\nThere are several (conflicting) lists of names of Amazons.\n\nOther names of Amazons from various sources include:\n\n\nAccording to ancient sources (Plutarch, Theseus, Pausanias), Amazon tombs could be found frequently throughout what was once known as the ancient Greek world. Some are found in Megara, Athens, Chaeronea, Chalcis, Thessaly at Skotousa, in Cynoscephalae, and statues of Amazons are all over Greece. Stephanus of Byzantium, quoting Ephorus, mention that the tomb of the amazon Anaea () was at the city of Anaea (), which also has this name after the amazon.\n\nAt both Chalcis and Athens, Plutarch tells us that there was an Amazoneum or shrine of Amazons that implied the presence of both tombs and cult. At the entrance of Athens there was a monument to the Amazon Antiope. On the day before the Thesea at Athens there were annual sacrifices to the Amazons. In historical times Greek maidens of Ephesus performed an annual circular dance with weapons and shields that had been established by Hippolyta and her Amazons. They had initially set up wooden statues of Artemis, a \"bretas\" (Pausanias, (): \"Description of Greece\", Book I: Attica).\n\nIn works of art, battles between Amazons and Greeks are placed on the same level as – and often associated with – battles of Greeks and centaurs. The belief in their existence, however, having been once accepted and introduced into the national poetry and art, it became necessary to surround them as far as possible with the appearance of natural beings. Amazons were therefore depicted in the manner of Scythian or Sarmatian horsemen. Their occupation was hunting and war; their arms the bow, spear, axe, a half shield, nearly in the shape of a crescent, called \"pelta\", and in early art a helmet. The model in the Greek mind had apparently been the goddess Athena. In later art they approach the model of Artemis, wearing a thin dress, girt high for speed; while on the later painted vases their dress is often peculiarly Persian – that is, close-fitting trousers and a high cap called the \"kidaris\". They were usually on horseback but sometimes on foot.\nThis depiction of Amazons demonstrates just how closely, in the Greek mind, the Amazons were linked to the Scythians. Their manner of dress has been noted to bear a striking similarity to the traditional dress of nomadic peoples from the Crimea to Mongolia. Amazons were described by Herodotus as wearing trousers and having tall stiff caps. The double-sided axe was the most emblematic of their weapons. Amazons can also be identified in vase paintings by the fact that they are wearing one earring. The battle between Theseus and the Amazons (Amazonomachy) is a favourite subject on the friezes of temples (e.g. the reliefs from the frieze of the Temple of Apollo at Bassae, now in the British Museum), vases and sarcophagus reliefs; at Athens it was represented on the shield of the statue of Athena Parthenos, on wall-paintings in the Theseum and in the \"Stoa Poikile\". There were also three standard Amazon statue types.\n\nLater in the Renaissance, as Amazon myth evolved, artists started to depict warrior women in a new light. Queen Elizabeth was often thought of as an Amazon-like warrior during her reign and was sometimes depicted as such. Though, as explained in \"Divinia Viagro\" by Winfried Schleiner, Celeste T. Wright \"has given a detailed account of the bad press Amazons had in the Renaissance (with respect to their unwomanly conduct and Scythian cruelty). She notes that she has not found any Elizabethans comparing the queen directly to an Amazon, and suggests that they might have hesitated to do so because of the association of Amazons with enfranchisement of women, which was considered contemptible.\"\n\nPeter Paul Rubens and Jan Brueghel depicted the Battle of the Amazons around 1598, showing many attributes of Renaissance-styled paintings. Amazons also appear in the Rococo period in another painting titled \"Battle of the Amazons\" by Johann Georg Platzer. As a part of the Romantic period revival, German artist Anselm Feuerbach painted the Amazons as well. His paintings “engendered all the aspirations of the Romantics: their desire to transcend the boundaries of the ego and of the known world; their interest in the occult in nature and in the soul; their search for a national identity, and the ensuing search for the mythic origins of the Germanic nation; finally, their wish to escape the harsh realities of the present through immersion in an idealized past.”\n\nHerodotus reported that the Sarmatians were descendants of Amazons and Scythians, and that their wives observed their ancient maternal customs, \"frequently hunting on horseback with their husbands; in war taking the field; and wearing the very same dress as the men\". Moreover, said Herodotus, \"No girl shall wed till she has killed a man in battle\". In the story related by Herodotus, a group of Amazons was blown across the Maeotian Lake (the Sea of Azov) into Scythia near the cliff region (today's southeastern Crimea). After learning the Scythian language, they agreed to marry Scythian men, on the condition that they not be required to follow the customs of Scythian women. According to Herodotus, this band moved toward the northeast, settling beyond the Tanais (Don) river, and became the ancestors of the Sauromatians. According to Herodotus, the Sarmatians fought with the Scythians against Darius the Great in the 5th century BC.\n\nHippocrates describes them as: \"They have no right breasts...for while they are yet babies their mothers make red-hot a bronze instrument constructed for this very purpose and apply it to the right breast and cauterize it, so that its growth is arrested, and all its strength and bulk are diverted to the right shoulder and right arm.\"\n\nAmazons came to play a role in Roman historiography. Caesar reminded the Senate of the conquest of large parts of Asia by Semiramis and the Amazons. Successful Amazon raids against Lycia and Cilicia contrasted with effective resistance by Lydian cavalry against the invaders (Strabo 5.504; Nicholas Damascenus). Gnaeus Pompeius Trogus pays particularly detailed attention to the Amazons. The story of the Amazons as deriving from a Cappadocian colony of two Scythian princes Ylinos and Scolopetos is due to him. Pliny the Elder records some surprising facts pointing to the valley of the Terme River as possibly being their home: a mountain named for them (the modern Mason Dagi), as well as a settlement Amazonium; Herodotus (VI.86) first mentions their capital Themiscyra, which Pliny locates near the Terme. Philostratus places the Amazons in the Taurus Mountains. Ammianus places them east of Tanais, as neighbouring the Alans. Procopius places them in the Caucasus. Diodorus Siculus (\"Bibliotheca historica\" III, chapter 52) mentioned that besides Pontus Amazons existed much older race (at that time entirely disappeared) of Amazons from western Libya, and retells their mythological story which includes Atlantis and Greek mythology.\n\nAlthough Strabo shows skepticism as to their historicity, the Amazons in general continue to be taken as historical throughout Late Antiquity. Several Church Fathers speak of the Amazons as of a real people. Solinus embraces the account of Pliny. Under Aurelianus, captured Gothic women were identified as Amazons (Claudianus). The account of Justinus was influential, and was used as a source by Orosius who continued to be read during the European Middle Ages. Medieval authors thus continue the tradition of locating the Amazons in the North, Adam of Bremen placing them at the Baltic Sea and Paulus Diaconus in the heart of Germania.\n\nAmazons continued to be discussed by authors of the European Renaissance, and with the Age of Exploration, they were located in ever more remote areas. In 1542, Francisco de Orellana reached the Amazon River (\"Amazonas\" in Spanish), naming it after a tribe of warlike women he claimed to have encountered and fought on the Nhamundá River, a tributary of the Amazon. Afterwards the whole basin and region of the Amazon (\"Amazônia\" in Portuguese, \"Amazonía\" in Spanish) were named after the river. Amazons also figure in the accounts of both Christopher Columbus and Walter Raleigh. Famous medieval traveller John Mandeville mentions them in his book:\n\nMedieval and Renaissance authors credit the Amazons with the invention of the battle-axe. This is probably related to the \"sagaris\", an axe-like weapon associated with both Amazons and Scythian tribes by Greek authors (see also Thracian tomb of Aleksandrovo kurgan). Paulus Hector Mair expresses astonishment that such a \"manly weapon\" should have been invented by a \"tribe of women\", but he accepts the attribution out of respect for his authority, Johannes Aventinus.\n\nAriosto's \"Orlando Furioso\" contains a country of warrior women, ruled by Queen Orontea; the epic describes an origin much like that in Greek myth, in that the women, abandoned by a band of warriors and unfaithful lovers, rallied together to form a nation from which men were severely reduced, to prevent them from regaining power. The Amazons and Queen Hippolyta are also referenced in Geoffrey Chaucer's \"Canterbury Tales\" in \"The Knight's Tale\".\n\nClassicist Peter Walcot wrote, \"Wherever the Amazons are located by the Greeks, whether it is somewhere along the Black Sea in the distant north-east, or in Libya in the furthest south, it is always beyond the confines of the civilized world. The Amazons exist outside the range of normal human experience.\"\n\nNevertheless, there are various proposals for a historical nucleus of the Amazons of Greek historiography, the most obvious candidates being historical Scythia and Sarmatia in line with the account by Herodotus, but some authors prefer a comparison to cultures of Asia Minor or even Minoan Crete.\n\nSpeculation that the idea of Amazons contains a core of reality is based on archaeological findings from burials, pointing to the possibility that some Sarmatian women may have participated in battle. These findings have led scholars to suggest that the Amazonian legend in Greek mythology may have been \"inspired by real warrior women\".\n\nEvidence of high-ranking warrior women comes from kurgans in southern Ukraine and Russia.\nDavid Anthony notes, \"About 20% of Scythian-Sarmatian 'warrior graves' on the lower Don and lower Volga contained women dressed for battle similar to how men dress, a phenomenon that probably inspired the Greek tales about the Amazons.\"\nUp to 25% of military burials were of armed Sarmatian women usually including bows. Russian archaeologist Vera Kovalevskaya points out that when Scythian men were away fighting or hunting, nomadic women would have to be able to defend themselves, their animals and pasture-grounds competently. During the time that the Scythians advanced into Asia and achieved near-hegemony in the Near East, there was a period of twenty-eight years when the men would have been away on campaigns for long periods. During this time the women would not only have had to defend themselves, but to reproduce, and this could well be the origin of the idea that Amazons mated once a year with their neighbours, if Herodotus actually based his accounts on fact.\n\nBefore modern archaeology uncovered some of the Scythian burials of warrior-maidens entombed under kurgans in the region of Altai Mountains and Sarmatia,\n\nWhen Minoan archeology was still in its infancy, nevertheless, a theory raised in an essay regarding the Amazons contributed by Lewis Richard Farnell and John Myres to Robert Ranulph Marett's \"Anthropology and the Classics\" (1908), placed their possible origins in Minoan civilization, drawing attention to overlooked similarities between the two cultures. According to Myres, the tradition interpreted in the light of evidence furnished by supposed Amazon cults seems to have been very similar and may have even originated in Minoan culture. \n\nFrancisco de Orellana gave the Amazon river its name after reporting pitched battles with tribes of female warriors, whom he likened to the Amazons.\n\nThe city of Samsun in modern-day Turkey features a recently constructed \"Amazon Village\" museum, created to bring attention to the legacy of the Amazons and to generate both academic interest and popular tourism. A festival is also held every year in the Terme district of Samsun Province to celebrate the Amazons.\n\nIn Greece, female equestrians are also called \"Amazons\" ().\n\nAmazons became an important subject of the fine arts around 1900, especially in the work of the Munich painter and sculptor Franz Stuck (1863-1928). \n\nIn Nazi-Germany open air events called \"Nacht der Amazonen\" (Night of the Amazons) were performed at Nymphenburg Palace in Munich between 1936 and 1939. These revues with bare-breasted girls presented an allegedly emancipated female role as part of the „new race“ intended to be realized by racial fanatics. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8513375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8513375", "title": "American POWs in the 2003 invasion of Iraq", "text": "American POWs in the 2003 invasion of Iraq\n\nThe 2003 invasion of Iraq, which lasted from March 20 – May 1, 2003, resulted in a small number of American and Coalition POWs.\n\nA majority of the prisoners of war were captured from the ambush of the 507th Maintenance Company. Separated from a larger convoy, they were ambushed in the Iraqi-held town of Nasiriyah on March 23, 2003. Out of thirty-three soldiers, eleven were killed and seven captured in the fire fight. Several weapons jammed in the firefight. The following soldiers were captured by Iraqi forces:\n\nWhen they surrendered, they feared the worst. Miller held out little hope for mercy. \"I thought they were going to kill me,\" he said. \"That was the first thing I asked when they captured me: 'Are \nyou going to kill me?' They said no. . . . I still didn't believe them.\"\n\nSoon after their capture, Jessica Lynch was taken to an Iraqi hospital due to her serious injuries. The other five POWs did not know about Lynch surviving until after they were released. After their capture, the five remaining members of the ambushed 507th would become famous as bloody and beaten. They were then interviewed by Iraq TV, and the footage was shown worldwide by Al Jazeera. In the interview, Private First Class Patrick Miller was asked why he came to Iraq; his reply was \"I come to fix broke stuff.\" Asked if he came to shoot Iraqis, he answered, \"No, I come to shoot only if I am shot at. They don't bother me, I don't bother them.\"\nOn March 24, they were joined by Chief Warrant Officers David Williams, 31, and Ronald Young Jr., 26, whose Apache chopper, from the 1-227 Helicopter Attack Battalion, had been shot down in central Iraq during the attack on Karbala.\n\nThe prisoners were taken to Baghdad, where they were isolated in separate cells of a drab prison with concrete walls and a tin roof. As American troops got closer, the soldiers were shuffled from building to building. The Iraqi captors worked feverishly to stay one step ahead of the advancing units.\n\nAs it became clear that the war was over for the Iraqis, some of their captors approached a Marine unit from the 3rd Light Armored Reconnaissance Battalion, Delta Co., 3rd Platoon which was a part of Task Force Tripoli that had been pushing up toward Tikrit, Saddam Hussein's hometown. A Marine battalion was sent to check on the intelligence and found the seven POWs with a confused Iraqi guard unit, whose officers had fled.\n\nOn April 13, 2003, 21 days after the 507th members were captured, the 3rd Light Armored Recon Marines burst in on the Iraqi guards who gave up without a fight. Ordering everyone on the floor, a Marine gave an order to \"stand up if you're American!\" Given dirty prison clothes and fed little food, the prisoners lost a lot of weight and with their garb, and beards they looked like Iraqis. \"At first,\" Spc. Shoshana Johnson remembers that, \"they didn't realize I was American. They said, 'Get down, get down,' and one of them said, 'No, she's American.' \"\n\nWithin hours, the seven were on their way to Kuwait International Airport inside a Marine Corps KC-130 transport plane, the first stop before the United States. Amid sobs, cheers and laughter, they told their stories to two reporters accompanying them on the flight. \"I broke down. I was like, 'Oh my God, I'm home,'\" Johnson said.\n\nDuring the 2003 invasion of Iraq, Iraqi Saddam Fedayeen irregular forces were involved in executing several Coalition prisoners of war.\n\nSergeant Donald Walters was initially reported to have been killed in the March 23 ambush of the 507th Maintenance Company. However, witnesses later reported that they had seen Walters being guarded by several Fedayeen in front of a building. Forensics work later found Walters' blood in front of the building and blood spatter suggesting he died from two gunshot wounds to the back at close range. This led the Army to conclude that Walters had been executed after being captured.\n\nJessica Lynch was reportedly raped and sodomized by Iraqi forces, based on scars, though she has no recollection of it happening.\n\nAlso on March 23, a British Army engineering unit made a wrong turn near the town of Az Zubayr, which was still held by Iraqi forces. The unit was ambushed and Sapper Luke Allsopp and Staff Sergeant Simon Cullingworth became separated from the rest. Both were captured and executed by Iraqi forces. In 2006, a video of Allsopp lying on the ground surrounded by Iraqi irregular forces was discovered.\n\nMarine Sergeant Fernando Padilla-Ramirez was reported missing from his supply unit after an ambush north of Nasiriyah on March 28. His body was later dragged through the streets of Ash Shatrah and hung in the town square. His body was later taken down and buried by sympathetic locals. His body was discovered by American forces on April 10.\n\nIn addition, the showing of captured soldiers on television, as was done with some of the captured soldiers of the 507th Maintenance Company, was a violation of the Geneva Conventions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7370562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7370562", "title": "Biography", "text": "Biography\n\nA biography, or simply bio, is a detailed description of a person's life. It involves more than just the basic facts like education, work, relationships, and death; it portrays a person's experience of these life events. Unlike a profile or curriculum vitae (résumé), a biography presents a subject's life story, highlighting various aspects of his or her life, including intimate details of experience, and may include an analysis of the subject's personality.\n\nBiographical works are usually non-fiction, but fiction can also be used to portray a person's life. One in-depth form of biographical coverage is called legacy writing. Works in diverse media, from literature to film, form the genre known as biography.\n\nAn authorized biography is written with the permission, cooperation, and at times, participation of a subject or a subject's heirs. An autobiography is written by the person himself or herself, sometimes with the assistance of a collaborator or ghostwriter.\n\nAt first, biographical writings were regarded merely as a subsection of history with a focus on a particular individual of historical importance. The independent genre of biography as distinct from general history writing, began to emerge in the 18th century and reached its contemporary form at the turn of the 20th century.\n\nOne of the earliest biographers was Cornelius Nepos, who published his work \"Excellentium Imperatorum Vitae\" (\"Lives of outstanding generals\") in 44 BC. Longer and more extensive biographies were written in Greek by Plutarch, in his \"Parallel Lives\", published about 80 A.D. In this work famous Greeks are paired with famous Romans, for example the orators Demosthenes and Cicero, or the generals Alexander the Great and Julius Caesar; some fifty biographies from the work survive. Another well-known collection of ancient biographies is \"De vita Caesarum\" (\"On the Lives of the Caesars\") by Suetonius, written about AD 121 in the time of the emperor Hadrian.\n\nIn the early Middle Ages (AD 400 to 1450), there was a decline in awareness of the classical culture in Europe. During this time, the only repositories of knowledge and records of the early history in Europe were those of the Roman Catholic Church. Hermits, monks, and priests used this historic period to write biographies. Their subjects were usually restricted to the church fathers, martyrs, popes, and saints. Their works were meant to be inspirational to the people and vehicles for conversion to Christianity (see Hagiography). One significant secular example of a biography from this period is the life of Charlemagne by his courtier Einhard.\n\nIn Medieval Islamic Civilization (c. AD 750 to 1258), similar traditional Muslim biographies of Muhammad and other important figures in the early history of Islam began to be written, beginning the Prophetic biography tradition. Early biographical dictionaries were published as compendia of famous Islamic personalities from the 9th century onwards. They contained more social data for a large segment of the population than other works of that period. The earliest biographical dictionaries initially focused on the lives of the prophets of Islam and their companions, with one of these early examples being \"The Book of The Major Classes\" by Ibn Sa'd al-Baghdadi. And then began the documentation of the lives of many other historical figures (from rulers to scholars) who lived in the medieval Islamic world.\nBy the late Middle Ages, biographies became less church-oriented in Europe as biographies of kings, knights, and tyrants began to appear. The most famous of such biographies was \"Le Morte d'Arthur\" by Sir Thomas Malory. The book was an account of the life of the fabled King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table. Following Malory, the new emphasis on humanism during the Renaissance promoted a focus on secular subjects, such as artists and poets, and encouraged writing in the vernacular.\n\nGiorgio Vasari's \"Lives of the Artists\" (1550) was the landmark biography focusing on secular lives. Vasari made celebrities of his subjects, as the \"Lives\" became an early \"bestseller\". Two other developments are noteworthy: the development of the printing press in the 15th century and the gradual increase in literacy.\n\nBiographies in the English language began appearing during the reign of Henry VIII. John Foxe's \"Actes and Monuments\" (1563), better known as \"Foxe's Book of Martyrs\", was essentially the first dictionary of the biography in Europe, followed by Thomas Fuller's \"The History of the Worthies of England\" (1662), with a distinct focus on public life.\n\nInfluential in shaping popular conceptions of pirates, \"A General History of the Pyrates\" (1724), by Charles Johnson, is the prime source for the biographies of many well-known pirates.\n\nThe American biography followed the English model, incorporating Thomas Carlyle's view that biography was a part of history. Carlyle asserted that the lives of great human beings were essential to understanding society and its institutions. While the historical impulse would remain a strong element in early American biography, American writers carved out a distinct approach. What emerged was a rather didactic form of biography, which sought to shape the individual character of a reader in the process of defining national character.\n\nThe first modern biography, and a work which exerted considerable influence on the evolution of the genre, was James Boswell's \"The Life of Samuel Johnson\", a biography of lexicographer and man-of-letters Samuel Johnson published in 1791. While Boswell's personal acquaintance with his subject only began in 1763, when Johnson was 54 years old, Boswell covered the entirety of Johnson's life by means of additional research. Itself an important stage in the development of the modern genre of biography, it has been claimed to be the greatest biography written in the English language. Boswell's work was unique in its level of research, which involved archival study, eye-witness accounts and interviews, its robust and attractive narrative, and its honest depiction of all aspects of Johnson's life and character - a formula which serves as the basis of biographical literature to this day.\n\nBiographical writing generally stagnated during the 19th century - in many cases there was a reversal to the more familiar hagiographical method of eulogizing the dead, similar to the biographies of saints produced in Medieval times. A distinction between mass biography and literary biography began to form by the middle of the century, reflecting a breach between high culture and middle-class culture. However, the number of biographies in print experienced a rapid growth, thanks to an expanding reading public. This revolution in publishing made books available to a larger audience of readers. In addition, affordable paperback editions of popular biographies were published for the first time. Periodicals began publishing a sequence of biographical sketches.\n\nAutobiographies became more popular, as with the rise of education and cheap printing, modern concepts of fame and celebrity began to develop. Autobiographies were written by authors, such as Charles Dickens (who incorporated autobiographical elements in his novels) and Anthony Trollope, (his \"Autobiography\" appeared posthumously, quickly becoming a bestseller in London), philosophers, such as John Stuart Mill, churchmen – John Henry Newman – and entertainers – P. T. Barnum.\n\nThe sciences of psychology and sociology were ascendant at the turn of the 20th century and would heavily influence the new century’s biographies. The demise of the \"great man\" theory of history was indicative of the emerging mindset. Human behavior would be explained through Darwinian theories. \"Sociological\" biographies conceived of their subjects' actions as the result of the environment, and tended to downplay individuality. The development of psychoanalysis led to a more penetrating and comprehensive understanding of the biographical subject, and induced biographers to give more emphasis to childhood and adolescence. Clearly these psychological ideas were changing the way biographies were written, as a culture of autobiography developed, in which the telling of one's own story became a form of therapy. The conventional concept of heroes and narratives of success disappeared in the obsession with psychological explorations of personality.\nBritish critic Lytton Strachey revolutionized the art of biographical writing with his 1918 work \"Eminent Victorians\", consisting of biographies of four leading figures from the Victorian era: Cardinal Manning, Florence Nightingale, Thomas Arnold, and General Gordon. Strachey set out to breathe life into the Victorian era for future generations to read. Up until this point, as Strachey remarked in the preface, Victorian biographies had been \"as familiar as the \"cortège\" of the undertaker\", and wore the same air of \"slow, funereal barbarism.\" Strachey defied the tradition of \"two fat volumes...of undigested masses of material\" and took aim at the four iconic figures. His narrative demolished the myths that had built up around these cherished national heroes, whom he regarded as no better than a \"set of mouth bungled hypocrites\". The book achieved worldwide fame due to its irreverent and witty style, its concise and factually accurate nature, and its artistic prose.\n\nIn the 1920s and '30s, biographical writers sought to capitalize on Strachey's popularity by imitating his style. This new school featured iconoclasts, scientific analysts, and fictional biographers and included Gamaliel Bradford, André Maurois, and Emil Ludwig, among others. Robert Graves (\"I, Claudius\", 1934) stood out among those following Strachey's model of \"debunking biographies.\" The trend in literary biography was accompanied in popular biography by a sort of \"celebrity voyeurism\", in the early decades of the century. This latter form's appeal to readers was based on curiosity more than morality or patriotism. By World War I, cheap hard-cover reprints had become popular. The decades of the 1920s witnessed a biographical \"boom.\"\n\nThe feminist scholar Carolyn Heilbrun observed that women's biographies and autobiographies began to change character during the second wave of feminist activism. She cited Nancy Milford's 1970 biography \"Zelda\", as the \"beginning of a new period of women's biography, because \"[only] in 1970 were we ready to read not that Zelda had destroyed Fitzgerald, but Fitzgerald her: he had usurped her narrative.\" Heilbrun named 1973 as the turning point in women's autobiography, with the publication of May Sarton's \"Journal of a Solitude,\" for that was the first instance where a woman told her life story, not as finding \"beauty even in pain\" and transforming \"rage into spiritual acceptance,\" but acknowledging what had previously been forbidden to women: their pain, their rage, and their \"open admission of the desire for power and control over one's life.\"\n\nIn recent years, multimedia biography has become more popular than traditional literary forms. Along with documentary biographical films, Hollywood produced numerous commercial films based on the lives of famous people. The popularity of these forms of biography have led to the proliferation of TV channels dedicated to biography, including A&E, The Biography Channel, and The History Channel.\n\nCD-ROM and online biographies have also appeared. Unlike books and films, they often do not tell a chronological narrative: instead they are archives of many discrete media elements related to an individual person, including video clips, photographs, and text articles. Biography-Portraits were created in 2001, by the German artist Ralph Ueltzhoeffer. Media scholar Lev Manovich says that such archives exemplify the database form, allowing users to navigate the materials in many ways. General \"life writing\" techniques are a subject of scholarly study.\n\nIn recent years, debates have arisen as to whether all biographies are fiction, especially when authors are writing about figures from the past. President of Wolfson College at Oxford University, Hermione Lee argues that all history is seen through a perspective that is the product of our contemporary society and as a result biographical truths are constantly shifting. So the history biographers write about will not be the way that it happened; it will be the way they remembered it. Debates have also arisen concerning the importance of space in life-writing.\n\nDaniel R. Meister in 2017 argues that:\n\nBiographical research is defined by Miller as a research method that collects and analyses a person's whole life, or portion of a life, through the in-depth and unstructured interview, or sometimes reinforced by semi-structured interview or personal documents. It is a way of viewing social life in procedural terms, rather than static terms. The information can come from \"oral history, personal narrative, biography and autobiography” or \"diaries, letters, memoranda and other materials\". The central aim of biographical research is to produce rich descriptions of persons or \"conceptualise structural types of actions\", which means to \"understand the action logics or how persons and structures are interlinked\". This method can be used to understand an individual’s life within its social context or understand the cultural phenomena.\n\nThere are many largely unacknowledged pitfalls to writing good biographies, and these largely concern the relation between firstly the individual and the context, and, secondly, the private and public. Paul James writes:\nSeveral countries offer an annual prize for writing a biography such as the:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3539254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3539254", "title": "Bolton 7", "text": "Bolton 7\n\nThe Bolton 7 were a group of gay and bisexual men who were convicted on 12 January 1998 before Judge Michael Lever at Bolton Crown Court of the offences of gross indecency under the Sexual Offences Act 1956 and of age of consent offences under the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994. Although gay sex was partially decriminalised by the Sexual Offences Act 1967, they were all convicted under section 13 of the 1956 Act because more than two men had sex together, which was still illegal. One of the participants (Craig Turner) was also six months under the statutory age of consent for gay sex which was 18 at the time. \n\nUnder the provisions of the 1967 Act, the age of consent for gay sex was different from that of the heterosexual age of consent of 16, and had only been reduced from 21 to 18 by the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994. Equivalent heterosexual behaviour was not a crime.\n\nThe offences only came to light after police seized videos of the men having sex, which they had filmed for their own personal use. All the men were either lovers, ex-boyfriends, or friends of friends.\n\nDuring sentencing on 20 February 1998 Gary Abdie, David Godfrey, Mark Love and Jonathan Moore (all of whom were in their early 20s), and Craig Turner (17 at the time of the offences but 18 when he appeared in court) were given probation and community service orders. The Judge gave Norman Williams a two-year suspended prison sentence and Terry Connell received a nine-month suspended sentence and was ordered to pay £500 towards the cost of the prosecution. Moore (20), Williams (33) and Connell (55) were also required to sign the Sex Offenders Register for the age of consent offences committed with Turner. Estimates of the overall cost of the prosecution were in the region of £500,000.\n\nDespite their convictions, none of them received custodial sentences possibly as a result of a high-profile campaign led by gay human rights group OutRage!. Over 400 letters were presented to the court in support of the men including those from MPs, Bishops and human rights groups. The letters urged the judge not to impose a custodial sentence, with one group, Amnesty International, pledging to declare the men prisoners of conscience should they be imprisoned.\n\nIn 2000, six of the men appealed to the European Court of Human Rights arguing that the prosecutions against them had violated their rights under the European Convention on Human Rights by interfering with 'the right to respect for a private family life' enshrined in article 8 of the Convention. They were subsequently awarded compensation. As Williams was not part of the litigation, he was not deemed eligible by the Home Office for the compensation.\n\nLegislation subsequently introduced by the Labour Government has broadly equalised the treatment of homosexual and heterosexual behaviours in criminal law. The Sexual Offences (Amendment) Act 2000 equalised the age of consent for gay sex with that of the heterosexual age of consent which is now 16 for both. The Sexual Offences Act 2003, though subject to some controversy, introduced an overhaul in the way sexual offences are dealt with by the police and courts, replacing provisions that date as far back to the 1956 legislation. The offences of gross indecency and buggery have been repealed and sexual activity between more than two men is no longer a crime in the United Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "745640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=745640", "title": "Bors", "text": "Bors\n\nBors (; ) is the name of two knights in the Arthurian legend, one the father of the other. Bors the Elder is the King of Gaunnes or Gaul during the early period of King Arthur's reign, and is the brother of King Ban of Benoic. The two first appear in the 13th-century Lancelot-Grail cycle. Bors the Younger later becomes one of the best Knights of the Round Table, and even achieves the Holy Grail.\n\nAs Ban's brother, King Bors is Lancelot's and Hector de Maris' uncle. He marries Evaine, the sister of Ban's wife Elaine, and has two sons, Bors the Younger and Lionel. Ban and Bors become Arthur's early allies in his fight against eleven rebel kings in Britain, including Lot, Urien, and Caradoc, and he vows to help them against their enemy Claudas, who has been threatening their lands. Arthur is late on his promise, however, and Claudas succeeds in his invasion, resulting in both kings' deaths. Ban's son Lancelot is taken by the Lady of the Lake, but Bors' children are raised in captivity by Claudas' retainers.\n\nSir Bors the Younger is better known than King Bors throughout Arthurian studies. Sir Bors and Lionel live for several years at Claudas' court. But they eventually rebel against him and even slay his cruel son Dorin. Before Claudas can retaliate, the boys are rescued by a servant of the Lady of the Lake and are spirited off to be raised with their cousin Lancelot. All three grow to be excellent knights and go to Camelot to join King Arthur's retinue. Bors is recognizable by a distinctive scar on his forehead, and participates in most of the King's conflicts, including the eventual battle with Claudas that liberates his father's lands. Bors fathers Sir Elyan the White when the daughter of King Brandegoris tricks him into sleeping with her by way of a magic ring; he later introduces his son into the Round Table.\n\nBors is always portrayed as one of the Round Table's finest, but his real glory comes on the Grail Quest, where he proves himself worthy enough to witness the Grail's mysteries alongside Galahad and Percival. Several episodes display his virtuous character; in one, a lady approaches Bors vowing to commit suicide unless he sleeps with her. He refuses to break his vow of celibacy; the lady and her maidens threaten to throw themselves off the castle battlements. As the ladies jump off, they reveal themselves to be demons set on deceiving him by playing to his sense of compassion. In another, Bors faces a dilemma where he must choose between rescuing his brother Lionel, being whipped with thorns by villains in one direction, and saving a young girl who has been abducted by a rogue knight in the other. Bors chooses to help the maiden, but prays for his brother's safety. Lionel escapes his tormentors and tries to murder Bors, and Bors does not defend himself, refusing to raise a weapon against his kinsman. Fellow Knight of the Round Table Sir Calogrenant and a religious hermit try to intervene, but Lionel slays them both when they get in the way. Before he can kill his brother, however, God strikes him down with an immobilizing column of fire. Bors, Galahad, and Percival go on to achieve the Holy Grail and accompany it to Sarras, a mystical island in the Middle East. Both Galahad and Percival pass away while there; Bors is the only one to return.\n\nIn Thomas Malory's \"Le Morte d'Arthur\", Sir Bors agrees to fight as Guinevere's champion when she is accused of poisoning a knight. Bors is reluctant, as her first choice, Lancelot, left Camelot because of Guinevere. He relents when Arthur sees Guinevere kneeling before him. He is about to joust for her sake when Lancelot arrives to take his place.\n\nLike the rest of his family, Bors joins Lancelot in exile after his affair with Guinevere is exposed, and helps rescue the Queen from her execution at the stake. Bors becomes one of Lancelot's most trusted advisors in the ensuing war between Lancelot and Arthur, and becomes ruler of Claudas' former lands. When Arthur and Gawain must return to Britain to fight the evil usurper Mordred, Gawain sends a letter to Lancelot asking for aid. Lancelot's men arrive to put down the remainder of the rebellion led by Mordred's sons Melehan and Melou; Lionel is killed by Melehan, and Bors avenges his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30047935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30047935", "title": "Cadency labels of the British royal family", "text": "Cadency labels of the British royal family\n\nHeraldic labels are used to differentiate the personal coats of arms of members of the royal family of the United Kingdom from that of the monarch and from each other. In the Gallo-British heraldic tradition, cadency marks have been available to \"difference\" the arms of a son from those of his father, and the arms of brothers from each other, and traditionally this was often done when it was considered important for each man to have a distinctive individual coat of arms and/or to differentiate the arms of the head of a house from junior members of the family. This was especially important in the case of arms of sovereignty: to use the undifferenced arms of a kingdom is to assert a claim to the throne. Therefore, in the English royal family, cadency marks were used from the time of Henry III, typically a label or bordure alluding to the arms of the bearer's mother or wife. After about 1340, when Edward III made a claim to the throne of France, a blue label did not contrast sufficiently with the blue field of the French quarter of the royal arms; accordingly most royal cadets used labels argent: that of the heir apparent was plain, and all others were charged. Bordures of various tinctures continued to be used into the 15th century.\n\nIn the ordinary system of differences a label of three points (which has also been termed a label with three files) is the distinction of the eldest son during the lifetime of his father. In the oldest rolls of arms the labels are all of five points; but labels of three points were at an early period used interchangeably. Besides being used as mere temporary marks of cadency, labels are also employed as permanent distinctions, borne (like any other charge) by every member of some particular branches of certain families. Labels are the principal cadency marks used in certain royal families. In the British royal family, all labels are \"argent\" (white). The sons and daughters of the sovereign all bear labels of three points argent; that of the arms of the Prince of Wales is plain, but all others are charged. Further descendants of princes bear labels of five points charged. All such differences should be borne on the arms, crest, and supporters.\n\n</div></div>\nThe system of a special mark for difference for each member of the family goes back to the time of Henry III, whose successor, as a prince, placed such a mark on the shield of England. Since 1340 this label has almost always been white, and overlaid with small figures, or charges, such as red crosses of St George. This red cross represents England and its patron saint, and was first borne by Richard of Bordeaux (future king Richard II) before the death of his father Edward, the Black Prince in 1376. Other charges used:\n\n"}
{"id": "2684375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2684375", "title": "Character flaw", "text": "Character flaw\n\nIn the creation and criticism of fictional works, a character flaw is a limitation, imperfection, problem, phobia, or deficiency present in a character who may be otherwise very functional. The flaw can be a problem that directly affects the character's actions and abilities, such as a violent temper. Alternatively, it can be a simple foible or personality defect, which affects the character's motives and social interactions, but little else.\n\nFlaws can add depth and humanity to the characters in a narrative. For example, the sheriff with a gambling addiction, the action hero who is afraid of heights, or a lead in a romantic comedy who must overcome his insecurity regarding male pattern baldness are all characters whose flaws help provide dimension. Perhaps the most widely cited and classic of character flaws is Achilles' famous heel.\n\nIn general, flaws can be categorized as \"minor\", \"major\", or \"tragic\".\n\nA minor character flaw is an imperfection which serves to distinguish the character in the mind of the reader / viewer / player / listener, making them memorable and individual, but otherwise does not affect the story in any way.\n\nExamples of this could include a noticeable scar, a thick accent or a habit such as cracking their knuckles.\n\nProtagonists and other major characters may (and usually do) have multiple minor flaws, making them more accessible, and enabling the reader / viewer / listener to relate to the character (in the case of a sympathetic character) or otherwise influence the audience's opinions of the character.\n\nMany insignificant or archetypal characters which are encountered only once or rarely are defined solely by a single minor flaw, differentiating them from the stock character or archetype that they adhere to.\n\nA major character flaw is a much more noticeable and important hindrance which actually impairs the individual, whether physically, mentally or morally. Sometimes major flaws are not actually negative per se (such as devout religious beliefs or a rigid code of honor), but are classified as such in that they often serve to hinder or restrict the character in some way.\n\nExamples of this type of flaw could include blindness, amnesia or greed.\n\nUnlike minor flaws, major flaws are almost invariably important to either the character's, or the story's development.\n\n\nThis is a specific sort of flaw, also known as \"Hamartia\", which is possessed by Aristotelian tragic heros. It is a flaw which causes an otherwise noble or exceptional character to bring about their own downfall and, often, their eventual death.\n\nExamples of this could include hubris, misplaced trust, excessive curiosity, pride and lack of self-control.\n\nThis fall usually occurs at the beginning of a story, with the story itself concentrates on the consequences or attempted redemption of the fall.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7526734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7526734", "title": "Ciguapa", "text": "Ciguapa\n\nA Ciguapa (pronounced see-GWAH-pah) is a mythological creature of Dominican and Puerto Rican folklore. They are commonly described as having human female form with brown or dark blue skin, backward facing feet, and very long manes of smooth, glossy hair that covers their otherwise naked bodies. They supposedly inhabit the high mountains of the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico.\n\nThese creatures have nocturnal habits. Also, due to the position of their feet, one can never quite tell from which direction the beings are moving from by looking at their footprints. Some people believe that they bring death, and it is said that one should not look them in the eye, otherwise the person is at risk of being bewitched permanently. Also, the only vocalization made by ciguapas is said to be a kind of whine or chirping.\n\nCiguapas are considered to be magical beings, beautiful in appearance to some, yet horrendous to others. All sources agree that they are wild creatures. They are compared in many cases to mermaids: beautiful yet cruel, and far from innocent. Deceitful and ready to capture the wayward traveler, they are said that they are so beautiful as to lure men into the forest, even though following footprints is misleading, to make love with them only to kill them afterwards. Even today, one can still find inhabitants who confirm having sighted a ciguapa.\n\nLore states that the only way to capture a ciguapa is by tracking them at night, during a full moon, with a black and white polydactylic dog (called \"cinqueño\" dog).\n\nThough many believe that the myth of the ciguapa is of Taino origin, it has been argued that is probably of more recent concoction, being possibly attributed to African beliefs brought to the island by enslaved peoples during the colonial period. More to the point, no known Taino artifacts or lore make reference to any creature even remotely similar to it. Also, the legend may have originated from other myths, as distant as the Guaraní \"Curupí\" or the Hindu Churel, which was described by Rudyard Kipling in \"My Own True Ghost Story\" as having traits amazingly similar to those of the ciguapa. Nonetheless, the Hindu hypothesis may be far-fetched since there is no way to ascertain how this story got to the Dominican Republic during the nineteenth century, when no cultural exchange whatsoever occurred between these nations.\n\nA Dominican film called \"El Mito de la Ciguapa\" (The Myth of the Ciguapa) is set to be produced by Xenda Films.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1141081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1141081", "title": "Cipitio", "text": "Cipitio\n\nCipitio is a legendary character found in salvadoran folklore revolving around the Siguanaba and Cadejo legends. He is generally portrayed as an 8- to 10-year-old boy with a big conical wizard hat. His name is taken from the Nahuatl word for child: \"Cipit\" or \"Cipote\". Some also relate his name to the deity Xipe Totec.\n\nAccording to the legend, he is the son of a forbidden romance between an indigenous Mesoamerican queen called Sihuehuet or Ziguet, now commonly known as La Siguanaba, and \"Lucero de la mañana\" (Lúcifer Morningstar). Cipitio is the child of this affair. When Ziguet's husband found out about this affair he sought the assistance of the very powerful god Teotl. Ziguet and \"Cipitio\" were cursed and condemned by Teotl. Cipitio was going to live forever as a small boy with his feet in backwards position, as a reminder of the twisted and illicit affair of his parents. Stories are told of farmers that come to their fields and find the footsteps of a boy, but eventually get lost following them because, not knowing that Cipitio has his feet backwards, they follow them in the wrong direction.\n\nCipitio is represented as liking to eat ashes, throwing pebbles to beautiful ladies, and likes to eat a variety of banana called \"Guineo Majoncho\". He could also \"Teleport\" anywhere he wants.\n\nA couple of short stories with this character can be found in the book \"Cuentos de Cipotes\" by the Salvadoran writer and poet Salvador Salarrué.\n\nIn a TV show for the Salvadoran Educational Television Station he is portrayed by Rolando Meléndez, who has played the role for several seasons. Each episode features the problems that Salvadoran children find in their communities, families and schools, Cipitio helps them while teaching morals and values.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "221283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221283", "title": "Coat of arms of Sweden", "text": "Coat of arms of Sweden\n\nThe coat of arms of the Kingdom of Sweden () has a lesser and a greater version.\n\nThe usage of the coats of arms is regulated by Swedish Law, Act 1970:498, which states (in unofficial translation) that \"in commercial activities, the coats of arms, the flag or other official insignia of Sweden may not be used in a trademark or other insignias for products or services without proper authorisation. This includes any mark or text referring to the Swedish State which this can give the commercial mark a sign of official endorsement. This includes municipal coats of arms which are registered.\"\n\nAny representation consisting of three crowns ordered two above one are considered to be the lesser coat of arms, and its usage is therefore restricted by law 1970:498.\n\nThe arms of Sweden were first formally codified by law in 1908. This law also formally codifies the differences between the \"greater\" and \"lesser\" arms. The present law prescribing the two arms dates from 1982.\n\nThe greater coat of arms is blazoned in Swedish law as follows:\n\n\"A shield azure, quartered by a cross Or with outbent arms, and an inescutcheon containing the dynastic arms of the Royal House. In the first and fourth fields three open crowns Or, placed two above one. In the second and third fields three sinisterbendwise streams argent, a lion crowned with an open crown Or armed gules. The inescutcheon is party per pale the arms for the House of Vasa (Bendwise azure, argent and gules, a \"vasa\" Or); and the House of Bernadotte (Azure, issuant from a wavy base a bridge with three arches and two towers embattled argent, in honor point an eagle regardant with wings inverted resting on thunderbolts Or, and in chief the Big Dipper constellation of the same). The main shield is crowned by a royal crown and surrounded by the insignia of the Order of the Seraphim. Supported by two lions regardant, crowned and with forked tails Or armed gules, standing on a compartment Or. All surrounded by ermine mantling, crowned with a royal crown and tied up with tasseladorned strings Or.\"\n\nThe greater arms may also be displayed only with the crowned escutcheon. While the arms have undergone significant changes over the years, such as changing the inescutcheon with the ruling dynasty, they are based on arms created by King Karl Knutsson in 1448.\n\nThe escutcheon used in the greater blazon has in total five elements: 4 quarterings on the main escutcheon (two coats of arms duplicated), and three coat of arms incorporated into an escutcheon of pretense. However, Bernadotte never used any stars in the arms of Pontecorvo (neither as Prince of Pontecorvo, nor as King of Sweden and Norway). The stars were introduced as an element in the royal coat of arms in the 19th century, chosen as a symbol of Sweden's eternal existence, as in the poem by Esaias Tegnér:\n\nThis symbol became especially popular through its allusion to the name that had been borne by so many famous Swedish kings. Ursa Major, or as it is called in Swedish, \"Karlavagnen\" (Charles' Wain), adds a Swedish accent to the Bernadotte dynastic coat of arms much in the same way as do the Vasa arms.\n\nThe arms are supported by two lions with forked tails (\"queue fourchée\"), facing away from the shield and crowned with Royal Crowns. For centuries, the lion has been an important element in Swedish heraldry and especially for the State Coat of Arms. The shield may be surmounted by the Collar of the Order of Seraphim, the foremost order in Sweden, and the highest honour the Swedish state can bestow on an individual.\n\nBesides being the official national coat of arms, the greater coat of arms is also the personal coat of arms of the king, and as such he can decree its use as a personal coat of arms by other members of the Royal House, with the alterations and additions decided by him.\n\nBlazon: \"The greater state arms consist of a head shield azure, quartered by a cross or with outbent arms, and an inescutcheon containing the dynastic arms of the Royal House.\n\nIn the first and fourth fields three coronets or, placed two above one. In the second and third fields three sinisterbendwise streams argent, a lion crowned with an open crown or with armaments gules. The inescutcheon is party per pale the arms for the House of Vasa and the House of Bernadotte. The main shield is crowned by a royal crown and surrounded by the insignia of the Order of the Seraphim. Supported by two lions regardant or crowned, with parted tails and armaments gules, standing on a postament. All surrounded by hermine mantling crowned with a royal crown and tied up with tasseled strings or.\"\n\nThe lesser coat of arms is mainly used by the Government of Sweden and subordinate government authorities. As such it may be joined by insignias symbolising the activity of individual government agencies, following approval by the State Board of Heraldry. It is, for instance, embroidered on all Swedish police uniforms and in various coats of arms of the Swedish Armed Forces.\n\nBlazon: \"Azure, with three coronets Or, ordered two above one.\" Crowned with a royal crown. The shield may also be surrounded by the insignias of the Order of the Seraphim.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3944357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3944357", "title": "Coat of arms of the King of Spain", "text": "Coat of arms of the King of Spain\n\nThe coat of arms of the King of Spain is the heraldic symbol representing the monarch of Spain. The current version of the monarch's coat of arms was adopted in 2014 but is of much older origin. The arms marshal the arms of the former monarchs of Castille, León, Aragon, and Navarre.\n\nTraditionally, coats of arms did not belong to a nation but to the monarch who would quarter his shield with territorial claims of his dynasty. Formerly, the Spanish monarch's arms were much more complex than they are today. It would feature the arms of the various territories of this dynasty. A simpler version of these arms, known as the \"lesser arms\", would also be used; This lesser arms were another set of arms within the centre of the full arms. During the later part of the Bourbon dynasty this would be quarterly Castille and Leon.\n\nIn 1868, during the provisional government that followed the overthrow of Queen Isabella II, an arms of \"national character\" was adopted; This 1868 arms created the present-day arrangement of elements in the shield. The \"national arms\" and \"royal arms\" would coexist after the restoration of the monarchy. In 1931, the royal arms was revised to incorporate what had been hitherto the \"national arms\" into the royal arms and to replace the former lesser arms of the King (i.e. quarterly Castille and Leon). The monarchy would later be abolished later that year.\n\nWhen don Juan Carlos, grandson of Alfonso XIII (the last king of Spain), was chosen to be the successor of General Francisco Franco, the arms adopted for his use in 1971 as Prince of Spain was quarterly Castille, Leon, Aragon, and Navarre. The heraldic achievement also included the collar of the Order of the Golden Fleece, the Cross of Burgundy and the yoke and bundle of arrows formerly used by the Catholic Monarchs; This would be the same arms he would use as King. Upon Felipe VI's ascension to the throne in 2014, the cross, yoke, and arrows would not be retained in the royal arms.\n\nThe blazoning of the coat of arms of the King of Spain is set out in Royal Decree 527/2014, 20 June, an amendment to Title II of Spanish Royal Decree 1511/1977 adopting Flags, Standards, Guidons, Insignia and Emblems Regulation. The coat of arms was adopted when King Felipe VI was enthroned as King of Spain.\n\nThe shield is divided into four quarters, blazoned as follows:\n\n\nArgent enté en point, with a pomegranate proper seeded gules, supported, sculpted and leafed in two leaves vert, which is for Granada.\n\nInescutcheon azure bordure gules, three fleurs-de-lys or, which is for Bourbon-Anjou.\n\nAll surrounded by the collar of the Golden Fleece and crowned with a crown of the same metal and precious stones, with eight rosettes, five visible, and eight pearls interspersed, closed at the top by eight diadems also adorned with pearls and surmounted by a cross on a globe, which is the royal crown of Spain.\n\nIn 1969, General Francisco Franco appointed Juan Carlos I as his \"successor to the Headship of the Spanish state with the title of King\" but gave him the new title of Prince of Spain instead of the traditional title of Prince of Asturias. From 1971 to 1975, Juan Carlos as Prince of Spain used a coat of arms which was virtually identical to the one later adopted when he became King in 1975. Earlier coat of arms differed only that it featured the royal crown of a Crown Prince of Spain, the King's royal crown has eight half-arches of which five are visible, while the Prince's one has only four half-arches of which three are visible. Joined to the shield was the red saltire of Burgundy and, to the dexter and sinister of the base point, the yoke gules in its natural position with ribbons, of the field, and the sheaf of five arrows gules with the arrowheads inverted and ribbons, of the field, which used to be the symbol of the Catholic Monarchs of Spain.\n\nSince June 2014, Juan Carlos's son, Felipe VI, has been using the same arms but without the cross of Burgundy, yoke and arrows. King Juan Carlos's arms include a red lion instead of the purple one displayed on the current version\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3944653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3944653", "title": "Coat of arms of the Prince of Asturias", "text": "Coat of arms of the Prince of Asturias\n\nThe blazon of the coat of arms of the Princess of Asturias is given by a Royal Decree 979 on 30 October 2015 which was an amendment of the Royal Decree 1511 dated Madrid 21 January 1977, which also created her guidon (military personal ensign) and her standard.\n\nThe shield is divided into four quarters, blazoned as follows:\n\n\nThe whole is differenced by a label of three points Azure, the difference used by heirs apparent to the Spanish House of Habsburg.\n\nThe shield is surmounted by a closed crown, which is a circle of gold, inset with precious stones of their colours, composed of eight rosettes of acanthus leaves, of which five are visible, interspersed by pearls in their colour, issuing from which are four pearl diadems, of which three are visible, which converge in a blue orb, with gold semi-meridian and equator, surmounted by a gold cross, the crown lined with red and surrounded by the collar of the Golden Fleece.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26901933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26901933", "title": "Domentzia", "text": "Domentzia\n\nDomentzia was a name shared by the mother of the Byzantine emperor Phocas (r. 602–610), and a daughter of the same emperor, likely named after her paternal grandmother.\n\nThe mother is only named by John of Antioch, who renders her name in Greek as \"Dysmenziane\" (Δυσμενζιανή). All other occurrences of the name refer to the daughter. The more familiar form \"Domentzia\" (Δομεντζία) is given by Theophanes the Confessor. Anastasius Bibliothecarius, who translated the work of Theophanes to Latin, renders the name \"Domnentzia\". The later historian Joannes Zonaras gives the name as \"Domnentia\" (Δομνεντία), while Nikephoros Kallistos Xanthopoulos gives her name as \"Dysmenziane\", indicating that both women used the same name.\n\nPhocas and his family were likely of Thraco-Roman origin. The husband of the elder Domentzia is unknown.She had three known sons: Phocas, Comentiolus and Domentziolus. The latter seems to have been \"magister officiorum\" by 610. A grandson, also named Domentziolus, was granted the title of \"curopalates\" on the ascension of Phocas to the throne in 602.\n\nThe younger Domentzia was a daughter of Phocas and Leontia. In 607, she married the general Priscus, who served as \"comes excubitorum\", commander of the Excubitors bodyguard. As she was the only known child of the Emperor, the marriage effectively made Priscus an heir apparent to the throne. Her husband fell into disfavour however when the citizenry of Constantinople began erecting statues in their honour.\n\nHer marriage took place in the palace of Marina, named after its original owner, a daughter of Arcadius and Aelia Eudoxia. A chariot racing event was arranged to be held in the Hippodrome of Constantinople, in honor of the newlyweds. The leaders of the Blues (\"Vénetoi\") and the Greens (\"Prásinoi\") racing factions (\"demoi\") decided to honor the occasion by erecting statues of the royal family. Thus they placed images of Phocas, Leontia, Domentzia, and Priscus in the Hippodrome. The images of the reigning imperial couple belonged there by tradition, but the latter two implied that Priscus was the heir or co-emperor of Phocas. Phocas was enraged at the implication and ordered the depictions of his daughter and son-in-law to be destroyed.\n\nPhocas further treated the matter as an attempted coup d'état, demanding further investigation of the matter, arresting the demarchs responsible with accusations of treason. While their lives may have been spared due to popular demand, Phocas likely viewed Priscus himself as the culprit, and seems to have started viewing his son-in-law as a potential rival. By alienating Priscus however, Phocas undermined his own hold on the throne. By 608, John of Antioch reports Priscus initiating contact with Heraclius the Elder, the Exarch of Africa, and instigating the revolt that would eventually remove Phocas from power.\n\n"}
{"id": "1391827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1391827", "title": "Eight Witnesses", "text": "Eight Witnesses\n\nThe Eight Witnesses were one of the two groups of witnesses who made a statement stating that they had seen the golden plates which Joseph Smith, Jr. said was his source material for the Book of Mormon. The other group of Book of Mormon witnesses who said they saw the plates are called the Three Witnesses.\n\nThe testimony of the Eight Witnesses was first published at the end of the 1830 edition of the Book of Mormon and has been printed in nearly every edition since, although most subsequent editions moved the statement to the front of the book and included minor grammatical corrections.\n\nBe it known unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, unto whom this work shall come: That Joseph Smith, Jun., the translator of this work, has shewn unto us the plates of which hath been spoken, which have the appearance of gold; and as many of the leaves as the said Smith has translated we did handle with our hands; and we also saw the engravings thereon, all of which has the appearance of ancient work, and of curious workmanship. And this we bear record with words of soberness, that the said Smith has shewn unto us, for we have seen and hefted, and know of a surety that the said Smith has got the plates of which we have spoken. And we give our names unto the world, to witness unto the world that which we have seen. And we lie not, God bearing witness of it.\nChristian Whitmer\n\nJacob Whitmer\n\nPeter Whitmer, Jun.\n\nJohn Whitmer\n\nHiram Page\n\nJoseph Smith, Sen.\n\nHyrum Smith\n\nSamuel H. Smith\n\nUnlike the Three Witnesses, the Eight testified that they both saw and handled the plates. Another difference is that the Eight testified that they were shown the plates by Joseph Smith rather than by an angel as had the Three Witnesses.\n\nToward the end of June 1829, at the Peter Whitmer, Sr. home in Fayette, New York, Joseph Smith, Jr. (with Oliver Cowdery as scribe) finished the translation of the Book of Mormon. Near the end of translation process, a prophecy was translated from the Second Book of Nephi that three, and \"a few\" others, might see the golden plates. Subsequently, on June 28, 1829, near the Whitmer farm, the Three Witnesses had their experience. Thereafter, the Smith and Whitmer families traveled to the Joseph Smith, Sr. home in Palmyra, New York. On July 2, 1829, near the Smith home, the Eight Witnesses saw and handled the golden plates.\n\nThe Eight Witnesses were all members of the Whitmer or Smith families: Christian Whitmer, Jacob Whitmer, Peter Whitmer, Jr., John Whitmer, Hiram Page, Joseph Smith, Sr., Hyrum Smith, and Samuel H. Smith. Joseph Smith, Sr. was Joseph Smith's father, and Hyrum and Samuel were his brothers. Christian, Jacob, Peter Jr. and John were David Whitmer's brothers, and Hiram Page was his brother-in-law. Noting the familiar relationship among the witnesses, satirist Mark Twain wrote, \"I could not feel more satisfied and at rest if the entire Whitmer family had testified.\"\n\nIn 1838, the living members of Whitmer family (Christian Whitmer and Peter Whitmer, Jr. died in 1835 and 1836, respectively) became estranged from Smith during a leadership struggle in Far West, Missouri, and all were excommunicated along with other dissenters and fled Caldwell County after receiving an ultimatum from the Danites. Following the death of Smith, none of the Whitmers joined the group that was led by Brigham Young and would become The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.\n\nYet despite the estrangement of the Whitmer family, there is little evidence that any of the Eight Witnesses denied his testimony to the authenticity of Book of Mormon or the gold plates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48594172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48594172", "title": "Ferdinand Ashmall", "text": "Ferdinand Ashmall\n\nFerdinand Ashmall (9 January 1695 – 2 February 1798) was an English centenarian and Catholic priest for the Catholic Church in England and Wales.\n\nHe was born on January 9, 1695 in Elwick, County Durham to Thomas Ashmall and Mary Addison. He was admitted to Lisbon College on August 9, 1711, at age 15, to prepare for the priesthood. He was ordained on February 18, 1720 as a Roman Catholic priest in Portugal. He returned to England in 1723 where he became the chaplain to Mary Salvin at Elvet, County Durham until her death in 1727. He then moved back to his family estate in Amerston. He later moved to New House, County Durham where he remained as the priest until his death.\n\nHe died in New House, County Durham on February 2, 1798 in the 103rd year or 104th year, of his life. It was the 73rd year of his ministry.\n"}
{"id": "57169834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57169834", "title": "Flag of the President of Azerbaijan", "text": "Flag of the President of Azerbaijan\n\nThe Presidential Standard (Flag) of the Republic of Azerbaijan () is the official flag of the President of Azerbaijan.\n\nThe Flag of the President of Azerbaijan was confirmed by the decree №828 of the President of Azerbaijan on “The Standard (flag) of the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan” dated September 15, 2008. The decree came into force on the same day of its issuance.\n\nAccording to the Decree, the Standard of the President of Azerbaijan is the official symbol of the President of Azerbaijan. The original version of the Presidential Standard is kept in the office of the President at the Presidential Palace. The duplicates of Presidential Flag can be placed, hung or raised on the buildings of Presidential Palace and Presidential residences; also can be placed in the halls or rooms of Presidential Palace or Presidential residences if any official event is intended to be conducted in the presence of the President; on other premises when the President of Azerbaijan is visiting; in the halls or on the building, where official or other types of events are being held with the participation of the President of Azerbaijan; and on the vehicles of the President.\n\nPresidential flag is also used during inaugural ceremony. It is brought onto the stage by the soldiers of the Armed Forces under the accompaniment of the ceremonial march during inauguration ceremony.\n\nThe Presidential Flag is like a square version of the tricolor Azerbaijani flag with the Coat of Arm of Azerbaijan on both sides of red stripe instead of white crescent and eight-pointed star. The Presidential Flag is framed with golden fringes.\n\nThere is silver cord attached to the pole of the Presidential Flag illustrating the full name of the President of Azerbaijan and the date of his term of office. The pole of the flag is covered with a metal hood in crescent and 8 point star shape.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28142617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28142617", "title": "George A. Best", "text": "George A. Best\n\nGeorge A. Best was an English football goalkeeper. He played professionally for Blackpool in the early 20th century, either side of spells with his hometown club, Worksop Town.\n\nBest made his debut for Blackpool just over halfway through the 1925–26 season, as deputy for Len Crompton, in a 5–2 defeat at Derby County. He appeared in the two successive games — a 3–0 home victory over Bradford City and a 5–0 reversal at Port Vale — before Crompton returned to the line-up.\n\nThe following 1926–27 campaign saw Best make 24 League appearances. He played his final game for the club on 18 April, in a 2–2 draw at South Shields.\n"}
{"id": "85955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85955", "title": "Goewin", "text": "Goewin\n\nGoewin () is a figure in Welsh mythology, where she has a small but crucial role in the \"Math fab Mathonwy\", one of the Four Branches of the Mabinogi.\n\nAt the beginning of the tale, the eponymous Math fab Mathonwy will die if his feet are not always held in the lap of a virgin or he is at war; Goewin is the virgin who performs this duty until Math is tricked into going to war by his nephews Gwydion and Gilfaethwy, who proceed to rape Goewin. Once Math returns, Goewin reveals the crime and Math punishes the two by transforming them into a series of animals. He then marries Goewin, giving her power over his kingdom, in order to make amends.\n"}
{"id": "12315815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12315815", "title": "Hans Heiling (mythology)", "text": "Hans Heiling (mythology)\n\nHans Heiling (Jan Svatoš in Czech) is a legendary person in German and Bohemian mythology.\n\nThe stories originate from German inhabitants of Loket (now in the Czech Republic). The son of a water fairy from the river Ohře, who taught him to master magic and command spirits. Once he had become rich and powerful, he ordered the spirits under his command to build a great city. The granite rocks above the Ohře, named Hans-Heiling-Felsen (Svatošské Skály in Czech), were believed to be the ruins of this city. When Hans Heiling discovered that he could not achieve human happiness even with his supernatural powers, he discarded them and died fighting a bear. Another variant of the story is that the rock formation is a petrified wedding party. A notable opera of the same name was inspired by the tale.\n\nThe poem \"Ballad\", by Gerda Mayer, is based on the wedding party variant and appears in The Oxford Book of Story Poems.\n"}
{"id": "12599169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12599169", "title": "Jack of the President of the Republic of Poland", "text": "Jack of the President of the Republic of Poland\n\nJack of the President of the Republic of Poland – Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland () is a jack flag used in the Polish Armed Forces to mark the presence and pay respect to the President of the Republic of Poland who is also \"ex officio\" the commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces. The jack is raised on Polish Navy ships when the president is officially on board, as well as on land, if the president is present. The design of the jack is based directly on the pre-war Banner of the Republic of Poland which used to be part of presidential insignia.\n\nThe jack of the President is defined in the Ordinance of the Minister of National Defense on the Use of Insignia of the Armed Forces of January 26, 1996 with subsequent amendments. The ordinance defines the jack of the President as \"a piece of red cloth with the image of the state eagle (i.e. the White Eagle from the national coat of arms) in the middle, bordered with a \"wężyk generalski\"\", an ornate wavy line used in the Polish military as a symbol of general's rank. The hoist to fly ratio is 5:6. The proportion of the eagle's height to the fly is 3:5.\n\nThe presidential jack is used in military ceremonies attended by the commander-in-chief. Celebrations of the Constitution Day, May 3; Polish Armed Forces Day, August 15; and Independence Day, November 11 (see Public holidays in Poland) are typical occasions. For example, during the grand military parade on August 15, 2007 in Warsaw, President Lech Kaczyński rode in a convertible jeep preceded by a mounted cavalry officer carrying the presidential jack,\nwhile a smaller jack was attached to the president's jeep as a car flag. The jack also draped the coffins of President Kaczyński (see Death and state funeral of Lech Kaczyński and Maria Kaczyńska) and former President-in-exile Ryszard Kaczorowski after both died in the Smolensk air crash of 2010.\n\nA state banner was used in Poland as insignia of the head of state (king, president, etc.) as early as the 11th century CE. Although its design changed with time, it was always a heraldic banner, i.e. one based directly on the national coat of arms: a crowned White Eagle in a red field. In 1919, the Sejm (lower house of parliament) established the Banner of the Republic of Poland, reserved for use by the head of state – the State Leader (\"Naczelnik Państwa\") and, later, President of the Republic. In 1927, it was modified to reflect the adoption of a new official rendering of the national coat of arms. At this point the banner was virtually identical to the current design for the presidential jack.\n\nAfter the Second World War, the Banner of the Republic was still used by presidents-in-exile while a variant with a crownless eagle was used by Communist authorities at home. Officially abandoned in 1955, the banner continued to be used in practice by the prime minister and, during the 1960s, by the Council of State, a collective head of state of the time.\n\nThe modern Jack of the President of the Republic of Poland was established by the Minister of National Defense on January 29, 1996 with the sole purpose of flying it on Polish Navy ships while the commander-in-chief is on board. On December 14, 2005, the use of the presidential jack was extended to all branches of Polish Armed Forces. It was first flown on land during a Constitution Day ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Warsaw on May 3, 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3262893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3262893", "title": "Jackie Chan Stunt Team", "text": "Jackie Chan Stunt Team\n\nThe Jackie Chan Stunt Team (), also known as Jackie Chan's Stuntmen Association is a group of stuntmen and martial artists who work alongside Jackie Chan.\n\nThe JC Stunt Team was established in 1976 and originated from the relationships Chan formed in his early starring roles in Hong Kong action movies. Several of his co-stars and stuntmen hired by the film studios began working together regularly. This engendered a familiarity of one another's skills and abilities and it made sense for them to become a working team. Some of the members had received training at the Peking Opera schools, similar to Chan.\n\nBy 1983, and the release of the film \"Project A\", the stunt team had become an official organisation of 6 members. The organisation meant that the stuntmen not only received insurance coverage, but also a monthly salary and higher pay.\nBy the time of \"Police Story 2\" in 1988, the team had expanded to around 20 members.\nThis incarnation of the team was disbanded in 1990 and thereafter, individual members were contracted and used on a film-by-film basis rather than all members remaining on the payroll. This allowed for some new faces, and the return of former members.\n\nThe formation of Chan's team influenced others in the business to follow suit, particularly his former co-stars and \"brothers\" Sammo Hung and Yuen Biao (their stunt teams known as \"Hung Ga Ban\" and \"Yuen Ga Ban\" respectively). Other actors who formed their own stunt teams include Lau Kar-leung, Philip Ko, Stanley Tong and Bruce Law.\nChan's stunt team worked in collaboration with Sammo Hung's team on films including Thunderbolt and Around the World in 80 Days.\nA small number of films that Chan produced but did not appear in, or was not involved in at all, have utilised his stunt team. These include \"The Gold Hunters\" (1981), \"Rouge\" (1988), \"The Inspector Wears Skirts 2\" (1989), \"Stage Door Johnny\" (1990) and \"Angry Ranger\" (1991).\n\nThese are former and current members of Chan's stunt team. Where possible\", \"the films they have worked on are included:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18048964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18048964", "title": "Keaweaweulaokalani", "text": "Keaweaweulaokalani\n\nKeaweaweʻulaokalani is a name shared by two short-lived princes and heirs to the throne of the Kingdom of Hawaii. Both were named after their father Kamehameha III. In Hawaiian, the name means \"the red trail of heaven\", signifying the roadway by which the god descends from heaven.\n\nKeaweaweʻulaokalani I (1839–1839) was the eldest son of Kamehameha III and his queen consort Kalama Hakaleleponi-i-Kapakuhaili. The baby boy was named after his father whose full name was Keaweaweula Kiwalao Kauikeaouli Kaleiopapa Kalani Waiakua Kalanikau Iokikilo Kiwalao i ke kapu Kamehameha. The royal suffix o-Kalani was added in to signified this Prince of Heaven.\n\nThe young Prince Keawe died shortly after his birth. His death left Kamehameha III again childless. His younger brother, Keaweaweʻulaokalani II, would not be born until 1842.\n\nKeaweaweʻulaokalani II (1842–1842) was the second son of Kamehameha III and his queen consort Kalama Hakaleleponi-i-Kapakuhaili. The baby boy was the namesake of his father and his brother.\n\nInitially given in \"hānai\" to Kalākua Kaheiheimālie, he was instead adopted or \"hānai\" by his grand aunt, Kekāuluohi and her husband Kanaina when the old governess of Maui died not three days after his birth. The King promised that he would be sent to the Chiefs' Children's School once he was weaned and could walk. He soon developed a fever and died, at the age of only 31 days. Dr. Baldwin of Lahaina was convinced that the child was killed by traditional medicinal treatment.\n\n"}
{"id": "39265941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39265941", "title": "Legal biography", "text": "Legal biography\n\nLegal biography is the biography of persons relevant to law. In a preface dated October 1983, A. W. B. Simpson wrote that it was \"a rather neglected field\". Since then there as been a \"resurgence of interest\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54506100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54506100", "title": "List of kings of Fib", "text": "List of kings of Fib\n\nThese mythological monarchs supposedly ruled Fib, the reigns of these monarchs are mostly legendary and begin in the 7th century BCE with king Fib. The reigns of these monarchs are attributed to the Pictish chronicles, written in the 10th century during the reign of King Kenneth II of Scotland.\n\nFor later monarchs see List of Pictish Kings. Fib became a puppet state after the reign of the only true king Fib, it was a sub-kingdom from the 7th century BCE until the 9th Century CE (691 BCE - 837/843 CE) when Pictland was united under Kenneth MacAlpin, the last king to rule Pictland before Kenneth was Drest X thus making him the last king of the Fib puppet-state.\n\n"}
{"id": "40281069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40281069", "title": "List of personal coats of arms of Vice Presidents of the United States", "text": "List of personal coats of arms of Vice Presidents of the United States\n\nSeveral United States vice presidents have borne a coat of arms; largely through inheritance, assumption, or grants from foreign heraldic authorities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55886409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55886409", "title": "List of private residents of Covent Garden", "text": "List of private residents of Covent Garden\n\nThe entries in this tabulation cover some 150 years in the 17th and 18th centuries, when the private residents of Covent Garden included many people of rank and note. They ranged from marquesses to barons, foreign ambassadors and members of parliament to physicians, surgeons, antiquaries, artists, authors and dramatists. Some of the later arrivals were auctioneers, such as Christopher Cock and Abraham Langford, who found rich sources for future sales amongst their neighbours. \n\nMost of the entries are derived from \"The Piazza: Notable private residents in the Piazza\", which in turn is based on Sheppard's \"Survey of London: Volume 36, Covent Garden\". Other sources are noted where appropriate.\n"}
{"id": "1702660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1702660", "title": "List of wives of King Henry VIII", "text": "List of wives of King Henry VIII\n\nIn legal terms, King Henry VIII of England had only three wives, because three of his putative marriages were annulled. Unlike a divorce, where a married couple chooses to end their union, annulments essentially declare that a true marriage never took place. However, in common parlance, the so-called wives of Henry VIII were the six queens consort wedded to Henry between 1509 and his death in 1547.\n\nThe six women who were married to Henry VIII were, in chronological order:\n\nHenry's first marriage lasted nearly 24 years; the five that followed less than 10 years combined.\n\nA common mnemonic device to remember the fates of Henry's consorts is \"Divorced, beheaded, died, divorced, beheaded, survived\". There are also two rhymes:\n\nand\n\nIt is often noted that Catherine Parr \"survived him.\" In fact, Anne of Cleves also survived the king, and was the last of his queens to die. Of the six queens, Katherine of Aragon, Anne Boleyn, and Jane Seymour each gave Henry one child who survived infancy: two daughters and one son. All three of these children would eventually ascend to the throne: King Edward VI, Queen Mary I, and Queen Elizabeth I.\n\nCatherine Howard and Anne Boleyn, the two of Henry's queens who were beheaded, were first cousins. Several of Henry's wives worked in at least one of his other wives' service, typically as ladies-in-waiting: Anne Boleyn worked in Catherine of Aragon's service, Jane Seymour worked in Catherine of Aragon's and Anne Boleyn's, and Catherine Howard worked in Anne of Cleves's.\n\nHenry and at least four of his wives (Catherine of Aragon, Anne Boleyn, Jane Seymour, and Catherine Parr) were portrayed in opera.\n\nKatherine of Aragon (16 December 14857 January 1536; ) was Henry's first wife. Although her name is sometimes spelled \"Catherine\", Katherine of Aragon spelled and signed her name with a \"K,\" which was the accepted spelling in England. After the death of Arthur, her first husband and Henry's brother, a papal dispensation was obtained to enable her to marry Henry, though the marriage did not take place until after he came to the throne in 1509. Prospects were looking good when Katherine became pregnant in 1510, just 4 months after their marriage, but the girl was stillborn. Katherine became pregnant again in 1511, and gave birth to a boy, Henry, Duke of Cornwall, who died almost two months later. In 1513, Katherine gave birth to a stillborn boy, and gave birth to a boy who died within hours in 1515. Finally, Katherine bore him a healthy daughter in 1516, Mary. It took her two years to conceive again. This pregnancy ended in a short-lived girl. It is said that Henry truly loved Katherine of Aragon, as he himself professed it many times in declarations, etc.\n\nHenry, at the time a Roman Catholic, sought the Pope's approval for an annulment on the grounds that his marriage was invalid because Katherine had first been his brother's wife, using a passage from the Old Testament (Leviticus Chapter 20 Verse 21) to justify his stance: \"If a man shall take his brother’s wife, it is an impurity; he hath uncovered his brother’s nakedness; they shall be childless.” \nHenry had begun an affair with Anne Boleyn, who is said to have refused to become his mistress (Henry had already consummated an affair then dismissed Anne's sister, Mary Boleyn, and most historians believe that Anne wanted to avoid the same treatment). Despite the pope's refusal, Henry separated from Katherine in 1531. In the face of the Pope's continuing refusal to annul his marriage to Katherine, Henry ordered the highest church official in England, Thomas Cranmer, Archbishop of Canterbury, to convene a court to rule on the status of his marriage to Katherine. On 23 May 1533, Cranmer ruled the marriage to Katherine null and void. On 28 May 1533, he pronounced the King legally married to Anne (with whom Henry had already secretly exchanged wedding vows, probably in late January 1533). This led to the break from the Roman Catholic Church and the later establishment of the Church of England.\nShakespeare called Katherine \"The Queen of Earthly Queens.\"\n\nMarriage to Henry VIII: 11 June 1509 – 23 May 1533 (23 years, 11 months, 19 days); marriage annulled.\n\nAnne Boleyn (c.1501/150719 May 1536) was Henry's second wife and the mother of Elizabeth I. Henry's marriage to Anne, and her subsequent execution, made her a key figure in the political and religious upheaval that was the start of the English Reformation. The daughter of Sir Thomas Boleyn and his wife, Lady Elizabeth Boleyn (born Lady Elizabeth Howard), Anne was of nobler birth than Jane Seymour, Henry's later wife. She was dark-haired, with beautiful features and lively manners; she was educated in Europe, largely as a lady-in-waiting to Queen Claude of France.\n\nAnne resisted the King's attempts to seduce her in 1526 and she refused to become his mistress, as her sister, Mary Boleyn, had been. It soon became the one absorbing object of the King's desires to secure a divorce from his wife, Catherine of Aragon, so he could marry Anne. Evidence of intimacy between the King and Anne is found in a love letter written by the King, in which he expressed admiration for her \"pretty duckies\" (breasts). When it became clear that Pope Clement VII was unlikely to give the king an annulment, the breaking of the power of the Roman Catholic Church in England began.\n\nHenry had Thomas Wolsey dismissed from public office and later had the Boleyn family's chaplain, Thomas Cranmer, appointed Archbishop of Canterbury. In 1533, Henry and Anne went through a secret wedding service. She soon became pregnant and there was a second, public wedding service, which took place in London on 25 January 1533. On 23 May 1533, Cranmer declared the marriage of Henry and Catherine null and void. Five days later, Cranmer declared the marriage of Henry and Anne to be good and valid. Soon after, the Pope launched sentences of excommunication against the King and the Archbishop. As a result of Anne's marriage to the King, the Church of England was forced to break with Rome and was brought under the king's control.\nAnne was crowned Queen Consort of England on 1 June 1533. Later that year, on 7 September, Anne gave birth to Henry's second daughter, Elizabeth. When Anne failed to quickly produce a male heir, her only son being stillborn, the King grew tired of her, annulled their marriage, and a plot was hatched by Thomas Cromwell to execute her.\n\nAlthough the evidence against her was unconvincing, Anne was beheaded on charges of adultery, incest, and high treason on 19 May 1536. Following her daughter Elizabeth's coronation as queen, Anne was venerated as a martyr and heroine of the English Reformation, particularly through the works of John Foxe. Over the centuries, Anne has inspired or been mentioned in numerous artistic and cultural works.\n\nMarriage to Henry VIII: 28 May 153317 May 1536 (2 years, 11 months, 19 days); annulled, then beheaded.\n\nJane Seymour (c.roughly 150824 October 1537) was Henry's third wife. She served Catherine of Aragon and was one of Anne Boleyn's ladies-in-waiting. It is strongly believed that she is the mistress who disposed of Anne, who was executed just 10–11 days before Jane's marriage to the king. The daughter of a knight, she was of lower birth than most of Henry's wives. Finally, a year later, Jane gave birth to a healthy, legitimate male heir, Edward, but she died twelve days later, presumably because of post-natal complications. This apparently caused her husband genuine grief, as she was the only queen to receive a proper Queen's burial; when the King died in 1547, he was buried next to her.\n\nMarriage to Henry VIII: 30 May 153624 October 1537 (1 year, 4 months, 24 days); death from complications of childbirth.\n\nAnne of Cleves (22 September 151516 July 1557) was Henry's fourth wife, for only six months in 1540, from 6 January to 9 July. Anne of Cleves was a German princess. It has been stated that Henry referred to her as \"A Flanders Mare\", which may or may not be true; nevertheless, the label has stuck with Anne. Her pre-contract of marriage with Francis I, Duke of Lorraine, was cited as grounds for an annulment. Anne agreed to this, claiming that the marriage had not been consummated, and because she hadn't resisted the annulment, was given a generous settlement, including Hever Castle, former home of Henry's former in-laws, the Boleyns. She was given the name \"The King's Sister\", and became a friend to him and his children until his death. She outlived both the King and his last two wives, making her the last of the six wives to die.\n\nMarriage to Henry VIII: 6 January 15409 July 1540 (6 months, 3 days); annulled.\n\nCatherine Howard (c.152113 February 1542) was Henry's fifth wife between 1540–1542, sometimes known as \"the rose without a\nthorn\". Henry was informed of her alleged adultery with Thomas Culpeper on 1 November 1541.\n\nMarriage to Henry VIII: 28 July 154023 November 1541 (1 year, 3 months, 26 days); beheaded.\n\nCatherine Parr (15125 September 1548), also spelled Kateryn, was the sixth and last wife of Henry VIII, 1543–1547. She was the daughter of Sir Thomas Parr of Kendal and his wife Maud Green. Through her father, Catherine was a descendant of John of Gaunt, son of King Edward III. Through John of Gaunt's daughter Joan Beaufort, Countess of Westmoreland (Henry's great-great grandmother), she was Henry's third cousin, once removed. By Henry's paternal descent from another of John of Gaunt's children, John Beaufort, 1st Earl of Somerset, the two were also fourth cousins once removed.\n\nCatherine showed herself to be the restorer of Henry's court as a family home for his children. Catherine was determined to present the royal household as a close-knit one in order to demonstrate strength through unity to Henry's opposers. Perhaps Catherine's most significant achievement was Henry's passing of an act that confirmed both Mary's and Elizabeth's line in succession for the throne, despite the fact that they had both been made illegitimate by divorce or remarriage. Such was Henry's trust in Catherine that he chose her to rule as Regent while he was attending to the war in France and in the unlikely event of the loss of his life, she was to rule as Regent until nine-year-old Edward came of age.\n\nCatherine also has a special place in history as she was the most married queen of England, having had four husbands in all; Henry was her third. She had been widowed twice before marrying Henry. After Henry's death, she married Thomas Seymour, uncle of Edward VI of England, to whom she had formed an attachment prior to her marriage with Henry. She had one child by Seymour, Mary, and died shortly after childbirth. Lady Mary's history is unknown, but she is not believed to have survived childhood.\n\nMarriage to Henry VIII: 12 July 154328 January 1547 (3 years, 6 months, 16 days); his death at the age of 55.\n\nHenry was distantly related to all six of his wives through their common ancestor, King Edward I of England, through more than one ancestor.\n\nThe following family tree of Henry VIII's six wives is the closest lineage of him.\n\n"}
{"id": "12600177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12600177", "title": "Margaret Ann Neve", "text": "Margaret Ann Neve\n\nMargaret Ann Neve (\"née\" Harvey; 18 May 1792 – 4 April 1903) was the first recorded female supercentenarian and the second validated human to reach the age of 110 after Geert Adriaans Boomgaard. She lived at Saint Peter Port on the island of Guernsey in the English Channel. She was also the first proven individual whose life spanned three centuries (18th to the 20th centuries).\n\nBy Margaret's birth her family was already well-established on the island. Her father John Harvey was born in Cornwall in 1771 to John (1736-1778) and Margaret Ann Parker (d.1790). John Harvey was involved in merchant shipping and privateering, earning a great amount of wealth over the years. He married Elizabeth Harvey (\"née\" Guille) when they were both 19. John died on 4 December 1820 at the age of 49, and Elizabeth lived with her remaining children in a house called \"Chaumière\" (\"The Cottage\"), which he had bought in 1808. Elizabeth died in 1871 at the age of 99.\n\nTogether they had seven children:\n\nBorn Margaret Harvey on 18 May 1792, the eldest of seven children, most of her childhood was spent in Guernsey. Early in her life she survived a fall down the stairs, which left her concussed for three days.\n\nNeve, as she would become, could remember the turmoil that the French Revolution brought to Guernsey; at the time, her father was in command of the militia on the island. In 1807, at the age of 15, Neve set sail for Weymouth with her father, but a storm caused the ship to land at Chesil Beach.\n\nShe was educated in Bristol, England, gaining an interest in literature and poetry. In 1815, she went to a \"finishing school\" in Brussels, becoming fluent in French and Italian and able to converse in German and Spanish. She would read the New Testament in Greek.\n\nWith her headmistress, she visited the battlefield of Waterloo, shortly after the battle, once the corpses had been buried. There, Margaret picked up souvenirs which she showed to Prussian Field Marshal Blücher in London.\n\nNeve met with Charles François Dumouriez, a general of the French Revolutionary Wars, who dubbed her \"la spirituelle\".\n\nMargaret married John Neve, born 1779, from Tenterden, Kent, in St Peter Port (Town) church on 18 January 1823. On their honeymoon, they visited the Waterloo battlefield, 8 years after the battle. She lived in England for 25 years of marriage, but when her husband died in 1849, she returned to Guernsey. They had no children.\n\nThe census for 1871 shows Margaret A. Neve (78) and her sister Elizabeth Harvey (73) living at 'Chaumière', Rouge Huis, St Peter Port, Guernsey. Neve traveled abroad to various countries with Elizabeth. Their last trip was in 1872, when Neve was 80, wherein they visited the Polish city of Krakow (then part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire).\n\nOn 18 May 1899, a reception was held at Rouge Huis to celebrate her 107th birthday and her entrance into her 108th year. The town council, jurats, the officers of the staff, and about 250 of the leading residents attended. Despite her age, Margaret was found making marmalade the next morning by a reporter from \"The Times\". She was reported as never being ill until the age of 105, when she had the flu, followed by bronchitis at 108. At the age of 110, she climbed a tree to pluck an apple, explaining that they were much tastier when eaten straight from the tree.\n\nA newspaper report records that she enjoyed a glass and a half of old sherry at lunchtime, followed by a weak whiskey and water at supper. She was in the habit of always rising early and abstaining from eating and drinking between meal times. Contrary to popular belief, she did not receive congratulations from Queen Victoria congratulating her for reaching her 110th birthday. However, the Harvey family (through Neve's niece Louisa) did exchange correspondence with the Royal Household, expressing gratitude for the signed photograph given to them on 4 May 1896 by the Queen.\n\nNeve died on 4 April 1903, a month before her 111th birthday. She reportedly repeated a Psalm in a loud voice the day before she died. Flags in Guernsey were lowered to half mast as a show of respect. She was one of the last few living people from the 18th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "30867957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30867957", "title": "Metabiography", "text": "Metabiography\n\nMetabiography is the literary study of the relation of biographies to the temporal, geographical, institutional, intellectual or ideological locations of their writers (the biographers). It is a hermeneutics of biography that sees the biographical subject (the “biographee”) as a collective construct of different memory cultures, proposing an essential instability of historical lives. In the words of Steven Shapin, metabiography stresses “that shifting biographical traditions make one person have many lives,” none of these necessarily more real than any other, because all are “configured and reconfigured according to the sensibilities and needs of the changing cultural settings.” In this sense, metabiography expresses a belief in the observer-dependence of historical knowledge.\n\nAs part of the preparations for their own writings, biographers have traditionally examined previous biographical studies. For these authors, dealing with predecessors has served such purposes as establishing the factual inadequacy of earlier efforts, staking one’s own claim against prior “myths” and “mistakes,” or has been intended simply as laying the groundwork for a new and more “definitive” study. Metabiography, however, goes beyond writing about the strengths or weaknesses of preceding biographical studies in interpreting a life. It is less concerned with the authenticity of biographical representations than with their relational nature. \nIt has been argued that in the history of science, metabiography has a long tradition of over fifty years, stretching from Henry Guerlac’s study of “Lavoisier and his biographers” to A. Rupert Hall’s edition of eighteenth-century Newton biographies and beyond. However, to these scholars, the study of former biographers had a propaedeutic function vis-à-vis the biographical works of their own time. They did not follow a relational approach and thus do not meet the crucial criterion for metabiographical studies.\n\nIn the field of biographies of artists and writers, the metabiographical approach was followed e.g. by David Dennis for Ludwig van Beethoven (1770–1827), and Lucasta Miller who used it to good effect in the case Emily Brontë (1818–48). \nGordon S. Wood’s study on the Americanization of Benjamin Franklin, however, is not metabiography, although the Franklin literature would provide ideal material for such a study.\n\nExamples of scientific metabiography are Jan Sapp’s “The nine lives of Gregor Mendel,” Patricia Fara’s \"Newton: the Making of Genius\" and Nicolaas Rupke’s \"Alexander von Humboldt: a Metabiography\". James Moore and Ralph Colp have applied the metabiographical approach to Charles Darwin. A metabiographical slant is also discernible in the \"Reader’s Guide to the History of Science\" (2000).\n"}
{"id": "368048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=368048", "title": "Middle name", "text": "Middle name\n\nIn several cultures, a middle name is a portion of a personal name that is written between the person's given name and their surname. A person may be given a middle name regardless of whether it's necessary to distinguish them from other people with the same given name and surname. In cultures where a given name is expected to precede the surname, additional names are likely to be placed after the given name and before the surname, and thus called middle names. In English-speaking American culture, that term is often applied (arguably mistakenly) to names occupying that position even if the bearer would insist that that name is being mistakenly called a \"middle name\", and is actually (to mention several types of common cases): \nIn the United States, such names are specifically referred to as middle names; in most other countries, as far as they are given names and not, for example, patronymics, they would simply be regarded as second, third etc. given names. In the U.S., the \"middle name\" is often abbreviated to the middle initial (e.g. Mary Lee Bianchi becomes Mary L. Bianchi, which is usually standard for signatures) or omitted entirely in everyday use (e.g. just Mary Bianchi). An individual may have more than one middle name, or none. In the United Kingdom, for comparison, she would usually be referred to as either Mary Bianchi, M. L. Bianchi or Mary Lee Bianchi, or she may choose Lee Bianchi, and informally there may be familiar shortenings.\n\nIt is debatable how long multiple given names have existed in English-speaking countries, but it is certain that among royalty and aristocracy the practice existed by the late 17th century (and possibly earlier), as exemplified in the name of the Stuart pretender James Francis Edward Stuart (1688–1766).\n\nDespite their relatively long existence in North America, the phrase \"middle name\" was not recorded until 1835, in the periodical \"Harvardiana\".\n\nThe use of multiple middle names has been somewhat impeded recently by the increased use of computer databases that occasionally allow for only a single middle name or more commonly a middle initial in storing personal records, effectively preventing people with multiple middle names from being listed in such databases under their full name. This is worsened by longer compound names, like María del Pilar Pereyra or María de las Nieves García.\n\nThe abbreviation \"N.M.N.\" (no middle name) or \"N.M.I.\" (no middle initial), with or without periods, is sometimes used in formal documents in the United States, where a middle initial or name is expected but the person does not have one. The middle name can also be a maiden name.\n\nSince 1905, \"middle name\" has also developed a figurative usage meaning a notable or outstanding attribute of a person, as in the phrase \"discretion is my middle name.\"\n\nIn countries that primarily speak English—such as Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, the United States, and the United Kingdom—the forename of a relative is sometimes used as one's middle name to honor familial heritage. In many cases in the United States, however, a person's middle name has little or no lineage-related context, and is used instead to honor close family friends or notable public figures.\n\nIn the United States, those who choose to be known primarily by their middle name may abbreviate their first name as an initial, e.g. J. Edgar Hoover (John Edgar Hoover). Others simply omit the first name, like Woodrow Wilson (Thomas Woodrow Wilson). A rare case of an individual being given only an initial as a middle name, with the initial not explicitly standing for anything, was Harry S. Truman. (He once told reporters—apparently at odds with his own practice—that the S should thus not be followed by period.)\n\nMore than two given names are fairly common. In England they are traditionally more common among the \"upper classes\" and \"middle classes\". Examples are J. R. R. Tolkien, W.E.B. Du Bois, George H. W. Bush.\n\nMiddle names can also be used as first names. Major examples are Paul McCartney, Mitt Romney, Dakota Fanning, Elle Fanning, Sylvester Stallone, Jonathan Demme, Riley Keough, Reese Witherspoon, Hayley Orrantia, Brad Pitt, Ashton Kutcher, Meghan Markle, Rihanna, Scott Chandler, Nomar Garciaparra, Bill Mumy, Roger Waters and Jim Acosta.\n\nTraditionally, Chinese names consisted of three characters—the surname, followed by a two-character given name (\"ming\"), which is not separated into a first and middle name in usage. Two-character given names follow a naming tradition in which the first character of the given name (and thus the second character in the three-character full name) indicates the person's generation in his/her family. For example, the Yongzheng Emperor of the Qing dynasty has the given name \"Yinzhen\" (胤禛) while his brothers' names all begin with the character \"Yin\" (胤). His sons' and nephews' given names all begin with the character \"Hong\" (弘). Traditionally, the list of generational names may be decided many generations in advance by the ancestors. In such naming systems, the de facto given name is the last character of a person's full name. Even if that was the case most of the time, sometimes the person's given name is the middle character and not the last. A three-character name is both patriarchal and hierarchical, as it would inform of a person's belonging and rank within a family. During the One-child Policy, there was no need for a generation name as there was only one child in each generation. Many names in Mainland China were shortened to two-characters during this time, and there are many adults with shorter names remnant from this era. This would not be found in Taiwan or Hong Kong.\n\nA fading Chinese tradition is to use a courtesy name, called \"zì\" (字) in place of a male's given name in adulthood. Traditionally \"zì\" is given by one's father upon reaching the age of maturity at 20 years old. This name is intended for use in formal situations and formal writing and confers a status of adulthood and respect. Like the \"ming\", the \"zì\" is composed of two characters which usually reflect the meaning of the \"ming\". Prior to the 20th century, sinicized Koreans, Vietnamese, and Japanese were also referred to by their \"zì\". An alternative courtesy name is the \"hào\" (; Japanese gō; Korean: ho; Vietnamese: hiệu), which usually referred to as the pseudonym. A \"hào\" was usually self-chosen and it was possible to have more than one. It had no connection with the bearer's \"míng\" or \"zì\"; rather it was often a personal choice and may have reflected a personal belief or philosophy. Chinese adults may more frequently use the \"hào\" to refer to themselves. The \"zì\" or \"hào\" can be used independently of the given name and of each other, but the given name is almost always used with the family name in official situations.\n\nSome Chinese Americans move their Chinese given name (transliterated into the Latin alphabet) to the middle name position and use an English first name, e.g. James Chu-yu Soong, Jerry Chih-Yuan Yang, and Michelle Wingshan Kwan. The Chinese given name usually has two characters which are usually combined into a single middle name for better organizational purposes, especially with Cantonese names, such as Bruce Lee's middle name, Junfan. There are also some new immigrants whose Chinese given names are their first names followed by English middle names.\n\nThe practice of taking English and Chinese given names is also common in Malaysia, Singapore, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. However, rather than placing the Chinese given name between the English given name and the family name, it is commonly placed after the family name in these places. Under such a system, Bruce Junfan Lee would have been Bruce Lee Junfan. This practice is consistent with both the Western convention of putting the given name before the family name and the Chinese convention of putting the given name after the family name.\n\nIn Denmark and Norway, the term middle name refers to names that are originally surnames, but not part of the last name of the name bearer. The term middle name does not refer to additional given names, which are instead referred to as given names. A middle name could be e.g. one's mother's maiden name or the last name of another recent ancestor (for instance a grandparent). One can have several middle names, but it is unusual to have more than one or two. In law, middle names have a separate status. In practice, their status is similar to that of additional given names, and middle names are often omitted in everyday use, just like a person with 3 or 4 given names would only use one of them in most situations. The historical purpose of middle names is to honour some related family or person, a godparent, or even a completely unrelated person, such as a locally or nationally prominent figure. Until the 19th century, it was not unusual to have the last name of a godparent as one's middle name, even when the godparent was not a blood relative. This practice, and the use of middle names in general, however, was mostly limited to the bourgeois class and the nobility, and was seldom seen among common people. In the 20th century, the use of middle names, especially one's mother's maiden name, was more widely adopted, although it is by no means mandatory. There are few set rules for how names are constructed today; people are required to have one given name and one family name, but can have as many additional given names and middle names as they like.\n\nIn the example Carl Viggo Manthey Lange, the names Carl and Viggo are given names, while Manthey is a middle name and Lange is the family name. Manthey is his mother's maiden name. Unless his full name is used, he is correctly referred to as Mr. Lange, not as Mr. Manthey Lange. Carl Viggo Manthey Lange has a name typical of the Norwegian bourgeois class, with both his family name and his middle name being of foreign origin and being recognised surnames. Most Norwegians and Danes of the working class and peasant class used patronymics until the 19th century, when permanent family names became mandatory, first in Denmark in the early 19th century and then in Norway around 1900. A middle name is usually a recognised surname and not a patronymic. One reason middle names have become popular in the 20th century, particularly in Denmark, is that most Danish surnames originated as patronymics and are shared by a large number of people. The use of middle names in modern times serves to differentiate them from other people. For example, Danish politician Lars Løkke Rasmussen has some of the most common given and last names in Denmark (Lars and Rasmussen); his mother's maiden name is the slightly more unusual name Løkke, derived from a small agricultural property, so he uses it as a middle name, which differentiates him from other people named Lars Rasmussen.\n\nIn Sweden, the position is much the same as in Denmark. Middle names were inaugurated in the previous Name Act of 1963, then called \"tilläggsnamn\" (additional name), and are called \"mellannamn\" (middle name) as of the present Name Act of 1983. However, it had previously been more common to join e.g. the last names of both of a child's parents, or for a married woman to join her maiden name and the husband's last name, as a double name with a hyphen; and large portions of the Swedish population have not adapted to the official system to this day, i.e. for almost 50 years. People often use a hyphen between their middle name and last name themselves, and/or are spelled that way by other people and by mass media.\n\nFurthermore, when the term middle name was introduced in Swedish (\"mellannamn\") the word was assumed by many to mean the additional given names (apart from the \"name of address\" (\"tilltalsnamn\")), so since 1983 the word is being used more and more in this, officially, erratic meaning.\n\nOccasionally, Scandinavians choose to use their middle name as their surname in everyday life. So Per Gottfrid Svartholm Warg has Per and Gottfrid as his given names, where Gottfrid, not Per, is his name of address, Svartholm as his middle name and Warg as his last name, but in practice he uses Svartholm as a surname. This usage, however, is unofficial. Historically, a middle name could become part of a double-barreled surname (family name) and hence cease to be a middle name, especially if used for several generations. There are many family names of this kind, which contributes to the confusion about middle names that shall not be hyphenated. Some of these double-barreled surnames are combined with a hyphen, while others are not, so a double surname without a hyphen can sometimes be indistinguishable from a middle name followed by a family name.\n\nIn Scandinavia, there is no limit on how many given names one can have. Given names have never been referred to as middle names, apart from many in Sweden believing so, as mentioned above. The use of more than two or three given names is generally associated with the upper class. The first given name is not necessarily the name of address. For the sake of completeness, Swedish forms often ask people to fill in all their given names and to indicate which one is their \"name of address\" (\"tilltalsnamn\").\n\nTraditional middle names in Vietnamese are \"Văn\" for male names and \"Thị\" for female names. However, modern Vietnamese do not consider these to be attractive names, especially \"Thị\". Therefore, nowadays popular middle names also are popular first names. Middle names play an important role in Vietnamese full names; they could help creating beautiful names when combine with first names, distinguishing people who have the same first name (there are many common last names in Vietnam), and also distinguishing the gender of the names (unisex names are used widely in Vietnam). Hence, Vietnamese rarely abbreviate their middle names.\n\nFor Filipinos, the middle name is usually the maternal surname, which is the maiden surname of a person's mother. The use of the maternal surname as middle name is from American influence, where Filipinos adopted English naming customs, when they once used Spanish naming customs, that used two surnames (paternal and maternal) joined with the particle \"y\" (or \"e\", before \"i\"), which remains in use but became restricted to very formal purposes, police records and legal proceedings. In the Spanish naming system, the middle name corresponds to the maternal surname. The middle name (or the maternal surname) is usually being abbreviated to a middle initial. Thus, a person with the full name \"Juan Santos Macaraig\", with \"Santos\" the middle name in the present order, may become \"Juan S. Macaraig\" with the middle name abbreviated, and \"Juan Macaraig y Santos\" in the Spanish system, such as those used in names on police records, especially those seen on name placards held by a convicted person on official mug shots. The Philippine system, using \"given name-middle name-surname\" order (or \"Christian name-mother's surname-father's surname\") coincidentally follows the Portuguese naming system that uses two surnames, the first being maternal and the second being paternal.\n\nBut, the maternal surname may not be the middle name at some cases. It may be a second given name, like what the term really means, as in \"Jose P. Laurel\", where \"P.\" (a middle initial) corresponds to \"Paciano\".\n\nIn illegitimate children, the middle name is the maiden surname of the mother, and the middle name (maternal surname) of the mother as surname, but the surname become of the father's upon legal and administrative acknowledgement by his/her father. Children of a single father takes no middle name, even when the mother's identity is known. \n\nTo illustrate that, the daughter of an unmarried couple named \"Ana Cristina dela Cruz Manansala\" and \"Jose Maria Panganiban Lozada\", named '\"Maria Cristina'\", will be named \"Maria Cristina Manansala dela Cruz\" (or \"Ma. Cristina M. dela Cruz\"), with Ana Cristina's middle name, \"dela Cruz\", as surname. But once Jose Maria wants to acknowledge her as his child legally and administratively, Maria Cristina will take the surname \"Lozada\", but keep the maternal surmame \"Manansala\" as middle name, thus, \"Maria Cristina Manansala Lozada\" (or \"Ma. Cristina M. Lozada\"). As the daughter of only Jose Maria, Maria Cristina will be rather called \"Maria Cristina Lozada\" or \"Ma. Cristina Lozada\", even when the mother is known.\n\nIn married women, the middle name usually corresponds to the maiden surname, but on professional society, women usually add the husband's surname after their maiden name, keeping the maternal surname. A married woman may decline taking the husband's surname and keep her maiden name as no Philippine law compels women to take her husband's surname. Thus, a woman named \"Maria Concepcion Perez Limchauco\" (or \"Ma. Concepcion P. Limchauco\"), once marrying \"Juan Pablo Sanchez Marasigan\" (or \"Juan Pablo S. Marasigan\") may take the name \"Maria Concepcion Perez Limchauco-Marasigan\" (or \"Ma. Concepcion P. Limchauco-Marasigan\"), maintaining the maternal surname \"Perez\", \"Maria Concepcion Limchauco Marasigan\" (or \"Ma. Concepcion L. Marasigan\"), taking the maiden surname \"Limchauco\" as middle name and \"Marasigan\" as married surname, or keep her maiden names, remaining \"Maria Concepcion Perez Limchauco\" upon marriage.\n\nIn Argentina, most people have a middle name. According to a study, approximately 9 out of 10 Argentines born in 2010 had a middle name given to them. It used to be even more common in the past, as it is an old tradition. It's very common to use the name of a grandparent as middle name. It is termed \"segundo nombre\" (lit. second name). However, its widespread use is slowly shrinking due to the influence of neighboring countries..\n\nActually, most of south-american, especially Hispanic citizens are acquainted with the use of compound given names, such as Maria + (second given name) or Juan + (given name), among others. This is often considered a useful way of distinguishing from similar or identical names considering that Spanish-derived surnames are strikingly common in some cultural regions (e.g. Luis Fernandez can be better distinguished if arranged as Luis Antonio Fernandez, José Luis Fernandez, Luis Eduardo Fernandez, etc.).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44373964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44373964", "title": "Nineteen Martyrs of Aklan", "text": "Nineteen Martyrs of Aklan\n\nThe Nineteen Martyrs of Aklan (Filipino: \"Labinsiyam na mga Martir ng Aklan\"; Spanish: \"Diecinueve mártires de Aklan\") were Filipino patriots in Kalibo, Aklan, Philippines who were executed by musketry on March 23, 1897 at 2 am, for cooperating with the Katipunan during the Philippine Revolution against Spain.\n\nGeneral Francisco del Castillo, a close associate of Andres Bonifacio. This Aklanon Katipunero was tasked by Bonifacio to establish Katipunan in Panay Island. On March 17, 1897, the young patriot, defender of liberty and leader of the Aklan revolutionists was killed by an assassin during a fight in the present-day Pastrana Park. The untimely death of Gen. del Castillo had signaled the end of the major struggle for freedom in Aklan. His close friends, assistants and soldiers were forced to give up arms, some due to the promise of receiving amnesty. These Nineteen Men, weak from hunger and thirst and racked with rain, were bound together and forced into a black hole of a stone cell on Amadeo Street (now Nineteen Martyrs Street) in Kalibo. Here their hands were manacled and a long bamboo pole was passed through their locked arms across their mangled backs. Then they were strung high up against the wall of the cell, with their backs to the firing line, and during the first hours of March 23, they were shot to death. The few who did not die instantly were bayoneted. That was a night of darkness and terror in Kalibo.\nBut such promise was quickly broken. So on the fateful day of March 23, 1897, the Martyrs of Aklan were executed. \n\nOn March 23, 1897, all 19 prisoners were summarily executed by a firing squad in the town square. Their bodies were hastily buried in a mass grave inside a cemetery. By virtue of a Municipal Council resolution, the mortal remains of 19 martyrs were transferred to its present site at corner M. Laserna and Veterans’ Avenue on March 23, 1926.\nIn order to commemorate the death anniversary of the 19 Martyrs of Aklan, Republic Act No. 7806 was made into law setting the 23rd day of March of every year as a special public holiday in the Province of Aklan. A former general himself, President Fidel V. Ramos let Republic Act 7806 lapsed into law without his signature. And on September 1, 1994, in accordance with Article VI, Sec. 27(1) of the Constitution became law.\n\nOn the 102th martyrdom anniversary of the 19 Martyrs of Aklan on March 23, 2018, the National Historical Commission of the Philippines officially turned over to the Provincial Government of Aklan a tableau memorial in honor of the freedom heroes at the Goding Ramos Park. \n"}
{"id": "2163726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2163726", "title": "Oriflamme", "text": "Oriflamme\n\nThe Oriflamme (from Latin \"aurea flamma\", \"golden flame\") was the battle standard of the King of France in the Middle Ages. It was originally the sacred banner of the Abbey of St. Denis, a monastery near Paris. When the oriflamme was raised in battle by the French royalty during the Middle Ages, most notably during the Hundred Years War, no prisoners were to be taken until it was lowered. Through this tactic they hoped to strike fear into the hearts of the enemy, especially the nobles, who could usually expect to be taken alive for ransom during such military encounters.\n\nIn French, the term \"oriflamme\" has come to mean any banner with pointed ends; by association with the form of the original.\n\nThe Oriflamme was mentioned in the eleventh-century ballad the \"Chanson de Roland\" (vv. 3093-5) as a royal banner, first called \"Romaine\" and then \"Montjoie\". According to legend, Charlemagne carried it to the Holy Land in response to a prophecy regarding a knight possessing a golden lance, from which flames would burn and drive out the Saracens. This suggests that the \"lance\" was originally the important object, with the banner simply a decoration, but this changed over time.\n\nThe Oriflamme was first used by Louis VI in 1124 and was last flown in battle at Agincourt in 1415, though a version of it remained in the Abbey of St. Denis until the 18th century.\n\nLouis VI replaced the earlier banner of Saint Martin with the oriflamme of the Abbey of St. Denis, which floated about the tomb of St. Denis and was said to have been given to the abbey by king Dagobert.\nUntil the 12th century the standard-bearer was the Comte de Vexin, who, as vowed to St. Denis, was the temporal defender of the abbey. Louis VI, having acquired Vexin, became standard-bearer; as soon as war began, Louis VI received Communion at St. Denis and took the standard from the tomb of the saint to carry it to the combat.\n\nIt is recorded as having been carried at the following battles/campaigns:\n\nThe Oriflamme was lost at least five times during its medieval history; Mons-en-Pévèle, Crécy Poitiers and Agincourt, and also during the campaigns of the Seventh Crusade under King Louis IX.\n\nThe banner was red or orange-red silk and flown from a gilded lance. According to legend, its colour stems from it being dipped in the blood of the recently beheaded St. Denis.\n\nThe surviving descriptions of the Oriflamme are in Guillaume le Breton (thirteenth century), in the \"Chronicle of Flanders\" (fourteenth century), in the \"Registra Delphinalia\" (1456) and in the inventory of the treasury of St. Denis (1536). They show that the primitive Oriflamme was succeeded in the course of the centuries by newer Oriflammes which bore little resemblance to one another except for their colour.\n\nWhen the Oriflamme was displayed on the battlefield it indicated that no quarter\nwas to be given, its red colour being symbolic of cruelty and ferocity.\n\nAlthough the azure ground (from the blue cope of St. Martin of Tours) strewn with gold fleur-de-lis remained the symbol of royalty until the 15th century, the Oriflamme became the royal battle standard of the King of France, and it was carried at the head of the king's forces when they met another army in battle. In the fifteenth century, the fleur-de-lis on the white flag of Joan of Arc became the new royal standard replacing both the symbol of royalty and the Oriflamme on the battle field.\n\nThe bearer of the standard, the \"porte-oriflamme\", became an office (like that of Marshal or Constable) and a great honour, as it was an important and very dangerous job to take charge of such a visible symbol in battle. If things went badly, the bearer was expected to die rather than relinquish his charge.\n\nFroissart vividly describes \"porte-oriflamme\" Geoffroi de Charny's fall at the side of his king at the Battle of Poitiers in this passage: “There Sir Geoffroi de Charny fought gallantly near the king (note: and his fourteen-year-old son). The whole press and cry of battle were upon him because he was carrying the king’s sovereign banner [the Oriflamme]. He also had before him his own banner, gules, three escutcheons argent. So many English and Gascons came around him from all sides that they cracked open the king’s battle formation and smashed it; there were so many English and Gascons that at least five of these men at arms attacked one [French] gentleman. Sir Geoffroi de Charny was killed with the banner of France in his hand, as other French banners fell to earth.”\n\n\nThe 19th-century poet Robert Southey refers to the Oriflamme and its reputation in his poem \"Joan of Arc\"\n"}
{"id": "3488351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3488351", "title": "People", "text": "People\n\nA people is a plurality of persons considered as a whole, as is the case with an ethnic group or nation. Collectively, for example, the contemporary Frisians and Danes are two related Germanic peoples, while various Middle Eastern ethnic groups are often linguistically categorized as Semitic peoples.\n\nVarious states govern, or claim to govern, in the name of \"the people\". Both the Roman Republic and the Roman Empire used the Latin term \"Senatus Populusque Romanus\", (the Senate and People of Rome). This term was fixed to Roman legionary standards, and even after the Roman Emperors achieved a state of total personal autarchy, they continued to wield their power in the name of the Senate and People of Rome.\n\nA People's Republic is typically a Marxist or socialist one-party state that claims to govern on behalf of the people even if it in practice often turns out to be a dictatorship. Populism is another umbrella term for various political tendencies that claim to represent the people, usually with an implication that they serve the \"common people\" instead of the elite.\n\nChapter One, Article One of the Charter of the United Nations states that peoples have the right to self-determination.\n\nIn criminal law, in certain jurisdictions, criminal prosecutions are brought in the name of \"the People\". Several U.S. states, including California, Illinois, and New York, use this style. Citations outside the jurisdictions in question usually substitute the name of the state for the words \"the People\" in the case captions. Four states — Massachusetts, Virginia, Pennsylvania, and Kentucky — refer to themselves as \"the Commonwealth\" in case captions and legal process. Other states, such as Indiana, typically refer to themselves as \"the State\" in case captions and legal process. Outside the United States, criminal trials in Ireland and the Philippines are prosecuted in the name of the people of their respective states.\n\nThe political theory underlying this format is that criminal prosecutions are brought in the name of the sovereign; thus, in these U.S. states, the \"people\" are judged to be the sovereign, even as in the United Kingdom and other dependencies of the British Crown, criminal prosecutions are typically brought in the name of the Crown. \"The people\" identifies the entire body of the citizens of a jurisdiction invested with political power or gathered for political purposes.\n\n"}
{"id": "113190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=113190", "title": "Posthumous name", "text": "Posthumous name\n\nA posthumous name is an honorary name given to royalty, nobles, and sometimes others, in East Asia after the person's death, and is used almost exclusively instead of one's personal name or other official titles during their life. The posthumous name is commonly used when naming royalty of China, Korea, Vietnam, and Japan.\n\nPosthumous names in China and Vietnam were also given to honor lifetime accomplishments of many people who did not have hereditary titles – for example, to successful courtiers.\n\nA posthumous name should not be confused with the era name and temple name.\n\nThe posthumous name consists of one or more adjectives inserted before the ruler's current title. As rulers from different states might share the same posthumous name, but rulers \"within\" a state would usually not repeat an already used name, the name of the state or domain is usually also given to avoid ambiguity. In Chinese the whole construct is therefore \"[state][adjective][title]\", which in English is typically translated as \"[title][adjective] of [state]\", such as King Wen of Zhou, Duke Mu of Qin, and King Cheng of Chu. The literal meaning of the adjective is normally not translated.\n\nWhile the names of living Chinese can be just about any combination of characters, the posthumous name was chosen from a rather small pool of stock characters; the literal meaning of which eroded as a result.\n\nEarly mythological rulers such as Emperor Yao are considered to have posthumous names. All rulers of Shang Dynasty are known only by their posthumous names, as their personal names were not recorded in classical texts.\n\nArchaeological discoveries have shown that early kings of the Zhou dynasty, such as King Wen and King Wu, used \"posthumous names\" during their lifetime, but later they became chosen by successors after the ruler's death. As a result, final rulers of states and rulers seen as illegitimate (such as usurpers) often do not have posthumous names and are referred to by their personal names, e.g. Jian, King of Qi; Min, Marquis of Jin; and Chen Tuo.\n\nThe use of posthumous names was stopped in the Qin Dynasty, because Qin Shi Huang proclaimed that it is disrespectful for the descendants, or \"later emperors\" to judge their elders, or the \"prior emperors\" (先帝). The practice was revived in the Han Dynasty after the demise of Qin.\n\nPosthumous names are the conventional way of referring to rulers from the Zhou dynasty to the Sui dynasty. In the Zhou dynasty the posthumous name was usually only one character, such as \"Wen\" (cultured) or \"Wu\" (martial). However, as time went on rulers began to add more and more characters to the posthumous names of their ancestors. By the time of the first emperor of Tang the length had grown to 7 characters, which was taxing to pronounce or write. Therefore, emperors from Tang on are commonly referred to by either their temple name (Tang through Yuan dynasties) or era name (Ming and Qing dynasties), both of which are always just two characters long and therefore easy to remember and use.\n\nPosthumous names commonly made tracing linear genealogies simpler and kept a blood line apparent. The rule was also followed by non-Han Chinese rulers of Sixteen Kingdoms, Silla, Japan, Kingdom of Nanzhao, Liao dynasty, Vietnam, Western Xia, Jin dynasty, Yuan dynasty and Qing dynasty. King names of Hồng Bàng dynasty and Mahan also followed the rule but they are thought to be later work.\n\nSome rulers, such as Wu Zetian, or rebel leaders also had similar style regnal names when they were alive.\n\nMost monarchs inherited the throne and did not give bad posthumous names to the previous monarch. Some names were lengthened or changed by later monarchs. Emperor Aizong of Jin and Chongzhen Emperor had different names from different people. Qin Hui, of the Song dynasty, had a good name, was given a bad one, and had the good name later restored. After the Song dynasty few received bad names. Bad monarchs of the Joseon dynasty did not receive posthumous names.\n\nEmperors of China continued to receive posthumous names of increasing length as a matter of ritual long after the naming convention had been abandoned in casual speech and writing. The Guangxu Emperor, who died in 1908 and was the last emperor to receive a posthumous name, sports the impressive 21-character title of \"Emperor Tongtian Chongyun Dazhong Zhizheng Jingwen Weiwu Renxiao Ruizhi Duanjian Kuanqin Jing of Qing\".\n\nPuyi, the last emperor of China, did not receive a posthumous name upon his death in 1967 since he died at the height of the Cultural Revolution, when such practices would have been thought feudal.\n\nUse of posthumous names ceased in China with the Guangxu Emperor (d.1908), in Vietnam with the Khải Định Emperor (d.1925) and in Korea with the Yunghui Emperor (d.1926). However, in Korea unofficial posthumous names were given to Crown Prince Euimin and Gu, Prince Imperial Hoeun.\n\nPosthumous names are in use to this day in Japan. A deceased emperor is given a posthumous name, which beginning with Emperor Meiji (d.1912) is identical to his era name and therefore always two characters long. The most recently conferred posthumous name is that of Emperor Showa (d.1989).\n\nA non-royal deceased person may be given a posthumous Buddhist name known as \"kaimyo\", but is in practice still referred to by the living name.\n\nPosthumous names can be praises (褒字) or deprecations (貶字). There are more praises than deprecations, so posthumous names are also commonly called \"respectful names\" (尊號 zūn hào) in Chinese. Sima Qian's \"Records of the Grand Historian\" outlines extensively the rules behind choosing the names. Some of those guidelines:\n\nHowever, most of these qualifications are subjective, repetitive, and highly stereotypical; hence the names are chosen somewhat arbitrarily. Such names are usually given by court historians, according to their good deeds or the bad ones.\n\nWhen combining an emperor's temple name and posthumous name, the temple name is placed first. For example, the Shunzhi Emperor whose full posthumous name would be \"Shi Zu - Zhang Huang Di\" (世祖章皇帝), combining the last 2 characters of his temple name and the last 3 of his posthumous name, which is the form most commonly seen in old documents. A fuller description of this naming convention for royalty appears in the Chinese sovereign entry. The posthumous names of some monarchs and royal members were long, for example Hongwu Emperor, Nurhaci, , Sunjo of Joseon and Empress Dowager Cixi.\n\nSome monarchs did not follow these guidelines. Some monarchs of Ju, Chu, and Qi used place names. Some monarchs of Yue (state) had Chinese transliterated posthumous names. Some monarchs of Goguryeo, Silla and Baekje had different style posthumous names. Some early Japan monarchs also had Japanese-style posthumous names (和風諡号).\n\nAll Chinese posthumous names for rulers end in one or two of the characters for \"emperor\", \"Huángdì\" (皇帝, i.e. emperor), which can be shortened to \"Dì\"; except about a dozen or so less recognized ones who have had only \"Dì\" and no \"Huáng\".\n\nStarting with Emperor Xiaowen of Han (more commonly \"Emperor Wen\"), every single Han emperor, except the first one of the Eastern Han Dynasty, has the character of \"filial\" (孝 xiào) at the beginning of his posthumous names. \"Filial\" is also used in the full posthumous names of virtually all emperors and empresses of the Tang, Song, Ming and Qing Dynasties. For Qing emperors, 孝 xiào is placed in various position in the string of characters, while those Qing empresses who were given posthumous names, 孝 xiào is always initial.\n\nThe number of characters in posthumous names was increasing. The emperors of the Tang Dynasty have names in between seven and eighteen characters. Those in the Qing Dynasty have twenty-one characters. For instance, that of the Shunzhi Emperor was \"The Emperor of Order who Observes the Heavenly Rituals with a Solemn Fate, Destined to Unify, Establishes with Extreme Talented Insights, Admires the Arts, Manifests the Might, with Great Virtue and Vast Achievement, Reaches Humanity, Purely Filial\" (體天隆運定統建極英睿欽文顯武大德弘功至仁純孝章皇帝, : tǐ tiān lóng yùn dìng tǒng jiàn jí yīng ruì qīn wén xiǎn wǔ dà dé hóng gōng zhì rén chún xiào zhāng huáng dì).\n\nThe woman with the longest posthumous name is Empress Dowager Cixi, who is \"The Empress who is Admirably Filial, Initiates Kindness, with Blessed Health, Manifests Much Contentment, Solemn Sincerity, with Longevity, Provides Admiration Prosperously, Reveal Adoration, Prosperous with a Merry Heaven, with a Holy Appearance\" (孝欽慈禧端佑康頤昭豫莊誠壽恭欽獻崇熙配天興聖顯皇后 xiào qīn cí xǐ duān yòu kāng yí zhāo yù zhuāng chéng shòu gōng qīn xiàn chóng xī pèi tiān xīng shèng xiǎn huáng hòu), or 孝欽顯皇后 for short.\n\nAccording to the noble system since the Zhou Dynasty, the immediate family members of the Emperor were given the titles of Kings (or Princes), Dukes, Earls, etc., with or without actual control over a region of land. After their death, they would be referred to by the same title, with the posthumous name (usually one character) inserted in the middle. The characters used are mostly the same ones used for emperors, with the same denotations as described above. For example, Prince Gong of the Qing Dynasty was posthumously named Zhong (忠), and thus is referred to as Prince Gongzhong (恭忠親王 Gongzhong qīnwáng); Prince Chun was posthumous named Xian (賢), hence is referred Prince Chunxian (醇賢親王 Chunxian qīnwáng).\n\nIt was also common for persons with no hereditary titles, especially accomplished scholar-officials or ministers, to be given posthumous names by the imperial court. The characters used are mostly the same ones used for emperors, with the same denotations as described above. The length, however, was restricted to one or two characters. The posthumous name is sometimes rendered canonization in English, for the scholar-official to Confucianism is analogous to the saint in the Catholic Church, though the process is not nearly as long. See List of Posthumous Names for some examples.\n\nConfucius has been given long posthumous names in almost every major dynasty. One of the most commonly used was Zhìshèngxiānshī 至聖先師.\n\nSometimes a person is given a posthumous name not by the court, but by his own family or disciples. Such names are private posthumous names (Sĩshì, 私諡). For example, Tao Qian was given \"Sishi\" Jìngjié 靖節.\n\nIn Korea, Goguryeo kings were mostly given posthumous names after their burial places, or in case of Gwanggaeto, the name described his life. In Silla, every monarchs were given the titles of \"wang\" (왕, \"king\") with two characters in posthumous names from Jijeung of Silla. On the other hand, all posthumous names for kings of Balhae were restricted to one character.\n\nMost of the kings of Goryeo and Joseon were called temple name more than posthumous name unlike dynasties of ancient Korea. This is a longer name, made up of adjectives characteristic of the king's rule. For example, Gwangjong of Goryeo's posthumous name was Hongdoseon Yeolpyeongse Sukheonui Hyoganghye Daeseong Daewang (홍도선열평세숙헌의효강혜대성대왕), while his temple name was Gwangjong. Details of the system of posthumous name were made during the Joseon Dynasty. During the Joseon Dynasty, After five days the king's funeral, officials discussed and decided the king's posthumous name. The Ministry of Culture and Education (예조, 禮曹) was in charge of the naming. Also, Shorn of his power, the deposed king has not been given any posthumous names with temple name unless reinstated. They were degraded to the rank of \"gun\" (군, \"prince\"). Yeonsan-gun and Gwanghae-gun were are notable examples.\n\nCrown Prince Hyomyeong has been given longest posthumous names in Korea. He were posthumously elevated in status and given the title Emperor Munjo with with 113 characters in posthumous names in 1899.\n\nIn Japan, posthumous names are called \"shigō\" (諡号), \"okuri-na\" (諡), or \"tsuigo\" (追号). Those of Japanese emperors are also sometimes called \"teigō\" (帝号, \"emperor name[s]\").\n\nThere are two styles in emperors' posthumous names, namely Chinese style and Japanese style. In addition to the appellation \"Tennō\" (天皇, \"heavenly sovereign\", usually translated as \"Emperor\") that is a part of all Japanese emperors' posthumous name, most of them consist of two kanji characters, although a few consist of three. Some names are given several generations later—this is the case for Emperor Jimmu and Emperor Antoku, for example. Others are given immediately after death, like that of Emperor Monmu.\n\nMany have Chinese-style names, for example:\n\nSome have Japanese-style names. For example:\n\nSince the death of Emperor Meiji (明治天皇 \"Meiji Tennō\") in 1912, the posthumous name of an emperor has always been the name of his era. For example, after his death, Hirohito (by which he is usually called outside Japan) was formally renamed Emperor Shōwa (昭和天皇 \"Shōwa Tennō\") after his era; Japanese now refer to him by only that name. \"Hirohito\" was his given name; most Japanese never refer to their emperors by their given names, as it is considered disrespectful.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21218168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21218168", "title": "Presidential Standard of Pakistan", "text": "Presidential Standard of Pakistan\n\nThe Presidential Standard of Pakistan is the official flag of the President of Pakistan.\n\nThe Presidential Standard consists of the background of the Flag of Pakistan with the gold Presidential Crest replacing the white crescent and star found in the Flag of Pakistan. The Presidential Crest consists of a smaller crescent and star flanked by wheat branches with the words \"Pakistan\" written in Urdu underneath.\n\nThe Presidential Standard is displayed only in the presence of the President of Pakistan, particularly in the office and official residence of the President of Pakistan. It is always displayed alongside the Flag of Pakistan. It is also flown alongside the Flag of Pakistan in the Presidential motorcade. The Presidential Standard is never flown atop any building.\n\nThe Presidential Standard was first adopted in 1956 and has since been redesigned twice: in 1974 and 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "3990777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3990777", "title": "Royal Standard of Norway", "text": "Royal Standard of Norway\n\nThe Royal Standard of Norway () is used by the King of Norway. Of historical origin, it was introduced by Cabinet Decision of 15 November 1905, following the plebiscite confirming the election of Prince Carl of Denmark to the vacant throne after the dissolution of the union between Sweden and Norway. Under his chosen name of Haakon VII, the new king arrived in the capital Kristiania on 25 November 1905 on a ship flying the royal standard for the first time. \n\nThe flag of the King is also used by the Queen.\n\nThe flag was referred to as the \"ancient royal standard\" of Norway when it was re-introduced in 1905. It is the earliest known flag of Norway, originally only a flag for the king, as it is today. During the early period of the union with Denmark, it was occasionally flown from castles and naval vessels until it was gradually phased out during the 17th and 18th centuries. Its earliest certain depiction is on the seal of Duchess Ingebjørg in 1318. In 1748 a decree stated that the Dannebrog should be the only legal merchant flag for ships of the united kingdoms of Denmark-Norway.\n\nFrom 1814 to 1905, Norway entered a personal union with Sweden. As a result, the two nations would share the same monarch (and a common foreign policy) but remain separate kingdoms with their own laws and legislative bodies. In 1844, new flags with common features reflecting the union were introduced for the two kingdoms.\n\nFrom 1844 until 1905, the kings of Norway (i.e. also the King of Sweden) used a royal standard on the same pattern as Denmark and Sweden. It was Norway's war flag with the union mark in the canton and the addition of the royal union arms in the centre of the cross. In Norway, growing discontent with the union would lead to the union mark being removed from the merchant (i.e. today's national flag) and the state flag, but the mark remained in the war flag (naval ensign) and the royal flag as they were under jurisdiction of the king.\n\nThe flag introduced in 1844 would be made redundant after the dissolution of the union with Sweden in 1905 and the adoption of the current flag.\n\nThe flag is the coat of arms of Norway in banner form and features a golden lion over a red field. With the dissolution of the Union in 1905 and election of a new king, the Norwegian Lion coat of arms were subsequently adopted for use by the King as was the old royal flag.\n\nGraphically, that first royal standard was charged with a lion designed by the Danish expert on heraldry \"Anders Thiset\", complying with the blazon decided by the Cabinet. It differed from the definitive version of the royal standard, which was charged with the lion designed by the painter Eilif Peterssen The Peterssen designed lion was changed on the coat of arms for government use in 1937 to fit a medieval style, but the king kept the 1905 Peterssen design for the royal arms and standard.\n\nThe flag of the Crown Prince (\"Kronprinsflagget\") is similar to the royal standard, except that the field is swallowtailed. It was introduced by Royal Resolution of 26 September 1924. The Crown Prince's flag may also be used by the Crown Princess.\n\nThere are no flags for the rest of the royal family.\n\n"}
{"id": "20135809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20135809", "title": "S. H. Leeder", "text": "S. H. Leeder\n\nShaik Rafi was an Indian author. He is best known for \"Modern Sons of the Pharaohs.\"\n\nHe is related to Tobias Leeder and Henry Tucker. The Leeder side of the family was split into the Leeder family and the Tucker family. The two families left Egypt in 1836 for England. Tobias's father John was transferred by the army to New Zealand and Henry's father John moved to Wales.\n\n\"Modern Sons of the Pharaohs\" is a study of Egypt's Coptic Christians, their religious rites and their relationship with Muslims.The author analyses Muslim-Christian relations in Egypt prior to the 1919 Revolution for independence from the British and believes the British occupation has ruined the relationship between Muslims and Copts in Egypt. The book was written after the author lived in Egypt and visited several Coptic families in the Delta and Upper Egypt. The work was published in English in 1918, translated into Arabic by Ahmad Mahmūd and published in 2008 by Dar al-Shuruq in Egypt.\n"}
{"id": "914436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=914436", "title": "Shield-maiden", "text": "Shield-maiden\n\nA shield-maiden (), in Scandinavian folklore and mythology was a female warrior. They are often mentioned in sagas such as \"Hervarar saga ok Heiðreks\" and in \"Gesta Danorum\". Shield-maidens also appear in stories of other Germanic peoples: Goths, Cimbri, and Marcomanni. The mythical valkyries may have been based on the shield-maidens.\n\nThe historical existence of shield-maidens is heavily debated, but scholars including Neil Price, argue that they existed while others, like scholar Judith Jesch disagree, citing a lack of hard evidence for trained or regular women warriors.\n\nThere are few historic attestations that Viking Age women took part in warfare, but the Byzantine historian John Skylitzes records that women fought in battle when Sviatoslav I of Kiev attacked the Byzantines in Bulgaria in 971. When the Varangians (not to be confused with the Byzantine Varangian Guard) had suffered a devastating defeat in the Siege of Dorostolon, the victors were stunned at discovering armed women among the fallen warriors.\n\nWhen Leif Erikson's pregnant half-sister Freydís Eiríksdóttir was in Vinland, she is reported to have taken up a sword, and, bare-breasted, scared away the attacking Skrælings. The fight is recounted in the \"Greenland saga\", though Freydís is not explicitly referred to as a shield-maiden in the text.\n\nSaxo Grammaticus reported that shield-maidens fought on the side of the Danes at the Battle of Brávellir in the year 750:\nExamples of shield-maidens mentioned by name in the Norse sagas include Brynhildr in the \"Vǫlsunga saga\", Hervor in \"Hervarar saga ok Heiðreks\", the Brynhildr of the \"Bósa saga ok Herrauðs\", the Swedish princess Thornbjǫrg in \"Hrólfs saga Gautrekssonar\" and Princess Hed, Visna and Veborg in \"Gesta Danorum\".\n\nTwo shield-maidens appear in certain translations of the \"Hervarar saga\". The first of these Hervors was known to have taken up typically masculine roles early in her childhood and often raided travelers in the woods dressed as a man. Later in her life, she claimed the cursed sword Tyrfing from her father's burial site and became a seafaring raider. She eventually settled and married. Her granddaughter was also named Hervor and commanded forces against attacking Huns. Although the saga remarks on her bravery she is mortally wounded by enemy forces and dies on the battlefield. Scholars Judith Jesch and Jenny Jochens theorize that shield-maidens' often grim fates or their sudden return to typically female roles is a testament to their role as figures of both male and female fantasy as well as emblematic of the danger of abandoning gender roles.\n\nBrynhildr of the \"Vǫlsunga saga\", along with her rival in love, Guðrún Gjúkadóttir, provides an example of how a shield-maiden compares to more conventional aristocratic womanhood in the sagas. Brynhildr is chiefly concerned with honor, much like a male warrior. When she ends up married to Gudrun's brother Gunnarr instead of Sigurðr, the man she intended to marry, Brynhildr speaks a verse comparing the courage of the two men:\nBrynhildr is married to Gunnarr and not Sigurðr because of deceit and trickery, including a potion of forgetfulness given to Sigurðr so he forgets his previous relationship with her. Brynhildr is upset not only for the loss of Sigurðr but also for the dishonesty involved. Similar to her male counterparts, the shield-maiden prefers to do things straightforwardly, without the deception considered stereotypically feminine in much of medieval literature. She enacts her vengeance directly, resulting in the deaths of herself, Sigurðr, and Sigurð's son by Guðrún. By killing the child, she demonstrates an understanding of feud and filial responsibility; if he lived, the boy would grow up to take vengeance on Brynhildr's family.\n\nGuðrún has a similar concern with family ties, but at first does not usually act directly. She is more inclined to incite her male relatives to action than take up arms herself. Guðrún is no shield-maiden, and Brynhildr mocks her for this, saying, \"Only ask what is best for you to know. That is suitable for noble women. And it is easy to be satisfied while everything happens according to your desires.\" In her later marriages, however, she is willing to kill her children, burn down a hall, and send her other sons to avenge the murder of her daughter, Svanhildr. In the world of the sagas, women can be both honorable and remorseless, much like the male heroes. While a shield-maiden does not fill a woman's typical role, her strength of character is found in even the more domestic women in these stories.\n\nGraves of female settlers containing weapons have been uncovered, but scholars do not agree how these should be interpreted. Norse immigrant graves in England and chemical analysis of the remains suggested a somewhat equal distribution of men and women, suggesting husbands and wives, while some of the women were buried with weapons. In a tie-in special to the TV series \"Vikings\" Neil Price showed that a 10th Century Birka-burial excavated in the 1970s containing a large number of weapons and the bones of two horses turned out to be the grave of a woman upon bone analysis by Anna Kjellström. In 2017, DNA analysis confirmed that the person was female; the so called Birka female Viking warrior, but others including respected scholar of the Vikings, Judith Jesch says that conclusion is premature. \n\nWhile women warriors are a staple of fantasy, they are not often referred to as shield-maidens. Some who are include Éowyn in J. R. R. Tolkien's \"The Lord of the Rings\" and Thorgil in Nancy Farmer's \"The Sea of Trolls\" trilogy.\n\nIn the 2013 TV series \"Vikings\", the legendary Viking shield-maiden Lagertha, played by Katheryn Winnick, is a principal character.\n\n"}
{"id": "72740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72740", "title": "Slave name", "text": "Slave name\n\nA slave name is the personal name given by others to an enslaved person, or a name inherited from enslaved ancestors. The modern use of the term applies mostly to African Americans and West Indians who are descended from enslaved Africans who retain their name given to their ancestors by the enslavers.\n\nChanging from a slave name to a name embodying an African identity became common after emancipation in the 1960s by those in the African diaspora in the Americas seeking a reconnection to their African cultural roots.\n\nIn Rome slaves were given a single name by their owner. A slave who was freed might keep his or her slave name and adopt the former owner's name as a praenomen and nomen. As an example, one historian says that \"a man named Publius Larcius freed a male slave named Nicia, who was then called Publius Larcius Nicia.\"\n\nHistorian Harold Whetstone Johnston writes of instances in which a slave's former owner chose to ignore custom and simply chose a name for the freedman.\n\nA number of African-Americans and Afro-Caribbeans have changed their names out of the belief that the names they were given at birth were slave names. An individual's name change often coincides with a religious conversion (Muhammad Ali changed his name from Cassius Clay, Malcolm X from Malcolm Little, and Louis Farrakhan changed his from Louis Eugene Walcott, for example) or involvement with the black nationalist movement (e.g., Amiri Baraka and Assata Shakur).\n\nSome organizations encourage African-Americans to abandon their slave names. The Nation of Islam is perhaps the best-known of them. In his book, \"Message to the Blackman in America\", Nation of Islam leader Elijah Muhammad writes often of slave names. Some of his comments include:\n\n\nThe black nationalist US Organization also advocates for African-Americans to change their slave names.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4404976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4404976", "title": "Texas Aces", "text": "Texas Aces\n\nThe Texas Aces is a name colloquially given to five Miss Texas USA titleholders who went on to win the Miss USA beauty pageant in succession from 1985-1989.\n\nPrior to the 1980s, no other state had won more than two Miss USA pageants in succession (the only two states to win twice in succession were Virginia in 1969-1970 and Illinois from 1973-1974). The five Texan Miss USA winners were all coached by \"GuyRex\", Richard Guy and Rex Holt, who held the Texas franchise from 1975. The term was first used in 1988 after Gibbs became their fourth consecutive titleholder, with Guy referring to the four queens as \"four aces in a deck of cards\", with their fifth titleholder, Kim Tomes (1977) as the \"wildcard\". The following year Gretchen Polhemus became the fifth and final \"ace\". The term is still in use.\n\nAs well as directing the Texas pageant, GuyRex also acquired the Miss California USA franchise in 1986. In 1988, Diana Magaña of California placed first runner-up to Gibbs, the fourth ace. The two had both undergone extensive preparation by GuyRex, and even lived together prior to the pageant. \n\nThe five Aces were:\n\nMiss Texas USA official website\n"}
{"id": "1768194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1768194", "title": "Trauco", "text": "Trauco\n\nIn the traditional Chilota mythology of Chiloé, the Trauco is a humanoid creature of small stature - similar to a dwarf or goblin - who lives in the deep forests. It has an ugly face, and legs without feet.\n\nThe Trauco is a mythical entity who inhabits the woods of Chiloé, an island in the south of Chile. It has a powerful magnetism that attracts young and middle-aged women. According to myth, the Trauco's wife is the wicked and ugly Fiura. The trauco carries a small stone-headed hatchet that he uses to strike trees in the forest to symbolize his sexual potency.\n\nWhomever the Trauco chooses will go to him, even if she is sleeping, and fall enraptured at his feet. No woman can resist his magical attraction; all have sexual intercourse with him. Some men of Chiloé fear the Trauco, as his gaze can be deadly.\n\nWhen a single woman is pregnant and no one steps forward as the father, people assume that the Trauco is the father. Because the Trauco is irresistible, the woman is considered blameless. The Trauco is sometimes invoked to explain sudden or unwanted pregnancies, especially in unmarried women.\n\nThe Trauco appears in The Luke Coles Book Series by Josh Walker where he functions as an antagonist in some of the subplots.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48982178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48982178", "title": "Xenagoras", "text": "Xenagoras\n\nXenagoras () was the name of a number of men of classical antiquity:\n\n"}
