{"id": "27431687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27431687", "title": "Advisory jury", "text": "Advisory jury\n\nAn advisory jury is a group installed by a judge to give him or her an opinion during a trial. Unlike the normal jury, the advisory jury opinion is non-binding, and the judge remains the \"final arbitrator of fact and law\". In United States Federal Court, a case may be tried by advisory jury in the case of \"an action not triable of right by a jury\". When a case in federal district court is tried with an advisory jury the court must find the facts specially and state its conclusions of law separately.\n\nThe use of an advisory jury is derived from the practice of the Court of Chancery of referring issues of fact to one of the Common Law Courts of Westminster be tried by a jury as a \"feigned issue\". The \"feigned issue\" was to inform the conscience of the court, and could be disregarded by the Chancellor. The \"feigned issue\" was a legal fiction by stating that a wager contract was laid between two parties interested in respectively maintaining the affirmative and the negative of certain propositions. The Gaming Act 1845 section 19 abolished the \"feigned issue\" and provided that the issue should the directly state the question of fact in dispute instead of a wager. The same abolition occurred in New York by section 72 of the Field Code in 1850.\nIn Watt v Starke (1879) the United States Supreme Court stated \"the verdict of a jury upon an issue out of chancery is only advisory.\" Federal Equity Rule 23, effective 1913, provides in an equity case when a question arises that is triable by jury, a jury trial is held on the equity side without transfer to the law side of the United States District Court. In 1938 Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 39(c)(1) authorized the in any action not triable of right by a jury the court on motion or on its own may have any issue tried by an advisory jury.\n"}
{"id": "49668674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49668674", "title": "Albanian School of Magistrates", "text": "Albanian School of Magistrates\n\nThe \"Albanian School of Magistrates\", officially known as the School of Magistrates of the Republic of Albania (, ASM) is an Albanian post-graduate school, where Albanian judges and public prosecutors are trained. The institution was established in 1997 by virtue of Law no. 8136, date 31.7.1996 “On the School of Magistrates of the Republic of Albania”, as amended by Law no. 9414, date 20.05.2005 and Law no. 97/2014. It is located in Tirana, with its campus located inside the Tirana Grand Park, sharing premises with the Faculty of Geology and Mining of the Polytechnic University of Tirana.\n\nThe aim of the training provided by the ASM is to form a corps of judges and public prosecutors who are suitable for all posts on the bench as well as in the public prosecution service in first instance courts. A prospective Judge or Public prosecutor must complete a Bachelor in Law (which typically requires three years of study) and a Master in Law (which requires two years of study) before entering the School of Magistrates. Admission is made through a two-part entrance examination.\n\nThe Albanian School of Magistrates offers:\n\n· Initial professional theoretical and practical education of candidates for magistrate (who select either the Judicial or the Prosecutorial stream);\n\n· Professional continuous formation of judges and prosecutors in function of general character, combined with the specialized formation for professionals who are in duty in such courts as the administrative court, the serious crimes court, as well as of the sections of courts which are focused into the judgment of specific matters, such as commercial sections, bankruptcy sections, task force of the prosecution, etc.;\n\n· the realization of the activities of the professional formation of the employees of the judicial administrate, as well as of other professions related with the justice system, in accordance with the law or on the request of interested institutions, in dependence of free capacities, as well as of the funds it has in disposal from responsible institutions or donors;\n\n· Editions and publications;\n\n· Scientific research and preparation of analysis, memo and expertise from Legal and Scientific Clinics of the School of Magistrates, (candidates for magistrate under the observation of their professors), in the support of the judicial institutions, such as the High Court, the Constitutional Court and the General Prosecutor’s Institution, as well as in the support of the drafting process for the Parliament and the Ministry of Justice.\n\nThe Initial Training Formation of candidates for magistrates is made up of a period of three years, which comprises:\n\na) A theoretical year with different law subjects;\n\nb) A practical year under the guide of a school professor and under the guide of a judge or prosecutor with high qualifications.\n\nc) A professional internship year dealing with less complicated cases under the guidance of a prosecutor or a judge;\n\nThe first year theoretical program is common for all candidates whereas the second practical year and the third year of professional internship are carried out according to the careers of each of the candidates, judges or prosecutors.\nSchool Director announces the list of courts and prosecutors’ offices, where the internship will be conducted, the responsible magistrates and names of candidates for each court or prosecutor’s office.\n\nAt the end of the first and second year, an evaluation is made from the Pedagogical Council for each of the candidates, with 5 (five) scales: Excellent, Very Good, Good, Sufficient, Insuficcient. Evaluation rules and procedures are defined in the Internal Regulations of the School of Magistrates.\n\nBased on this evaluation, the President of the Republic upon the proposal of the High Council of Justice and General Prosecutor, appoints temporarily candidates for magistrates to carry out their professional internship, respectively as judges and prosecutors.\n\nIn the context of the fulfillment of its mission the School of Magistrates offers the continuous education for judges and prosecutors of courts and prosecutions of the first instances and appeal courts.\nThe period of the continuous education is not more than 20 days per year and not more than 60 days in five years.\nThe program of continuous education is composed from the Director of the School in collaboration with the internal pedagogical staff after is taken, preliminarily, the opinion of the Head of the High Court, of the General Prosecutor, of the Minister of Justice, of the High Council of Justice and of the Pedagogical Council of the School. The program of the continuous education is approved from the Directive Council of the School.\nParticipation in these trainings is compulsory.\n\n"}
{"id": "1552945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1552945", "title": "Assignment (law)", "text": "Assignment (law)\n\nAn assignment is a legal term used in the context of the law of contract and of property. In both instances, assignment is the process whereby a person, the \"assignor\", transfers rights or benefits to another, the \"assignee\". An assignment may not transfer a duty, burden or detriment without the express agreement of the assignee. The right or benefit being assigned may be a gift (such as a waiver) or it may be paid for with a contractual consideration such as money. \n\nThe rights may be vested or contingent, and may include an equitable interest. Mortgages and loans are relatively straightforward and amenable to assignment. An assignor may assign rights, such as a mortgage note issued by a third party borrower, and this would require the latter to make repayments to the assignee.\n\nA related concept of assignment is novation wherein, by agreement with all parties, one contracting party is replaced by a new party. While novation requires the consent of all parties, assignment needs no consent from other non-assigning parties. However, in the case of assignment, the consent of the non-assigning party may be required by a contractual provision.\n\nThe assignment does not necessarily have to be in writing; however, the assignment agreement must show an intent to transfer rights. The effect of a valid assignment is to extinguish privity (in other words, contractual relationship, including right to sue) between the assignor and the third-party obligor and create privity between the obligor and the assignee.\n\nUnless the contractual agreement states otherwise, the assignee typically does not receive more rights than the assignor, and the assignor may remain liable to the original counterparty for the performance of the contract. The assignor often delegates duties in addition to rights to the assignee, but the assignor may remain ultimately responsible.\n\nHowever, in the United States, there are various laws that limit the liability of the assignee, often to facilitate credit, as assignees are typically lenders. Notable examples include a provision in the Truth in Lending Act and provisions in the Consumer Leasing Act and the Home Ownership Equity Protection Act.\n\nIn other cases, the contract may be a negotiable instrument in which the person receiving the instrument may become a holder in due course, which is similar to an assignee except that issues, such as lack of performance, by the assignor may not be a valid defense for the obligor. As a response, the United States Federal Trade Commission promulgated Rule 433, formally known as the \"Trade Regulation Rule Concerning Preservation of Consumers' Claims and Defenses\", which \"effectively abolished the [holder in due course] doctrine in consumer credit transactions\". In 2012, the commission reaffirmed the regulation.\n\nAfter the assignment of contractual rights, the assignee will receive all benefits that had accrued to the assignor. For example, if A contracts to sell his car for $100 to B, A may assign the benefits (the right to be paid $100) to C. In this case, Party C is \"not\" a \"third party beneficiary\", because the contract was not made for C's benefit. Assignment takes place after the contract was formed; they may not precede them.\nThe common law favors the freedom of assignment, so an assignment will generally be permitted unless there is an express prohibition against assignment in the contract. Where assignment is thus permitted, the assignor need not consult the other party to the contract. An assignment cannot have any effect on the duties of the other party to the contract, nor can it reduce the possibility of the other party receiving full performance of the same quality. Certain kinds of performance, therefore, \"cannot\" be assigned, because they create a unique relationship between the parties to the contract. For example, the assignment of a legal malpractice claim is void since an assignee would be a stranger to the attorney-client relationship, who was owed no duty by the attorney and would imperil the sanctity of the highly confidential and fiduciary relationship existing between attorney and client.\n\nTorts are not assignable as public policy, and various statutes may prohibit assignment in certain instances. In addition, the Restatement (Second) of Contracts lists prohibitions in §317(2)(a) based upon the effect to the nonassigning party (obligor), with similar prohibitions in the Uniform Commercial Code §2-210. For example, UCC §2-210 states the following:\nFor assignment to be effective, it must occur in the present. No specific language is required to make such an assignment, but the assignor must make some clear statement of intent to assign clearly identified contractual rights to the assignee. A promise to assign in the future has no legal effect. Although this prevents a party from assigning the benefits of a contract that has not yet been made, a court of equity may enforce such an assignment where an established economic relationship between the assignor and the assignee raised an expectation that the assignee would indeed form the appropriate contract in the future.\n\nA contract may contain a non-assignment clause, which prohibits the assignment of specific rights and some various rights, or of the entire contract, to another. However, such a clause does not necessarily destroy the power of either party to make an assignment. Instead, it merely gives the other party the ability to sue for breach of contract if such an assignment is made. However, an assignment of a contract containing such a clause will be ineffective if the assignee \"knows\" of the non-assignment clause, or if the non-assignment clause specifies that \"all assignments are void\".\n\nTwo other techniques to prevent the assignment of contracts are \"rescission clauses\" or clauses creating a \"condition subsequent\". The former would give the other party to the contract the power to rescind the contract if an assignment is made; the latter would rescind the contract automatically in such circumstances.\n\nThere are certain situations in which the assignment must be in writing.\n\nA parallel concept to assignment is \"delegation\", which occurs when one party transfers his \"duties or liabilities\" under a contract to another. A delegation and an assignment can be accomplished at the same time, although a non-assignment clause may also bar delegation.\n\nLegal remedies may be available if the nonassigning party's rights are affected by the assignment.\n\nAssignments made for consideration are irrevocable, meaning that the assignor permanently gives up the legal right to take back the assignment once it has been made. Donative assignments, on the other hand, are generally revocable, either by the assignor giving notice to the assignee, taking performance directly from the obligor, or making a subsequent assignment of the same right to another. There are some exceptions to the revocability of a donative assignment:\n\nA cause of action for breach on the part of the obligor lies with the assignee, who will hold the exclusive right to commence a cause of action for any failure to perform or defective performance. At this stage, because the assignee \"stands in the shoes\" of the assignor, the obligor can raise any defense to the contract that the obligor could have raised against the assignor. Furthermore, the obligor can raise against the assignee counterclaims and setoffs that the obligor had against the assignor. For example, suppose that A makes a contract to paint B's house in exchange for $500. A then assigns the right to receive the $500 to C, to pay off a debt owed to C. However, A does such a careless job painting the house that B has to pay another painter $400 to correct A's work. If C sues B to collect the debt, B can raise his counterclaim for the expenses caused by the poor paint job, and can reduce the amount owed to C by that $400, leaving only $100 to be collected.\n\nWhen the assignor makes the assignment, he makes with it an implied warranty that the right to assign was not subject to defenses. If the contract had a provision that made the assignment ineffective, the assignee could sue the assignor for breach of this implied warranty. Similarly, the assignee could also sue under this theory if the assignor wrongfully revoked the assignment.\n\nOccasionally, an unscrupulous assignor will asof the assignment, and on the timing of the assignments relative to certain other actions.\n\nIn a quirk left over from the common law, if the assignment was donative, the \"last assignee\" is the true owner of the rights. However, if the assignment was for consideration, the \"first assignee\" to actually \"collect against the assigned contract\" is the true owner of the rights. Under the modern \"American rule\", now followed in most U.S. jurisdictions, the first assignor with equity (i.e. the first to have paid for the assignment) will have the strongest claim, while remaining assignees may have other remedies. In some countries, the rights of the respective assignees are determined by the old common law rule in \"Dearle v Hall\".\n\n\nSee interpleader.\n\nReal property rights can be assigned just as any other contractual right. However, special duties and liabilities attach to transfers of the right to possess property. With an assignment, the assignor transfers the complete remainder of the interest to the assignee. The assignor must not retain any sort of reversionary interest in the right to possess. The assignee's interest must abut the interest of the next person to have the right to possession. If any time or interest is reserved by a tenant assignor then the act is not an assignment, but is instead a sublease.\n\nThe liability of the assignee depends upon the contract formed when the assignment takes place. However, in general, the assignee has privity of estate with a lessor. With privity of estate comes the duty on the part of the assignee to perform certain obligations under covenant, e.g. pay rent. Similarly, the lessor retains the obligations to perform on covenants to maintain or repair the land.\n\nIf the assignor agrees to continue paying rent to the lessor and subsequently defaults, the lessor can sue both the assignor under the original contract signed with the lessor as well as the assignee because by taking possession of the property interest, the assignee has obliged himself to perform duties under covenant such as the payment of rent.\n\nUnlike a Novation where consent of both the lessor and lesse is required for the third party to assume all obligations and liabilities of the original lessee, an assignment does not always need the consent of all parties. If the contract terms state specifically that the lessor's consent is not needed to assign the contract, then the lesee can assign the contract to whomever the lesee wants to.\n\nAbsent language to the contrary, a tenant may assign their rights to an assignee without the landlord's consent. In the majority of jurisdictions, when there is a clause that the landlord may withhold consent to an assignment, the general rule is that the landlord may not withhold consent unreasonably unless there is a provision that states specifically that the Landlord may withhold consent at Landlord's sole discretion.\n\nA person can also assign their rights to receive the benefits owed to a partner in a partnership. However, the assignee can \"not\" thereby gain any of the assignor's rights with respect to the operation of the partnership. The assignee may not vote on partnership matters, inspect the partnership books, or take possession of partnership property; rather, the assignee can only be given the right is to collect distributions of income, unless the remaining partners consent to the assignment of a new general partner with operational, management, and financial interests. If the partnership is dissolved, the assignee can also claim the assignor's share of any distribution accompanying the dissolution.\n\nOwnership of intellectual property, including patents, copyrights, and trademarks, may be assigned, but special conditions attach to the assignment of patents and trademarks. In the United States, assignment of a patent is governed by statute, . Patent rights are assignable by an \"instrument in writing.\" Title in a patent can also be transferred as a result of other financial transactions, such as a merger or a takeover, or as a result of operation of law, such as in an inheritance process, or in a bankruptcy. An assignment of a patent can be recorded with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Although such recording is not required, if an assignment is not recorded at the USPTO within three (3) months or prior to a subsequent assignment, the assignment will be void against a subsequent assignee without notice of the earlier, unrecorded assignment.\n\nWith respect to a trademark, the owner of the mark may not transfer ownership of the mark without transferring the goodwill associated with the mark.\n\nCompanies sometimes request from employees that they assign all intellectual property they create while under the employment of the company. This is typically done within an Employment Agreement, but is sometimes done through a specific agreement called Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement (PIIA).\n\nThe standard rule is that personal injury tort causes of action are nonassignable as a matter of public policy. These should be distinguished from final settlements or judgments resulting from lawsuits brought on such causes of action, which may be assignable.\n\nIn the majority of jurisdictions, assignments involving fraud or legal malpractice causes of action are void as against public policy.\n\nAn equitable assignment is an assignment, or transfer of rights, in equity.\n\nThere are numerous requirements that exist for an equitable assignment of property, outside the 'standard' \"clear and unconditional intention to assign\". These requirements are fundamental characteristics of a statutory assignment: Absolute assignment (an unconditional transfer: conditions precedent or part of a debt are not absolute) and the assignment must be made in writing and signed by the assignor, and in particular, this applies to real property.\n\nAssigning future property in equity cannot be gratuitous. The assignor must receive consideration for the agreement, otherwise the assignment will be ineffective. However, an absolute assignment does not require consideration to be given. Secondly, between the period of agreement between assignor and assignee and acquisition by the assignor, the assignees rights are not contractual, but rather a proprietary right to the property. This means the assignee has an interest in this future property, in the same manner any owner has over property.\n\nIn equity, these principles operate to protect both the assignor and the assignee. In \"Norman v Federal Commissioner of Taxation\", a taxpayer attempted to assign by deed, to his wife certain moneys which he was eventually going to receive. This included dividends and interest due on loans. The court held the interest and the dividends were expectancies or possibilities which could not be assigned without consideration. The court's worry was that assignments without consideration might be used as instruments of fraud, to avoid creditors and tax collection.\n\nCourts will not enforce a contract to assign an expectancy unless there is a valuable consideration. For example, under a settlement of property the respondent \"the son\" would have been entitled to an equal portion of properties along with his other siblings which was gained in a settlement by his mother. This portion was only his when allocated to him at his mothers discretion. Prior to this allocation being made, the respondent allotted his benefit to trustees for a voluntary settlement. He was assigning or purporting to assign something which he might become entitled to in the future, not a contingent interest. The judgment held it ineffective and elaborated on previous points to state the respondent cannot be compelled to allow the trustees to retain the appointed sum.\n"}
{"id": "221570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221570", "title": "Basic law", "text": "Basic law\n\nThe term \"basic law\" is used in some places as an alternative to \"constitution\", implying it is a \"temporary but necessary measure\" without formal enactment of constitution. A basic law is either a codified constitution, or in countries with uncodified constitutions, a law given to have constitution powers and effect. The name is usually used to imply an interim or transitory nature, or avoid attempting a claim to being \"the highest law\", often for religious reasons. In West Germany the term \"Basic Law\" (\"Grundgesetz\") was used to indicate that the Basic Law was provisional until the ultimate reunification of Germany. But in 1990 no new constitution was adopted and instead the Basic Law was adopted throughout the entire German territory. Basic law is entrenched in that it overrides ordinary 'statute law' passed by the legislature.\n\nThe Special Administrative Regions of the People's Republic of China, namely Hong Kong and Macau, have basic laws as their constitutional documents. The basic laws are the highest authority, respectively, in the territories, while the rights of amendment and interpretation rest with the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress of the People's Republic of China. Also\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12737785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12737785", "title": "Biblical law", "text": "Biblical law\n\nBiblical law refers to the legal aspects of the Bible, the holy scriptures of Judaism and Christianity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24781422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24781422", "title": "Brandeis Award (litigation)", "text": "Brandeis Award (litigation)\n\nThe Brandeis Award of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission is awarded annually to \"outstanding litigators\".\n\nRecipients include the following:\n2018 - Patricia McDermott\n"}
{"id": "50913636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50913636", "title": "Buyout clause", "text": "Buyout clause\n\nA buyout clause or release clause refers to a clause in a contract that imposes an obligation on another organisation wishing to acquire the services of the employee under contract to pay the (usually substantial) fee of the clause to the organisation which issued the contract and 'owns' the employee.\n\nIt is most commonly used in reference to sports teams, where a transfer fee is usually paid for a player under contract; however, the current owning club is not obliged to sell their player, and if an agreement on a suitable fee cannot be reached, the buying club can instead resort to paying the player's buyout fee – should their contract have such a clause – which the owning club cannot block. Usually this is a higher amount than the player's expected market value, although on occasion a player at a smaller club will sign a contract but insist on a low buyout fee to attract bigger clubs if their performances generate interest.\n\nThe aim of this clause is twofold; firstly with its high amount, competing teams are discouraged from attempting to acquire the player if the current club shows no signs of selling them, and secondly it raises any hint to the players not to go through with their contractual commitment.\n\nIn Spain, buyout clauses have been mandatory in football contracts since 1985. If wishing to rescind their contract, the players are required to pay the buyout fee to their current club personally (via the league body), which would be advanced to them by the club signing them; however this advance of funds was originally deemed by the Spanish government to be taxable income, requiring the buying club to pay income tax on top of the fee itself, with the prohibitively high costs involved in this dual transaction discouraging clubs from making such deals. In October 2016 the laws were changed, with the buyout fee advances to the players no longer subject to tax, meaning only the fee itself had to be paid.\n\nAs of November 2017, the five largest buyout clauses were those of association football players Cristiano Ronaldo and player Karim Benzema of Real Madrid (€1 billion each) – Ronaldo subsequently moved to Juventus (a deal not involving the buyout fee); Isco and Marco Asensio (also Real Madrid, €700 million each), and that of FC Barcelona player Lionel Messi (also €700 million).\n\nOn 3 August 2017, Paris Saint-Germain activated the buyout clause of Brazilian footballer Neymar from FC Barcelona, which was set at €222 million, making him the most expensive football player in history, ahead of the previous record set by Paul Pogba (€105 million) in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "5303085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5303085", "title": "Consumer Bill of Rights", "text": "Consumer Bill of Rights\n\nOn March 15, 1962, President John F. Kennedy presented a speech to the United States Congress in which he extolled four basic consumer rights, later called the Consumer Bill of Rights. The United Nations through the United Nations Guidelines for Consumer Protection expanded these into eight rights, and thereafter Consumers International adopted these rights as a charter and started recognizing March 15 as World Consumer Rights Day.\n\nBefore the mid-twentieth century, consumers had limited rights with regard to their interaction with products and commercial producers. Consumers had limited ground on which to defend themselves against faulty or defective products, or against misleading or deceptive advertising methods.\n\nThe consumer movement began to gather a following, pushing for increased rights and legal protection against malicious business practices. By the end of the 1950s, legal product liability had been established in which an aggrieved party need only prove injury by use of a product, rather than bearing the burden of proof of corporate negligence.\n\nHelen Ewing Nelson was a drafter of the Consumer Bill of Rights and sought an outlet for distributing it. During Kennedy's election campaign he made a promise to support consumers. After his election, Fred Dutton, a colleague of Nelson's and a government officer who advised the president, asked for Nelson's suggestions on how the president could support consumers, and she sent him the Consumer Bill of Rights. Kennedy presented those rights in a speech to Congress on March 15, 1962. In that speech he named four basic rights of consumers.\n\nThe assertion of this right is aimed at the defense of consumers against injuries caused by products other than automobile vehicles, and implies that products should cause no harm to their users if such use is executed as prescribed. The right was further formalized in 1972 by the US federal government through the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC). This organization has jurisdiction over thousands of commercial products, and powers that allow it to establish performance standards and require product testing and warning labels.\n\nThis right states that businesses should always provide consumers with enough appropriate information to make intelligent and informed product choices. Product information provided by a business should always be complete and truthful. Aiming to achieve protection against misleading information in the areas of financing, advertising, labeling, and packaging, the right to be informed is protected by several pieces of legislation passed between 1960 and 1980.\n\nSome of the legislation which was made because of the assertion of this right include the following:\n\nThe right to free choice among product offerings states that consumers should have a variety of options provided by different companies from which to choose. The federal government has taken many steps to ensure the availability of a healthy environment open to competition through legislation including limits on concept ownership through patent law, prevention of monopolistic business practices through anti-trust legislation, and the outlaw of price cutting and gouging.\n\nThis right has the ability of consumers to voice complaints and concerns about a product in order to have the issue handled efficiently and responsively. While no federal agency is tasked with the specific duty of providing a forum for this interaction between consumer and producer, certain outlets exist to aid consumers if difficulty occurs in communication with an aggrieving party. State and federal attorneys general are equipped to aid their constituents in dealing with parties who have provided a product or service in a manner unsatisfactory to the consumer in violation of an applicable law. Also, the Better Business Bureau is a national non-governmental organization whose sole agenda is to provide political lobbies and action on behalf of aggrieved consumers.\n\nIn 1985, the concept of consumer rights was endorsed by the United Nations through the United Nations Guidelines for Consumer Protection, which expands them to include eight basic rights.\n\nThis right demands that people have access to basic, essential goods and services: adequate food, clothing, shelter, health care, education, public utilities, water, and sanitation\n\nThe right to redress provides for consumers to receive a fair settlement of just claims, including compensation for misrepresentation, shoddy goods, or unsatisfactory services. For example, a consumer should be able to go to consumer court against mobile phone companies that put hidden charges on the bill that were not previously explained, or activate ringtones without the consumer's permission.\n\nThe right to consumer education states that consumers should be able to acquire knowledge and skills needed to make informed, confident choices about goods and services, while being aware of basic consumer rights and responsibilities and how to act on them.\n\nThis is the right to live and work in a work space or home that is non-threatening to the well-being of present and future generations.\n\nThe NGO Consumers International adopted the eight rights and restated them as a charter. Subsequently, the organization began recognizing the date of Kennedy's speech, March 15, as World Consumer Rights Day.\n\nAs of May 2014, the UK Government has introduced proposed legislation before Parliament. The bill is the \"Consumer Rights Bill\", and it will consolidate and develop Unfair Contract Terms provisions and Consumer Protection provisions.\n\n"}
{"id": "37196535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37196535", "title": "Court of Appeal of Paris", "text": "Court of Appeal of Paris\n\nThe Court of Appeal of Paris () is the largest appeals court in France in terms of the number of cases brought before it.\n\nThe Court is housed in the \"Palais de Justice\" of Paris. Jacques Degrandi has been the president of the Court since 2010. \n\n"}
{"id": "305384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305384", "title": "Court reporter", "text": "Court reporter\n\nA court reporter or court stenographer, also called stenotype operator, shorthand reporter, or law reporter, is a person whose occupation is to transcribe spoken or recorded speech into written form, using shorthand, machine shorthand or voice writing equipment to produce official transcripts of court hearings, depositions and other official proceedings. Court reporting companies primarily serve private law firms, local, state and federal government agencies, courts, trade associations, meeting planners and nonprofits.\n\nThe court reporter in some states is required to be a notary public who is authorized to administer oaths to witnesses, and who certifies that his or her transcript of the proceedings is a verbatim account of what was said. Many states require a court reporter to hold a certification obtained through the National Court Reporters Association or the National Verbatim Reporters Association, although some require their own state-specific certification.\n\nIt typically takes anywhere from two to four years to learn the basic skills to become a stenotype court reporter. Applicants first learn to use the keyboard, which takes the least amount of time. The rest of the training involves attaining the speed with a high degree of accuracy. Training to learn the basic skills to become a voice writer reporter typically takes six to nine months. To become realtime proficient in voice writing takes a year to a year and a half. Candidates usually attend specialized certificate courses at private business schools, or sometimes associate's or bachelor's degree programs at accredited colleges or universities. Distance learning and online training courses are also available for both methods. After additional on-the-job training and experience, many court reporters then move on to real-time reporting.\n\nCalifornia requires license applicants to pass a two part examination which includes sections for English (Vocabulary/Usage) and Professional Practice. Between July and October 2016, the pass rate among first time applicants was 47.1% for the English portion and 63.2% for the Professional Practice portion.\n\nLicensed court reporters are required to attend continuing education courses to maintain their licensure. Some states require court reporters to be notaries public in addition to being a Certified Court Reporter (CCR) or Certified Verbatim Reporter (CVR). There are three national court reporting associations in the United States, The National Court Reporters Association (NCRA), and the National Verbatim Reporters Association (NVRA) and the American Association of Electronic Reporters and Transcribers (AAERT). Both the NCRA and NVRA require a minimum speed of 225 words per minute to qualify for certification. AAERT requires 98 percent accuracy on transcripts, and both reporters and transcribers must pass both a written and practical examination. Depending on the court reporting method of choice, one tends to join either the NCRA, NVRA or AAERT. The NCRA offers the title Registered Professional Reporter (RPR) to those who pass a four-part examination and participate in continuing education programs. The NVRA offers the title Certified Verbatim Reporter (CVR) to those who pass a four-part examination, including both a skills and written exam, and participate in continuing education programs. A reporter may obtain additional certifications that demonstrate higher levels of competency such as Registered Merit Reporter (RMR), Certified Real-time Reporter (CRR), Certified Realtime Captioner (CRC), or Certificate of Merit (CM), Real-time Verbatim Reporter (RVR), Registered Broadcast Captioner (RBC), and Registered CART Provider (RCP). Both of these associations offer equivalent examinations to test reporters for speed and competency on their method of reporting. Further certifications are granted by both associations to court reporters demonstrating skills as broadcast captioners and CART providers. The Canadian Court Reporter John M. Weir (CVR) could do 350 words per minute during legal hearings. The AAERT is the electronic court reporting and transcribing industry's professional association in the United States, founded in 1994. The AAERT offers electronic reporters and transcribers three certifications: certified electronic reporter (CER), certified electronic transcriber (CET), and certified electronic reporter and transcriber (CERT).\n\nThe International Alliance of Professional Reporters and Transcribers (IAPRT.org) is a member-based not-for-profit consortium engaged in the ongoing development of all methods of court reporting and transcription, and guiding public and private court reporting professionals worldwide toward the common goal of producing a verbatim and verifiable record. IAPRT offers on-line training and certification for members who participate in continuing education programs.\n\nRequired skills of a court reporter are excellent command of the language being spoken, attention to detail, and the ability to focus for long periods at a time. The most highly skilled court reporters can provide real-time transcription and have significant earning potential, with salaries up to six figures possible in some areas.\n\nIn the United States, the Bureau of Labor Statistics continues to report a positive job outlook for stenographic court reporters. Median annual salary in 2010 was listed at $47,700 per year. The top 10 percent of court reporters earned more than $91,280. In May 2012, Forbes listed \"stenographer/court reporter\" as one of the best jobs that does not require a four-year degree. As of 2015, the median annual salary for a court reporter was $50,000. The actual amount can vary depending on whether the court reporter works in an in-court capacity as an \"official\" reporter or as a recorder of pre-trial discovery (depositions). Additionally, pay can vary based on whether the original and/or a copy of the transcript is ordered by any of the parties to the action. The growth rate of the profession is projected to be 2% to 3%, which is lower than the average of 7%..\n\nAs of 2012, Maryland employed the most court reporters, while New York has the highest average salary. Some states have experienced budget cuts in recent years that have reduced the number of state-funded court reporters. This has resulted in law firms hiring their own court reporters to ensure proceedings are recorded verbatim. The fees associated with this work and the issue of whether reporters can charge their own rates or whether they are set by statute are a subject of dispute.\n\nThe average salary for court reporters Ontario, Canada as of July 2014 is $55,517.\n\nIn England the salary range in 2014 for free court reporters vary, with realtime reporters earning $512.59 a day.\n\nDigital recordings allow judges to instantly play back or review any portion of the recording. A Certified Realtime Reporter (CRR) and a Certified Broadcast Captioner (CBC) offer the ability to show live transcription of the spoken record by captioning what is said to display it on a screen in real time.\n\nMany court reporters work as freelance reporters or independent contractors outside the courtroom in depositions and other situations that require an official legal transcript, such as arbitration hearings or other formal proceedings. Court reporters also often provide real-time transcription for public events, religious services, webcasts, and educational services. Regardless of the method, stenographic, stenomask or digital, a transcript can be produced on an hourly, daily, expedited or standard turnaround.\n\nCourt reporters are also employed by television producers and stations to provide real-time closed captioning of live programs for the hearing-impaired.\n\nOne difference between voice writing court reporters and stenographic court reporters is the method of making the record. The goal of a stenographer is to stenograph verbatim what attorneys, witnesses, and others are saying in a proceeding; the goal of a voice writer is to repeat verbatim what attorneys, witnesses, and others are saying in a proceeding. Though the methods of taking down the record are different, the role and duty requirements of the court reporter are the same. These skills of court reporters are primarily measured through certification exams.\n\nThe training on a stenograph machine requires the person to pass writing speed tests of up to 225 words a minute on their machine in the United States, as set forth by the National Court Reporters Association (NCRA) in the United States. Only a small percentage of court reporting students per year are actually able to do this. The drop-out rate of stenographic court reporters is very high. The tedium of this type of job is believed to be the cause of this problem.\n\nThe training with voice writing equipment requires the person to pass dictation speed tests of up to 225 words a minute in the United States, as set forth by the National Verbatim Reporters Association (NVRA). Passing this speed is a requirement. A voice writer dictates and repeats the proceedings into a stenomask connected to a computer, and using voice recognition software, voice writers are able to offer realtime transcription.\n\nMulti-channel, digital audio allows for isolated playback of channels during transcription. This allows transcribers to listen from different vantage points when playing back the audio. This multi-channel feature especially helps during moments of extraneous noise such as laughter, shouting, coughing and sneezing. The American Association of Electronic Reporters and Transcribers (AAERT) certifies reporters and transcribers. AAERT certified reporters monitor the recording continuously during a proceeding, and create an extensive set of log notes which are individually time-stamped. The time-stamps correspond with the location on the digital recording for instantaneous playback, either upon request during a proceeding or at a later time. The log notes provide any authorized person the opportunity to quickly search and identify any segment of the proceeding they wish to review. Some courts train clerks or other court personnel to operate the digital recording equipment. Courtroom monitors are responsible for listening to the recording through headphones while the proceeding occurs to ensure recording quality. The digital recording method is widely used in federal courts and administrative agencies throughout the United States, as well as court proceedings across the province of Ontario, Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "54004404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54004404", "title": "Criminal tradition", "text": "Criminal tradition\n\nCriminal tradition - of the cultural transmission of criminal values. Criminal traditions are transmitted from the older generation to the younger generation, such as social customs are in other forms of society.\n\nStudies of the criminal tradition involved Clifford R. Shaw and Henry D. McKay. They put forward a theory of “cultural transmission”, focuses on the development in some urban neighborhoods of a criminal tradition that persists from one generation to another despite constant changes in population. This theory stresses the value systems of different areas\n\nAlso worth noting theory of “differential association,” in which Edwin H. Sutherland described the processes by which criminal values are taken over by the individual. Edwin H. Sutherland asserted that criminal behavior is learned and that it is learned in interaction with others who have already incorporated criminal values.\n\nResearch by Shaw and McKay on the concept of cultural transmission indicates that a criminal tradition or subculture does exist in areas of larger cities. According to their studies Criminal tradition arises and is maintained in areas of instability, and the values, norms, and behaviors of the participants in the criminal tradition are viewed as normal by these people.\n\nTraditions are not personified, so adolescents and boys are easier to obey than direct instructions from specific individuals. This is the power of tradition. The norms of the life of groups in which the will of their members manifest themselves take the form of tradition most often. In the tradition that there is no personification, adolescents find it easier to obey them than to a particular person. Against this background, the criminal traditions that are prevalent in youth criminal groups, especially in closed educational and correctional institutions are especially dangerous. In a criminal environment, there are two kinds of traditions:\n\n\nAt the same time, there is a transformation of existing criminal traditions and the emergence of new ones. The reason for this is the changes in the social, economic, legal and other spheres.\n\nOn the criminal tradition in different countries of the world, there is a huge amount of work. There is an impressive number of works on the Russian criminal tradition, written in different languages. \nWe can also highlight works by Jonny Steinberg on the numbers gangs of South Africa\n\nThere is also the view that it is impossible to consider all the traditions of the criminal environment as antisocial and harmful, including, for the reason that some of the traditions in the cells of the remand center, contribute to hygiene and the maintenance of sanitary norms.\n\nIn Russian criminal tradition adherents of the criminal (criminal) tradition are characterized by active participation in the life of the \"thieves' community\"; Living on tangible assets obtained by criminal means; Propaganda of \"thieves' customs and traditions, as well as criminal way of life; Compulsion to keep a word not only before the \"brother\", but also the criminal-criminal world; Organization of collection of \"obschekovyh\" funds and control over their use; Guardianship and assistance to detainees and convicts, the so-called \"vagabonds\" and \"honest prisoners\"; Compliance with the decisions of \"gatherings\"; Demanding of \"brotherhood\" and control over their compliance; Organization of counteraction to state bodies.\n\n"}
{"id": "4433856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4433856", "title": "Defeasibility", "text": "Defeasibility\n\nDefeasibility is the property of something – such as a contract, a proposition or an understanding – that can be annulled, invalidated, or similarly \"defeated\". In law, it refers to the possibility of a contract or other legal agreement being terminated by circumstances that arise later, or of legal reasoning being overturned. In philosophy – especially in epistemology, ethics, or the philosophy of law – it refers to the possibility of a particular principle, rule or understanding being overridden in appropriate circumstances.\n\nIn pragmatics, a subfield of linguistics, it refers to the fact that certain kinds of implicitly conveyed information such as conversational implicatures and presuppositions can be \"defeated\" without sounding contradictory. For example, \"This flag is green\" normally implicates that it is \"completely\" green; but \"This flag is green. It contains a red disc\" is no contradiction. Likewise, \"John never stopped smoking\" normally presupposes that he used to smoke (and still does), but you can say \"John never stopped smoking because actually he never did smoke\" without contradiction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2931779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2931779", "title": "Deputy Attorney General", "text": "Deputy Attorney General\n\nThe Deputy Attorney General (DAG) is the second-highest-ranking official in a department of justice or of law, in various governments of the world. In those governments, the Deputy Attorney General oversees the day-to-day operation of the department, and may act as Attorney General during the absence of the Attorney General. \nIn Pakistan (DAG) is of grade 21.\n\nIn the United States, the Deputy Attorney General is appointed by the President.\n\nIn Pakistan, there is Additional Attorney General then Deputy Attorney General and back bone of the attorney General's office is Assistant Attorney General, all are appointed by the President of Pakistan.\n"}
{"id": "8294323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8294323", "title": "Desafuero", "text": "Desafuero\n\nThe Spanish-language term desafuero refers to the process through which a government official's official immunity to criminal prosecution is removed, i.e., impeachment.\n\nStrictly speaking the term is incorrect, as \"fuero\" (from Latin \"forum\") refers to the freedom of speech protection enjoyed by members of Congress, but since this protection is frequently confused with the immunity against criminal prosecution of top executive branch officials, the term is commonly used by the public in this latter sense.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28682747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28682747", "title": "Disciplinary probation", "text": "Disciplinary probation\n\nDisciplinary probation is a disciplinary status that can apply to students at a higher educational institution or to employees in the workplace. For employees, it can result from both poor performance at work or from misconduct. For students, it results from misconduct alone, with poor academic performance instead resulting in scholastic probation.\n\nFor a student, disciplinary probation means that the student is on formal notice, and subject to special rules and regulations. The violation of these rules may lead to more severe forms of discipline, such as suspension, dismissal, and expulsion.\n\nFor employees, disciplinary probation is one common step in a scheme of progressive discipline. It is a common replacement, in non-unionized workplaces, for the progressive disciplinary step of suspension without pay. A usual period for such probation is 90 days.\nSome companies may place permanent employees on probationary status, particularly if their performance is below a set standard or for disciplinary reasons. In this instance, the employee is usually given a period of time to either improve their performance or modify their behaviour before more severe measures are taken. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "166811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166811", "title": "Do not resuscitate", "text": "Do not resuscitate\n\nDo Not Resuscitate (DNR), also known as no code or allow natural death, is a legal order written either in the hospital or on a legal form to withhold cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) or advanced cardiac life support (ACLS), in respect of the wishes of a patient in case their heart were to stop or they were to stop breathing. The DNR request is usually made by the patient or health care power of attorney and allows the medical teams taking care of them to respect their wishes. In the health care community, allow natural death (AND) is a term that is quickly gaining favor as it focuses on what is being done, not what is being avoided. Some criticize the term \"do not resuscitate\" because of the implication of important treatment being withheld, while research shows that only about 5% of patients who require CPR outside the hospital and only 15% of patients who require CPR while in the hospital survive. Patients who are elderly, are living in nursing homes, have multiple medical problems, or who have advanced cancer are much less likely to survive.\n\nA DNR does not affect any treatment other than that which would require intubation or CPR. Patients who are DNR can continue to get chemotherapy, antibiotics, dialysis, or any other appropriate treatments.\n\"DNR\" and \"Do Not Resuscitate\" are common terms in the United States, Canada, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. This may be clarified in some regions with the addition of \"DNI\" (Do Not Intubate), although in some hospitals \"DNR\" alone will imply no intubation. Clinically, the vast majority of people requiring resuscitation will require intubation, making a DNI alone problematic. Hospitals sometimes use the expression \"no code\", which refers to the jargon term \"code\", short for \"Code Blue\", an alert a hospital's resuscitation team.\n\nSome areas of the United States and the United Kingdom include the letter A, as in \"DNAR\", to clarify \"Do Not \"Attempt\" Resuscitation.\" This alteration is so that it is not presumed by the patient or family that an attempt at resuscitation will be successful. Since the term DNR implies the omission of action, and therefore \"giving up\", some have advocated for these orders to be retermed \"Allow Natural Death\". New Zealand and Australia, and some hospitals in the UK, use the term \"NFR\" or \"Not For Resuscitation\". Typically these abbreviations are not punctuated, e.g., \"DNR\" rather than \"D.N.R.\"\n\nResuscitation orders, or lack thereof, can also be referred to in the United States as a part of Physician Orders for Life Sustaining Treatment (POLST) or Medical Orders for Life Sustaining Treatment (MOLST) orders, typically created with input from next of kin when the patient or client is not able to communicate their wishes.\n\nAnother synonymous term is \"not to be resuscitated\" (\"NTBR\").\n\nUntil recently in the UK it was common to write \"Not for 222\" or conversationally, \"Not for twos.\" This was implicitly a hospital DNR order, where 222 (or similar) is the hospital telephone number for the emergency resuscitation or crash team.\n\nAdvance directives and living wills are documents written by individuals themselves, so as to state their wishes for care, if they are no longer able to speak for themselves. In contrast, it is a physician or hospital staff member who writes a DNR \"physician's order,\" based upon the wishes previously expressed by the individual in his or her advance directive or living will. Similarly, at a time when the individual is unable to express his wishes, but has previously used an advance directive to appoint an agent, then a physician can write such a DNR \"physician's order\" at the request of that individual's agent. These various situations are clearly enumerated in the \"sample\" DNR order presented on this page.\n\nIt should be stressed that, in the United States, an advance directive or living will is not sufficient to ensure a patient is treated under the DNR protocol, even if it is their wish, as neither an advance directive nor a living will is a legally binding document.\n\nDNR orders in certain situations have been subject to ethical debate. In many institutions it is customary for a patient going to surgery to have their DNR automatically rescinded. Though the rationale for this may be valid, as outcomes from CPR in the operating room are substantially better than general survival outcomes after CPR, the impact on patient autonomy has been debated. It is suggested that facilities engage patients or their decision makers in a 'reconsideration of DNR orders' instead of automatically making a forced decision.\n\nThere is accumulating evidence of a racial bias in DNR adoption. A 2014 study of end stage cancer patients found that non-Latino white patients were significantly more likely to have a DNR order (45%) than black (25%) and Latino (20%) patients. The correlation between preferences against life-prolonging care and the increased likelihood of advance care planning is consistent across ethnic groups.\n\nEthical dilemmas occur when a patient with a DNR attempts suicide and the necessary treatment involves ventilation or CPR. In these cases it has been argued that the principle of beneficence takes precedence over patient autonomy and the DNR can be revoked by the physician. Another dilemma occurs when a medical error happens to a patient with a DNR. If the error is reversible only with CPR or ventilation there is no consensus if resuscitation should take place or not.\n\nThere are also ethical concerns around how patients reach the decision to make themselves a DNR. One study found that when questioned in more detail, many patients who were DNR actually would have wanted the excluded interventions depending on the scenario. Most would prefer life saving intubation in the scenario of angioedema which typically resolves in days. One fifth of the DNR patients would want resuscitation for cardiac arrest but to have care withdrawn after a week. It is possible that providers are having a \"leading conversation\" with patients or mistakenly leaving crucial information out when discussing DNR. One study reported that physicians repeatedly give high intensity care to patients while deciding they themselves would be DNR under similar circumstances.\n\nThere is also the ethical issue of discontinuation of an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) in DNR patients in cases of medical futility. A large survey of Electrophysiology practitioners, the heart specialists who implant pacemakers and ICD's noted that the practitioners felt that deactivating an ICD was not ethically distinct from withholding CPR thus consistent with DNR. Most felt that deactivating a pacemaker was a separate issue and could not be broadly ethically endorsed. Pacemakers were felt to be unique devices, or ethically taking a role of \"keeping a patient alive\" like dialysis.\n\nDNR documents are widespread in some countries and unavailable in others. In countries where a DNR is unavailable the decision to end resuscitation is made solely by physicians.\n\nDNRs are not recognized by Jordan. Physicians attempt to resuscitate all patients regardless of individual or familial wishes. The UAE have laws forcing healthcare staff to resuscitate a patient even if the patient has a DNR or does not wish to live. There are penalties for breaching the laws. In Saudi Arabia patients cannot legally sign a DNR, but DNR accepted by order of primary physician in case of terminally ill patients.\nIn Israel, it is possible to sign a DNR form as long as the patient is dying and aware of their actions.\n\nIn England and Wales, CPR is presumed in the event of a cardiac arrest unless a \"do not resuscitate\" order is in place. If they have capacity as defined under the Mental Capacity Act 2005 the patient may decline resuscitation, however any discussion is not in reference to consent to resuscitation and instead should be an explanation. Patients may also specify their wishes and/or devolve their decision-making to a proxy using an advance directive, which are commonly referred to as 'Living Wills'. Patients and relatives cannot demand treatment (including CPR) which the doctor believes is futile and in this situation, it is their doctor's duty to act in their 'best interest', whether that means continuing or discontinuing treatment, using their clinical judgment. If they lack capacity relatives will often be asked for their opinion out of respect.\n\nIn Scotland, the terminology used is \"Do Not Attempt Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation\" or \"DNACPR\". There is a single policy used across all of NHS Scotland. The legal standing is similar to that in England and Wales, in that CPR is viewed as a treatment and, although there is a general presumption that CPR will be performed in the case of cardiac arrest, this is not the case if it is viewed by the treating clinician to be futile. Patients and families cannot demand CPR to be performed if it is felt to be futile (as with any medical treatment) and a DNACPR can be issued despite disagreement, although it is good practice to involve all parties in the discussion.\n\nIn the United States the documentation is especially complicated in that each state accepts different forms, and advance directives and living wills may not be accepted by EMS as legally valid forms. If a patient has a living will that specifies the patient requests of DNR but does not have a properly filled out state-sponsored form that is co-signed by a physician, EMS may attempt resuscitation.\n\nThe DNR decision by patients was first litigated in 1976 in In re Quinlan. The New Jersey Supreme Court upheld the right of Karen Ann Quinlan's parents to order her removal from artificial ventilation. In 1991 Congress passed into law the Patient Self-Determination Act that mandated hospitals honor an individual's decision in their healthcare. Forty-nine states currently permit the next of kin to make medical decisions of incapacitated relatives, the exception being Missouri. Missouri has a Living Will Statute that requires two witnesses to any signed advance directive that results in a DNR/DNI code status in the hospital.\n\nIn the United States, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and advanced cardiac life support (ACLS) will not be performed if a valid written \"DNR\" order is present. Many states do not recognize living wills or health care proxies in the prehospital setting and prehospital personnel in those areas may be required to initiate resuscitation measures unless a specific state-sponsored form is properly filled out and cosigned by a physician.\n\nDo not resuscitate orders are similar to those used in the United States. In 1995, the Canadian Medical Association, Canadian Hospital Association, Canadian Nursing Association, and Catholic Health Association of Canada worked with Canadian Bar Association clarify and create a Joint Statement on Resuscitative Interventions guideline for use to determine when and how DNR orders are assigned. DNR orders must be discussed by doctors with the patient or patient agents or patient's significant others. Unilateral DNR by medical professionals can only be used if the patient is in a vegetative state.\n\nIn Australia, Do Not Resuscitate orders are covered by legislation on a state-by-state basis.\n\nIn Victoria, a Refusal of Medical Treatment certificate is a legal means to refuse medical treatments of current medical conditions. It does not apply to palliative care (reasonable pain relief; food and drink). An Advanced Care Directive legally defines the medical treatments that a person may choose to receive (or not to receive) in various defined circumstances. It can be used to refuse resuscitation, so as avoid needless suffering.\n\nIn NSW, a Resuscitation Plan is a medically authorised order to use or withhold resuscitation measures, and which documents other aspects of treatment relevant at end of life. Such plans are only valid for patients of a doctor who is a NSW Health staff member. The plan allows for the refusal of any and all life-sustaining treatments, the advance refusal for a time of future incapacity, and the decision to move to purely palliative care.\n\nDNRs are not recognized by Italy. Physicians must attempt to resuscitate all patients regardless of individual or familial wishes. Italian laws force healthcare staff to resuscitate a patient even if the patient has a DNR or does not wish to live. There are jail penalties (from 6 to 15 years) for healthcare staff breaching this law, e.g. \"omicidio del consenziente\". Therefore in Italy a signed DNR has no legal value.\n\n"}
{"id": "15318444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15318444", "title": "Environmental Law Alliance Worldwide", "text": "Environmental Law Alliance Worldwide\n\nThe Environmental Law Alliance Worldwide (ELAW) is a public interest, nonprofit, environmental organization that helps communities protect the environment and public health through law. ELAW helps partners strengthen and enforce laws to protect themselves and their communities from toxic pollution and environmental degradation. ELAW provides legal and scientific tools and support that local advocates need to challenge environmental abuses.\n\nELAW was founded in 1989 by lawyers from Australia, Canada, Chile, Ecuador, Indonesia, Malaysia, Peru, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, and the United States. The founders were gathered at the University of Oregon's Public Interest Environmental Law Conference. ELAW's U.S. office is in Eugene, Oregon.\n\nELAW has received grants from the MacArthur Foundation and the Charles Stewart Mott Foundation for projects in conservation and sustainable development.\n\n"}
{"id": "10430780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10430780", "title": "Equipment lease assignment", "text": "Equipment lease assignment\n\nEquipment Lease Agreements typically contain language prohibiting the lessee from assigning the lease to a third party. For example, \"You have no right to sell, transfer, assign, sublease, or encumber the equipment or this agreement\" protects the Lessor’s collateral and credit underwriting guidelines in the event the lessee ever wants to transfer the lease to another party. However, it is possible to assign the lease, but the new party (assignee) will be subject to the lessor’s credit evaluation process and approval. Even if the assignee is approved, the existing lessee’s (assignor’s) personal guarantee(s), if any, might not be released unless the assignee’s credit stature is extremely strong.\n"}
{"id": "16303951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16303951", "title": "Eternity clause", "text": "Eternity clause\n\nAn eternity clause in the constitution or basic law of a country is a clause intended to ensure that the law or constitution cannot be changed by amendment. Eternity clauses are a type of entrenched clause in the constitutions of the Czech Republic, Germany, Turkey, Greece, Italy, Morocco, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Federative Republic of Brazil and Norway.\n\nThe Constitution of India and the Constitution of Colombia contain similar provisions aimed at making it difficult, but not impossible, to change their basic structure.\n\nArticle 60 paragraph 4th of the Constitution of the Federative Republic of Brazil, lists four subject areas of the Constitution that cannot be amended:\n\nThere are other clauses that implicitly cannot be amended, mostly because they are dependent of the subjects above.\n\nThe Czech Constitution contains an explicit eternity clause, whereby the Czech constitutional court assumes the role of ultimate arbiter of the effect of European law on the constitution.\n\nThe German eternity clause (German: \"Ewigkeitsklausel\") is Article 79 paragraph (3) of the Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany (German: \"Grundgesetz\"). The eternity clause establishes that certain fundamental principles of Germany's democracy can never be removed, even by parliament. The fundamental principles, (i.e., \"the basic principles\" of Articles 1 and 20), are as follows:\n\n\nThe \"Parlamentarischer Rat\" (Parliamentary Council) included the eternity clause in its Basic Law specifically to prevent a new \"legal\" pathway to a dictatorship as was the case in the Weimar Republic with the Enabling Act of 1933.\n\nIt is not possible for any political party, any legislation or any national commitment to violate \"the basic principles\" of \"this Basic Law\" laid down in Articles 1 and 20. Furthermore, the only way that Articles 1 and 20 can be removed is through Article 146, which requires \"a constitution that is adopted by a free decision of the German People.\" So long as the principles of Articles 1 and 20 are retained, they may be amended (as Article 20 has indeed been amended to establish a 'right of resistance'), but the full protection of the eternity clause does not extend to such amendments.\n\nUnlike the Weimar Constitution, which made human rights only an objective, the eternity clause and Articles 1 and 20 make specific demands of \"all state authority\" regarding \"human rights\" (that is, \"the basic rights\" guaranteed in \"this Basic Law\") and have established specific legislative, executive and judicial organs in \"the constitutional order\" of \"this Basic Law\", each with separate functions bound by the law. These are \"the basic principles\" of the democratic rule of law (German: \"Rechtsstaat\") and the separation of powers, which are principles endorsed by three United Nations resolutions.\n\nThe Greek eternity clause is Article 110 of the Greek Constitution. This article states that every article of the Constitution can be revised by the Parliament, except of the fundemental ones, which establish Greece as a parliamentary republic and those of articles 2 paragraph 1, article 4 paragraphs 1, 4 and 7, article 5 paragraphs 1 and 3, article 13 paragraph 1 and article 26. These fundamental articles include:\n\n\nThe Supreme Court has developed the basic structure doctrine which holds that certain features of the constitution are fundamental in nature and cannot be modified through parliamentary amendment. The Supreme Court has yet to clearly delimit the components of the basic structure.\n\nThe final Article of the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Art. 177, ensures that particular aspects of the Constitution are unalterable. These include the Islamic character of government and laws, the objectives of the republic, the democratic character of the government, “the absolute wilayat al-'amr and the leadership of the Ummah,” the administration of the country by referendum, and the official religion of Islam.\n\nIn the Constitution of Morocco, eternity clauses exist that ensure certain provisions cannot be amended, including the role of Islam in the nation's law, and the role of the King of Morocco in law.\n\n"}
{"id": "17522197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17522197", "title": "Fair Use Project", "text": "Fair Use Project\n\nThe Fair Use Project is part of the Stanford Center for Internet and Society at Stanford Law School. Founded in 2006, it offers legal assistance to \"clarify, and extend, the boundaries of \"fair use\" in order to enhance creative freedom.\" It is headed by Tony Falzone, lecturer at Stanford Law. It has been involved in several notable cases such as \"Aguiar v. Webb\", \"Brave New Films v. Viacom\", \"Golan v. Gonzales\", \"Kahle v. Gonzales\", , \"Warner Brothers and JK Rowling v. RDR Books\", \"Shloss v. Joyce\", and \"Vargas v. BT\".\n\n"}
{"id": "16145656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16145656", "title": "Four Horsemen of the Infocalypse", "text": "Four Horsemen of the Infocalypse\n\nThe Four Horsemen of the Infocalypse is a term for internet criminals, or the imagery of internet criminals.\n\nA play on Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, it refers to types of criminals who use the internet to facilitate crime and consequently jeopardize the rights of honest internet users. There does not appear to be an exact definition for who the Horsemen are, but they are usually described as terrorists, drug dealers, pedophiles, and organized crime. Other sources use slightly different descriptions but generally refer to the same types of criminals. The term was coined by Timothy C. May in 1988, who referred to them as \"child pornographers, terrorists, drug dealers, etc.\" when discussing the reasons for limited civilian use of cryptography tools. Among the most famous of these is in the Cypherpunk FAQ, which states:\n\nThe term seems to be used less often in discussions about online criminal activity, but more often in discussions about the negative, or chilling effects such activity has had on regular users' daily experiences online.\nIt is also used frequently to describe the political tactic \"Think of the children\". A message from the same mailing list states:\n\nThe four supposed threats may be used all at once or individually, depending on the circumstances:\n\nIn 2013, the director of the Safe Internet League (a voluntary censorship group in Russia) claimed that pedophiles, perverts, drug dealers “and other creeps” were using the Tor anonymity software, as a reason why the software should be outlawed. This list did not mention terrorists or money-launderers directly, but did use the catch-all phrase \"other creeps\" that potentially includes them.\n\nIn 2015, the UK Conservative party claimed that their proposed “new communications data legislation will strengthen our ability to disrupt terrorist plots, criminal networks and organised child grooming gangs”, echoing the \"child pornographers, terrorists, drug dealers, etc.\" quote of Timothy C. May.\n\nLater in 2015, Gamma Group released a statement claiming that their surveillance technology is used \"against terrorist threats, drug cartels, other major organised crime, and paedophile rings.\" as justification for concerns that it was being used to target opposition politicians and media groups in Uganda. With money-laundering treated as a major organised crime, this quote matches very closely with the list given in the Cypherpunk FAQ.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34517249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34517249", "title": "Information policy", "text": "Information policy\n\nInformation policy is the set of all public laws, regulations and policies that encourage, discourage, or regulate the creation, use, storage, access, and communication and dissemination of information. It thus encompasses any other decision-making practice with society-wide constitutive efforts that involve the flow of information and how it is processed.\n\nThere are several fundamental issues that comprise information policy. Most prominent are public policy issues concerned with the use of information for democratization and commercialization of social life. These issues include, inter alia, digital environment, such as intellectual property, economic regulations, freedom of expression, confidentiality or privacy of information, information security, access management, and regulating how the dissemination of public information occurs.\n\nInformation policy became a prominent field of study during the latter half of the 20th century as the shift from an industrial to an information society transpired. It has since then evolved from being seen as relatively unimportant to having a much more overarching strategic significance since it establishes the conditions “under which all other decision making, public discourse, and political activity occur.” The growing awareness in the importance of information policy has sparked an interest in various groups to further study and analyze its magnitude. The most common audience for information policy analysis includes undergraduate and graduate students, scholars, policymakers, policy analysts, as well as those members of the public who have taken an interest in understanding the effects of the laws and regulations involving information.\n\nAlthough information policy generally has a broader definition and encapsulates a multitude of components, its scope and impact can vary depending on the context. For example, in the context of an information lifecycle, information policy refers to the laws and policies that deal with the stages information goes through beginning with its creation, through its collection, organization, dissemination, and finally to its destruction. On the other hand, in the context of public administration, information policy is the means by which government employees, institutions, and information systems adapt themselves to an environment in rapid fluctuation and use information for decision-making (e.g., Andersen and Dawes, 1991; also see Bozeman and Bretschneider, 1986, and Stevens and McGowan, 1985). One can see how these two contexts offer varying scopes for the phrase “ information policy.”\n\nInformation policy is in fact, a combination of several varying disciplines including information science, economics, law, and public policy. Thus, its scope may differ when each of these disciplines analyses or uses it. The information sciences may be more concerned with technical advances and how this impacts information policy, while from a law perspective, issues such as privacy rights and intellectual property may be of greatest focus.\n\nThe earliest sight of information policy was present around the mid-1900s. The stages to begin evolving from an industrial society to an information society sparked several other transformations. The common industrial technologies were beginning to be replaced by informational meta-technologies. Organizations began changing their form, several new architectures of knowledge developed, and most importantly, the information economy replaced industrial and agricultural economies.\n\nBy the 1970s, the concept of national information policy was created to protect the data and information that was used in creating public policies. The earliest adopters of information policy included the United States, Australia, as well as several European countries who all recognized the importance for a more standardized governance of information.\n\nElizabeth Orna contributed to a paper on information policies by providing a brief history of the development of ideas surrounding national and organizational information policies, from the beginning when the United Kingdom Ministry of Information was established in the First World War to present day. The history of information policy is reflected in this chart.\n\nIn the 20th century, to cope with the privacy problems of databases, information policy evolved further safeguards. In the USA, the federal Privacy Act provides individuals the right to inspect and correct personal information in federal datafiles.\n\nThe types of information policy can be separated into two different categories. It can be discussed in the short-term focus exclusively on information science. It can also have a much broader context in relation to different subjects and be within a larger time period, for example dating back to Roman civilization, the Bill of Rights, or the Constitution.\n\nThe obvious reason for the need of information policy deals with the legal issues that can be associated with the advancement of technology. More precisely, — the digitization of the cultural content made the cost of the copy decreasing to nearly zero and increased the illegal exchange of files, online, via sharing web site or P2P technologies, or off line (copy of hard disks). As a result, there are many grey areas between what users can and cannot do, and this creates the need for some sort of regulation. Today, this has led to the creation of SOPA (Stop Online Piracy Act). Information policy will mark the boundaries needed to evaluate certain issues dealing with the creation, processing, exchange, access, and use of information.\n\n1. for avoiding risks (financial losses from incomplete and uncoordinated exploitation of information, wasted time, failures of innovation, and reputation loss);\n\n2. for positive benefits, including negotiation and openness among those responsible for different aspects of information management\n3. productive use of IT in supporting staff in their use of information\n\n4. ability to initiate change to take advantage of changing environments\n\nThere are some issues around organizational information policies, which are the interaction between human beings and technology for using information, the issue to proceed information policy itself, whether top-down or middle-up-down, is the best way to approach information policy in an organization. Also, issues that information tends to be influenced by organization’s culture that result in complexity of information flow. Moreover, the concern about valuing information is discussed by Orna, the fact that value of information is dependant on the user, and it can’t be measured by price. Considering that information is an asset or intellectual capital that becomes valuable when it is used in productive ways.\n\nConvergence essentially combines all forms of media, telecommunications, broadcasting, and computing by the use of a single technology: digital computers. It integrates diverse technological systems in the hopes of improving performance of similar tasks. Convergence is thought to be the result of the need for expansion into new markets due to competition and technological advances that have created a threat of new entrants into various segments of the value chain. As a result, previously disparate technologies interact with one other synergistically to deliver information in new and unique ways and allow for inventive solutions to be developed.\n\nNearly every innovative trend in the social industry involves adding data or layers of connectivity. Social networking sites have begun interacting with e-mail functionalities, search engines have begun integrating Internet searches with Facebook data, Twitter along with various other social media platforms have started to play a prominent role in the emergency management framework (mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery) among several others.\n\nIn 2012 a prominent issue arose that deals with the convergence of social media with copyright infringement monitoring systems. The growing interest in this topic can be largely attributed to the recent anti-piracy bills: the Stop Online Piracy Act and the PROTECT IP Act. Various officials from all over the world have expressed an interest in forcing social networks to install and utilize monitoring systems to determine if users are illegally obtaining copyrighted material. For example, if implemented, these filters could prevent the illegal sharing of music over social networking platforms. The convergence of search engines and social networks could make this process even easier. Search engines such as Google, Yahoo, and Bing have begun to merge with social media platforms to link Internet searches to your social networking sites such as Facebook. This poses an even greater threat to users since their Internet searches can be monitored via their social networks.\n\nThe issue of converging social networks with piracy monitoring systems becomes controversial when it comes to protecting personal data and abiding by privacy laws. In order for a synergy such as this one to take place, regulatory convergence would need to be considered. Regulatory convergence is the merging of previously disparate industry-based laws and regulations into a single legal and regulatory framework.\n\nInternet governance has both narrow and broad definitions, thus, making it a complex concept to understand. When most people think of Internet governance, they think of the regulations of the content and conduct that are communicated and acted on through the Internet. Although this is certainly a broad component of Internet governance, additionally, there are more narrow elements to the definition that are often overlooked. Internet governance also encompasses the regulation of Internet infrastructure and the processes, systems, and institutions that regulate the fundamental systems that determine the capabilities of the Internet.\n\nArchitecture is the foundation of the Internet. The fundamental goal of the Internet architecture is to essentially create a network of networks by interconnecting various computer network systems globally. Protocols such as TCP/IP as well as other network protocols serve as the rules and conventions by which computers can communicate with each other. Thus, TCP/IP is often viewed as the most important institution of Internet governance. It serves as the backbone to network connectivity.\nOrganizations such as the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) coordinate the various systems within the Internet on a global level to help preserve the operational stability of the Internet. For example, coordination of IP addresses and managing the Domain Name System (DNS) ensure computers and devices can correctly connect to the Internet and can communicate effectively globally. If regulation of these crucial elements of the Internet such as TCP/IP and DNS were governed by disparate principles, the Internet would no longer exist as it does today. Networks, computers, and peripherals would not be able to communicate and have the same accessibility if these foundational elements varied.\n\nLike with any policy, there needs to be an agent to govern and regulate it. With information policy in a broader sense, the government has several roles and responsibilities. Some examples include providing accurate information, producing and maintaining information that meets the specific needs of the public, protecting the privacy and confidentiality of personal and sensitive information, and making informed decisions on which information should be disseminated and how to distribute it effectively, among others. Although the government plays an active role in information policy, the analysis of information policy should not only include the formal decision making processes by government entities, but also the formal and informal decisions of both the private and public sector of governance.\n\nA persistent debate concerning the government role in information policy is the separation of security and freedom of information. Legislation such as the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (USAPATRIOT or USAPA) Act of 2001 is an example of security taking precedence over civil liberties. The USAPA affected several surveillance and privacy laws to include: \nThe USAPA was passed in October 2001, not long after 9/11 and without much contention from congress. Civil liberties advocates argue that the changes made to the standing surveillance laws were done in an abrupt manner and without consideration to basic rights as outlined in the US constitution, specifically fourth amendment rights which protects against unreasonable search and seizure.\n\nThe five broad methodological strands that Rowlands (1996) identified are current tools for information policy study:\n\nClassification: The tool demonstrates a wide range of issues and subjects on information policy. It helps research to understand the breadth of the subject. The published materials are reasonably well documented and described. It is also good for start-up literature review and research purposes.\n\nIdentification of policy issues and options: This tool relies on inputs for information; for example, interviews and questionnaires targeting policy makers and other stakeholders. It is a commonly used in the studies of on-the-job policy makers in government or industry (Moore and Steele, 1991; McIntosh, 1990; Rowlands, 1997).\n\nReductionism: The reductionist approach control factors to reduce ambiguity. The factors include constraining data collection, analysis and interpretation within the framework of a specific discipline. It helps researchers to notice how a specific factor relates to the overall environment. \nForecasting and scenario-building: The commonly used model is STEEP framework. It helps in reducing uncertainties for a topic that is under studies.\n\nProcess-oriented research and cases studies: It provides detailed contextual analyses of particular events. It helps researcher to experience the policy process in semi-real situation and study its outcome.\n\nIn regards to the future of information policy, it should be flexible and changing to different circumstances as the ability to access, store, and share information grows. Galvin suggests that information policy might include setting a boundary to the uncertainty in this field. As information policy becomes a larger and more important topic, it will also become a greater subject to governmental regulation in regards to the future of technology as well. It will also include the studies of these subjects: information science, communications, library science, and technology studies.\n\nThe information policies will earn more advantages for national and organizational, such as getting the best from development of Web 2.0 nationally and in organization, influence people for paying attention to the socio aspect and socio-technical system, for securing preservation of digital content, bringing out information product, also respecting all users and making thinking time respectable.\n\nIn order to achieve this national organization, it will be important to focus not only on a domestic level but also nationally. Making domestic agencies cooperate internationally (and vice versa) though, will not be overly successful. A single nation can take the lead in establishing communication-based relationships specifically regarding the internet. These relations will need to be slowly and consistently established in order to truly unify any kind of information policy and decision-making. If information policy can be established and guided on a semi-national level, the degree of communication and cooperation throughout the world will increase dramatically. As information policy continues to shape many aspects of society, these international relations will become vital (Harpham, 2011).\n\nInformation policy is playing a greater role in the economy leading to the production of goods and services, as well as selling them directly to consumers (UCLA, 2009). The cost of information varies from a tangible good in that initial costs of the first unit are large and fixed; however, after that, marginal costs are relatively low (MacInnes, 2011). As an increase from the information services, information can be paralleled to that of manufacturing several years ago (UCLA, 2009). The digitalization of information allows businesses to make better justified business decisions (MacInnes, 2011).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3654568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3654568", "title": "Interval Research Corporation", "text": "Interval Research Corporation\n\nInterval Research Corporation was founded in 1992 by Paul Allen and David Liddle. It was a Palo Alto laboratory and technology incubator focusing on consumer product applications and services with a focus on the Internet.\n\nA 1997 version of the company's web page described itself as \"a research setting seeking to define the issues, map out the concepts and create the technology that will be important in the future... [pursuing] basic innovations in a number of early-stage technologies and [seeking] to foster industries around them – sparking opportunity for entrepreneurs and highlighting a new approach to research.\".\n\nA 1999 \"Wired\" magazine article based on a memo from Paul Allen described the company as under fire from Allen to produce \"less R and more D.\" Interval Research Corporation officially closed its doors in April 2000, while a small group of former employees were kept on to form Interval Media to continue a few specific projects. Interval Media was closed in June, 2006. \n\nDuring its brief existence, Interval employed many well-known computer technology pioneers and experts, including:\n\n\nInterval Research was issued approximately 130 US patents. Four of its patents, now owned by Allen's Interval Licensing LLC, are the subject of a patent infringement lawsuit Interval Licensing filed in August 2010 against AOL, Apple, eBay, Facebook, Google, Netflix, Office Depot, OfficeMax, Staples, Yahoo!, and YouTube (but not Microsoft):\n\n\nThe lawsuit also points out that Interval Research was credited by Google in 1998 as an \"outside collaborator\" and one of the companies that funded research by Sergey Brin and Lawrence Page that resulted in Google. On Mar. 3, 2011, Article One Partners announced that one of the patents held by Interval Licensing would be posted to their online community to utilize Public participation in patent examination. The patent in question was U.S. Patent No. 6,263,507, defined as \"Browser for Use in Navigating a Body of Information, With Particular Application to Browsing Information Represented By Audiovisual Data.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "181508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181508", "title": "Intestacy", "text": "Intestacy\n\nIntestacy is the condition of the estate of a person who dies without having made a valid will or other binding declaration. Alternatively this may also apply where a will or declaration has been made, but only applies to part of the estate; the remaining estate forms the \"intestate estate\". Intestacy law, also referred to as the law of descent and distribution, refers to the body of law (statutory and case law) that determines who is entitled to the property from the estate under the rules of inheritance.\n\nIntestacy has a limited application in those jurisdictions that follow civil law or Roman law because the concept of a will is itself less important; the doctrine of forced heirship automatically gives a deceased person's next-of-kin title to a large part (forced estate) of the estate's property by operation of law, beyond the power of the deceased person to defeat or exceed by testamentary gift. A forced share (or legitime) can often only be decreased on account of some very specific misconduct by the forced heir. In matters of cross-border inheritance, the \"laws of succession\" is the commonplace term covering testate and intestate estates in common law jurisdictions together with forced heirship rules typically applying in civil law and Sharia law jurisdictions.\nAfter the Statute of Wills 1540, Englishmen (and unmarried or widowed women) could dispose of their lands and real property by a \"will\". Their personal property could formerly be disposed of by a \"testament\", hence the hallowed legal merism \"last will and testament\".\n\nCommon law sharply distinguished between real property and chattels. Real property for which no disposition had been made by will passed by the law of kinship and descent; chattel property for which no disposition had been made by testament was escheat to the Crown, or given to the Church for charitable purposes. This law became obsolete as England moved from being a feudal to a mercantile society, and chattels more valuable than land were being accumulated by townspeople.\n\nWhere a person dies without leaving a will, the rules of succession of the person's place of habitual residence or of their domicile often apply, but it is also common for the principality where the property is located to have jurisdiction regardless of the decedent's residence or domicile. In certain jurisdictions such as France, Switzerland, the U.S. state of Louisiana, and much of the Islamic world, entitlements arise whether or not there was a will. These are known as \"forced heirship\" rights and are not typically found in common law jurisdictions, where the rules of succession without a will (intestate succession) play a back-up role where an individual has not (or has not fully) exercised his or her right to dispose of property in a will.\n\nIn most contemporary common-law jurisdictions, the law of intestacy is patterned after the common law of descent. Property goes first or in major part to a spouse, then to children and their descendants; if there are no descendants, the rule sends you back up the family tree to the parents, the siblings, the siblings' descendants, the grandparents, the parents' siblings, and the parents' siblings' descendants, and usually so on further to the more remote degrees of kinship. The operation of these laws varies from one jurisdiction to another.\n\nIn England and Wales the Intestacy Rules have been uniform since 1925 and similar rules apply in Northern Ireland, the Republic of Ireland and many Commonwealth countries and Crown dependencies. These rules have been supplemented by the discretionary provisions of the Inheritance (Provision for Family and Dependants) Act 1975 so that fair provision can be made for a dependent spouse or other relative where the strict divisions set down in the intestacy rules would produce an unfair result, for example by providing additional support for a dependent minor or disabled child vis-a-vis an adult child who has a career and no longer depends on their parent.\n\nThe rules of succession are the Intestacy Rules set out in the Administration of Estates Act and associated legislation. The Act sets out the order for distribution of property in the estate of the deceased. For persons with surviving children and a wealth below a certain threshold (£250,000 as from February 2009), the whole of the estate will pass to the deceased's spouse or also, from December 2005, their registered civil partner. For persons with no surviving children but surviving close relatives (such as siblings or parents), the first £450,000 goes to the spouse or civil partner (as from February 2009). Such transfers below the threshold are exempt from UK inheritance tax.\n\nIf a person dies intestate with no identifiable heirs, the person's estate generally escheats (i.e. is legally assigned) to the Crown (via the Bona vacantia division of the Treasury Solicitor) or to the Duchy of Cornwall or Duchy of Lancaster when the deceased was a resident of either; in limited cases a discretionary distribution might be made by one of these bodies to persons who would otherwise be without entitlement under strict application of the rules of inheritance.\n\nFor deaths after 1 October 2014, the current rules where someone dies leaving a spouse or civil partner are as follows:\n\n\nIn larger estates, the spouse will not receive the entire estate where the deceased left other blood relatives and left no will. They will receive the following:\n\n\nThe children (or more distant relatives if there are no children) of the deceased will be entitled to half of the estate remaining immediately and the remaining half on the death of the surviving spouse. Where no beneficiaries can be traced, see bona vacantia.\n\nThe law on intestacy in Scotland broadly follows that of England and Wales with some variations. A notable difference is that all possible (blood) relatives can qualify for benefit (i.e. they are not limited to grandparents or their descendants). Once a class is 'exhausted', succession continues to the next line of ascendants, followed by siblings, and so on. In a complete absence of relatives of the whole or half-blood, the estate passes to the Crown (as \"ultimus haeres\"). The Crown has a discretion to benefit people unrelated to the intestate, e.g. those with moral claims on the estate.\n\nIn Canada the laws vary from province to province. As in England, most jurisdictions apply rules of intestate succession to determine next of kin who become legal heirs to the estate. Also, as in England, if no identifiable heirs are discovered, the property may escheat to the government.\n\nIn the United States intestacy laws vary from state to state. Each of the separate states uses its own intestacy laws to determine the ownership of residents' intestate property. Attempts in the United States to make probate and intestate succession uniform from state to state, through efforts such as the Uniform Probate Code, have been met with limited success.\n\nThe distribution of the property of an intestate decedent is the responsibility of the \"administrator\" (or \"personal representative\") of the estate: typically the administrator is chosen by the court having jurisdiction over the decedent's property, and is frequently (but not always) a person nominated by a majority of the decedent's heirs.\n\nFederal law controls intestacy of Native Americans.\n\nMany states have adopted all or part of the Uniform Probate Code, but often with local variations, In Ohio, the law of intestate succession has been modified significantly from the common law, and has been essentially codified. The state of Washington also has codified its intestacy law. New York has perhaps the most complicated law of descent of distribution. Florida's intestacy statute permits the heirs of a deceased spouse of the decedent to inherit, in the event that the decedent has no other heirs.\n\n"}
{"id": "37720661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37720661", "title": "Jacqueline Laing", "text": "Jacqueline Laing\n\nJacqueline Laing is a legal philosopher and academic, specializing in jurisprudence, or the philosophy of law, criminal law and applied ethics. She has taught at Emmanuel College, Cambridge, Hughes Hall, Cambridge, King's College, London, St Edmund Hall, Oxford, and Melbourne University. She is a barrister of the High Court of Australia and a solicitor of the Supreme Court of England and Wales.\n\nBorn in Scotland and educated in Calcutta, India, and Canberra, Australia, she took degrees in philosophy and law at the Australian National University, clerked to a judge in Canberra and won a Commonwealth scholarship to Brasenose College, Oxford, where she undertook a doctorate on the concept of intention in the law of homicide under the direction of John Finnis.\n\nLaing’s interests lie in the field of jurisprudence and applied ethics. Commenting on contemporary moral conundrums she applies natural law thinking to questions about the family, life and death, and the limits of legal regulation. On the subject of voluntary euthanasia she argues that institutionalizing medically assisted death erodes respect for human life, endangers the vulnerable and disabled, underestimates human capacity for error and vice and is intrinsically discriminatory. She argues that it plays into the hands of illicit interests and trades on an improper understanding of human autonomy. She warns against dismissing \"the army of corporate, financial, medical and political interests that there are in controlling death, euthanasia’s corrosive effects on public and professional attitudes, and the discrimination implicit in its implementation.\" Of the vested interests that there are in controlling death she says:\n\nShe regards the practice a threat to the elderly, disabled and terminally ill: \n\nShe asserts that voluntary euthanasia logically collapses into involuntary and non-voluntary euthanasia, and that this reality, widely dismissed as a fallacious slippery slope argument, is borne out by Dutch and Belgian statistics demonstrating widespread non-consensual euthanasia, false reporting and under-reporting.\n\nA critic of the Bland Case, she has highlighted the problem of passive euthanasia by incentivised and managerialised sedation-and-dehydration in hospitals (Royal Society of Medicine, London W1 18 June 2012), a position that provoked revealing Freedom of Information Act requests which in turn led to the 2012-13 inquiry into the problem in the UK. In \"Food and Fluids: Human Law, Human Rights and Human Interests\" she argues that financial, medical, and political interests are bound to incentivise and invite homicide of the vulnerable. An early critic of what she terms the sedation-dehydration regimes, she writes of the Liverpool Care Pathway:\n\nA critic of utilitarianism, in \"Innocence and Consequentialism\" she argued in 1996 that utilitarianism has insufficient conceptual apparatus to comprehend the very idea of innocence, a feature central to any comprehensive ethical theory. In particular, Peter Singer on her view, cannot without contradicting himself reject baby farming (a thought experiment that involves mass-producing deliberately brain damaged children for live birth for the greater good of organ harvesting) and at the same time hold on to his \"personism\" a term coined by Jenny Teichman to describe his fluctuating (and Laing says, irrational and discriminatory) theory of human moral value. His explanation that baby farming undermines attitudes of care and concern for the very young, can be applied to babies and the unborn (both ‘non-persons’ who may be killed, on his view) and contradicts positions that he adopts elsewhere in his work.\n\nLaing contends that the practice of eugenics has not disappeared. Conceptually related to the utilitarian and Social Darwinist worldview and historically evolving out of the practice of slavery, it led to some of the most spectacular human rights abuses in history. The compulsory sterilization of and experimentation on those deemed \"undesirable\" and \"unfit\" in many technologically developed states like the US, Scandinavia, and Japan, led inexorably and most systematically to Nazi Germany with the elimination of countless millions of people for their race, class, political views, sexuality, religion or disability. She argues that the new eugenics adopted by John Harris, Julian Savulescu and others, collapses into the old variety because of its fixation on producing \"the better\" or even more implausibly, \"the best\". It was this very idea that drove much of the injustice of the twentieth century. Ethically questionable strategies were at the time viewed as progressive and socially evolutionary. The new eugenics, she thinks, fares no better and spells disaster for people regarded as deficient in some way. She rejects the idea that autonomous efforts to choose \"better\" or the \"best\" children are less problematic for being freely chosen.\nThe fact that one freely chooses to give one’s children away into slavery or lethal medical experimentation or to create a hundred clones of oneself, is no bar to the action’s being independently at odds with intergenerational justice and the common good. She suggests that mistake, ignorance, misinformation, propaganda and behaviour modification techniques, subliminal or otherwise, are celebrated ways of getting people to act freely in ways that undermine intergenerational justice and the common good. Laing suggests that biometric databases and identity cards exposing one’s medical data, DNA defects, IQ, and political views, while in many ways proving socially useful, demonstrate how vulnerable humans are, not just at the hands of political misfeasors and tyrants but insurance companies, government and corporate snoopers, and determined social and bioethical engineers.\n"}
{"id": "54207037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54207037", "title": "Jowitt's Dictionary of English Law", "text": "Jowitt's Dictionary of English Law\n\nJowitt's Dictionary of English Law is a comprehensive law dictionary covering the law of England and Wales, providing explanations of legal terms and their historical context.\n\nThe first edition (\"Dictionary of English Law\") compiled by William Jowitt, 1st Earl Jowitt (1885–1957), was published posthumously in 1959, completed by Clifford Walsh.\n\nThe second edition was published in 1977, edited by John Burke.\n\nThe third edition, edited by Daniel Greenberg, was published in 2010.\n\nThe fourth edition, edited by Daniel Greenberg, was published in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "995418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=995418", "title": "Judicial interference", "text": "Judicial interference\n\nJudicial interference is the actions of courts or judicial officers in matters that are interpreted by some as beyond their constitutionally established role. \n"}
{"id": "9753150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9753150", "title": "Law, Legislation and Liberty", "text": "Law, Legislation and Liberty\n\nLaw, Legislation and Liberty is the 1973 work in three volumes by Nobel laureate economist and political philosopher Friedrich Hayek. In it, Hayek further develops the philosophical principles he discussed earlier in \"The Road to Serfdom\", \"The Constitution of Liberty\", and other writings. \"Law, Legislation and Liberty\" is more abstract than Hayek's earlier work, and it focuses on the conflicting views of society as either a design, a made order (\"taxis\"), on the one hand, or an emergent system, a grown order (\"cosmos\"), on the other. These ideas are then connected to two different forms of law: law proper, or \"nomos\" coinciding more or less with the traditional concept of natural law, which is an emergent property of social interaction, and legislation, or \"thesis\", which is properly confined to the administration of non-coercive government services, but is easily confused with the occasional acts of legislature that do actually straighten out flaws in the nomos.\n\"Vol. 1 : Rules and Order\" (1973)\n\"Vol. 2 : The Mirage of Social Justice\" (1976) \n\"Vol. 3 : The Political Order of a Free People\" (1979)\n\n"}
{"id": "56782866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56782866", "title": "Law Against Rehabilitation of Nazism", "text": "Law Against Rehabilitation of Nazism\n\nLaw Against Rehabilitation of Nazism is a Russian memory law of 2014. It also known as Yarovaya Law, after a Russian politician (Irina Yarovaya) who was instrumental in passing it.\n\nThe law was originally proposed in 2009. It was approved by the Russian parliament in April 2014, and signed into law by President of Russia Vladimir Putin in May that year. \n\nThe law introduced Article 354.1 to the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation, making it a criminal offense \"to deny facts recognized by the international military tribunal that judged and punished the major war criminals of the European Axis countries [this refers to the Nuremberg trials], to approve of the crimes this tribunal judged, and to spread intentionally false information about the Soviet Union’s activities during World War II\" as well as \"the spreading of information on military and memorial commemorative dates related to Russia’s defense that is clearly disrespectful of society, and to publicly desecrate symbols of Russia’s military glory\".\n\nThe penalty incurred for violating this law is a fine of up to 500,000 rubles (about USD$8,200 as of April 19, 2018) or a prison terms of up to five years, with a ban from certain posts and professions for another three years, and/or up to one year of community service.\n\nThe law has been the subject of domestic and international criticism, due to fears of its impact on free speech and historical research. A BBC report in 2017 noted that the law has \"curbed...the public discussion of WW2 history\". Human Rights Watch report in 2017 noted that \"[the law's] selective implementation has so far led to several unjust sentences\". \n\nRussian government officials have dismissed these objections, noting that the law is similar to many other laws known as laws against Holocaust denial, particularly common in Europe. Historian Ivan Kurilla addressed that, saying that while the first European memory laws \"were propagated by left-wing political forces aiming to preserve the memory of oppressed groups and the crimes of their states\", newer laws, such as the Russian one, are increasingly \"backed by pro-state right-wing politicians that seek to create a heroic national narrative and legislate away any doubt about the state’s historical righteousness\". Historian Nikolay Koposov wrote that the main goal of the law is \"to promote the cult of the Russian state, whose primary incarnation rests in the celebration of the heroic memory of World War II\".\n\nShortly after its passage, the law was used to convict Russian blogger Vladimir Luzgin, who compared the September 1939 German invasion of Poland to the Soviet invasion of Poland and referred to the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, writing on Russian social media platform VKontakte that \"communism and Nazism closely collaborated\". Prosecutors accused him of knowingly posting material that may worsen people's view of the Soviet Union, and the court agreed, stating that he had falsified history by stating \"that the communists and Germany jointly attacked Poland, unleashing World War Two, or in other words, that Communism and Nazism co-operated honestly\". Luzgin was fined 200 thousand rubles (roughly equivalent to USD$5,000 in 2014) for \"circulation of false information about the activities of the USSR during the years of World War II\", though, as was noted by human rights expert Jacob Mchangama, this claim was \"essentially, factually correct\". In 2016 Lugzin appealed his case to the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nIn April 2015, Russian journalist Polina Petruseva was fined 1,000 rubles (USD$16) for posting on the social media platform VKontakte a historical picture showing German Nazi troops in Russia, a picture otherwise available from, among others, Wikipedia. That same month, a number of Russian bookstores stopped selling the anti-Nazi graphic novel \"Maus\" because of a swastika appearing on its cover design. A toy store selling toy soldiers in wartime German uniforms was also investigated, and a museum displaying anti-Nazi Soviet posters, showing for example crushed swastikas, decided to censor all swastikas on its exhibits.\n\nWorks of two British historians, Antony Beevor and John Keegan, were banned in one of Russia's regions as the authorities accused them of being influenced by Nazi propaganda. A month later, another Russian journalist, Sergei Vilkov, was fined 1,000 rubles for posting a caricature on VKontakte (in 2011), which combined the logo of the United Russia and a swastika.\n\n"}
{"id": "12084768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12084768", "title": "Law Terms Act 1830", "text": "Law Terms Act 1830\n\nThe Law Terms Act 1830 (11 Geo 4 & 1 Will 4 c 70) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that made various changes to the court system of England and Wales.\n\nSection 8 granted direct appeal from the Court of Common Pleas to the Court of Exchequer Chamber, rather than indirectly through the King's Bench.\n\nSection 14 abolished the independent jurisdiction of the courts of session of the County Palatine of Chester.\n\nSection 15 was repealed by section 56 of, and Part IV of Schedule 11 to, the Courts Act 1971.\n\nIn a report dated 27 September 1985, the Law Commission and the Scottish Law Commission said that section 32 was the only provision that had not been repealed. They said that local consultation had confirmed it was obsolete and unnecessary. They recommended the whole Act be repealed. The Act was repealed by Group 1 of Part I of Schedule 1 to the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "298070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=298070", "title": "Law and economics", "text": "Law and economics\n\nLaw and economics or economic analysis of law is the application of economic theory (specifically microeconomic theory) to the analysis of law that began mostly with scholars from the Chicago school of economics. Economic concepts are used to explain the effects of laws, to assess which legal rules are economically efficient, and to predict which legal rules will be promulgated.\n\nAs used by lawyers and legal scholars, the phrase \"law and economics\" refers to the application of microeconomic analysis to legal problems. Because of the overlap between legal systems and political systems, some of the issues in law and economics are also raised in political economy, constitutional economics and political science.\n\nApproaches to the same issues from Marxist and critical theory/Frankfurt School perspectives usually do not identify themselves as \"law and economics\". For example, research by members of the critical legal studies movement and the sociology of law considers many of the same fundamental issues as does work labeled \"law and economics,\" though from a vastly different perspective.\n\nThe one wing that represents a non-neoclassical approach to \"law and economics\" is the Continental (mainly German) tradition that sees the concept starting out of the governance and public policy (\"Staatswissenschaften\") approach and the German Historical school of economics; this view is represented in the \"Elgar Companion to Law and Economics\" (2nd ed. 2005) and—though not exclusively—in the \"European Journal of Law and Economics\". Here, consciously non-neoclassical approaches to economics are used for the analysis of legal (and administrative/governance) problems.\n\nAs early as in the 18th century, Adam Smith discussed the economic effects of mercantilist legislation. However, to apply economics to analyze the law regulating nonmarket activities is relatively new. A European law & economics movement around 1900 did not have any lasting influence. In 1961, Ronald Coase and Guido Calabresi independently from each other published two groundbreaking articles: \"The Problem of Social Cost\" and \"Some Thoughts on Risk Distribution and the Law of Torts\". This can be seen as the starting point for the modern school of law and economics.\n\nHarold Luhnow, the head of the Volker Fund, not only financed F. A. Hayek in the U.S. starting in 1946, but he shortly thereafter financed Aaron Director's coming to the University of Chicago in order to set up there a new center for scholars in law and economics. The University was headed by Robert Maynard Hutchins, a close collaborator of Luhnow's in setting up this \"Chicago School\". The University already had Frank Knight, George Stigler, Henry Simons, and Ronald Coase—a strong base of libertarian scholars. Soon, it would also have not just Hayek himself, but Director’s brother-in-law and Stigler's friend Milton Friedman, and also Robert Fogel, Robert Lucas, Eugene Fama, Richard Posner, and Gary Becker.\n\nThe historians Robert van Horn and Philip Mirowski described these developments, in their \"The Rise of the Chicago School of Economics\" chapter in \"The Road from Mont Pelerin \"(2009); and historian Bruce Caldwell (a great admirer of von Hayek) filled in more details of the account in his chapter, \"The Chicago School, Hayek, and Neoliberalism\", in \"Building Chicago Economics\" (2011). Van Horn (a Hayek critic) filled in yet more details of this history in a \"Seattle University Law Review\" article (\"Chicago's Shifting Attitude Toward Concentrations of Business Power [1934–1962]\") explaining how the influence of Luhnow and other corporate funders wrenched the Chicago School away from its predecessors' common support for anti-trust. Van Horn argues that the opposition to antitrust, and the acceptance of corporate monopoly power and control by oligopolies (such as Germany's and Italy's fascists had always supported), which came to be championed by Robert Bork and others at Chicago, had their actual origins in America's corporate boardrooms.\n\nIn 1958, Director founded the \"Journal of Law & Economics\", which he co-edited with Nobel laureate Ronald Coase, and which helped to unite the fields of law and economics with far-reaching influence. In 1962, he helped to found the Committee on a Free Society.\nDirector's appointment to the faculty of the University of Chicago Law School in 1946 began a half-century of intellectual productivity, although his reluctance about publishing left few writings behind. He taught antitrust courses at the law school with Edward Levi, who eventually would serve as Dean of Chicago's Law School, President of the University of Chicago, and as U.S. Attorney General in the Ford administration.\nAfter retiring from the University of Chicago School of Law in 1965, Director relocated to California and took a position at Stanford University's Hoover Institution. He died September 11, 2004, at his home in Los Altos Hills, California, ten days before his 103rd birthday.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Henry Manne (a former student of Coase) set out to build a center for law and economics at a major law school. He began at Rochester, worked at Miami, but was soon made unwelcome, moved to Emory, and ended up at George Mason. The last soon became a center for the education of judges—many long out of law school and never exposed to numbers and economics. Manne also attracted the support of the John M. Olin Foundation, whose support accelerated the movement. Today, Olin centers (or programs) for Law and Economics exist at many universities.\n\nEconomic analysis of law is usually divided into two subfields: positive and normative.\n\n'Positive law and economics' uses economic analysis to predict the effects of various legal rules. So, for example, a positive economic analysis of tort law would predict the effects of a strict liability rule as opposed to the effects of a negligence rule. Positive law and economics has also at times purported to explain the development of legal rules, for example the common law of torts, in terms of their economic efficiency.\n\n\"Normative law and economics\" goes one step further and makes policy recommendations based on the economic consequences of various policies. The key concept for normative economic analysis is efficiency, in particular, allocative efficiency.\n\nA common concept of efficiency used by law and economics scholars is Pareto efficiency. A legal rule is Pareto efficient if it could not be changed so as to make one person better off without making another person worse off. A weaker conception of efficiency is Kaldor-Hicks efficiency. A legal rule is Kaldor-Hicks efficient if it could be made Pareto efficient by some parties compensating others as to offset their loss.\n\nImportant figures include the Nobel Prize–winning economists Ronald Coase and Gary Becker, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit judges Frank Easterbrook and Richard Posner, Andrei Shleifer and other distinguished scholars such as Robert Cooter, Hans-Bernd Schäfer, Henry Manne, William Landes, and A. Mitchell Polinsky. Guido Calabresi, judge for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, wrote in depth on this subject; his book \"\" (1970) has been cited as influential in its extensive treatment of the proper incentives and compensation required in accident situations.\nCalabresi took a different approach in \"Ideals, Beliefs, Attitudes, and the Law\" (1985), where he argued, \"who is the cheapest avoider of a cost, depends on the valuations put on acts, activities and beliefs by the whole of our law and not on some objective or scientific notion\" (69).\n\nThe economic analysis of law has been influential in the United States as well as elsewhere. Judicial opinions use economic analysis and the theories of law and economics with some regularity, in the US but also, increasingly, in Commonwealth countries and in Europe. The influence of law and economics has also been felt in legal education, with graduate programs in the subject being offered in a number of countries. The influence of law and economics in civil law countries may be gauged from the availability of textbooks of law and economics, in English as well as in other European languages (Schäfer and Ott 2004; Mackaay 2013).\n\nMany law schools in North America, Europe, and Asia have faculty members with a graduate degree in economics. In addition, many professional economists now study and write on the relationship between economics and legal doctrines. Anthony Kronman, former dean of Yale Law School, has written that \"the intellectual movement that has had the greatest influence on American academic law in the past quarter-century [of the 20th Century]\" is law and economics.\n\nDespite its influence, the law and economics movement has been criticized from a number of directions. This is especially true of normative law and economics. Because most law and economics scholarship operates within a neoclassical framework, fundamental criticisms of neoclassical economics have been drawn from other, competing frameworks, though there are numerous internal critiques as well. Yet other schools of economic thought have emerged and have been applied to the work of law and economics in, for example, the work of Edgardo Buscaglia and Robert Cooter on \"Law and Economics of Development\".\n\nCritics of the law and economics movements have argued that normative economic analysis does not capture the importance of human rights and concerns for distributive justice. Some of the heaviest criticisms of the \"classical\" law and economics come from the critical legal studies movement, in particular Duncan Kennedy and Mark Kelman.\n\nRelatedly, additional critique has been directed toward the assumed benefits of law and policy designed to increase allocative efficiency when such assumptions are modeled on \"first-best\" (Pareto optimal) general-equilibrium conditions. Under the theory of the second best, for example, if the fulfillment of a subset of optimal conditions cannot be met under any circumstances, it is incorrect to conclude that the fulfillment of \"any\" subset of optimal conditions will necessarily result in an increase in allocative efficiency.\n\nConsequently, any expression of public policy whose purported purpose is an unambiguous increase in allocative efficiency (for example, consolidation of research and development costs through increased mergers and acquisitions resulting from a systematic relaxation of anti-trust laws) is, according to critics, fundamentally incorrect, as there is no general reason to conclude that an increase in allocative efficiency is more likely than a decrease.\n\nEssentially, the \"first-best\" neoclassical analysis fails to properly account for various kinds of general-equilibrium feedback relationships that result from intrinsic Pareto imperfections.\n\nAnother critique comes from the fact that there is no unique optimal result. Warren Samuels in his 2007 book, \"The Legal-Economic Nexus\", argues, \"efficiency in the Pareto sense cannot dispositively be applied to the definition and assignment of rights themselves, because efficiency requires an antecedent determination of the rights (23–4)\".\n\nLaw and economics has adapted to some of these criticisms (see \"contemporary developments\", below). One critic, Jon D. Hanson of Harvard Law School, argues that our legal, economic, political, and social systems are unduly influenced by an individualistic model that assumes \"dispositionism\"—the idea that outcomes are the result of our \"dispositions\" (economists would say \"preferences\"). Instead, Hanson argues, we should look to the \"situation\", both inside of us (including cognitive biases) and outside of us (family, community, social norms, and other environmental factors) that have a much larger impact on our actions than mere \"choice\". Hanson has written many law review articles on the subject.\n\nLaw and economics has developed in a variety of directions. One important trend has been the application of game theory to legal problems. Other developments have been the incorporation of behavioral economics into economic analysis of law, and the increasing use of statistical and econometrics techniques. Within the legal academy, the term socio-economics has been applied to economic approaches that are self-consciously broader than the neoclassical tradition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2207614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2207614", "title": "Law library", "text": "Law library\n\nA law library is a special library used by law students, lawyers, judges and their law clerks, historians and other scholars of legal history in order to research the law. Law libraries are also used by people who draft or advocate for new laws, e.g. legislators and others who work in state government, local government, and legislative counsel offices or the U.S. Office of Law Revision Counsel and lobbying professionals. Self-represented litigants also known as pro se litigants (parties to a civil lawsuit or criminal defendants who do not have a licensed attorney representing them) will also use law libraries.\n\nA law library may contain print, computer assisted legal research, and microform collections of laws in force, session laws, superseded laws, foreign and international law, and other research resources, e.g. continuing legal education resources and legal encyclopedias (e.g. Corpus Juris Secundum among others), legal treatises, and legal history. A law library may also have law librarians who help legal researchers navigate law library collections and who teach legal research. Some law libraries serve scholars from around the world, e.g. Institute of Advanced Legal Studies in London and the New York City Bar Association Law Library.\n\nLaw libraries in the United States are usually classified as a type of special library because of their focus on providing specialized resources, as well as their specialized and limited user base.\n\nMost law schools around the world have a law library, or in some universities, at least a section of the university library devoted to law. In the United States, law school libraries may be subject to accreditation review by the American Bar Association Standards of Legal Education.\n\nLaw libraries may be found in courts, legislatures (e.g. the Law Library of Congress), prison libraries, government departments, private law firms, and barristers chambers.\n\nOutside of the United States, the largest and most extensive law libraries are those found in countries that follow the English common law which spread throughout the world with the expansion of the British Empire. These countries include but are not limited to Australia, Canada, India, and New Zealand. Law libraries in these countries can be found in law schools, courts, government, private law firms, and barristers chambers.\n\nThe largest law library in the United Kingdom is the Bodleian Law Library with a collection of over 550,000 volumes. Outside of England, the largest law library in the Commonwealth of Nations is Osgoode Hall Law School's at York University in Canada, with more than 500,000 print volumes. The earliest common law law libraries were founded in the late 15th century in London and include Gray's Inn and Lincoln's Inn.\n\nSpecial collections of legal literature in university and research libraries in England include the Viner collection at the Bodleian Library, University of Oxford (the personal library of Charles Viner, bequeathed to the Radcliffe Library in 1756); a collection of English legal manuscripts at Cambridge University Library; the Smuts collection on Commonwealth law, the Maitland collection on legal history, and the Clark, Roby and Buckland collections relating to Roman law, all in the Squire Law Library, a department of the Cambridge University Library; and the Slade-Baker collection of correspondence accumulated by the Slade-Baker firm of solicitors in Bewdley which is in Birmingham University Library.\n\nThe largest law libraries in the world are found in the United States. The world's largest law library is the Law Library of Congress, which holds over 2.9 million volumes. The world's largest academic law library is the library of Harvard Law School, which holds over 2 million volumes. By way of contrast, the largest law library in the United Kingdom is the Bodleian Law Library with a collection of over 550,000 volumes.\n\nBroadly speaking, there are three categories of law libraries in the United States. Every law school accredited by the American Bar Association houses a law library. Public law libraries are available in many states, often in the local courthouses. Some larger law firms maintain a private library for their own attorneys, but many firms in college towns and larger cities with universities simply dispatch their attorneys to local law schools to do legal research.\n\nA typical law library holds a large number of works not seen in other libraries, including a full set of \"United States Reports\", one or both of the unofficial U.S. Supreme Court reporters, the West National Reporter System, the West American Digest System, official reporters from various states, the \"Federal Register\", volumes of \"American Jurisprudence\", bound volumes containing issues of prominent law reviews from around the country, federal and state statutes and regulations (such as the United States Code and Code of Federal Regulations), and a variety of treatises, encyclopedias, looseleaf services, and practice guides.\n\nLarge law libraries may contain many additional materials covering topics such as: legal education, research, and writing; the history of the American legal system and profession; the history behind certain high-profile cases; techniques of oral argument; and the legislative history of important federal and state statutes.\n\nSmaller law libraries usually hold, at a minimum, one unofficial Supreme Court reporter, selected West national reporters and digests specific to the state in which the library is located, the United States Code, a few state-specific reporters and statutory compilations (if they exist for a particular state), and several state-specific treatises and practice guides. Most academic law library websites also contain legal research guidelines on numerous legal topics that are available to the public.\n\nIn recent years, the advent of online legal research outlets such as FindLaw, Westlaw, LexisNexis, Bloomberg Law, and HeinOnline (or in Canada, CanLII) has reduced the need for some types of printed volumes like reporters and statutory compilations. A number of law libraries have therefore reduced the availability of printed works that can easily be found on the Internet, and have increased their own Internet availability. On the other hand, some university law libraries retain extensive historical collections going back to the earliest English reports. Many law libraries also participate in the Federal Depository Library Program which provides access to government information and documents to the public at no cost. This is particularly true of law school libraries as the library at any accredited law school is automatically eligible to become a depository library under the Program.\n\nMost law libraries are members of the American Association of Law Libraries (AALL). As of 2010, the association has over 5,000 member libraries. Another important association for law libraries is the Special Libraries Association.\n\nEvery accredited American law school is required by the American Bar Association to have a law library meeting certain minimum specifications with respect to quantity and quality of materials available. Some law school libraries are kept in the same building as the general library, but many are either in the law school's building, or in a separate facility altogether.\n\nAs of 2015, the American Bar Association has propounded rules requiring each law school's law library to include among its holdings the following \"core collection\":\n\nThe ABA also requires a library's collection to meet the academic needs of the students and research and teaching needs of the faculty.\n\nThe ABA further sets forth additional requirements, including the requirement that the law library have a full-time director who holds a law degree and a degree in library or information science or equivalent with extensive experience in librarianship. The ABA also requires that the library have sufficient staff and facilities to attend to the needs of the institution.\n\nMany academic law librarians participate in the AALL and specifically the Academic Law Libraries special interest section.\n\nPublic law libraries in the United States exist in many states and in federal jurisdictions, such as federal agencies; many courthouses also have a law library. Public law libraries are publicly funded but may or may not be open to the public.\n\nU.S. federal agencies have libraries and librarians who serve the legal research and other research needs of their employees and contractors, but these libraries are not open to the general public without an appointment. The Law Librarians' Society of Washington D.C. has a Special Interest Section, Federal Law Librarians. Some state and federal agencies maintain law libraries focusing on their regulatory areas. One prominent example is the United States Environmental Protection Agency, which runs a National Library Network providing access to specialized material to agency researchers and the general public.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court Building houses one of the most extensive federal public law libraries in the world, rivaled by the Law Library of Congress. Strictly speaking, neither the U.S. Supreme Court Library nor the Law Library of Congress is a public access law library; both, however, are government libraries funded by taxpayers, and accountable to the U.S. Supreme Court or to the U.S. Congress respectively. The Law Library of Congress does serve the public through various means, e.g. websites, social media services, and a physically accessible library.\n\nNew York and California are examples of states that have statutes requiring all their counties to maintain a public law library. While New York public access law libraries have remained relatively small, the LA Law Library in Los Angeles County is currently second in size behind the Law Library of Congress among U.S. public law libraries, with a collection at just under 1 million volumes, not including digital resources. Public law libraries are available, and in some cases are required, to offer law library and legal research services to the legal community consisting of legislators and other public officials, judges, and lawyers and to the general public, students, and to self-represented litigants. These public law libraries may be affiliated state or local courts. Some academic law libraries provide public access as well, especially in public universities.\n\nMany public law librarians are members of the American Association of Law Libraries professional association, and specifically in the Government Law Libraries special interest section.\n\nPublic law librarians who have written books about providing legal research services to the public and managing public law libraries include Anthony Aycock, Roy Balleste, Joel Fishman, Paul D. Healey, Ellyssa Kroski, Laurie Selwyn, and Virginia Tucker.\n\nSome law firms and corporate legal departments maintain in-house libraries, the size and content of which vary depending on the practice area and needs of the organization. These libraries would rarely, if ever, be available to individuals outside the organization, although in some locales law firm librarians have informal lending agreements between firms. Private law libraries often participate in the AALL's Private Law Librarians & Information Professionals Special Interest Section.\n\n"}
{"id": "1946773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1946773", "title": "Legal research", "text": "Legal research\n\nLegal research is \"the process of identifying and retrieving information necessary to support legal decision-making. In its broadest sense, legal research includes each step of a course of action that begins with an analysis of the facts of a problem and concludes with the application and communication of the results of the investigation.\"\n\nThe processes of legal research vary according to the country and the legal system involved. However, legal research generally involves tasks such as:\n\nLegal research is performed by anyone with a need for legal information, including lawyers, law librarians, and paralegals. Sources of legal information range from printed books, to free legal research websites (like Cornell Law School’s Legal Information Institute, Findlaw.com, Martindale Hubbell or CanLII) and information portals to fee database vendors such as Wolters Kluwer, LexisNexis, Westlaw, VLex and Bloomberg Law. Law libraries around the world provide research services to help their patrons find the legal information they need in law schools, law firms and other research environments. Many law libraries and institutions provide free access to legal information on the web, either individually or via collective action, such as with the Free Access to Law Movement.\n\nA number of books are available for those wishing to undertake legal research in the UK context.\n\nAlthough many jurisdictions publish laws online, case law is often accessed through specialty online databases. Free-to-access services, through the free law movement, include: Australasian Legal Information Institute, British and Irish Legal Information Institute, CanLII, Legal Information Institute, LexML Brasil, World Legal Information Institute, Mindworks and Jurispedia.\n\nCommercial services for legal research include both primary and secondary sources. Commercial services can be country-specific, international or comparative. As of 2010, commercial legal research tools in the United States generated an estimated $8 billion in revenues per year.\n\nSome governments also provide access to certain resources through paid databases, such as the United States PACER law system.\n\nLegal research is known to take much time and effort, and access to online legal research databases such as LexisNexis and Westlaw can be costly. Consequently, with due consideration given to ethical concerns, law firms and other practitioners may turn to third-party legal research providers to outsource their legal research needs.\n\n"}
{"id": "634370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=634370", "title": "LexisNexis", "text": "LexisNexis\n\nLexisNexis Group is a corporation providing computer-assisted legal research as well as business research and risk management services. \nDuring the 1970s, LexisNexis pioneered the electronic accessibility of legal and journalistic documents. As of 2006, the company has the world's largest electronic database for legal and public-records related information.\n\nCurrently a division of RELX Group (formerly Reed Elsevier), LexisNexis was first a product of the Mead Data Central company.\n\nThe Anglo-Dutch publishing company Reed Elsevier has owned LexisNexis and its predecessor company since 1994. At its inception in 1970, the database was named LEXIS by Mead Data Central (MDC), a subsidiary of the Mead Corporation. It was a continuation of an experiment organized by the Ohio State Bar in 1967.\n\nOn April 2, 1973, LEXIS launched publicly, offering full-text search in all Ohio and New York cases. In 1980, LEXIS completed its hand-keyed electronic archive of all U.S. federal and state cases. The NEXIS service, added that same year, gave journalists a searchable database of news articles. LexisNexis' world headquarters is located in New York City, United States. In 1989, MDC acquired the Michie Company, a legal publisher, from Macmillan.\n\nWhen Toyota launched the Lexus line of luxury vehicles in 1987, Mead Data Central sued for trademark infringement on the grounds that consumers of upscale products (such as lawyers) would confuse \"Lexus\" with \"Lexis\". A market research survey asked consumers to identify the spoken word \"Lexis\". Survey results showed that a nominal number of people thought of the computerized legal search system; a similarly small number thought of Toyota's luxury car division. A judge ruled against Toyota, and the company appealed the decision. Mead lost on appeal in 1989 when the Court of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit held that there was little chance of consumer confusion. Today, the two companies have an amicable business relationship, and in 2002 implemented a joint promotion called \"Win a Lexus on Lexis!\"\n\nIn December 1994, Mead sold the LexisNexis system to Reed Elsevier for $1.5 billion. The U.S. state of Illinois subsequently audited Mead's income tax returns and charged Mead an additional $4 million in income tax and penalties for the sale of LexisNexis; Mead paid the tax under protest, then sued for a refund in an Illinois state court. On April 15, 2008, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed with Mead that the Illinois courts had incorrectly applied the Court's precedents on whether Illinois could constitutionally apply its income tax to Mead, an out-of-state, Ohio-based corporation. The Court reversed and remanded so that the lower courts could apply the correct test and determine whether Mead and Lexis were a \"unitary\" business.\n\nIn 2000, LexisNexis purchased RiskWise, a St. Cloud, Minnesota company. Also in 2000, the company acquired the American legal publisher Matthew Bender from Times Mirror. In 2002 it acquired a Canadian research database company, Quicklaw. In 2002, LexisNexis acquired the Ohio legal publisher Anderson Publishing. In 2004, Reed Elsevier Group, parent company of LexisNexis, purchased Seisint, Inc, from founder Michael Brauser of Boca Raton, Florida. Seisint housed and operated the Multistate Anti-Terrorism Information Exchange (MATRIX).\n\nOn March 9, 2005, LexisNexis announced the possible theft of personal information of some Seisint users. It was originally estimated that 32,000 users were affected, but that number greatly increased to over 310,000. Affected persons were provided with free fraud insurance and credit bureau reports for a year. However, no reports of identity theft or fraud were discovered to have stemmed from the security breach.\n\nIn February 2008, Reed Elsevier purchased data aggregator ChoicePoint (previous NYSE ticker symbol CPS) in a cash deal for US$3.6 billion. The company was rebranded as LexisNexis Risk Solutions.\n\nIn November 2014, LexisNexis Risk Solutions bought Health Market Science (HMS), a supplier of high quality data about US healthcare professionals.\n\nLexisNexis services are delivered via two websites that require separate paid subscriptions.\n\nAccording to a company news release, LexisNexis hosts over 30 terabytes of content on its 11 mainframes (supported by over 300 midrange UNIX servers and nearly 1,000 Windows NT servers) at its main datacenter in Miamisburg, Ohio. The Lexis database contains current United States statutes and laws and a large volume of published case opinions dating from the 1770s to the present, as well as publicly available unpublished case opinions from 1980 onward. In 2000, Lexis began building a library of briefs and motions. In addition to this, Lexis also has libraries of statutes, case judgments and opinions for jurisdictions such as France, Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, South Africa and the United Kingdom as well as databases of law review and legal journal articles for countries for which materials are available.\n\nPreviously, LexisNexis had a stripped-down free version (known as LexisOne) but this has been discontinued\nand replaced by Lexis Communities, which provides news and blogs across a variety of legal areas.\n\nTime Matters is a LexisNexis-branded software offering. Lexis for Microsoft Office is a LexisNexis-branded software offering.\n\nIn France, the UK and Australia, LexisNexis publishes books, magazines and journals, both in hard copy and online. Titles include \"Taxation Magazine\" and \"Lawyers Weekly\".\n\nThe organization that eventually became LexisNexis UK was founded in 1818 by Henry Butterworth (1786–1860) . He was a pupil at King Henry VIII School, Coventry. After leaving Coventry he was apprenticed to and, for some time, worked for his uncle Joseph Butterworth, the great law bookseller of Fleet Street. In 1818, however, disagreement between them as to the terms of partnership made Henry set up on his own account at the corner of Middle Temple Gate (7 Fleet Street), where he became the well-known Queen's Law Bookseller.\n\nButterworths was acquired by International Publishing Corporation in 1965; IPC was acquired by the Reed Group in 1970. Heinemann Professional Publishing was merged with Butterworths Scientific in 1990 to form Butterworth-Heinemann. The Butterworths publishing business is now owned and operated in the UK by Reed Elsevier (UK) Ltd, a company in the Reed Elsevier Group. Publications continue to be produced by RELX (UK) Ltd using the \"LexisNexis\", \"Butterworths\" and \"Tolley\" trade marks. Such publications include \"Halsbury's Laws of England\" and the \"All England Law Reports\", amongst others.\n\nThe Butterworths name is also used to publish works in many countries such as Canada, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand.\n\nLexisNexis also produces a range of software, services and products which are designed to support the practice of the legal profession. For example, case management systems, customer relationship management systems (\"CRMs\"), practice management systems, electronic disclosure systems, background checking and identity verification products.\n\nPursuant to instructions from Chinese authorities, in 2017 LexisNexis withdrew Nexis and LexisNexis Academic from China.\n\nInterAction is a customer relationship management system designed specifically for professional services firms such as accountancy and legal firms.\n\nBusiness Insight Solutions offers news and business content and market intelligence tools. It is a global provider of news and business information and market intelligence tools for professionals in risk management, corporate, political, media, and academic markets.\n\nIn 2013, LexisNexis, together with Reed Elsevier Properties SA, acquired publishing brands and businesses of Sheshunoff and A.S. Pratt from Thompson Media Group.\n\nSheshunoff Information Services, A.S. Pratt, & Alex Information (collectively, SIS), founded in 1972, is a print and electronic publishing company that provides information to financial and legal professionals in the banking industry, as well as online training and tools for financial institutions. SIS was founded in 1971 by Alex and Gabrielle Sheshunoff. The company became recognized for providing guidance and analysis to the banking industry. In 1988 Thompson Media, a division of Thompson Reuters, acquired the company. Separately, the Sheshunoffs began publishing Alex Information products.\n\nIn 1995 SIS acquired A.S. Pratt & Sons. Established in 1933, \"Pratt's Letter\" is believed to be the second oldest continuously published newsletter in the country behind \"Kiplinger's Washington Letter\", which began publication in 1923. A.S. Pratt is a provider of regulatory law and compliance work tools for the financial services industry.\n\nGabrielle Sheshunoff returned in 2004 to unite the AlexInformation, Sheshunoff, and A.S. Pratt brands before it was sold to Thompson in 2008.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13002278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13002278", "title": "List of University of Oxford people in the law", "text": "List of University of Oxford people in the law\n\nThis is a list of University of Oxford people in the Law. Many were students at one (or more) of the colleges of the University, and others held fellowships at a college.\n\nThis list forms part of a series of lists of people associated with the University of Oxford – for other lists, please see the main article List of University of Oxford people.\nOxford has produced a large number of distinguished jurists, judges and lawyers around the world. This list includes twelve Lord Chancellors, ten Lord Chief Justices, nine UK Supreme Court Justices and twenty-two law lords; four associate justices of the US Supreme Court as well as six puisne justices of the Supreme Court of Canada and a chief justice of the now defunct Federal Court of Canada. The current Lord Chief Justice (the most senior judge in England and Wales), Lord Burnett, was educated at Oxford.\n\n\"See List of University of Oxford people in academic disciplines\"\n\nThe list of noted legal scholars includes H. L. A. Hart, Ronald Dworkin, A. V. Dicey, William Blackstone, John Gardner, Timothy Endicott, Peter Birks, John Finnis, Andrew Ashworth, Joseph Raz, Jeremy Waldron, Leslie Green, Tony Honoré, Neil MacCormick, Hugh Collins, John Eekelaar, Robert Stevens, Paul Craig, Ben McFarlane.\n\nOther distinguished practitioners who have attended Oxford include Lord Pannick QC, Geoffrey Robertson QC, Amal Clooney, Lord Faulks QC, Dinah Rose QC, Ben Emmerson QC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3381901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3381901", "title": "List of areas of law", "text": "List of areas of law\n\nThe following is a list of major areas of legal practice and important legal subject-matters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30255935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30255935", "title": "List of food labeling regulations", "text": "List of food labeling regulations\n\nThe packaging and labeling of food is subject to regulation in most regions/jurisdictions, both to prevent false advertising and to promote food safety.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18297971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18297971", "title": "Looseleaf service", "text": "Looseleaf service\n\nA looseleaf service is a type of publication used in legal research which brings together both primary and secondary source materials on a specific field or topic in law. For this reason they are sometimes called \"subject-matter services\".\n\nLooseleaf services are most commonly used for research in areas of law which change rapidly due to regulatory and administrative developments (such as tax law, environmental law, financial regulation, and labor law). Looseleaf services are typically contained in ring binders to keep them updated, because they are published fairly frequently (at minimum monthly, sometimes weekly or bi-weekly) in order to keep the information therein current. Most law libraries have a subscription to several of these services, and many of the more popular services are available electronically as well.\n\nIn an interfiled looseleaf service, individual pages can be removed and replaced with more recent printings, eliminating the need for pocket parts or similar supplements. Most of the looseleaf services offered by Commerce Clearing House are of the interfiled type.\n\nNewsletter-type looseleaf services are published as topical newsletters, which are then filed by law librarians under the appropriate topic headings for future reference.\n\nOne of the best-known looseleaf services, \"United States Law Week\", is of this type. Most of the looseleaf services published by Bureau of National Affairs are newsletter-style.\n\nLooseleaf service was invented by Richard Prentice Ettinger in 1914, founder of Prentice Hall. As a 19-year-old assistant to his Princeton University tax professor, he published the professor's book at his own risk. The first print run sold well and he ordered a second print run from an outside printing company. On the day that this second print run arrived, the United States Congress changed the tax law enough that the book was outdated. Faced with this challenge, Ettinger came up with the idea of cutting the pages (leaves) loose, replacing the few pages where changes in the tax code had occurred, drilling holes through the pages and putting them into a ring-binder. Even though it was more costly, it did have the benefit that future changes could easily be accommodated by simply exchanging a single leaf or group of pages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32016230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32016230", "title": "Los Angeles fetus disposal scandal", "text": "Los Angeles fetus disposal scandal\n\nThe Los Angeles fetus disposal scandal was the 1982 discovery of over 16,000 aborted fetuses being improperly stored at Malvin Weisberg's Woodland Hills, California, home and the ensuing legal battle regarding their disposal. It was called a \"national tragedy\" by the then-president Ronald Reagan and inspired a song by pop singer Pat Boone, with the fetuses finally buried in 1985. No criminal charges were filed against any of the parties involved. Weisberg had stored the specimens properly but had not disposed of them due to financial difficulties.\n\nMalvin Weisberg had operated Medical Analytic Laboratories in Santa Monica from 1976 until March 1981. He purchased a 20-foot (6.1 m) storage container in 1980, delivering it to his Woodland Hills home and paying for it with a bounced check for $1700. The container was repossessed on February 3, 1982, by the Martin Container Company, based in the Wilmington area of Los Angeles. The company opened the container on the following day, discovering the fetuses, which were stored in formaldehyde.\n\nThe initial press conference, on February 5, 1982, by the Los Angeles County Health Department said up to 500 fetuses were found. On February 24, 1982, the count of fetuses was raised to approximately 2000, with the majority of them being from the storage container and 200–300 from Weisberg's garage.\n\nThe tally of fetuses was estimated at \"up to 17,000\" in May 1982, and was later finally set at 16,431. A count of 193 fetuses were evidently over 20 weeks' gestation, with the oldest almost 30 weeks.\n\nState law required the fetuses to be cremated or buried \"within a reasonable time\".\n\nThe fetuses resulted from pregnancies terminated by licensed physicians, clinics and hospitals who contracted Medical Analytic Laboratories for pathology testing and disposal of the fetuses.\n\nThe Los Angeles County District Attorney, John Van de Kamp, said the fetuses would be individually examined and charges would be filed against the doctors if fetuses were over the 20-week gestation limit allowed by California law at the time. Officials found 193 fetuses that appeared to be over the 20-week limit. Van de Kamp wanted to turn the remaining fetuses over to groups who would perform memorial services on them.\n\nIn May 1982, California Attorney General George Deukmejian stated the gestation limit of the 1967 California abortion law was considered unenforceable because of conflicts with the 23-week Roe v. Wade ruling in 1973, but fetuses could be individually examined to determine viability, which was the legal limit. In late May, Van de Kamp stated every fetus would be examined to determine if the fetus was aborted illegally.\n\nIn 1982 president Ronald Reagan wrote a letter advocating for memorial services \"for these children\", referring to it as \"this national tragedy\".\n\nThe matter came in front of the judge because of a lawsuit filed against Van de Kamp by Carol Downer of the Los Angeles Feminist Women's Health Center and the American Civil Liberties Union. John Lynch, the chief deputy county counsel stated it was inappropriate to enjoin Van de Kamp, who was simply a \"man in the middle\", and that the lawsuit should be filed against pro-choice groups instead. In June 1982, Los Angeles County Superior Court judge Dickran Tevrizian issued a temporary restraining order against Van de Kamp to prevent the unconstitutional release of the fetuses to groups for burial, but allowed him to legally dispose of the fetuses, called \"vague\" by John Lynch, the chief deputy county counsel.\n\nIn October 1982, Van de Kamp petitioned the court to allow the burial of all but the 193 late-term fetuses in common graves at Valhalla Memorial Park Cemetery, which offered free burial. The fetuses were not buried at Valhalla, which later stated it offered the burial plot because \"the right-to-life groups came to us, and we said we wouldn't endorse any political viewpoint, but we thought that interring the bodies was a proper thing to do as a service\".\n\nIn December 1982, Los Angeles Superior Court judge Eli Chernow ruled the 20-week limit was unconstitutional, also ruling that Van de Kamp could bury the fetuses and pro-life groups could hold onsite memorial services.\n\nBy July 1983, the district attorney was Robert Philibosian, who stated he preferred a \"dignified burial\" and would not file charges.\n\nIn July 1984, the California Courts of Appeal overturned Superior Court of Los Angeles County judge Eli Chernow, ruling the fetuses could not be buried as human remains, which was a win for pro-choice groups and feminists. The case had been appealed by Carol Downer of the Los Angeles Feminist Women's Health Center and the American Civil Liberties Union and was denounced by the California Pro-Life Medical Association, the Catholic League. The appealing parties argued that allowing pro-life groups to bury the remains violated the separation of church and state. The Court's opinion stated \"it is clear from the record that the Catholic League is a religious organization which regards a fetus as a human being and abortion as murder. While this specific belief may well cross sectarian lines... any state action showing a preference for this belief will be strictly scrutinized and must be invalidated\". Since fetal remains are normally incinerated without ceremony, there was no reason to do otherwise with these fetuses, stating \"We perceive that the intended burial ceremony will enlist the prestige and power of the state. This is constitutionally forbidden.\" However, religious services could hold concurrent onsite memorial services, which was praised by US president Ronald Reagan in a letter to the California Pro-Life Medical Association, admiring their decision \"to hold a memorial service for these children\". Philibosian announced he would appeal the ruling allowing onsite memorial services. In October 1984, U.S. Supreme Court justice William Rehnquist refused to turn over the state appeals court ruling allowing the religious ceremonies. This was officially upheld by the Supreme Court in March 1985.\n\nIn May 1985, singer Pat Boone announced he recorded a song titled \"Sixteen Thousand Faces\" about the incident, first played at a pro-life memorial service for the fetuses at Live Oak Memorial Park in Monrovia, where a granite tombstone was left with the inscription \"For all those deprived of life and human love through abortion\". In response, the California Abortion Rights Action League director said the service and marker \"[humanized] fetuses when they deny the humanity of women already born\". The ceremony was attended by \"several hundred anti-abortionists\", including Representative Bob Dornan and the Feminists for Life group. At the time, the fetuses had not been disposed of.\n\nIn August 1985, the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors ordered the fetuses be turned over to the Guerra-Gutirrez-Alexander Mortuary for burial. Per the court's order, the mortuary was selected because they did not have a religious affiliation. At the time, it was noted by the Los Angeles County Department of Health Services that the fetuses had been kept in \"five pine boxes\". The department assured ACLU that there were no identifying marks on canisters containing the fetuses, and ACLU stated they would not object to a secular burial. While ACLU would not object, the Feminist Women's Health Center petitioned the Los Angeles Superior Court to block the burial, but the courts refused.\n\nThe disposition occurred on October 6, 1985, with the fetuses in six pine boxes, which were buried at the Odd Fellows Cemetery in Boyle Heights. The pro-life group Feminists for Life didn't plan a full memorial service since they held a service in May, but the Americans Committed to Loving the Unwanted held a service. The Feminist Women's Health Center was dismayed over the public burial. About 250 individuals attended the service, including County Supervisor Michael D. Antonovich, who read a message from Ronald Reagan but stressed his attendance was in an unofficial capacity. Reagan's message stated \"Just as the terrible toll of Gettysburg can be traced to a tragic decision of a divided Supreme Court, so also can these deaths we mourn. Once again a whole category of human beings has been ruled outside the protection of the law by a court ruling which clashed with our deepest moral convictions.\" Others in attendance were Representative Bob Dornan, state Senate President David A. Roberti, and state Representative Joseph Montoya. The pro-life group Americans Committed to Loving the Unwanted organized the service, including requesting a three-man Marine Corps color guard, who placed an American flag on a box and stood at attention throughout the service.\n\nWeisberg's Medical Analytical Laboratories received nearly $175,000 in Medi-Cal payments, with $88,000 coming from pathology tests on aborted fetuses. Of this, half of it ($44,000) was paid federally through the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). By the Hyde Amendment, this money was ineligible for testing on pre-abortion or post-abortion tissue, which meant the state of California would need to pay back federal funds claimed by Weisberg and by any other laboratories, according to HHS inspector Richard P. Kusserow. Kusserow also stated \"prior to its closing in April, 1981, [Medical Analytical Laboratories] had routinely submitted questionable billings under the Medi-Cal program, using an erroneous billing code... the case lacked criminal prosecutive merit due to a lack of proof that the false billings were intentional. Because the laboratory was out of business, and its owner had declared bankruptcy, there were no assets against which to proceed for civil recovery\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39050517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39050517", "title": "North American Consortium on Legal Education", "text": "North American Consortium on Legal Education\n\nThe North American Consortium on Legal Education (NACLE) comprises 13 participating law schools in Canada, Mexico, and the United States. The general purpose of NACLE is to promote and share understanding of the legal systems within North American countries. The specific purpose of the Consortium is to enhance the capabilities of each member to provide high quality legal education and research appropriate to the demands of the professional environment in North America.\n\nThe following law schools and faculties are members of NACLE:\n\nCanada: \n\nMexico: \n\nUnited States: \n"}
{"id": "3248459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3248459", "title": "Prohibitionism", "text": "Prohibitionism\n\nProhibitionism is a legal philosophy and political theory often used in lobbying which holds that citizens will abstain from actions if the actions are typed as unlawful (i.e. prohibited) and the prohibitions are enforced by law enforcement. This philosophy has been the basis for many acts of statutory law throughout history, most notably when a large group of a given population disapproves of and/or feels threatened by an activity in which a smaller group of that population engages, and seeks to render that activity legally prohibited.\n\nActs of prohibition have included prohibitions on types of clothing (and prohibitions on lack of clothing), prohibitions on gambling and exotic dancing, the prohibition of drugs (for example, alcohol prohibition and cannabis prohibition), prohibitions on tobacco smoking, and gun prohibition. Indeed, the period of Prohibition in the United States between 1920 and 1933 due to the Eighteenth Amendment and the Volstead Act often is referred to simply as \"Prohibition\", as is the \"War on Drugs\" that succeeded it. \nAn additional example, called \"nettle war\": Since 2002 in France the sale of nettle liquid manure was prohibited, and since 2006, unauthorized plant protection products (such as nettle liquid manure) to sell, own and operate. Even advertising and recommendations for these products were not allowed. Only since 2011, it was legalized again. The film by Arte about it was completed in 2010 (\"Nettle-war, mysterious plants - Nettle\", 42:04 minutes)\n\nThe success of a measure of prohibitionism has been criticized as often depending too much upon effective enforcement of the relevant legislation. Some people have argued this is because the majority of the targets of prohibitionism are in the category of victimless crime, where they claim the harm that comes from the crime is non-existent, questionable, or only to the person who performs the act and even then the magnitude of the harm being relatively small. Under this interpretation enforcement becomes a conflict between violation of statue and violation of free will. Since the acts prohibited often are enjoyable, enforcement is often the most harmful choice to the individual. This sometimes results in laws which rarely are enforced by anybody who does not have a financial or personal motivation to do so.\n\nThe difficulty of enforcing prohibitionist laws also criticized as resulting in selective enforcement, wherein the enforcers select the people they wish to prosecute based on other criteria, resulting in discrimination based on races, culture, nationality, or financial status. For example, American philosopher Noam Chomsky has criticized drug prohibition as being a technique of social control of the \"so-called dangerous classes\".\n\nProhibitionism based laws have the added problem of calling attention to the behavior that they are attempting to prohibit. This can make the behavior interesting and exciting, and cause its popularity to increase. This is essentially in relation with the Streisand effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51642059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51642059", "title": "Puducherry Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act", "text": "Puducherry Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act\n\nThe Puducherry Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act, 2008 (PPASA) is an act of the Puducherry assembly which provides for preventive detention of boot-leggers, dangerous persons, forest offenders, gamblers, \"goondas\" and property grabbers for prevention of their anti-social and dangerous activities prejudicial to the maintenance of public order.\n\nThe bill was introduced in the assembly on 20 October 2008, and the act came into effect from 27 October 2010.\n"}
{"id": "24844841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24844841", "title": "Purposive approach", "text": "Purposive approach\n\nThe purposive approach (sometimes referred to as purposivism, purposive construction, purposive interpretation, or the modern principle in construction) is an approach to statutory and constitutional interpretation under which common law courts interpret an enactment (a statute, part of a statute, or a clause of a constitution) within the context of the law's purpose.\n\nPurposive interpretation is a derivation of mischief rule set in \"Heydon's Case\", and intended to replace the mischief rule, the plain meaning rule and the golden rule. Purposive interpretation is used when the courts use extraneous materials from the pre-enactment phase of legislation, including early drafts, hansards, committee reports, and white papers. The purposive interpretation involves a rejection of the exclusionary rule.\n\nIsraeli jurist Aharon Barak views purposive interpretation as a legal construction that combines elements of the subjective and objective. Barak states that the subjective elements include the intention of the author of the text, whereas the objective elements include the intent of the reasonable author and the legal system’s fundamental values.\n\nCritics of purposivism argue it fails to separate the powers between the legislator and the judiciary, as it allows more freedom in interpretation by way of extraneous materials in interpreting the law.\n\nThe plain meaning rule gained popularity during the 18th and 19th centuries as the courts took an increasingly strict view of the words within statutes. Under the plain meaning rule, the words of the statute are given their natural or ordinary meaning. The plain meaning rule of statutory interpretation should be the first rule applied by judges.\n\nOne of the leading statements of the plain meaning rule was made by Chief Justice Nicholas Conyngham Tindal in the \"Sussex Peerage\" (1844) \n\nStrict application of the plain meaning rule can sometime result in \"absurd\" outcomes. Examples of the plain meaning rule producing absurd outcomes can be seen in the following cases:\n\n\nThe golden rule permits the courts to depart from the plain meaning rule if the meaning leads to consequences it considers to be absurd or ambiguous. This was propounded in \"Grey v Pearson\" (1857) where Lord Wensleydale stated\n\nThe degree of absurdity or ambiguity necessary to exercise the golden rule is determined on a case by case basis by the individual judge in question. There are two general situations in which the golden rule may be employed: narrowly, to take the 'better' reading of two alternatives, or more widely, to broaden a rule that, although unambiguous, leads to an absurd outcome.\n\nThe case \"Maddox v Storer [1963] 1 Q.B. 451\" is typical of the more narrow use. In \"Maddox\", the defender had been travelling at over the 30 mph speed limit in a minibus with eleven seats (excluding that of the driver), most of which were unoccupied. Per Road Traffic Act 1960 travelling at over 30 mph in a vehicle ‘adapted to carry more than seven passengers’ was an offence. It was held that \"adapted to\" could be taken to mean \"suitable for\".\n\nThe court applies the golden rule in a wider sense in \"Adler v George\" (1964). Under the Official Secrets Act 1920 it was an offence to obstruct a member of the armed forces 'in the vicinity' of a prohibited place. The defendant was actually in the prohibited place, rather than \"in the vicinity\" of it, at the time of obstruction. The courts had to determine whether “in [the] vicinity of” included on/in the premises. The court applied the golden rule. The court said that in the vicinity did include on or in as well. It would be absurd for a person to be liable if they were near to a prohibited place and not if they were actually in it. The defendant’s conviction was therefore upheld.\n\nIn \"Re Sigsworth\" (1935), a son had murdered his mother. Under slayer or forfeiture rules of long standing in the United Kingdom, he would have been excluded as beneficiary under her will. She had, however, died intestate, and the Administration of Justice Act 1925 provided that her next of kin would inherit. Although the situation was unambiguous, the absurdity inherent in such a situation meant that forfeiture had to be treated as applicable to intestacy rules taking the place of a will as well as wills themselves.\n\nIn \"Construction of Statutes\", Elmer Driedger defines the mischief rule as follows: \n\"Heydon's Case\" (1584) laid out the following statement of the principles underlying what would come to be called the \"mischief rule\":\n\nThe mischief rule saw further development in \"Corkery v Carpenter\" (1951). In a decision of \nthe Court of King’s Bench, the Court had to decide whether a bicycle could be classified as a carriage. According to S.12 of the Licensing Act 1872, a person found drunk in charge of a carriage on the highway can be arrested without a warrant. A man was arrested drunk in charge of a bicycle. According to the plain meaning rule a bike is not a carriage. Under the Mischief rule the bicycle could constitute a carriage. The mischief the act was attempting to remedy was that of people being on the road on transport while drunk. Therefore a bicycle could be classified as a carriage.\n\nIn \"Smith v Hughes\" (1960), the defendant was charged under the Street Offences Act 1959 which made it an offence to solicit prostitution in a public place. The defendant was soliciting from within private premises (windows or on balconies) so they could be seen by the public without entering into the streets. The court applied the mischief rule holding that the activities of the defendant was within the mischief of the Act, and soliciting from within a house, is soliciting and molesting of the public. Therefore it is the same as if the defendant was outside on the street.\n\nIn \"Royal College of Nursing of the UK v DHSS\" (1981), the Royal College of Nursing brought an action challenging the legality of the involvement of nurses in carrying out abortions. The Offences Against the Person Act 1861 made it an offence for any person to carry out an abortion. The Abortion Act 1967 provides an absolute defence for a medical practitioner provided certain well-known conditions are satisfied. Discoveries in medicine meant surgery has more often been replaced with administration of hormones, commonly by nurses. The courts were responsible for determining whether they were acting unlawfully, not being medical practitioners as defined under the Act. The courts found that the Act was intended to provide for safe abortions and that nurses could carry out such abortions.\n\nGenerally, prima facie must be given as a general rule of statutory interpretation. If the words are clear and free from ambiguity there is no need to refer to other means of interpretation. However, if the words in the statute are vague and ambiguous, then internal aid may be consulted for interpretation. This means the statute should be read in whole, what is not clear in one section may be explained in another section.\n\nInternal aids include the following:\n\nAids that are external to a statute (i.e., not part of an act) can also be used as recourse.\n\nExternal aids include the following:\n\nThe Acts Interpretation Act 1901 of Australia states that the interpretation that best achieves the purpose or object of the act is to be preferred to all other interpretations. When determining the purpose of a statutory provision courts ought to keep in mind the contexts for the provision at the outset rather than only when ambiguity or inconsistency exists. The statutory context 1) explanatory memoranda that are relevant to the statute and 2) reports of advisory bodies, such as law commissions, that created the need for the particular statutory provisions. (See CIC Insurance Limited v Bankstown Football Club Limited(1997) 187 CLR 384 at 408; also see Acts Interpretation Act 1901 (Cth), s15AB.)\n\nWhereas other commonwealth countries embraced purposivism much earlier, the High Court of Australia has only been receptive to purposivism since the 1970s. Historically, Australian legalism (a variant of originalism) persevered for many years following the landmark decision in the Engineers Case. Sometimes considered aggressively textualist, Australian legalism emphasizes the importance of and attends only to the words in the statute when determining meaning.\n\nThe Court remains entrenched in the tradition of textualism and original meaning more than the typical European, Canadian or even American jurist however, Justice McHugh refers to Australian legalism as \"faint-hearted\", as the Court's focus on textualism does not preclude its ability to evaluate extrinsic evidence. The move away from staunch textualism is largely attributed to the \"revolution\" of the Mason Court.\n\nThe Mason Court's utilization of legislative debates marks the departure from strict Australian legalism. Along with the other radical innovations of the Mason Court, the use of extraneous materials has resulted in considerable tension between the textualist history and the purposive future. While there has been some retrogressive action since the Mason Court, Australian constitutional interpretation is now arguably pluralistic, similar to that of the United States.\n\nAccording to Australian jurist Jeffrey Goldsworthy the Mason Court's \"revolutionary\" attitude is partially attributed to Mason, Deane and Gaudron all receiving their education from the University of Sydney where they were exposed to \"more pragmatic, consequentialist legal theories than many of their predecessors\".\n\nIn Canada, the purposive approach was developed and expanded by Elmer Driedger in his 1974 book, \"The Construction of Statutes\". Driedger referred to this approach not as \"purposive\", but as \"the modern principle\" of statutory interpretation.\n\nThis approach has since been endorsed by the Supreme Court of Canada in a number of cases, and is now the dominant approach to statutory interpretation.\n\nIn \"Re Rizzo & Rizzo Shoes Ltd\", [1998] Justice Iacobucci, speaking for the whole court, wrote the following:\n\nJustice Iacobucci went on to cite section 10 of Ontario's quasi-constitutional \"Interpretation Act\", which stated, \"Every Act shall be deemed to be remedial ... and shall accordingly receive such fair, large and liberal construction and interpretation as will best ensure the attainment of the object of the Act according to its true intent, meaning and spirit.\" Similar provisions exist in the \"Interpretation Act\" of each province of Canada as well as at the federal level.\n\nThe purposive approach was reinforced in \"Bell ExpressVu Limited Partnership v. Rex\", [2002] , where Justice Iacobucci, again for the whole court, reiterated that Driedger's rule is the overarching approach to statutory interpretation in Canada. Other philosophies, such as a strict interpretation of penal statutes, may apply in the case of an ambiguity, but only in the case of an ambiguity that arises \"following\" the application of the modern rule.\n\nThe Supreme Court ruling in \"Free World Trust v. Électro Santé Inc.\" [2000] set out \"the test for patent infringement\" and \"the principles of purposive claim construction\".\n\nPurposive interpretation is also used in constitutional interpretation. In \"R. v. Big M Drug Mart Ltd.\", [1985], Justice Dickson, speaking for the majority of the court, wrote, at paragraph 116:\n\nIsrael's legal community is largely purposivist in nature and has rejected such methods of interpretation as narrow textualism and static historicism. The term \"purposive interpretation\" began to appear in Israel at the end of the 1960s and beginning of the 1970s.\n\nAharon Barak is Israel's best-known champion of purposivism. His particular form of puposivism includes a synthesis of subjective elements, such as author's intent, with objective elements, such as textual evidence. Barak believes the text to be the source of purpose but is ready to go beyond the text in some circumstances to examine the subjective purposes of the text's author. Barak believes intentionalism is too limited in its assessment of subjectivity.\n\n\"On a number of occasions, Justice Barak of the Israeli Supreme Court has remarked that, in the enactment of its new Basic Laws on human rights, Israel walks in the path of the Canadian Charter of RIghts and Freedoms\". Barak has encouraged Israel's judiciary to make reference to the Canadian Supreme Court's purposive approach to Charter rights and its rights-forwarding orientation. Barak has not only written in support of purposive interpretation but also applied it while serving as a Justice to the Supreme Court of Israel. In CA 165/82 \"Kibbutz Hatzor v Assessing Officer\", 39(2) P.D 70, his judgment was seen as a turning point in the interpretation of tax law in Israel, establishing that a purposive approach was generally preferred to textualism in determining the meaning of the law.\n\nSection 5(1) of the \"Interpretation Act 1999\" states that Acts are to be interpreted according to their purpose.\n\nA 1969 report of the English Law Commission proposed for the English courts to adopt the purposive approach. That prestigious endorsement did much to boost the profile and credibility of the approach, but several decades would still pass before purposivism would win acceptance outside of narrow fact patterns (such as estoppels and absurdities) in the English courts, exceptions enshrined by cases such as the Earl of Oxford's case (1615).\n\nThe leading case in which purposivism was definitively accepted by the House of Lords was \"Pepper v Hart\" [1993] AC 593. The case established the principle that when primary legislation is ambiguous and certain criteria are satisfied, courts may refer to statements made in the House of Commons or the House of Lords in an attempt to interpret the meaning of the legislation. Before the ruling, such an action would have been seen as a breach of parliamentary privilege. The House of Lords held that courts could now take a purposive approach to interpreting legislation when the traditional methods of statutory construction are in doubt or result in an absurdity.\n\nTo find what Parliament intended, all sources including Hansard may be consulted. Lord Griffiths stated:\n\nAmerican jurist Henry M. Hart, Jr., and Albert Sacks, are considered early proponents of American purposivism. Their work helped to promote purposivism as a credible method of interpretation. Purposivism in the United States is considered a strain of originalism, alongside textualism and intentionalism. While the current focus of the interpretation debate is between textualism and intentionalism, the less popular purposivism is gaining favour. Purposivism in the United States is used to interpret a statute with broadly worded text and a seemingly clear purpose. When employing purposivism, the court is concerned with understanding the purpose or \"spirit\" of the law. Once the purpose is identified, the text is then read accordingly. In order to determine and interpret the purpose of a statute, courts may consult extraneous aids.\n\nThe following extraneous aids have been ranked from least authoritative to most authoritative: subsequent history, nonlegislator proponents of drafters, rejected proposals, colloquy on floor & hearing, sponsor statements and committee reports. Each of these extraneous aids are given a corresponding weight to their position in the hierarchical ranking.\n\nThe academic literature indicates several variations of purposivism. For example Abbe Gluck said “There are different stripes of purposivists...” Jennifer M. Bandy stated, “Thus, Justice Breyer’s strain of purposivism focuses on understanding the law in relation to both the people who passed it and the people who must live with it.\" Degrees of purposivism are sometimes referred to as ‘strong’ or ‘weak’.\n\nAs the Court's leading purposivist Justice Stephen Breyer considers determining and interpreting the purpose of a statute paramount. An apt example of Breyer's approach might be his dissent in \"Medellín v. Texas\" (2008), where he faulted the court's construction of a treaty because \"it looks for the wrong thing (explicit textual expression about self-execution) using the wrong standard (clarity) in the wrong place (the treaty language)\"; in response, the Court \"confess[ed] that we do think it rather important to look to the treaty language to see what it has to say about the issue. That is after all what the Senate looks to in deciding whether to approve the treaty\".\n\nAs opposed to Justice Breyer’s strong form of purposivism, \"weak purposivists\" might consult the statute's purpose only as a device for interpreting vague provisions of its text, and in no circumstances to override the text.\n"}
{"id": "2953988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2953988", "title": "Scottish Militia Bill", "text": "Scottish Militia Bill\n\nThe Scottish Militia Bill (known formerly as the Scotch Militia Bill) is the usual name given to a bill that was passed by the House of Commons and House of Lords of the Parliament of Great Britain in early 1708. However, on 11 March 1708, Queen Anne withheld royal assent on the advice of her ministers for fear that the proposed militia would be disloyal.\n\nThe bill's long title was \"An Act for settling the Militia of that Part of Great Britain called Scotland\". Its object was to arm the Scottish militia, which had not been recreated at the Restoration. This happened as the unification between Scotland and England under the Acts of Union 1707 had been passed.\n\nOn the day the bill was meant to be signed, news came that the French were sailing toward Scotland for the planned invasion of 1708 and there was suspicion that the Scottish might be disloyal. Therefore, support for a veto was strong.\n\nThe Scottish Militia Bill is the last bill to have been refused royal assent. Before this, King William III had vetoed bills passed by Parliament six times. Royal assent to bills and governments generally came to be viewed as a mere formality once both Houses of Parliament had successfully read a bill three times, or a general election had taken place.\n\nIn the British colonies, the denial of royal assent had continued past 1708, and was one of the primary complaints of the United States Declaration of Independence in 1776: that the King \"has refused his Assent to Laws, most wholesome and necessary for the public Good\" and \"He has forbidden his Governors to pass Laws of immediate and pressing Importance\".\n"}
{"id": "4818168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4818168", "title": "Sexualization", "text": "Sexualization\n\nSexualization (or sexualisation) is to make something sexual in character or quality, or to become aware of sexuality, especially in relation to men and women. Sexualization is linked to sexual objectification. According to the American Psychological Association, sexualization occurs when \"individuals are regarded as sex objects and evaluated in terms of their physical characteristics and sexiness.\" \"In study after study, findings have indicated that women more often than men are portrayed in a sexual manner (e.g., dressed in revealing clothing, with bodily postures or facial expressions that imply sexual readiness) and are objectified (e.g., used as a decorative object, or as body parts rather than a whole person). In addition, a narrow (and unrealistic) standard of physical beauty is heavily emphasized. These are the models of femininity presented for young girls to study and emulate.\" Women who embrace their sexual desires are considered to be sexy and attractive to men who want nothing more than to have a woman as a sex toy. In the eyes of men, women that practice this behavior serve the pure purpose of providing satisfaction and showcasing their human nature. According to the Media Education Foundation's, \"Killing Us Softly 4: Advertising's Image of Women\", the sexualization of girls in media and the ways women are portrayed in the dominant culture are detrimental to the development of young girls as they are developing their identities and understanding themselves as sexual beings.\n\nReports have found that sexualization of younger children is becoming increasingly more common in advertisements. Research has linked sexualization of young girls to negative consequences for girls and society as a whole, finding that the viewing of sexually objectifying material can contribute to body dissatisfaction, eating disorders, low self-esteem, depression and depressive affect. Medical and social science researchers generally deployed \"sexualization\" to refer to a liminal zone between sexual abuse and normal family life, in which the child's relationship with their parents was characterized by an \"excessive\", improper sexuality, though without recognizable forms of abuse having occurred. American Psychological Association also argues that the sexualization of young girls contributes to sexist attitudes within society, and a societal tolerance of sexual violence.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2005, \"sexualization\" began to ascend to the status of an issue in the public eye. The cause of this rise was that it became positioned by a number of discursive actors as a feminist issue. This is not to say that a single \"feminist perspective on sexualization\" emerged in this period; among discursive actors mobilizing feminist discourses, or identifying themselves explicitly with feminism, there were a host of different views. Yet a particular, relatively cohesive position emerged after 2003 among a number of media discourses: these discourses tended to emphasize that, in the context of a commercialized and sexist culture, young women are unable to exercise meaningful choice even when they experience themselves as doing so. These media actors, in their problematization of sexualization, positioned themselves as the true heirs to the feminist tradition and its critical insights, in contrast to contemporary youth.\n\nConsumerism and globalization has led to sexualization of girls occurring across all advanced economies, in media and advertisements, to clothing and toys marketed for young girls.\n\nThe term \"sexualization\" itself only emerged in Anglophone discourse in recent decades. Beginning in the mid-nineteenth century, the term was infrequently drawn upon by English writers to refer the assignation of a gendered frame to a particular object, such as the gendering of nouns (e.g., de Quincey [1839]1909, 195). In contrast, the term \"asexualization\" saw greater use, as a synonym for sterilization in eugenics discourse from around the turn of the twentieth century (e.g., Lydston 1904). The opposite or antonym to sexualization is desexualization.\n\nIn 2006, an Australian report called \"Corporate paedophilia: sexualisation of children in Australia\" was published. The Australian report summarises its conclusion as follows:\n\nIn 2007, the American Psychological Association published a report titled \"Report of the APA Task Force on the Sexualization of Girls\", discussed below.\n\nIn 2010, the American Psychological Association published an additional report titled \" Report of the APA Task Force on the Sexualization of Girls\", which performed a study where college students were asked to try on and evaluate either a swimsuit or a sweater. While they waited for 10 minutes wearing the garment, they completed a math test. The results revealed that young women in swimsuits performed significantly worse on the math problems than did those wearing sweaters.The hypothesis is that individuals about to try on the sweaters had less pressure to look beautiful because they were not wearing revealing clothing therefore they performed better.\n\nIn 2012, an American study found that self-sexualization was common among 6–9-year old girls. Girls overwhelmingly chose the sexualized doll over the non-sexualized doll for their ideal self and as popular. However other factors, such as how often mothers talked to their children about what is going on in TV shows and maternal religiosity, reduced those odds. Surprisingly, the mere quantity of girls' media consumption (TV and movies) was unrelated to their self-sexualization for the most part; rather, maternal self-objectification and maternal religiosity moderated its effects.\n\nHowever, in 2010 the Scottish Executive released a report titled \"External research on sexualised goods aimed at children\". The report considers the drawbacks of the United States and Australian reviews, concluding:\n\nThe Scottish review also notes that:\n\nIt also notes that previous coverage \"rests on moral assumptions … that are not adequately explained or justified.\"\n\nLetting Children be Children: Report of an Independent Review of the Commercialisation and Sexualisation of Childhood (UK)\nThe report 'Letting Children Be Children', also known as the Bailey Report, is a report commissioned by the UK government on the subject of the commercialisation and sexualisation of childhood. The report was published in June 2011 and was commissioned as a result of concerns raised as to whether children's lives are negatively affected by the effects of commercialisation and sexualisation.\n\nThe Bailey Report is so-called as it was researched and compiled by Reg Bailey, the Chief Executive of the Mothers' Union, a \"charity supporting parents and children in 83 countries in the world\". The report asked for contributions from parents; children; organisations; businesses and the general public in order to consider their views and inform their recommendations and identified four themes that were of particular concern to parents and the wider public. These themes were:\n\nThe report returned recommendations based on the research from interested parties, on each of the key themes, in the form of \"what we would like to see\". On the theme of \"the wallpaper of children's lives\" it said that it would like to see that sexualised images used in public places should be more in line with what parents find acceptable, to ensure that images in public spaces becomes more child friendly. On theme two \"clothing, products and services for children\" the Bailey report said that it would like to see retailers no longer selling or marketing inappropriate clothing, products or services for children. What they would like to see on theme three \"children as consumers\" is comprehensive regulation protecting children from excessive commercial pressures across all media in-line with parental expectations; that marketers are ethical and do not attempt to exploit gaps in the market to influence children into becoming consumers and to ensure that parents and children have an awareness of marketing techniques and regulations. Finally in terms of \"making parents voices heard\" it would like to see parents finding it easier to voice their concerns to, and be listened to by, businesses and regulators.\n\nThere is a motion for a European Parliament resolution going through which gives the following definition of sexualization: \n\nThe sexualization of women of color is different than the sexualization of white women. The media plays a significant role in this sexualization. \"The media are likely to have powerful effects if the information is presented persistently, consistently, and corroborated among forms. As a media affect, stereotypes rely on the repetition to perpetuate and sustain them.\" According to Celine Parrenas Shimizu, \"To see race is to see sex, and vice versa.\"\n\nIn an NPR interview with Professor Herbert Samuels at LaGuardia Community College in New York and Mireille Miller-Young a professor at UC Santa Barbara they talk about sexual stereotypes of black bodies in America and how even in sex work, already a dangerous job, black women are treated much worse than their counterparts due to the effects of their oversexualization and objectification in society. Black women's bodies are either invisible or hypervisible. In the 1800s, a South African woman named Sarah Baartman was known as \"Hottentot Venus\" and her body was paraded around in London and Paris where they looked at her exotic features such as large breasts and behind. Her features were deemed lesser and oversexual. There is also the \"Jezebel\" stereotype that portrays black women as \"hypersexual, manipulative, animalistic and promiscuous females who cannot be controlled.\"\n\nIn the Dominican Republic, women are frequently stereotyped as sultry and sexual as the reputation of Dominican sex workers grows. Many poor women have resorted to sex work because the demand is high and the hours and pay are often dictated by the workers themselves. White European and American men \"exoticize dark-skinned 'native' bodies\" because \"they can buy sex for cut-rate prices\". This overgeneralizing of the sexuality of Dominican women can also carries back to the women's homes. Even \"women who...worked in Europe have become suspect...\" even if they had a legal job. They have become \"exports\" instead of people because of their sexualization.\n\nThe image of Asian women in Hollywood cinema is directly linked to sexuality as essential to any imagining about the roles they play as well as her actual appearance in popular culture. Asian female fatale's hypersexualized subjection is derived from her sexual behaviour that is considered as natural to her particular race and culture. Two types of Asian stereotypes that are commonly found in media are the Lotus Flower and the Dragon Lady. The Lotus Flower archetype is the \"self-sacrificing, servile, and suicidal Asian women.\" The dragon lady archetype is the opposite of the lotus flower, a \"self-abnegating Asian woman…[who] uses her 'Oriental' femininity, associated with seduction and danger to trap white men on behalf of conniving Asian males.\" According to film-maker and film scholar, Celine Shimizu, \"The figure of the Asian American femme fatale signifies a particular deathly seduction. She attracts with her soft, unthreatening, and servile femininity while concealing her hard, dangerous, and domineering nature.\"\n\nStarting from the time of white colonization of Native American land, some Native American women have been referred to as \"squaw,\" an Algonquin word for vagina. \"The 'squaw' [stereotype] is the dirty, subservient, and abused tribal female who is also haggard, violent, and eager to torture tribal captives.\" Another stereotype is the beautiful Indian princess who leaves her tribe and culture behind to marry a white man.\n\nLatina characters that embody the hot Latina stereotype in film and television is marked by easily identifiable behavioral characteristics such as \"'addictively romantic, sensual, sexual and even exotically dangerous', self-sacrificing, dependent, powerless, sexually naive, childlike, pampered, and irresponsible\". Stereotypical Latina physical characteristics include \"red lips, big bottoms, large hips, voluptuous bosoms, and small waists\" and \"high heels, huge hoop earrings, seductive clothing.\" Within the hot Latina stereotype lies three categories of representation: the Cantina Girl, the Faithful, self-sacrificing señorita, and the vamp. The Cantina Girl markers are \"'great sexual allure,' teasing, dancing, and 'behaving in an alluring fashion.'\" The faithful, self-sacrificing Señorita starts out as a good girl and turns bad by the end. The Señorita, in an attempt to save her Anglo love interest, utilizes her body to protect him from violence. The Vamp representation \"uses her intellectual and devious sexual wiles to get what she wants.\" The media represents Latinas \"as either [a] hot-blooded spitfire\" or \"[a] dutiful mother\". The sexual implications of the \"hot-blooded\" Latina has become an overgeneralized representation of Latin people. This has led many to see the Latin people as \"what is morally wrong\" with the United States. Some believe it to be wrong simply because the interpretation of this culture seems to go against white, Western culture. Culturally, the Latina is expected to dress \"as a proper señorita\" in order to be respected as a woman which conflicts with the Western ideals that a girl is sexual if she dresses \"too 'mature' for [her] age\". Even in the business world this stereotype continues; \"tight skirts and jingling bracelets [are misinterpreted] as a come-on\". This sexualization can also be linked to certain stereotypical jobs. The image of the Latina woman often is not in the business world but in the domestic. The sexualization of Latina women sexualizes the positions that they are expected to occupy. Domestic servants, maids, and waitresses are the typical \"media-engendered\" roles that make it difficult for Latinas to gain \"upward mobility\" despite the fact that many hold PhDs.\n\nThe American Psychological Association (APA) in its 2007 Report looked at the cognitive and emotional consequences of sexualization and the consequences for mental and physical health, and impact on development of a healthy sexual self-image. The report considers that a person is sexualized in the following situations:\n\nSome cultural critics have postulated that over recent decades children have evidenced a level of sexual knowledge or sexual behaviour inappropriate for their age group.\n\nThe causes of this premature sexualization that have been cited include portrayals in the media of sex and related issues, especially in media aimed at children; the marketing of products with sexual connotations to children, including clothing; the lack of parental oversight and discipline; access to adult culture via the internet; and the lack of comprehensive school sex education programs.\n\nFor girls and young women in particular, the APA reports that studies have found that sexualization has a negative impact on their \"self-image and healthy development\".\n\nThe APA cites the following as advertising techniques that contribute to the sexualization of girls:\nThe APA additionally further references the teen magazine market by citing a study by Roberts \"et al\" that found that \"47% of 8- to 18-year-old [girls] reported having read at least 5 minutes of a magazine the previous day.\" A majority of these magazines focused on a theme of presenting oneself as sexually desirable to men, a practice which is called \"costuming for seduction\" in a study by Duffy and Gotcher.\n\nStudies have found that thinking about the body and comparing it to sexualized cultural ideals may disrupt a girl's mental concentration, and a girl's sexualization or objectification may undermine her confidence in and comfort with her own body, leading to emotional and self-image problems, such as shame and anxiety.\n\nResearch has linked sexualization with three of the most common mental health problems diagnosed in girls and women: eating disorders, low self-esteem, and depression or depressed mood.\n\nResearch suggests that the sexualization of girls has negative consequences on girls' ability to develop a healthy sexual self-image.\n\nA result of the sexualization of girls in the media is that young girls are \"learning how to view themselves as sex objects\". When girls fail to meet the thin ideal and dominant culture's standard of beauty they can develop anxieties. Sexualization is problematic for young children who are developing their sexual identity as they may think that turning themselves into sex objects is empowering and related to having sexual agency.\n\nSome commercial products seen as promoting the sexualization of children have drawn considerable media attention:\n\nThe Scottish Executive report surveyed 32 High street UK retailers and found that many of the larger chains, including Tesco, Debenhams, JJ Sports, and Marks & Spencer did not offer sexualized goods aimed at children. The report noted that overall prevalence was limited but this was based on a very narrow research brief. Whilst this shows that not all High street retailers were aiming products deemed sexualized by the researchers, the research cannot be taken out of context and used to say that there is not an issue of sexualization.\n\nSexualization has also been a subject of debate for academics who work in media and cultural studies. Here, the term has not been used to simply to label what is seen as a social problem, but to indicate the much broader and varied set of ways in which sex has become more visible in media and culture. These include;\nthe widespread discussion of sexual values, practices and identities in the media;\nthe growth of sexual media of all kinds; for example, erotica, slash fiction, sexual self-help books and the many genres of pornography; \nthe emergence of new forms of sexual experience, for example instant message or avatar sex made possible by developments in technology; \na public concern with the breakdown of consensus about regulations for defining and dealing with obscenity; \nthe prevalence of scandals, controversies and panics around sex in the media.\n\nThe terms \"pornification\" and \"pornographication\" have also been used to describe the way that aesthetics that were previously associated with pornography have become part of popular culture, and that mainstream media texts and other cultural practices \"citing pornographic styles, gestures and aesthetics\" have become more prominent. This process, which Brian McNair has described as a \"pornographication of the mainstream\". has developed alongside an expansion of the cultural realm of pornography or \"pornosphere\" which itself has become more accessible to a much wider variety of audiences. According to McNair, both developments can be set in the context of a wider shift towards a \"striptease culture\" which has disrupted the boundaries between public and private discourse in late modern Western culture, and which is evident more generally in cultural trends which privilege lifestyle, reality, interactivity, self-revelation and public intimacy.\n\nChildren and adolescents spend more time engaging with media than any other age group. This is a time in their life that they are more susceptible to information that they receive. Children are getting sex education from the media, little kids are exposed to sexualized images and more information than ever before in human history but are not able to process the information, they are not developmentally ready to process it, and this impacts their development and behavior.\n\nSexualization of young girls in the media and infantilization of women creates an environment where it becomes more acceptable to view children as \"seductive and sexy\". It makes having healthy sexual relationships more difficult for people and creates sexist attitudes. Sexualization also contributes to sexual violence and childhood sexual abuse \"where 1 in 4 girls and 1 in 6 boys are sexually abused during childhood\".\n\nThe Australian writers, Catharine Lumby and Kath Albury (2010) have suggested that sexualization is \"a debate that has been simmering for almost a decade\" and concerns about sex and the media are far from new. Much of the recent writing on sexualization has been the subject of criticism that because of the way that it draws on \"one-sided, selective, overly simplifying, generalizing, and negatively toned\" evidence and is \"saturated in the languages of concern and regulation\". In these writings and the widespread press coverage that they have attracted, critics state that the term is often used as \"a non-sequitur causing everything from girls flirting with older men to child sex trafficking\" They believe that the arguments often ignore feminist work on media, gender and the body and present a very conservative and negative view of sex in which only monogamous heterosexual sexuality is regarded as normal. They say that the arguments tend to neglect any historical understanding of the way sex has been represented and regulated, and they often ignore both theoretical and empirical work on the relationship between sex and media, culture and technology.\n\nThe sexualization of women being influenced by society is a problem that should be avoided due to its impact on how women value and present themselves. The way society shapes ones personal interest is presented in a book review of \"Girls Gone Skank\" by Patrice Oppliger, Amanda Mills states that \"consequently, girls are socialized to participate in their own abuse by becoming avid consumers of and altering their behavior to reflect sexually exploitative images and goods.\" The belief that women are powerful and fully capable as men is stated in the text \"Uses Of The Erotic: The Erotic As Power\" by Audre Lorde stating that the suppression of the erotic of women has led them feeling superior to men \"the superficially, erotic had been encouraged as a sign of female inferiority on the other hand women have been made to suffer and to feel opposed contemptible and suspect by virtue of its existence\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19375659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19375659", "title": "State of exception", "text": "State of exception\n\nA state of exception () is a concept in the legal theory of Carl Schmitt, similar to a state of emergency, but based in the sovereign's ability to transcend the rule of law in the name of the public good. This concept is developed in Giorgio Agamben's book \"State of Exception\".\n\n"}
{"id": "297678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=297678", "title": "Tanistry", "text": "Tanistry\n\nTanistry is a Gaelic system for passing on titles and lands. In this system the Tanist (; ; ) is the office of heir-apparent, or second-in-command, among the (royal) Gaelic patrilineal dynasties of Ireland, Scotland and Mann, to succeed to the chieftainship or to the kingship.\n\nHistorically the Tanist was chosen from among the heads of the \"roydammna\" or \"righdamhna\" (literally, those of \"kingly material\") or, alternatively, among all males of the \"sept\", and elected by them in full assembly. The eligibility was based on patrilineal relationship, which meant the electing body and the eligibles were agnates with each other. The composition and the governance of the clan were built upon male-line descent from a similar ancestor. The office was noted from the beginning of recorded history in Ireland, and probably pre-dates it. A story about Cormac mac Airt refers to his eldest son as his Tanist. Following his murder by a member of the Deisi, another \"roydammna\", Eochaid Gonnat, succeeded as king.\n\nIn Ireland, the tanistry continued among the dominant dynasties, as well as lesser lords and chieftains, until the mid-16th/early 17th century when it was replaced by English common law. When in 1943 Ireland appointed its first new Chief Herald, it did not reintroduce tanistry. The state granted courtesy recognition to Irish chiefs based on primogeniture from the last known chief.\n\nThe Gaels exported tanistry and other customs to those parts of Scotland which they controlled after 400 CE. The Picts (the other indigenous people of today's Scotland), did not share the succession principles of their neighbours of Ireland and Scottish Gaels. No female succession, or male succession via female lines, is allowed in the Irish and Gaelic succession model. By contrast, Pictish succession often used links through females (maternal grandson was apparently preferred heir to grandfather; and/or maternal nephew to uncle in Pictish custom).\n\nThe royal succession in Celtic Scotland was limited to the elective agnatic or male line of the \"Siol Alpein\" (House of Alpin) until the accession of King Malcolm II in 1005. This monarch was the first to introduce the concept of hereditary monarchy in Scotland. He did so to try to eliminate the strife caused by the elective law, which encouraged rival claimants to fight for the Throne. Since Malcolm had only daughters, he also introduced the right of female-line succession in Scotland. This gave rise to conflict by competitors for generations thereafter. The Irish monarchies never at any stage allowed for female line succession, a position which is maintained to the present day.\n\nThe Tanist held office for life and was required by custom to be of full age, in possession of all his faculties and without any remarkable blemish of mind or body. At the same time, and subject to the same conditions, a tanist or next heir to the Monarchy was elected, who if the king died or became disqualified, at once became king. Most usually a former king's son became tanist (sometimes the son of the king simultaneously elected, however perhaps more often a son of a rival branch of the dynasty), but not because the system of primogeniture was in any way recognised; indeed, the only principle adopted was that the dignity of chieftainship should descend to the eldest and most worthy of the same male-line blood of the clan.\nThe usual rules for qualification as a \"roydammna\" was that a candidate had to be a member of the \"\"Derbfhine\"\", a kindred all descended in the male line from a common ancestor (usually a great-grandfather). This is recalled in the coats of arms of representatives of the many clans and septs descended from the Uí Néill royal dynasty, many of which feature the Red Hand. The joints in the fingers, the fingernails, and the hand, represented the four/five generations that qualified for inclusion within the \"Derbfhine\". This meant that the group became highly exclusive, keeping the kingship within the dynasty. Many in the wider clan might be reduced to gentry or peasant status (though they might share the surname). These features make tanistry an agnatic succession mode, and a succession by appointment, as it was an elective monarchy. Tanistry evades the basic requirement of the hereditary monarchy, i.e. that the outcome of the succession is predictable, up to the identity of successor and next heirs, by genealogy.\n\nThe downside of the large group of eligibles was that increases in \"roydammna\" in each generation might lead to internecine dynastic civil war. Such was the case among the descendants of King and High King Tairrdelbach Ua Conchobair (1088–1156). His dynasty, the \"Sil Muirdeag\" (who took the surname hUa Conchobhair/O'Connor), had successfully ruled as Kings of Connacht since at least the mid-5th century. Their increasing consolidation via the annexation of the Kingdoms of Mide and Dublin, plus suborning neighboring states and lordships to vassalage, led to Tairrdelbach becoming the first of his dynasty to become High King.\n\nCompetition between Tairrdelbach's many sons caused corrosive warfare among at least four competing main lines, in addition to allied lordships' and kingdoms' striving for the main chance. Coupled with the incursions of the Normans from 1169 onwards, this fragmented Ó Conchobhar rule. By the early 16th century, they were reduced to ruling a fraction of their former patrimony.\n\nAnother example of \"Derbfhine\" or \"Roydammna\" proliferation comes from the \"Annals of Connacht\". It states that at the Second Battle of Athenry in August 1316, in addition to King Tadc Ó Cellaig of Uí Maine, \"there fell with him ... twenty-eight men who were entitled to succeed to the kingship of Uí Maine.\"\n\nThis system often led to rotation among the most prominent branches of the clan or the reigning house, particularly in the Middle Ages. Tanistry, though not necessarily intended to be so, was perceived to create balance between branches of family. A quite usual pattern was that the chief (king, lord) was succeeded by his Tanist, elected earlier and from another branch than that which the incumbent chief belonged to. Perhaps simultaneously upon that succession, a Tanist was elected from another branch, to fill the position vacated by the one now risen to chieftainship. He may have come from the branch to which the deceased belonged. The next vacancy would be handled in a similar way. If a chieftain attempted to have his own son (or brother) chosen over a representative of another branch, the electors were outraged, as they feared subjugation to one branch.\n\nIn 1296, the Bruce candidate to inherit the crown of Scotland pleaded the traditional tanistry in his favor. In terms of primogeniture, he was from a cadet branch of the old royal descent, and thus would not have succeeded. The idea of rotation and balance (and his seniority in physical age and experience) made him a credible competitor. A Pictish aspect was that both the House of Balliol and Bruce descended through female lines from the royal house, and were allowed to present candidacy. Bruce also claimed tanistry through a female line. (This may be an indication that in Scotland, Pictish and Gaelic succession rules were intermingled. The judicial resolution of the succession quarrel, directed by the English king, favoured the Balliols on the basis of primogeniture. Subsequent political events reverted that result to a more \"clannish-tradition\" direction. Robert the Bruce, grandson of the candidate who argued for tanistry, ascended the throne despite descending from a rather junior cadet line of the original Royal House. All future monarchs of Scotland after that succeeded by the rights of the Bruce.)\n\nTanistry as the system of succession left the headship open to the ambitious. It was a frequent source of strife both in families and between the clans, but it was conversely quasi-democratic. Tanistry was abolished by a legal decision during the reign of James VI of Scotland, who later was named James I of England and Ireland. The English land law was substituted.\n\nThe rules of succession of the House of Alpin of Scottish monarchs (a dynasty legendarily of mixed Pictish and Gaelic origin) and their successors, abided by tanistry rules until at least 1034. They also used them in certain successions in the 1090s, and tanistry was used as an argument in succession litigation as late as the 1290s. A similar system operated in Wales, where under Welsh law any of the sons or brothers of the king could be chosen as the \"edling\" or heir to the kingdom.\n\nThe word is preserved in the government of the Republic of Ireland, where the prime minister is the \"Taoiseach\" while the deputy prime minister is the \"Tánaiste\".\n\n\nBlood tanistry is the principle that \"the most talented male member of the royal dynasty should inherit the throne, commonly by murder and war\". It is also used to describe the practical ramifications of the Turco-Mongol, as well as other Central Asian steppe nomad, principles of inheritance and succession. Because all male members of the royal clan are considered to have equally legitimate claims on power, the ruler is the individual who eliminates competitors and re-subjugates the rest of the state formation. The structure may be determined by bonds of personal loyalty to the ruler, which are considered to be dissolved on the ruler's death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10826158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10826158", "title": "Term of office", "text": "Term of office\n\nA term of office is the length of time a person serves in a particular elected office. In many jurisdictions there is a defined limit on how long terms of office may be before the officeholder must be subject to re-election. Some jurisdictions exercise term limits, setting a maximum number of terms an individual may hold in a particular office.\n\nBeing the origin of the Westminster system, aspects of the United Kingdom's system of government are replicated in many other countries.\nThe monarch serves as head of state until his or her death or abdication.\n\nIn the United Kingdom Members of Parliament (MPs) in the House of Commons are elected for the duration of the parliament. Following dissolution of the Parliament, a general election is held which consists of simultaneous elections for all seats. For most MPs this means that their terms of office are identical to the duration of the Parliament, though an individual's term may be cut short by death or resignation. An MP elected in a by-election mid-way through a Parliament, regardless of how long they have occupied the seat, is not exempt from facing re-election at the next general election.\n\nThe Septennial Act 1715 provided that a Parliament expired seven years after it had been summoned; this maximum period was reduced to five years by the Parliament Act 1911. Prior to the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011 parliaments had no minimum duration. Parliaments could be dissolved early by the monarch at the Prime Minister's request. Early dissolutions occurred when the make-up of Parliament made forming government impossible (as occurred in 1974), or, more commonly, when the incumbent government reasoned an early general election would improve their re-election chances (e.g. 2001). The Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011 mandated that Parliaments should last their full five years. Early dissolution is still possible, but under much more limited circumstances.\n\nBecause the government and Prime Minister are effectively indirectly elected through the Commons, the terms of Parliaments and MPs do not directly apply to offices of government, though in practice these are affected by changes in Parliament. While, strictly speaking, a Prime Minister whose incumbency spans multiple Parliaments only serves one, unbroken, term of office, some writers may refer to the different Parliaments as separate terms.\n\nHereditary peers and life peers retain membership of the House of Lords for life, though members can resign or be expelled. Lords Spiritual hold membership of the House of Lords until the end of their time as bishops, though a senior bishop may be made a life peer upon the end of their bishopric (e.g. George Carey, made \"Baron Carey of Clifton\" the day after he ceased being Archbishop of Canterbury).\nThe devolved administrations in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland are variations on the system of government used at Westminster.\n\nThe office of the leader of the devolved administrations has no numeric term limit imposed upon it. However, in the case of the Scottish Government and the Welsh Assembly Government there are fixed terms for which the legislatures can sit. This is imposed at four years. Elections may be held before this time but only if no administration can be formed, which has not happened yet.\nOffices of local government other regional elected officials follow similar rules to the national offices discussed above, with persons elected to fixed terms of a few years.\n\nIn the United States, the president of the United States is elected indirectly through the United States Electoral College to a four-year term, with a term limit of two terms (totaling eight years) or a maximum of ten years if the president acted as president for two years or less in a term where another was elected as president, imposed by the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution, ratified in 1951.\n\nThe Vice President serves four-year terms. U.S. Representatives serve two-year terms. U.S. Senators serve six-year terms. \n\nFederal judges have different terms in office. Article I judges; such as those that sit on the United States bankruptcy courts, United States Tax Court, and United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, and certain other federal courts and other forms of adjudicative bodies serve limited terms: The Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces for 15 years, bankruptcy courts for 14. However, the majority of the federal judiciary; Article III judges, such as those of the Supreme Court, courts of appeal, and federal district courts; serve for life.\n\nThe terms of office for officials in state governments varies according to the provisions of state constitutions and state law.\n\nThe term for state governors is four years in all states but Vermont and New Hampshire; the Vermont and New Hampshire governors serve for two years.\n\nThe National Conference of State Legislatures reported in January 2007 that among state legislatures :\n\nAmong territories of the United States:\n\nMembers of Council of the District of Columbia serve a four-year term.\n\nAs a former British territory following the Westminster System, there are many similarities with the United Kingdom, although with some variations based on local customs, the federal system of government and the absentee monarch.\nBeing a Commonwealth realm, Canada shares a monarch with the United Kingdom and 14 other countries, who serves as head of state of all 16 realms until their death or abdication.\n\nThe Governor General is appointed by the monarch as his/her personal representative on the advice of the Prime Minister, and serves for an indefinite term, though the normal convention is 5 years. Similarly, the Lieutenant Governors, who represent the monarch at the provincial level, are appointed by the Governor General on the advice of the Prime Minister (usually also with consultation of the relevant provincial premier), and generally also serve 5 year terms by convention. The territories have Commissioners, who are not representatives of the monarch, but are instead appointed by and represent the Governor-in-Council (i.e. the federal cabinet), and conventionally serve for about 5 years.\n\nSimilar to the United Kingdom, MPs serve for the duration of the Parliament. They may resign before the end of a Parliament or be elected in by-elections during the middle of a Parliament.\n\nUnder the Constitution Act, 1867, a Parliament may last for a maximum of 5 years from the most recent election before expiring, although all Parliaments to date have been dissolved before they could expire. Bill C-16, introduced in the 39th Parliament, provided for fixed election dates every 4 years on the third Monday in October, beginning in 2009. However, the Prime Minister may still advise the Governor General to dissolve Parliament at any time. \n\nAs in the United Kingdom, the cabinet and head of government are indirectly elected based on the composition of the House of Commons, they are not technically affected by the terms of legislators or Parliaments. In practice however, the terms of government office holders are affected by changes in the House of Commons, and those who serve for multiple consecutive Parliaments are generally considered to have served a single term. The term of a government generally ends when it is defeated on a confidence matter or the governing party fails to gain enough seats in a general election.\n\nSenators are appointed to the Canadian Senate to represent a province by the Governor General of Canada on the advice of the Prime Minister, and serve until the mandatory retirement age of 75. Senators appointed before the passage of the British North America Act, 1965 served for life. Senators may also resign from office or be expelled from the Senate.\n\nProvincial legislatures and the legislature of the Yukon function very similarly to the federal House of Commons. MLAs (called MPPs in Ontario, MNAs in Quebec, and MHAs in Newfoundland and Labrador) serve for the duration of the legislature, though they may resign before the legislature is dissolved or be elected in by-elections between general elections. The legislatures of the Northwest Territories and Nunavut operate using a consensus model, but are similar otherwise. The premiers and their cabinets are selected in the same way as in the House of Commons, and like at the federal level, the term of a provincial government can be ended by defeat in a general election or the loss of the legislature's confidence.\n\nAll provincial legislatures except that of Nova Scotia have fixed-term election legislation in place, as does the legislature of the Northwest Territories. Premiers may also advise Lieutenant Governors to dissolve legislatures at any time before the prescribed election date.\n\nNumbers in years unless stated otherwise. Note that some countries where fixed-term elections are uncommon, the legislature is almost always dissolved earlier than its expiry date. \"Until removed from office\" refers to offices that don't have fixed terms; in these cases, the officeholder(s) may serve indefinitely until death, abdication, resignation, retirement, or forcible removal from office (such as impeachment).\n\nIn cases where the head of government is a different person from the head of state, its term of office is identical to the chamber that elected it (the legislature if it is unicameral, or most usually the lower house if it is bicameral), unless it doesn't survive a vote of no confidence.\n<nowiki>**</nowiki>The Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina is composed of three members as a collective head of state, all elected at the same time via popular vote, by different constituencies each, every four years.<br>\n<nowiki>***</nowiki>The Federal Council of Switzerland is composed of seven members as a collective head of state, all elected at the same time by the Federal Assembly of Switzerland every four years.\n\n"}
{"id": "220011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220011", "title": "West American Digest System", "text": "West American Digest System\n\nThe West American Digest System is a system of identifying points of law from reported cases and organizing them by topic and key number. The system was developed by West Publishing to organize the entire body of American law. This extensive taxonomy makes the process of doing case law legal research less time consuming as it directs the researcher to cases that are similar to the legal issue under consideration.\n\nThe problem of finding cases on a particular topic was a large problem for the rapidly growing American legal system of the 19th century. John B. West, the founder of West Publishing, described this problem in his article \"A multiplicity of reports\". To solve the problem, he developed a system with two major parts. First, his company published cases in many American jurisdictions in bound volumes called reporters (the West National Reporter System now covers all state and federal courts). Second, he put together a classification system in which he divided the law into major categories which he called topics (such as \"Contracts\"). He then created hundreds of subcategories. To save space in printing, these were given a number called a key number. He then applied this \"topic and key number\" system to the cases he published. The key number is identified in the books with a key number and a key symbol graphic.\n\nEach case published in a West reporter is evaluated by an editor who identifies the points of law cited or explained in the case. The editor places the summaries of the points of law covered in the case at the beginning of the case. These summaries are usually a paragraph long, and are called headnotes. Each headnote is then assigned a topic and key number. The headnotes are arranged according to their topic and key number in multi-volume sets of books called Digests. A digest serves as a subject index to the case law published in West reporters. Headnotes are merely editorial guides to the points of law discussed or used in the cases, and the headnotes themselves are not legal authority.\n\nWest publishes \"West's Analysis of American Law\", which is a complete guide to the topic and key number system, and it is revised periodically.\n\nIn print, a digest works like an encyclopedia, in that the topics are listed in alphabetical order and printed on the spines. The \"Descriptive Word Index\" provides guidance as to the proper topics and key numbers.\n\nThe digest system includes digests for the individual states (except for Delaware, Nevada and Utah). The U.S. Supreme Court, Bankruptcy Courts, Federal Claims Court, and military courts each have an individual digest, as well as their decisions being included in the Federal Practice Digest with the notes of decisions from the federal District Courts and Courts of Appeals. Digests are also published for West's National Reporter System. Specialty subject digests exist, such as the Education Law Digest, and the Social Security Digest.\n\nFor nationwide research, about once a month, West publishes a General Digest volume, which incorporates classified digest notes from all reporters of the West National Reporter System. These are then cumulated into a Decennial Digest. Decennial implies that this occurs every ten years, but in the past several decades, there have been Decennial Digest Parts I and II (the 11th Series now has Part III ), so the cumulation is now more frequent. However, the various Decennial Digests are not cumulated. Thus, completing such a search over several decades requires consulting the Decennial Digests, and then updating that work with the most recent series of the General Digest.\n\nSome of the state and topical digests are revised to include the first cases in the jurisdiction, while the spines of the books of some of the other digests indicate that they are from \"1933 to date,\" for instance, indicating that one must consult a prior series for references to earlier cases. The state, federal, regional, and topical digests are updated by interim pamphlets, pocket parts, replacement volumes, or a new series.\n\nResearchers can also search the digest electronically using Westlaw:\n\nMost secondary sources published by Thomson West, such as Corpus Juris Secundum and American Jurisprudence, also have key number hyperlinks in their on-line Westlaw versions.\n\nThe \"Key Numbers and Digest\" feature and the hyperlinks create a \"Custom Digest.\"\n\nThe Custom Digest allows:\n\nSelecting key numbers and jurisdictions in the \"Key Number Search Tool\" results in a similar display of digest headnotes.\nSince all West headnote annotations are merged on Westlaw into a single database from which each Custom Digest is generated, there is no need to consult each separate series of the hard copy Decennial Digest. Full text of the cases may be accessed from the Custom Digest by clicking on the underlined case citation. The key number search or KeySearch will retrieve entire cases from a case law database.\n\nOther digest systems exist, including Butterworth's Digest for the United Kingdom (also containing references to cases decided in other Commonwealth countries), the Canadian Abridgment, digests associated with official state reports, such as in California and Wisconsin, and digests associated with topical reporters, such as the Uniform Commercial Code Case Digest. Most of these use a topic and section format, while some, like the U.C.C. Case Digest, use a section format based on the statute or rules being annotated. The A.L.R. Digest, accompanying the American Law Reports, formerly had its own classification system, but was replaced in 2004 by \"West's American Law Reports Digest,\" which follows West's topic and key number system.\n\n\n"}
