{"id": "22203380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22203380", "title": "2009 Arab League summit", "text": "2009 Arab League summit\n\nThe 2009 Arab League summit was held in Doha, Qatar on March 30, 2009. The Arab League defied the International Criminal Court by giving a \"warm welcome\" to Sudanese President Omar Hassan al-Bashir, whom the Court placed a warrant on for war crimes in the Darfur genocide.\n\nEgyptian President Hosni Mubarak boycotted the summit amid differences with Qatar stemming from the 2008–2009 Israel–Gaza conflict. Other Arab countries like Saudi Arabia were also hesitant to come to the summit if Iran or Hamas were in attendance (neither of the parties came while the Saudis did).\n\nAfter Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani speech, Libyan leader Muammar al-Gaddafi called King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia a liar, accusing him of \"bringing the Americans to occupy Iraq\" and of being \"made by Britain and protected by the US.\", while stating: \"I am an international leader, the dean of the Arab rulers, the king of kings of Africa and the imam (leader) of Muslims, and my international status does not allow me to descend to a lower level\". He then invited the King to visit him to solve the issues between the two.\n"}
{"id": "33036769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33036769", "title": "2011 attack on the Israeli Embassy in Egypt", "text": "2011 attack on the Israeli Embassy in Egypt\n\nOn 9 September 2011, several thousand protesters forcibly entered the Israeli embassy in Giza, Greater Cairo, after breaking down a recently constructed wall built to protect the compound. The protesters later broke into a police station and stole weapons, resulting in police using tear gas in an attempt to protect themselves. The demonstrators eventually broke through the security wall and entered the offices of the embassy. Six members of the embassy staff, who had been in a \"safe room\", were evacuated from the site by Egyptian commandos, following the personal intervention of United States President Barack Obama.\n\nFollowing the attack, the Israeli deputy ambassador remained in Cairo; 85 staff members and their families returned to Israel. The Egyptian army declared a state of alert.\n\nDuring 2011, relations between Israel and Egypt deteriorated after the resignation of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, reaching their lowest point since peace was established between the nations by the 1979 Egypt–Israel Peace Treaty. The Israeli-Egyptian border became a region of conflict and instability due to increased militant activity in Egypt's Sinai Peninsula, and anti-Israeli sentiment was expressed in protests by masses of Egyptians in the streets of Giza.\n\nOn 18 August 2011, a squad of militants crossed the border from the Sinai Peninsula into southern Israel, killing eight Israelis. The ensuing Israeli counter-terrorist operations in close proximity to the border resulted in the deaths of \"at least three\" Egyptian soldiers. The soldiers' deaths by Israeli fire ignited protests at the Israeli Embassy in Giza. During a demonstration on 20 August 2011, an Egyptian protester climbed 20-feet up the building's facade to remove the Israeli flag.\n\nThe Egyptian Supreme Council of the Armed Forces considered recalling the Egyptian ambassador in Tel Aviv. Eventually, Israel publicly apologized for the deaths of the Egyptian soldiers. Egypt stated that Israel's apology was \"insufficient.\"\n\nOn 9 September 2011, hundreds of Egyptian protesters began gathering outside of the Israeli embassy. Around 6:30 p.m. local time, they began to assault a concrete security perimeter wall with hammers and a battering ram. Egyptian authorities had erected the wall following intense protests in August.\n\nAt 12:30 a.m. Saturday morning, several thousand protesters breached the security wall. By 1:00 a.m. they had entered the lobby and proceeded through the rest of the building. The demonstrators ransacked the embassy, located on the 20th and 21st floors of the building, and threw items including documents, some marked \"confidential\", from the windows of the building to the crowded street below. The documents were quickly scanned and publicly commented on. Israel later revealed that the remaining Israeli security staff had been separated from the rioters only by the steel door of a safe room in which they had taken refuge.\n\nIn Jerusalem, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and various other senior Israeli officials watched the events unfold from a direct feed from the surveillance cameras installed in the embassy.\n\nIsraeli Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor estimated that about 3,000 protesters were involved in destroying the security wall. An Israeli diplomat condemned the attack as a \"serious violation\" of diplomatic behavior.\n\nImmediately after the protesters had infiltrated the embassy, United States Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta received a call from Israeli Minister of Defense Ehud Barak asking for help. The United States assisted in assuring the protection of the Israeli embassy personnel. Prime Minister Netanyahu later emphasized that he \"would like to thank the US President Barack Obama for his help\" in securing the lives of the Israeli embassy staff.\n\nSix Israeli security staff who were on the premises hid inside a reinforced safe room. Egyptian commando forces entered the embassy building and rescued the six Israeli guards. All other embassy staff and their family members were escorted to Cairo International Airport. At 2:40 a.m., the Israeli ambassador and approximately 85 other Israeli diplomats and their family members arrived at the airport and were flown out of Egypt. Only the deputy Israeli ambassador remained in Egypt, staying at the United States embassy. A senior Egyptian security official stated that the Egyptian commandos had been sent to the embassy after Israeli Ambassador Itzhak Levanon spoke on the phone with an anonymous member of Egypt's ruling military council, and asked him to arrange the safe evacuation of the embassy staff.\n\nThe demonstration and ransacking of the embassy building continued into the early morning hours as the protesters burned tires and set several police cars on fire. The Egyptian police eventually suppressed the riots and dispersed the thousands of rioters by using tear gas and firing warning shots into the air.\n\nPrime Minister Netanyahu and former Mossad director Efraim Halevy praised the actions of American president Obama in helping with the evacuation.\n\nFollowing the attack on the embassy, the Egyptian army heightened the state of alert in the country and reinstated martial law, otherwise known as State of Emergency, on a temporary basis.\n\nOn the morning of Saturday, 10 September, Egypt's ruling military council rejected resignation requests that had been submitted by Egyptian Prime Minister Essam Sharaf and several Egyptian ministers. Their request was made because of the failure to handle the disturbances.\n\nOne day after the attacks on the embassy, a group of reporters were attacked by a crowd of people still lingering near the scene of the riots. A reporter and producer were knocked to the ground and trampled, but managed to get to a vehicle in which they retreated, with protesters throwing stones at them. They were able to flee the area without sustaining any major injuries.\n\nIn August 2012, an Egyptian court convicted 76 Egyptians who were linked to the attack on the Israeli embassy. 75 of those convicted received suspended one-year sentences, and one Egyptian, Omar Afifi who had fled abroad, who was tried in absentia was given a five-year prison term. Eight charges were listed by the court, including “an assault against diplomatic missions” and “sabotage.”\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25430810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25430810", "title": "Agenda 21 for culture", "text": "Agenda 21 for culture\n\nAgenda 21 for culture (now also known as Culture 21) is a program for cultural governance developed in 2002–2004 and organized by United Cities and Local Governments.\nPart of the program's premise is to add culture as a fourth conceptual pillar of sustainable development in governance, the historical three pillars of which are environment, social inclusion, and economics.\n\n\"Agenda 21\" is an agenda for sustainable development in the 21st century, approved by United Nations members at the Rio Earth Summit in 1992. The original Agenda 21 did not discuss culture in great depth. It did include a section (Chapter 28) known as \"Local Agenda 21\" which called for local governments to adopt action plans and to collaborate with international organizations; a deliberative process which itself would \"increase household awareness of sustainable development issues\". While the ecological dimension of Local Agenda 21 was paramount at first, cities in the following years have incorporated cultural development into their outlook on sustainable development. In 1998, the World Bank and UNESCO jointly endorsed the inclusion of culture in the sustainable development strategy.\n\nIn September 2002, the first World Public Meeting on Culture, held in Porto Alegre, resolved to create guidelines for local cultural policies. A final document was approved on 8 May 2004 in Barcelona, and on 15 September it was submitted to UN-HABITAT and UNESCO. In the same year, the world organization United Cities and Local Governments (UCLG) was formed to coordinate this Agenda 21 for culture.\n\nBy 2010, over 400 governments and organizations had jointed Agenda 21 for culture in some way. By 2015 membership exceeded 500.\n\nThe Agenda 21 for culture has 67 articles, divided into three sections: principles, undertakings, and recommendations. The \"Principles\" include core values such as cultural diversity and human rights, as well as perspectives on which actors will implement the agenda. Cities are envisioned as primary sites for cultural production and governance, as well as places where cultural policy is necessary for harmonious coexistence. Culture itself is described as an essential part of constructing citizenship for people of all ages. Participation in culture takes place through channels including internet, public spaces, and work.\n\nThe \"Undertakings\" section encourages policies which support cultural development and expand access to culture without prejudice. It specifically mentions books, internet, museums, and tourism as vectors for culture. It calls for decentralized but funded cultural policies; multilateral cooperation between cultural institutions, NGOs, and governments; and popularization of scientific technical culture. It advocates the right of freedom of speech, the moral rights of authors and artists, and the development of legal systems for historic preservation. The recommendations section addresses local and national governments, regional blocs, and international organizations, offering advice for how each of them can implement this agenda.\n\nIn the UCLG, the Agenda 21 for culture is managed by the Committee on Culture, which is co-chaired by Buenos Aires and the City of Mexico and vice-chaired by Angers, Barcelona, Belo Horizonte, Bilbao, Bogotá, Jeju, Paris and Porto Alegre since 2016. Between 2012 and 2015, the UCLG Committee on Culture was chaired by the Lille-Métropole and co-chaired by Buenos Aires, México DF and Montreal, and the cities of Angers, Barcelona and Milan were Vice-Presidents and three other cities (one from Africa, one from Middle East/Asia and one from Asia/Pacific) to join the Board as Vice-Presidents. Before 2012, the Committee on culture was chaired by Barcelona city council, and Stockholm, Lille, Buenos Aires and Montreal councils are its vice presidents.\n\nOther organizations promoting Agenda 21 for culture include UNESCO and the Spanish Agency for International Development Cooperation (AECID).\n\nIn 2009–2010, UCLG, with AECID and the Barcelona City Council, created the Fund for Local Cultural Governance, to advance the implementation of the Agenda 21 for culture in African, Mediterranean and Latin American cities.\n\nIn 2009–2013 UNESCO and the AECID developed \"Culture for Development Indicators\" (CDIS), an \"advocacy and policy\" toll for assessing cultural development in 22 areas within 7 categories.\n\nMoreover, the UCLG Committee on Culture has worked to ensure that culture is explicitly integrated into the development programmes of the United Nations which aim to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. After some awareness-raising actions during the Millennium Development Goals Summit, the UN General Assembly approved the final document of the Summit that mentions culture as an important dimension of development.\n\nUNESCO and UCLG have advocated for inclusion of culture in the 2015 Sustainable Development Goals and have continued to promote this outlook.\n\nSince 2006, in the framework of its research tasks, the Agenda 21 for culture has published several reports:\n\nThe Agenda 21 for culture is a tool to enhance the role of culture in urban policies and also a tool to make cultural issues the fourth pillar of sustainable development.\n\n\"Sustainability\" in culture refers not only to the preservation of cultural heritage but also to incorporating the sustainable development mentality into everyday life.\n\nThe extensive work and activism undertaken by the Agenda 100 for culture led the UCLG Executive Bureau to head the preparation of the policy statement document \"Culture: the Fourth Pillar of Sustainable Development\", approved on 17 November 2010 in the framework of the World Summit of Local and Regional Leaders – 3rd UCLG World Congress, held in Mexico City. This document opens a new perspective and points to the relationship between culture and sustainable development through a dual approach: developing a solid cultural policy and advocating a cultural dimension in all public policies.\n\nQuebec has endorsed the Agenda 21 for culture model and released a development plan along these lines. Montreal has ratified the agenda and undertaken various actions including library restoration and the creation of new cultural institutions, including \"Design Montréal\". An NGO called \"Culture Montréal\" has formed to promote development of and access to culture. Montreal has been designated a \"UNESCO City of design\".\n\nThe Moroccan city Essaouira, according to mayor Asma Chaabi, has been incorporating culture into its implementation of Local Agenda 21 since the 1990s. She writes in the five-year review of Agenda 21 for culture that Essaouira has succeeded in its historic preservation goals through cooperation with the national ministry of culture and with UNESCO.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58536320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58536320", "title": "Backnang – Schwäbisch Gmünd", "text": "Backnang – Schwäbisch Gmünd\n\nBacknang – Schwäbisch Gmünd is one of the 299 single member constituencies used for the German parliament, the Bundestag. \n"}
{"id": "28310828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28310828", "title": "Basic income", "text": "Basic income\n\nA basic income, also called basic income guarantee, universal basic income (UBI), basic living stipend (BLS), or universal demogrant, is a type of program in which citizens (or permanent residents) of a country, or any other region, may receive a regular sum of money from a source such as the government. A pure or unconditional basic income has no means test, but unlike Social Security in the United States it is distributed automatically to all citizens without a requirement to notify changes in the citizen's financial status. Basic income can be implemented nationally, regionally or locally. The World Bank's World Development Report 2019 on the future of work describes the existing schemes around the world.\n\nAn unconditional income that is sufficient to meet a person's basic needs (at or above the poverty line), is called full basic income, while if it is less than that amount, it is called partial. \n\nSome welfare systems are related to basic income but have certain conditions. As these are not universal, they are more often referred to as guaranteed minimum income systems. For example, Bolsa Família in Brazil is restricted to poor families and the children are obligated to attend school. \n\nA related welfare system is negative income tax, in which the government stipend is gradually reduced with higher labor income.\n\nThe idea of a state-run basic income dates back to the early 16th century, when Sir Thomas More argued in \"Utopia\" that every person should receive a guaranteed income, and to the late 18th century when English radical Thomas Spence and American revolutionary Thomas Paine both declared their support for a welfare system in which all citizens were guaranteed a certain income. In the 19th century and until the 1960s the debate on basic income was limited, but in the 1960s and 1970s the United States and Canada conducted several experiments with negative income taxation, a related welfare system. From the 1980s and onwards the debate in Europe took off more broadly and since then it has expanded to many countries around the world. A few countries have implemented large-scale welfare systems that are related to basic income, such as Bolsa Família in Brazil. From 2008 and onwards there have also been several experiments with basic income and related systems. Especially in countries with an existing welfare state a part of the funding assumably comes from replacing the current welfare arrangements, or a part of it, such as different grants for unemployed people. Apart from that there are several ideas and proposals regarding the rest of the financing, as well as different ideas about the level and other aspects.\n\nThe idea of an unconditional basic income, given to all citizens in a state (or all adult citizens), was first presented near the middle of the 19th century. But long before that there were ideas of a so-called minimum income, the idea of a one-off grant and the idea of a social insurance (which still is a key feature of all modern welfare states, with insurances for and against unemployment, sickness, parenthood, accidents, old age and so forth).\n\nThe minimum income, the idea to eradicate poverty by targeting the poor, is in contradiction with basic income given \"to all\", but nevertheless share some underlying ideas about the state's or the city's welfare responsibilities towards its citizens. Johannes Ludovicus Vives (1492–1540), for example, proposed that the municipal government should be responsible for securing a subsistence minimum to all its residents, \"not on grounds of justice but for the sake of a more effective exercise of morally required charity\". However, to be entitled to poor relief the person’s poverty must not, he argued, be undeserved, but he or she must \"deserve the help he or she gets by proving his or her willingness to work.\"\n\nThe first to develop the idea of a social insurance was Marquis de Condorcet (1743–1794). After playing a prominent role in the French Revolution, he was imprisoned and sentenced to death. While in prison, he wrote the \"Esquisse d’un tableau historique des progrès de l’esprit humain\" (published posthumously by his widow in 1795), whose last chapter described his vision of a social insurance and how it could reduce inequality, insecurity and poverty. Condorcet mentioned, very briefly, the idea of a benefit to all children old enough to start working by themselves and to start up a family of their own. He is not known to have said or written anything else on this proposal, but his close friend and fellow member of the Convention Thomas Paine (1737–1809) developed the idea much further, a couple of years after Condorcet’s death.\n\nThe first social movement for basic income developed around 1920 in the United Kingdom. Its proponents included Bertrand Russell, Dennis Milner (with his wife Mabel) and Clifford H. Douglas.\n\n\nIn 1944 and 1945, the Beveridge Committee, led by the British economist William Beveridge, developed a proposal for a comprehensive new welfare system of social insurance and selective grants. Committee member Lady Rhys-Williams argued for basic income. She was also the first to develop the negative income tax model.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, some welfare debates in the United States and Canada included discussions of basic income. Six pilot projects were also conducted with negative income tax. Then US president Richard Nixon once even proposed a negative income tax in a bill to the US Congress—but Congress eventually only approved a guaranteed income for the elderly and the disabled, not for all citizens.\n\nIn the late 1970s and the 1980s, basic income was more or less forgotten in the United States, but on the other hand it started to gain some traction in Europe. Basic Income European Network, later renamed to Basic Income Earth Network, was founded in 1986 and started to arrange international conferences every two years. From the 1980s, some people outside party politics and universities took interest. In West Germany, groups of unemployed people took a stance for the reform.\n\nFrom 2005–2010 and onwards, basic income again became an active topic in many countries. Basic income is currently discussed from a variety of perspectives—including in the context of ongoing automation and robotisation, often with the argument that these trends mean less paid work in the future, which would create a need for a new welfare model. Several countries are planning for local or regional experiments with basic income or related welfare systems. Experiments in India, Finland, and Canada, for example, have received international media attention. Several countries have used polls to investigate public support for basic income. In 2016, 76.9% of Swiss voters in a national referendum rejected a basic income proposal.\n\nBasic income is potentially a much simpler and more transparent welfare system than welfare states currently use. Instead of separate welfare programs (including unemployment insurance, child support, pensions, disability, housing support) it could be one income, or it could be a basic payment that welfare programs could add to. This could require less paperwork and bureaucracy to check eligibility. The lack of means test or similar bureaucracy would allow for saving on social welfare, which could be put towards the grant. The Basic Income Earth Network (BIEN) claims that basic income costs less than current means-tested social welfare benefits, and has proposed an implementation that it claims to be financially viable.\n\nA real world example of how basic income is being implemented to save money can be seen in the program that is being conducted by the Netherlands in a few cities. The city councillor for the city of Nijmegen, Lisa Westerveld had this to say in an interview - “In Nijmegen we get £88m to give to people on welfare, but it costs £15m a year for the civil servants running the bureaucracy of the current system.” Her view is also shared by Dutch historian and author Rutger Bregman who believes the Netherlands welfare system is flawed and also economist Loek Groot who believes the country welfare system wastes too much money .The outcomes of this program will be analysed by eminent economist Loek Groot, a professor at the University of Utrecht who hopes to learn if a guaranteed income might be a more effective approach.\n\nHowever, other proponents argue for adding basic income to existing welfare grants, rather than replacing them.\n\nAdvocates of basic income often argue that it has a potential to reduce or even eradicate poverty.\n\nAccording to a randomized controlled study done by the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab at Massachusetts Institute of Technology on the Give Directly program that took place in the Rarieda District of Kenya , the impact of the UBI program saw for every $1,000 disbursed a $270 increase in earnings, a $430 increase in assets, $330 increase in nutrition spending with 0% effect on alcohol or tobacco spending.\n\nPhilippe Van Parijs has argued that basic income at the highest sustainable level is needed to support real freedom, or the freedom to do whatever one \"might want to do\". By this, Van Parijs means that all people should be free to use the resources of the Earth and the \"external assets\" people make out of them to do whatever they want. Money is like an access ticket to use those resources, and so to make people equally free to do what they want with world assets, the government should give each individual as many such access tickets as possible—that is, the highest sustainable basic income.\n\nKarl Widerquist and others have proposed a theory of freedom in which basic income is needed to protect the power to refuse work. The theory goes like this:\n\nIf some other group of people controls resources necessary to an individual's survival, that individual has no reasonable choice other than to do whatever the resource-controlling group demands. Before the establishment of governments and landlords, individuals had direct access to the resources they needed to survive. But today, resources necessary to the production of food, shelter, and clothing have been privatized in such a way that some have gotten a share and others have not. Therefore, this argument goes, the owners of those resources owe compensation back to non-owners, sufficient at least for them to purchase the resources or goods necessary to sustain their basic needs. This redistribution must be unconditional because people can consider themselves free only if they are not forced to spend all their time doing the bidding of others simply to provide basic necessities to themselves and their families. Under this argument, personal, political, and religious freedom are worth little without the power to say no. In this view, basic income provides an economic freedom, which—combined with political freedom, freedom of belief, and personal freedom—establish each individual's status as a free person.\n\nThe Scottish economist Ailsa McKay has argued that basic income is a way to promote gender equality. She noted in 2001 that \"social policy reform should take account of all gender inequalities and not just those relating to the traditional labor market\" and that \"the citizens' basic income model can be a tool for promoting gender-neutral social citizenship rights.\"\n\n\nOne argument against basic income is that if people have free and unconditional money, they will \"get lazy\" and not work as much. Less work means less tax revenue, argue critics, and hence less money for the state and cities to fund public projects. The degree of any disincentive to employment because of basic income would likely depend on how generous the basic income was.\n\nSome studies have looked at employment levels during the experiments with basic income and negative income tax, and similar systems. In the negative income tax-experiments in United States in the 1970s, for example, there was a five percent decline in the hours worked. The work reduction was largest for second earners in two-earner households and weakest for the main earner. The reduction in hours was higher when the benefit was higher. Participants in these experiments, however, knew that the experiment was limited in time. \n\nIn the Mincome experiment in rural Dauphin, Manitoba, also in the 1970s, there were also slight reductions in hours worked during the experiment. However, the only two groups who worked significantly less were new mothers and teenagers working to support their families. New mothers spent this time with their infant children, and working teenagers put significant additional time into their schooling. Under Mincome, \"The reduction of work effort was modest: about one per cent for men, three per cent for wives, and five per cent for unmarried women.\"\n\nAlso according to a recent study done on the Alaska Permanent Fund Dividend which is the most large scale universal basic income program in the United States that has been running since 1976 has showed that this belief is not true. The researchers from University of Chicago Harris School of Public Policy professor Damon Jones and University of Pennsylvania School of Public Policy and Practice professor Ioana Marinescu have established that even though there is only a very small decrease in work done by recipients due to various reasons like the ones we saw in the Manitoba experiment,however there has been a 17 percent increase in part time jobs.The authors theorized employment remained steady because the extra income that allowed people to buy more also increased demand for service jobs, a finding consistent with the economic data of the time. There was no effect seen when it came to jobs, such as those in manufacturing, that produce exports. Essentially, the authors argue, macro-economic effects of higher spending supported overall employment.To use an illustrative but hypothetical example, someone who uses her dividend to help with car payments can cut back on her hours working as a cashier at a local grocery store. But because more people are spending more, the store will look to replace that worker who started working less. Meanwhile, the distribution of the dividend won't affect the international demand for oil and the jobs connected to it.\n\nBut Jones and Marinescu found instead that the larger scale of the program is what allows it to work, and not dissuade people out of the work force.\n\nAnother study that contradicted such decline in work incentive was a pilot project implemented in 2008 and 2009 in the Namibian village of Omitara; the assessment of the project after its conclusion found that economic activity actually increased, particularly through the launch of small businesses, and reinforcement of the local market by increasing households' buying power. However, the residents of Omitara were described as suffering \"dehumanising levels of poverty\" before the introduction of the pilot, and as such the project's relevance to potential implementations in developed economies is unknown.\n\nJames Meade states that a return to full employment can only be achieved if, among other things, workers offer their services at a low enough price that the required wage for unskilled labor would be too low to generate a socially desirable distribution of income. He therefore concludes that a \"citizen's income\" is necessary to achieve full employment without suffering stagnant or negative growth in wages.\n\nIf there is a disincentive to employment because of basic income, the magnitude of such a disincentive may depend on how generous the basic income was. Some campaigners in Switzerland have suggested a level that would be only just liveable, arguing that people would want to supplement it.\n\nTim Worstall, a writer, blogger and Senior Fellow of the Adam Smith Institute, has argued that traditional welfare schemes create a disincentive to work because such schemes typically cause people to lose benefits at around the same rate that their income rises (a form of welfare trap where the marginal tax rate is 100 percent). He has asserted that this particular disincentive is not a property shared by basic income since the rate of increase is positive at all incomes.\n\nThere are concerns that some people will spend their basic income on alcohol and other drugs. However, studies of the impact of direct cash transfer programs provide evidence to the contrary. A 2014 World Bank review of 30 scientific studies concludes that \"concerns about the use of cash transfers for alcohol and tobacco consumption are unfounded\".\n\nThe Canadian Medical Association passed a motion in 2015 in clear support of basic income and for basic income trials in Canada.\n\nPaul Mason, a British journalist, has stated that universal basic income would probably reduce the high medical costs associated with diseases of poverty. The stress, diseases like high blood pressure, type II diabetes etc. would according to Mason probably become less common.\n\nFrances Fox Piven argues that an income guarantee would benefit all workers by liberating them from the anxiety that results from the \"tyranny of wage slavery\" and provide opportunities for people to pursue different occupations and develop untapped potentials for creativity. André Gorz saw basic income as a necessary adaptation to the increasing automation of work, yet basic income also enables workers to overcome the alienation in work and life and to increase the amount of leisure time.\n\nSome proponents have argued that basic income can increase economic growth because it would sustain people while they invest in education to get interesting and well-paid jobs. However, there is also a discussion of basic income within the degrowth movement, which argues against economic growth.\n\nThe debates about basic income and automation are closely linked. For example, Mark Zuckerberg argues that the increase in automation creates a greater need for basic income. Concerns about automation have prompted many in the high-technology industry to argue for basic income as an implication of their business models.\n\nMany technologists believe that automation (among other things) is creating technological unemployment. Journalist Nathan Schneider first highlighted the turn of the \"tech elite\" to these ideas with an article in \"Vice\" magazine, which cited Marc Andreessen, Sam Altman, Peter Diamandis, and others. Some studies about automation and jobs validate these concerns. The US White House, in a report to the US Congress, estimated that a worker earning less than $20 an hour in 2010 will eventually lose their job to a machine with 83% probability. Even workers earning as much as $40 an hour faced a probability of 31%. With a rising unemployment rate, poor communities will become more impoverished worldwide. Proponents of universal basic income argue that it could solve many world problems like high work stress and could create more opportunities and efficient and effective work. This claim is supported by some studies. In a study in Dauphin, Manitoba, only 13% of labor decreased from a much higher expected number. In a study in several Indian villages, basic income in the region raised the education rate of young people by 25%.\n\nAndrew Yang , an upcoming presidential candidate talks about how automation is negatively affecting real people when it takes over their jobs in his book The War On Normal People, he says that even though automation might make the economy and market more efficient it is not being used positively to help people. It is not creating enough new jobs than the number of old jobs it is replacing. An example of this is - In 2004, BlockBuster was making $6 billion with 84,000 employees. Netflix has so far made $9 billion dollars with only 4,500 employees. Other places where automation is rapidly replacing people is self driving cars, nearly 3 million jobs in the US will be replaced in the next 10 years it is not a question of if they will be replaced but how quickly they will be displaced. This is one problem most critics of automation don't realise and argue that automation will create new jobs, but automation is so different this time compared to the Industrial Revolution because peoples livelihood is being displaced in an unprecedented scale and when these people lose the option to pursue these kinds of jobs they will have to be retrained and even then they might not be hired and leave the workforce entirely.\n\nBesides technological unemployment, some tech-industry experts worry that automation will destabilize the labor market or increase economic inequality. One example is Chris Hughes, co-founder of both Facebook and Economic Security Project. Automation has been happening for hundreds of years; it has not permanently reduced the employment rate but has constantly caused employment instability. It displaces workers who spend their lives learning skills that become outmoded and forces them into unskilled labor. Paul Vallée, a Canadian tech-entrepreneur and CEO of Pythian, argues that automation is at least as likely to increase poverty and reduce social mobility than it is to create ever-increasing unemployment rate. At the 2016 North American Basic Income Guarantee Congress in Winnipeg, Vallée examined slavery as a historical example of a period in which capital (African slaves) could do the same things that human labor (poor whites) could do. He found that slavery did not cause massive unemployment among poor whites, but instead increased economic inequality and lowered social mobility.\n\nDaron Acemoglu, Professor in economics at MIT, has expressed doubts about basic income with the following statement: \"Current US status quo is horrible. A more efficient and generous social safety net is needed. But UBI is expensive and not generous enough.\" Eric Maskin has stated that \"a minimum income makes sense, but not at the cost of eliminating Social Security and Medicare\".  Simeon Djankov, professor at the London School of Economics, argues the costs of a generous system are prohibitive.\n\nAndrew Yang , the presidential candidate wants to provide a universal basic income of $1,000 a month to every U.S. citizen between 18 and 64 years old. He wants to achieve this by introducing a Value Added Tax he says even conservatives have known that a VAT was going to be necessary at some point in the future, and this is a great opportunity for us to rebalance our economy. We’re the only major economy that doesn’t have a VAT right now; it’s going to be increasingly necessary given the progressive automation we’re already experiencing.\n\n \nHarry Shutt proposed basic income and other measures to make all or most enterprises collective rather than private. These measures would create a post-capitalist economic system.\nErik Olin Wright characterizes basic income as a project for reforming capitalism into an economic system by empowering labor in relation to capital, granting labor greater bargaining power with employers in labor markets, which can gradually de-commodify labor by decoupling work from income. This would allow for an expansion in scope of the \"social economy\", by granting citizens greater means to pursue activities (such as the pursuit of art) that do not yield strong financial returns.\nJames Meade advocated for a social dividend scheme to be funded by publicly owned productive assets. Russell argued for a basic income alongside public ownership as a means of shortening the average working day and achieving full employment.\nEconomists and sociologists have advocated for a form of basic income as a way to distribute economic profits of publicly owned enterprises to benefit the entire population (also referred to as a \"social dividend\"), where the basic income payment represents the return to each citizen on the capital owned by society. These systems would be directly financed from returns on publicly owned assets and are featured as major components of many models of market socialism.\n\nGuy Standing has proposed financing a social dividend from a democratically-accountable sovereign wealth fund built up primarily from the proceeds of a levy on rentier income derived from ownership or control of assets - physical, financial and intellectual. \nHerman Daly, considered as one of the founders of ecologism, argued primarily for a zero growth economy within the ecological limits of the planet. But to have such a green and sustainable economy, including basic economic welfare and security to all people, he wrote a lot about the need for structural reforms of the capitalistic system, including basic income, monetary reform, land value tax, trade reforms and higher eco-taxes (taxes on pollution and CO2). For him, basic income was thus part of a larger structural change of the economic system, towards a more green and sustainable system.\n\nA commission of the German parliament discussed basic income in 2013 and concluded that it is \"unrealizable\" because:\n\nIndia has been considering basic income in India. On January 31, 2017, the Economic Survey of India included a 40-page chapter on UBI that outlined the 3 components of the proposed program: 1) universality, 2) unconditionality, 3) agency. The UBI proposal in India is framed with the intent of providing every citizen \"a basic income to cover their needs,\" which is encompassed by the \"universality\" component. \"Unconditionality\" points to the accessibility of all to the basic income, without any means tests. The third component, \"agency,\" refers to the lens through which the Indian government views the poor. According to the Survey, by treating the poor as agents rather than subjects, UBI \"liberates citizens from paternalistic and clientelistic relationships with the state.\"\n\nThe Permanent Fund of Alaska in the United States provides a kind of basic income, based on the oil and gas revenues of the state, to (nearly) all state residents. During her 2016 presidential campaign, former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, along with her husband, considered including a policy similar to the Alaska Permanent Fund called \"Alaska for America\" as part of their platform after reading Peter Barnes book on the subject \"With Liberty and Dividends for All\". Ultimately, the Clintons decided not to, with Hillary stating in her 2016 election memoir \"What Happened\", \"Unfortunately, we couldn't make the numbers work.\" However, in retrospect Clinton also said, \"I wonder now whether we should have thrown caution to the wind and embraced 'Alaska for America' as a long-term goal and figured out the details later\", considering that former Republican U.S. Treasury Secretaries James Baker and Henry Paulson have also proposed a similar nationwide policy.\n\nThere are also several smaller experiments, which have been labeled as \"basic income pilots\". The best known are:\n\n\nBolsa Família is a big social welfare program in Brazil that provides money to many poor families in the country. The system is related to basic income, but also has some differences in that there are some conditions like asking the recipients to keep their children in school till graduation. Brazilian Senator Eduardo Suplicy championed a law, ultimately passed in 2004, that declared Bolsa Família to be a first step towards a national basic income. However, the program has not yet been expanded in that direction.\n\nRythu Bandhu scheme, is a welfare scheme started on 10 May 2018 aimed towards helping farmers that is being implemented by the State of Telangana in India where each farmland owner gets a fixed amount of money ₹4000 per acre twice a year for Rabi and Kharif harvests. A budget allocation of ₹12,000 crores($138 billion at the time of conversion) was made in 2018-19 state budget, the scheme offers a financial help of ₹8,000 per year to each farmer (two crops), and there is no cap on money disbursed to number of acres of land owned and it does not discriminate between rich or poor land owners. The Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab at Massachusetts Institute of Technology has been monitoring the program and is doing a study which is yet to be published, but preliminary results have already shown promising results in getting farmers the welfare needed to make investments for farming and procuring fertilizers, seeds, pesticides and other inputs, serving the purpose of the scheme. The first phase of the survey concluded that 85 % of farmers received check's for amounts ranging from ₹1,000 to ₹20,000 for farm land comprising less than an acre to about five acres and about 10% of farmers received check's for amounts above ₹20,000 to ₹50,000 and only 1% of farmers got amounts more than ₹50,000. The spending pattern revealed that a large chunk, 28.5 % of farmers opted to buy seed, about 18% spent the money on fertilizer, 15.4% on new agricultural assets, including farm equipment , 8.6% on pesticides and some used it to engage farm labor and only 4.4 % of beneficiaries said they utilized it for household consumption and a minuscule percentage for repayment of loans. The scheme received a high satisfaction rate of 92% from farmers since other forms of capital investment like welfare or loans had many strings attached to it and would not reach the farmers before the cropping season starts, many other states and countries are following the development of the program to see if they can implement it for their farmers. Since farmers worldwide are facing many difficulties and in a lot of countries it has become unprofitable, governments are either proving subsidies, welfare or loans but this a new type of program that is considered as an embryonic UBI or QUBI (Quasi) to replace traditional systems of agricultural support.\n\nNimses is a concept that offers universal basic income to every member of its system. The idea of Nimses consists of time-based currency called Nim. 1 nim = 1 minute of life. Every person in Nimses receives nims that can be spent on different goods and services. This concept was initially adopted in Eastern Europe.\n\nProminent contemporary advocates include Philippe Van Parijs, Yanis Varoufakis, former finance minister of Greece and Mark Zuckerberg, founder of Facebook. Andrew Yang, a Democratic candidate for president of the United States in 2020, is using Universal Basic Income as his primary running platform \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6104146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6104146", "title": "Batho Pele", "text": "Batho Pele\n\nBatho Pele (Sotho: \"People First\") is a South African political initiative. The initiative was first introduced by the Mandela Administration on October 1, 1997 to stand for the better delivery of goods and services to the public. \nThe Batho Pele initiative aims to enhance the quality and accessibility of government services by improving efficiency and accountability to the recipients of public goods and services.\n\nBatho Pele requires that eight service delivery principles be implemented \n\n\n"}
{"id": "191827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191827", "title": "Bioregionalism", "text": "Bioregionalism\n\nBioregionalism is a political, cultural, and ecological system or set of views based on naturally defined areas called bioregions, similar to ecoregions. Bioregions are defined through physical and environmental features, including watershed boundaries and soil and terrain characteristics. Bioregionalism stresses that the determination of a bioregion is also a cultural phenomenon, and emphasizes local populations, knowledge, and solutions.\n\nBioregionalism asserts \"that a bioregion’s environmental components (geography, climate, plant life, animal life, etc.) directly influence ways for human communities to act and interact with each other which are, in turn, optimal for those communities to thrive in their environment. As such, those ways to thrive in their totality—be they economic, cultural, spiritual, or political—will be distinctive in some capacity as being a product of their bioregional environment.\"\n\nBioregionalism is a concept that goes beyond national boundaries—an example is the concept of Cascadia, a region that is sometimes considered to consist of most of Oregon and Washington, the Alaska Panhandle, the far north of California and the West Coast of Canada, sometimes also including some or all of Idaho and western Montana. Another example of a bioregion, which does not cross national boundaries, but does overlap state lines, is the Ozarks, a bioregion also referred to as the Ozarks Plateau, which consists of southern Missouri, northwest Arkansas, the northeast corner of Oklahoma, southeast corner of Kansas.\n\nBiogregions are not synonymous with ecoregions as defined by bodies such as the World Wildlife Fund or the Commission for Environmental Cooperation; the later are scientifically based and focused on wildlife and vegetation. Bioregions, by contrast are human regions, informed by nature but with a social and political element. In this way bioregionalism is simply political localism with an ecological foundation.\n\nThe term was coined by Allen Van Newkirk, founder of the Institute for Bioregional Research, in 1975, given currency by Peter Berg and Raymond Dasmann in the early 1970s, and has been advocated by writers such as David Haenke and Kirkpatrick Sale.\n\nThe bioregionalist perspective opposes a homogeneous economy and consumer culture with its lack of stewardship towards the environment. This perspective seeks to:\n\nBioregional mapping is a powerful tool to increase understanding, change the story and influence policy. A good bioregional map shows layers of geology, flora, fauna, and inhabitation over time. All the interdisciplinary content that is integrated in this kind of map makes it a great communication tool to illustrate an ecological approach. One of the best examples of a richly communicative bioregional map is David McClosky's new map of Cascadia.\n\nBioregionalism, while akin to environmentalism in certain aspects, such as a desire to live in harmony with nature, differs in certain ways from classical, 20th century environmentalism.\n\nAccording to Peter Berg, bioregionalism is proactive, and is based on forming a harmony between human culture and the natural environment, rather than being protest-based like the original environmental movement. Also, while classical environmentalists saw human industry as the enemy of nature and nature as a victim needing to be saved; bioregionalists see humanity and its culture as a part of nature, focusing on building a positive, sustainable relationship with the environment, rather than a focus on preserving and segregating the wilderness from the world of humanity.\n\nNorth American Bioregional Assemblies have been bi-annual gatherings of bioregionalists throughout North America since 1984 and have given rise to national level Green Parties. In addition, bioregionalism spawned the sustainability movement. The tenets of bioregionalism are often used by green movements, which oppose political organizations whose boundaries conform to existing electoral districts. This problem is perceived to result in elected representatives voting in accordance with their constituents, some of whom may live outside a defined bioregion, and may run counter to the well-being of the bioregion.\n\nAt the local level, several bioregions have congresses that meet regularly. For instance, the Ozark Plateau bioregion hosts a yearly Ozark Area Community Congress, better known as OACC, which has been meeting every year since 1980, most often on the first weekend in October. The Kansas Area Watershed, \"KAW\" was founded in 1982 and has been meeting regularly since that time. KAW holds a yearly meeting, usually in the spring.\n\nThe government of the Canadian province of Alberta has recently made major amendments to its land-use policies including a separate \"land-use framework\" document for each major river basin within the province. This is supported by local initiatives such as the Beaver Hills Initiative, which seeks to create a large biosphere reserve encompassing Elk Island National Park and the surrounding area.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33255958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33255958", "title": "Black Bond", "text": "Black Bond\n\nIn 1772, three Stirling burgh councillors signed a secret agreement to run the affairs of the town to their own advantage. This private pact to advance their own power and finance came to be known as the Black Bond.\n\nThe discovery of the agreement led to the burgh being put under the supervision of a central government commission in 1775. The town was also disenfranchised, and barred from voting for an MP.\n\nThe governance of the town was passed back to the burgh council in 1781, with the election of the provost and officers conducted along proper lines.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279059", "title": "Black Sash", "text": "Black Sash\n\nThe Black Sash was a non-violent liberal white women's resistance organisation that was founded on 19 May 1955 in South Africa by Jean Sinclair, Ruth Foley, Elizabeth McLaren, Tertia Pybus, Jean Bosazza, and Helen Newton-Thompson.\n\nThe Black Sash was founded on 19 May 1955 by six middle-class women, Jean Sinclair, Ruth Foley, Elizabeth McLaren, Tertia Pybus, Jean Bosazza and Helen Newton-Thompson. The organisation was founded as the \"Women’s Defence of the Constitution League\" but was eventually shortened by the press as the Black Sash due to the women's habit of wearing black sashes at their protest meetings. These black sashes symbolised the mourning for the South Africa Constitution. The founding members gathered for tea in Johannesburg before they decided to organise a movement against the Senate Act. They succeeded to hold a vigil of 2 000 women who marched from Joubert Park to the Johannesburg City Hall.\n\nThe Black Sash initially campaigned against the removal of Coloured or mixed race voters from the voters' roll in the Cape Province by the National Party government. As the apartheid system began to reach into every aspect of South African life, Black Sash members demonstrated against the Pass Laws and the introduction of other apartheid legislation. It would later open Advice Offices to provide information concerning their legal rights to non-white South African's affected by that legislation. Its members \"used the relative safety of their privileged racial classification to speak out against the erosion of human rights in the country. Their striking black sashes were worn as a mark of mourning and to protest against the succession of unjust laws. But they were not only on the streets. Volunteers spent many hours in the national network of advice offices and in the monitoring of courts and pass offices.\" (Speech by Marcella Naidoo, National Director of the Black Sash, June 2005)\n\nBetween 1955 and 1994, the Black Sash provided widespread and visible proof of white resistance towards the apartheid system. Its members worked as volunteer advocates to families affected by apartheid laws; held regular street demonstrations; spoke at political meetings; brought cases of injustice to the attention of their Members of Parliament, and kept vigils outside Parliament and government offices. Many members were vilified within their local white communities, and it was not unusual for women wearing the black sash to be physically attacked by supporters of apartheid.\n\nIn the 1980s it was part of the National Land Committee assisting the non-white communities that were subject to forced land removals. It would also be involved on the Rural Women's Movement, supporting rural non-white women rights in regards to inheritance and land ownership. In 1983, the organisation called for the abolition of military conscription.\n\n\nThe Black Sash's resistance movement came to an end in the early 1990s with the end of apartheid, the unbanning of the ANC and the release of Nelson Mandela from imprisonment. Its role was recognised by Nelson Mandela on his release and by subsequent political leaders. The organisation was reformed in 1995 as a non-racial humanitarian organisation, working to 'make human rights real for all living in South Africa'.\n\nIn May 2015, the organisation celebrated its 60th anniversary as it shifted its focus towards education, training, advocacy and community monitoring. The celebration of the Black Sash history was also marked by the launching of two books, namely \"Standing on Street Corners: a History of the Natal Midlands Region of the Black Sash\" and \"a\" biography by Annemarie Hendrikz\".\" \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49213773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49213773", "title": "Coercion, Capital, and European States, AD 990–1992", "text": "Coercion, Capital, and European States, AD 990–1992\n\nCoercion, Capital, and European States, AD 990-1990 is a 1990 book by the American political scientist Charles Tilly.\n\nThe central theme of the book is state formation. Tilly writes about the complex history of European state formation from the Middle Ages to the 1990s - a thousand-year time span. While examining political, social, and technological change, Tilly attempts to explain the unprecedented success of the European nation-state as the dominant polity in the world, claiming that \"the origins of the modern European state lay in war and preparations for war.\"\n\nTilly asks a double question in \"Coercion, Capital, and European States\", namely: \"What accounts for the great variation over time and space in the kinds of states that have prevailed in Europe since AD 990, and why did European states eventually converge on different variants of the national state?\"\n\nAccording to Tilly's theory, military innovation in pre-modern Europe, especially the use of gunpowder and mass armies, made war considerably more expensive. In order to continue to fund warfare, conquest, and security, only states with sufficient capital and a large population could afford paying for their security and ultimately surviving in a hostile environment. Those in power were forced to develop a means of extraction by, for example, introducing taxation and conscription. Subsequently, these means of extraction resulted in the creation of state bureaucracies and a centralized state.\n\nThe type of state that develops is dependent on the structure of the area. In areas where merchants and capital were the predominant class, city states arose, such as Venice. In areas where independent landlords were the predominant class, centralized absolutism arose, such as Russia. If an area would have both classes more or less equal, a combination of state forms would develop, for example as happened in France and England, according to Tilly. Eventually, all states will develop into the type of state form that Tilly calls the nation state.\n\nWith this theory, Tilly questions previous formulations of state development in Europe, arguing that they are unsuccessful in explaining the great variety in kinds of states that have prevailed at different stages of European history since AD 990. He say that they fail \"because they locate explanations of state-to-state variation in individual characteristics of states rather than relations among them, and because they assume implicitly a deliberate effect to construct the sorts of substantial, centralized states that come to dominate European life during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.\"\n\nUnlike other theories, like the idea of the social contract, Tilly stated that \"[w]ar wove the European network of national states, and preparation for war created the internal structures of states within it.\"\n\nInteraction between the rulers on the hand and the manipulators of capital on the other, resulted in three state formations, Tilly argues. These state formations are tribute-taking empires, systems of fragmented sovereignty, and national states.\n\nTilly notes a \"central paradox\" in his theory of European state building: \"the pursuit of war and military capacity, after having created national states as a sort of by-product, led to a civilianization of government and domestic politics\". According to Tilly, this transfer of power from armed forces to civilian entities was not so much a tug-of-war but rather happened incrementally. The \"nature\" of power—coercion—did not change, but the individuals that wielded it did. Tilly provides five main reasons for this incremental transition (p. 206):\n\nJeffrey Herbst is an example of a scholar that builds on Tilly's theory. Herbst explains the relative failure of state building in Africa by the lack of external threats that forced European leaders to concentrate capital and power.\n\nTilly concludes his book, however, emphasizing caution in applying his model to contemporary state-building. the Tilly argues that the militarization of politics in many developing countries should not be understood as a step towards the development of a stable nation state. He asserts that current conditions of state formation today (at the time of writing, in 1990) are vastly different from what they were in Europe over his study period. First, Tilly notes that the military apparatus in developing countries today is not generally concerned with conquering or defending territory, as opposed to European armies (p. 207). Thus, they turn their full capacity to internal control, so that the objective is not to control territory but populations. Second, Tilly writes that the Cold War has led to a competition between the United States and the Soviet Union to arm, fund and control developing countries, especially their militaries. Thus, military groups thrived as other organizations withered. Progressively, the military was better able to control the state, whereas civilian organizations could not rival its strength. In other words, Tilly argues that the military groups that run contemporary developing states have little in common with their European counterparts.\n\nHe further proposes three hypothesis to start to theorize the lack of civilianization in developing countries (p. 220):\nTilly's main claim is thus that the European nation-state as it was constructed is certainly not a \"de facto\" endgame, or ideal polity model. In fact, Tilly argues that it is improbable that current Third World states follow exactly the same processus of state building- and we should not expect them to do so.\n\nAmerican sociologist Sidney Tarrow discussed the book during a 2008 conference organized by the Social Science Research Council in honor of Charles Tilly. During his talk, he addressed what he saw as four gaps in the book: \n\nFrench/Swedish sociologist Anna Leander examined Tilly's relevance twenty years later in her article \"Wars and the Un-Making of States: Taking Tilly Seriously in the Contemporary World\". Leander argues that the \"war makes states\" no longer holds for four reasons:\n\nA revised edition of the book was published in 1992 with the title \"Coercion, Capital, and European States AD 990-1992\". For that edition, Tilly made minor revisions throughout the book and added an extra section discussing the rapid changes in Central and Eastern Europe after the dissolution of the Soviet Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "15165589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15165589", "title": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1979", "text": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1979\n\nThe Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1979 was the fifth Meeting of the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Nations. 39 countries attended the meeting. It was held in Lusaka, Zambia, between 1 August 1979 and 7 August 1979, and was hosted by that country's President, Kenneth Kaunda.\n\nIssues discussed at the conference included the situation in Rhodesia, the armed conflicts in Indo-China, the global growth of the refugee problem, the situation in Cyprus and Southern Africa. Mr Shridath Ramphal was re-appointed as Commonwealth Secretary-General during the meeting. The Lusaka Declaration of the Commonwealth on Racism and Racial Prejudice was issued at the end of the CHOGM, including a special declaration condemning apartheid. \n"}
{"id": "599178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=599178", "title": "Cosmopolitanism", "text": "Cosmopolitanism\n\nCosmopolitanism is the ideology that all human beings belong to a single community, based on a shared morality. A person who adheres to the idea of cosmopolitanism in any of its forms is called a cosmopolitan or cosmopolite.\n\nA cosmopolitan community might be based on an inclusive morality, a shared economic relationship, or a political structure that encompasses different nations. In a cosmopolitan community individuals from different places (e.g. nation-states) form relationships of mutual respect. As an example, Kwame Anthony Appiah suggests the possibility of a cosmopolitan community in which individuals from varying locations (physical, economic, etc.) enter relationships of mutual respect despite their differing beliefs (religious, political, etc.).\n\nVarious cities and locales, past or present, have been or are identified as \"cosmopolitan\"; that does not necessarily mean that all or most of their inhabitants consciously embrace the above philosophy. Rather, locales may be called \"cosmopolitan\" simply because people of various ethnic, cultural and/or religious background live in proximity and interact with each other.\n\nIn origin, cosmopolitanism suggests the establishment of a cosmo polis or ‘world state’ that would embrace all humanity. Cosmopolitanism has come to stand for peace and harmony among nations, founded upon understanding, tolerance and interdependence.\n\nThe word derives from the , or \"kosmopolitês\", formed from \"\", \"kosmos\", i.e. \"world\", \"universe\", or \"cosmos\", and , \"politês\", i.e. \"citizen\" or \"[one] of a city\". Contemporary usage defines the term as \"citizen of the world\".\n\nDefinitions of cosmopolitanism usually begin with the Greek etymology of \"citizen of the world\". However, as Appiah points out, \"world\" in the original sense meant \"cosmos\" or \"universe\", not earth or globe as current use assumes. One definition that handles this issue is given in a recent book on political globalization:\n\nCosmopolitanism can be defined as a global politics that, firstly, projects a sociality of common political engagement among all human beings across the globe, and, secondly, suggests that this sociality should be either ethically or organizationally privileged over other forms of sociality. \n\nCosmopolitanism can be traced back to Diogenes of Sinope (c. 412 B.C.), the founding father of the Cynic movement in Ancient Greece. Of Diogenes it is said: \"Asked where he came from, he answered: 'I am a citizen of the world (kosmopolitês)'\". In Ancient Greece, the broadest basis of social identity in at that time was either the individual city-state or the Greeks (Hellenes) as a group. The Stoics, who later took Diogenes' idea and developed it, typically stressed that each human being \"dwells [...] in two communities – the local community of our birth, and the community of human argument and aspiration\".\nA common way to understand Stoic cosmopolitanism is through Hierocles' circle model of identity that states that we should regard ourselves as concentric circles, the first one around the self, next immediate family, extended family, local group, citizens, countrymen, humanity. Within these circles human beings feel a sense of \"affinity\" or \"endearment\" towards others, which the Stoics termed Oikeiôsis. The task of world citizens becomes then to \"draw the circles somehow towards the centre, making all human beings more like our fellow city dwellers, and so forth\".\n\nIn his 1795 essay \"\", Immanuel Kant stages a \"ius cosmopoliticum\" (cosmopolitan law/right) as a guiding principle to protect people from war, and morally grounds this cosmopolitan right by the principle of universal hospitality. Kant there claimed that the expansion of hospitality with regard to \"use of the right to the earth's surface which belongs to the human race in common\" (see common heritage of humanity) would \"finally bring the human race ever closer to a cosmopolitan constitution\".\n\nThe philosophical concepts of Emmanuel Levinas, on ethics, and Jacques Derrida, on hospitality, provide a theoretical framework for the relationships between people in their everyday lives and apart from any form of written laws or codes. For Levinas, the foundation of ethics consists in the obligation to respond to the Other. In Being for the Other, he writes that there is no \"universal moral law,\" only the sense of responsibility (goodness, mercy, charity) that the Other, in a state of vulnerability, calls forth. The proximity of the Other is an important part of Levinas's concept: the face of the Other is what compels the response.\n\nFor Derrida, the foundation of ethics is hospitality, the readiness and the inclination to welcome the Other into one's home. Ethics, he claims, is hospitality. Pure, unconditional hospitality is a desire that underscores the conditional hospitality necessary in our relationships with others. Levinas's and Derrida's theories of ethics and hospitality hold out the possibility of an acceptance of the Other as different but of equal standing. Isolation is not a feasible alternative in the world, therefore, it is important to consider how best to approach these interactions, and to determine what is at stake for ourselves and the others: what conditions of hospitality to impose, and whether or not we have responded to the call of the Other. Further, both theories reveal the importance of considering how best to interact with the Other and others, and what is at stake.\n\nDerrida in an interview with Bennington (1997) summarized \"cosmopolitanism\",\nA further state of cosmopolitanism occurred after the Second World War. As a reaction to the Holocaust and the other massacres, the concept of crimes against humanity became a generally accepted category in international law. This clearly shows the appearance and acceptance of a notion of individual responsibility that is considered to exist toward all of humankind.\n\nPhilosophical cosmopolitans are moral universalists: they believe that all humans, and not merely compatriots or fellow-citizens, come under the same moral standards. The boundaries between nations, states, cultures or societies are therefore morally irrelevant. A widely cited example of a contemporary cosmopolitan is Kwame Anthony Appiah.\n\nSome philosophers and scholars argue that the objective and subjective conditions arising in today's unique historical moment, an emerging planetary phase of civilization, creates a latent potential for the emergence of a cosmopolitan identity as global citizens and possible formation of a global citizens movement. These emerging objective and subjective conditions in the planetary phase include improved and affordable telecommunications; space travel and the first images of our fragile planet floating in the vastness of space; the emergence of global warming and other ecological threats to our collective existence; new global institutions such as the United Nations, World Trade Organization, or International Criminal Court; the rise of transnational corporations and integration of markets often termed economic globalization; the emergence of global NGOs and transnational social movements, such as the World Social Forum; and so on. Globalization, a more common term, typically refers more narrowly to the economic and trade relations and misses the broader cultural, social, political, environmental, demographic, values and knowledge transitions taking place.\n\nA number of contemporary theorists propose, directly and indirectly, various ways of becoming or being a cosmopolitan individual.\n\nThich Nhat Hanh discusses what he calls \"Interbeing\" as a way of living one's life in relation to others; \"Interbeing\" might easily be compared to cosmopolitanism. Nhat Hanh's philosophical beliefs are grounded in the precepts of Buddhist teachings, which involve compassion and understanding to protect and live in harmony with all people, animals, plants, and minerals. He further describes what he calls \"Mindfulness Training of the Order of Interbeing\" as being aware of sufferings created by, but not limited to, the following causes: fanaticism and intolerances that disrupt compassion and living in harmony with others; indoctrination of narrow-minded beliefs; imposition of views; anger; and miscommunication. Understanding and compassion for others seems to be achieved by the understanding of others' suffering and the root causes of suffering. Therefore, to be responsible is to recognize and understand suffering, which then leads to compassion. It is through this process that others can be recognized as people.\n\nOther theorists, philosophers, and activists contend that recognizing suffering is necessary to end violence. In \"Scared Sacred\", Velcrow Ripper takes a journey to different sites of great suffering that ultimately leads him toward developing compassion. In \"The Planet\", Paul Gilroy explores how the construction and naturalization of race and the hierarchies produced by difference shape the hatred of others. It is the deconstruction of these ideologies that can lead to the compassion and humanization of others. Thus individual responsibility is being aware of what Judith Butler calls the precariousness of life in self and other; being a cosmopolitan seems to be, above all, a social, ethical enterprise.\n\nIn \"Cosmopolitanism: Ethics in a World of Strangers\", Kwame Anthony Appiah notices something important about how social ethics seem to operate: Whatever obligation one might have to another, especially a foreign other, that obligation does not supersede the obligations one has to those people most familiar to them. However, as Judith Butler questions, \"at what cost do I establish the familiar as the criterion\" for valuing others? If one values the familiar more than the foreign, what are the consequences? Paul Gilroy offers a possible alternative to this emphasis on familiarity arguing that \"methodical cultivation of a degree of estrangement from one's own culture and history ... might qualify as essential to a cosmopolitan commitment.\" This estrangement entails a \"process of exposure to otherness\" in order to foster \"the irreducible value of diversity within sameness.\" Estrangement, therefore, could lead to de-emphasising the familiar in ethics by integrating otherness.\n\nFor Gilroy, being cosmopolitan seems to involve both a social, ethical enterprise and a cultural enterprise. In \"The Planet\", Gilroy describes the cases of Tom Hurndall and Rachel Corrie; each seems to exemplify what might be considered Gilroy's figure of the cosmopolitan. Both Hurndall and Corrie removed themselves (geographically) from their home cultures, presumably both physically and mentally estranging themselves from their own cultures and histories. Hurndall and Corrie were both killed in 2003 (in separate incidents) and their stories might serve as affirmations of familiarity, rather than models of estrangement. Gilroy’s model of estrangement might actually undermine itself through its examples; this might be construed as a failure of Gilroy’s theory to address the practical difficulties of estranging oneself from the familiar.\n\nThe Venus Project, an international, multidisciplinary educational organization created by Jacque Fresco, works to spread cosmopolitan ideas by transcending artificial boundaries currently separating people and emphasizing an understanding our interdependence with nature and each other.\n\nSome forms of cosmopolitanism also fail to address the potential for economic colonization by powerful countries over less powerful ones. Frantz Fanon, in \"The Wretched of the Earth\", observes that when nations achieved independence from European colonizers, frequently there was no system in place to secure their economic future, and they became \"manager[s] for Western enterprise...in practise set[ting] up its country as the brothel of Europe.\" When \"third world\" nations are drawn into economic partnerships with global capital, ostensibly to improve their national quality of life, often the only ones benefitting from this partnership are well-placed individuals and not the nation itself.\n\nFurther, Mahmood Mamdani in \"Good Muslim, Bad Muslim\" suggests that the imposition of Western cultural norms, democracy and Christianity to name only two, has historically resulted in nationalist violence; however, Appiah has implied that democracy is a pre-requisite for cosmopolitan intervention in developing nations. Cosmopolitanism, in these instances, appears to be a new form of colonization: the powerful exploit the weak and the weak eventually fight back.\n\nMuch of the political thinking of the last two centuries has taken nationalism and the framework of the sovereign nation-state for granted. Now, with the advance of globalization and the increased facility of travel and communication, some thinkers consider that the political system based on the nation-state has become obsolete and that it is time to design a better and more efficient alternative. Jesús Mosterín analyzes how the world political system should be organized in order to maximize individual freedom and individual opportunity. Rejecting as muddled the metaphysical notion of free will, he focuses on political freedom, the absence of coercion or interference by others in personal decisions. Because of the tendencies to violence and aggression that lurk in human nature, some constraint on freedom is necessary for peaceful and fruitful social interaction, but the more freedom we enjoy, the better.\n\nEspecially, there is no rational ground for curtailing the cultural freedoms (of language, religion and customs) in the name of the nation, the church, or the party. From this point of view, the Internet provides a much more attractive model than the nation-state. Neither is there any just reason for restraining the free circulation of people, ideas, or goods. Mosterín thinks that the nation-state is incompatible with the full development of freedom, whose blossoming requires the reorganization of the world political system along cosmopolitan lines. He proposes a world without sovereign nation-states, territorially organized in small autonomous but not-sovereign cantonal polities, complemented by strong world organizations. He emphasizes the difference between international institutions, led by representatives of the national governments, and world or universal institutions, with clearly defined aims served by directors selected by their personal qualifications, independently of any national bias or proportion.\n\nCriticizing the abstract nature of most versions of cosmopolitanism, Charles Blattberg has argued that any viable cosmopolitanism must be \"rooted,\" by which he means based upon a \"global patriotism.\"\n\nMore general philosophical reviews of cosmopolitanism and multiculturalism are also available. Carol Nicholson compares the John Searle's opposition to multiculturalism with Charles Taylor's celebration of it. She uses Richard Rorty as a triangulation point in that he remains neutral about multiculturalism, but his philosophical analysis of truth and practice can be deployed to argue against Searle and in favor of Taylor. At a conference on \"Philosophy in a Multicultural Context\", Rasmus Winther excavated the philosophical assumptions and practices connected with cosmopolitanism and multiculturalism. He develops Bruno Latour's conception of the philosopher as public diplomat.\n\nEmile Durkheim (1858–1917) observed the development of what he called the 'cult of the individual', which is a new religion that replaced the Christianity that was dying out, and which is centered around the sacredness of human dignity. This new religion would provide the new foundations of Western society, and these foundations are closely related to human rights and individual nation's constitutions. A society's sacred object would be the individual's human dignity, and the moral code guiding the society is found in that country's way of interpreting human dignity and human rights. Thus, rather than finding solidarity through national culture, or a particular traditional religious doctrine, society would be unified by its adherence to political values, i.e. individual rights and a defence of human dignity. Durkheim's cult of the individual has many similarities to John Rawls' political liberalism, which Rawls developed almost a century after Durkheim.\n\nUlrich Beck (May 15, 1944 – January 1, 2015) was a sociologist who posed the new concept of cosmopolitan critical theory in direct opposition to traditional nation-state politics. Nation-state theory sees power relations only among different state actors, and excludes a global economy, or subjugates it to the nation-state model. Cosmopolitanism sees global capital as a possible threat to the nation state and places it within a meta-power game in which global capital, states and civil society are its players.\n\nIt is important to mark a distinction between Beck's cosmopolitanism and the idea of a world state. For Beck, imposing a single world order was considered hegemonic at best and ethnocentric at worst. Rather, political and sociological cosmopolitanism rests upon these fundamental foundations:\n\nA number of philosophers, including Emmanuel Levinas, have introduced the concept of the \"Other\". For Levinas, the Other is given context in ethics and responsibility; we should think of the Other as anyone and everyone outside ourselves. According to Levinas, our initial interactions with the Other occur before we form a will—the ability to make choices. The Other addresses us and we respond: even the absence of response is a response. We are thus conditioned by the Other's address and begin to form culture and identity. After the formation of the will, we choose whether to identify with the addresses by others and, as a result, continue the process of forming identity.\n\nDuring this process, it is possible to recognize ourselves in our interactions with Others. Even in situations where we engage in the most minimal interaction, we ascribe identities to others and simultaneously to ourselves. Our dependence on the Other for the continuous formation of language, culture, and identity means that we are responsible to others and that they are responsible to us. Also once we've formed a will, it becomes possible to recognize this social interdependence. When we have gained the capacity for recognition, the imperative is to perform that recognition and thereby become ethically responsible to the Other in conscience.\n\nCosmopolitanism shares some aspects of universalism – namely the globally acceptable notion of human dignity that must be protected and enshrined in international law. However, the theory deviates in recognising the differences between world cultures.\n\nIn addition, cosmopolitanism calls for equal protection of the environment and against the negative side effects of technological development. Human dignity, however, is convoluted because it is necessary to first distinguish who has the right to be respected and second to consider what rights are protectable. Under cosmopolitanism, all humans have rights; however, history shows that recognition of these rights is not guaranteed.\n\nAs an example, Judith Butler discusses a Western discourse of \"human\" in \"Precarious Life: The Powers of Mourning and Violence\". Butler works through the idea of \"human\" and notes that \"human\" has been \"naturalized in its 'Western' mold by the contemporary workings of humanism\" (32). Thus, there is the idea that not all \"human\" lives will be supported in the same way, indeed, that some human lives are worth more protection than others. Others have extended this idea to examine how animals might be reconfigured as cosmopolitan, present the world-over with varying identities in different places.\n\nThis idea is reiterated in Sunera Thobani's \"Exalted Subjects: Studies in the Making of Race and Nation in Canada,\" where she discusses a discourse in which Muslim people fall into a good/bad dichotomy: a \"good Muslim\" is one who has been Westernized and a \"bad Muslim\" is one who visibly rejects Western cultural influences. Thobani notes that it is through media representations that these ideas become naturalized. Individuals who embrace Western ideals are considered fully \"human\" and are more likely to be afforded dignity and protection than those who defend their non-Westernized cultural identities.\n\nAccording to those who follow Beck's reasoning, a cosmopolitan world would consist of a plurality of states, which would use global and regional consensus to gain greater bargaining power against opponents. States would also utilize the power of civil society actors such as Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and consumers to strengthen their legitimacy and enlist the help of investors to pursue a cosmopolitan agenda.\n\nOther authors imagine a cosmopolitan world moving beyond today's conception of nation-states. These scholars argue that a truly cosmopolitan identity of Global Citizen will take hold, diminishing the importance of national identities. The formation of a global citizens movement would lead to the establishment of democratic global institutions, creating the space for global political discourse and decisions, would in turn reinforce the notion of citizenship at a global level. Nested structures of governance balancing the principles of irreducibility (i.e., the notion that certain problems can only be addressed at the global level, such as global warming) and subsidiarity (i.e., the notion that decisions should be made at as local a level possible) would thus form the basis for a cosmopolitan political order.\n\nDaniele Archibugi proposes a renewed model for global citizenship: institutional cosmopolitanism. It advocates some reforms in global governance to allow world citizens to take more directly a part into political life. A number of proposals have been made in order to make this possible. Cosmopolitan democracy, for example, suggests strengthening the United Nations and other international organizations by creating a World Parliamentary Assembly.\n\n\"Cosmopolitanism\" became a rhetorical weapon used by nationalists against \"alien\" ideas that went counter to orthodoxy. European Jews were frequently accused of being \"rootless cosmopolitans.\" Joseph Stalin in a 1946 Moscow speech attacked writings in which “the positive Soviet hero is derided and inferior before all things foreign and cosmopolitanism that we all fought against from the time of Lenin, characteristic of the political leftovers, is many times applauded.” In the 21st century the epithet became a weapon used by Vladimir Putin in Russia, and by nationalists in Hungary and Poland. In modern times, Stephen Miller, a Trump administration senior policy advisor, has publicly criticized CNN reporter Jim Acosta as exhibiting \"cosmopolitan bias\" during a discussion on the government's new immigration plan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19634034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19634034", "title": "Court of Auditors (Spain)", "text": "Court of Auditors (Spain)\n\nThe Tribunal de Cuentas (Court of Auditors) is the supreme governmental accounting body of Spain responsible of the comptrolling of the public accounts and the auditing of the accountancy of the political parties, in accordance with the Constitution and its Organic Law.\n\nThe Court of Auditors is composed by the President and 12 counsellors. The Counsellors are appointed by the Cortes Generales, six of them by the Congress and the other six by the Senate. To be appointed Counsellor of the Court it is needed to be a person with knowledge in audit, judge, prosecutor, university teacher or a public servant in an office that requieres superior studies, lawyer, economist or trade profesor, all of them with recognized experience and with fifteen years of professional activity. The Court Account Counselors are independent and irremovable. Their term is 9 years.\n\nThe very first origins of the Court they go back to the Reign of John II of Castile. Álvaro de Luna, Constable of Castile, advise the King to approve a royal order to make easy the tax collection due to the difficulties in the collection of taxes and in the ordering of the accounts. This royal order is approved in July 2, 1437 which regulated the Senior Accountants, a group of civil servants in charge of resolve economic conflicts and to reclame the money that was not paid in time.\n\nDuring the reign of Isabella and Ferdinand, new ordinances were granted on January 9, 1478, to put an end to the backlog of outstanding accounts since 1454, in the Crown of Castile. The Accountancy has the exclusive and absolute authority to claim, censor and fail all the accounts of the public officials that handle flows and effects. The Senior Accountants are given the responsibility of reviewing them, those taken and completed, as well as determining and judging the scope of accounts. They are also authorized to proceed against any person or Council, and allow them to act on behalf of the Kings.\n\nIn the last years of the reign of King Charles I, on July 10, 1554, new royal orders were granted in Valladolid for the Senior Accountants. They increase the number of accountants and the amount of the Room's right (it was a duty of the citizents of give a room to the King's servants during their stay in town). It is also the first time that it is included in a judicial process of accounts, when accounts considered extraordinary, or with some amendment, the obligation to take an oath to the people who have had them in charge, about the veracity of the confused data.\n\nIn the reign of Philip II, the Senior Accountants are helped by lawyers that advise them and the Treasury Council is created. In 1593, a new reform in the accounting system provokes that the King's Council lose its powers in accounting and these are given to the Council of the Treasury and incompatibilities are created for the Senior Accountants, that cannot have another job at the same time.\n\nIn 1605 were created the Court of Auditors of the Indies in Mexico, Bogotá and Santa Fe to control the accounts of the spanish territories in Americas.\n\nThe Constitution of 1812, passed by the Cortes of Cadiz, provided for the creation of an Accounting Office\"to examine all accounts of public funds\". In 1828, the ordinance establishing the Highest Court of Auditors was approved, which was in force until 1851.  In 1828, the ordinance establishing the Highest Court of Auditors was approved, which was in force until 1851.\n\nDuring the regime established in the Constitution of 1845, a series of major reforms were carried out in the financial administration of the State and the Organic Act of the Court of Auditors, 1851 was approved, which is the seed of the current institution, with responsibility for the financial control of Public Administration.\n\nIn 1870, a new Law on Organization of the Court of Auditors of the Kingdom was approved and was in force until the Supreme Court of the Treasury was established in 1924, which integrated both external and internal control functions of the public sector.\n\nThe Court of Auditors of the Republic was established in the Constitution of 1931 as the supreme audit body of the economic and management in the public sector and its Organic Act was approved in 1934.\n\nRules for adapting the institution to the political regime in force became established later. A Law on Organization, Functions and Procedures of the Court of Auditors of the Kingdom was approved in 1953, amended in 1961, in which the Court of Auditors was defined as the supreme external audit body of the State, with the function of reporting to the Head of State and the courts of the result of its audit activity and the recognition of a genuine judicial function.\n\nThe current Court of Auditors is configured at present by the Constitution of 1978 as the supreme audit body of the economic and management in the public sector, which is independent from the executive power and is directly linked to the Spanish Parliament.\n\nThe Court of Auditors is formed by the President, the Plenary, the Management Board, the Audit Section, the Prosecution Section, the Audit Counsellors, the Court of Auditors Prosecutor's Office and the General Secretariat.\n\nThe President is the head of the Court. The President represents the court, convenes and chairs the Plenum and the Management Board, oversees the personnel of the Court and is the body in charge of recruitment and control the budget.\n\nThe Plenum, in general, deals with the audit function and proposes the approach to conflicts affecting the competences or powers of the Court of Auditors to Parliament. It also gives resolutions against the provisions and acts of other organs of the Court in the performance of governmental or staff-related functions.\n\nThe Plenum is composed of twelve Audit Counsellors (one of whom shall be the President) and the Chief Prosecutorof the Court of Auditors. The Secretary-General acts as secretary of the Plenum, with voice but without vote, and writes the minutes, reflecting the outcome of the deliberations and resolutions adopted.\n\nThe Plenum will meet at least once c month, except in the holiday period of August, as well as the extraordinary calls made by the President with justified cause, or upon request of three members of the Plenum.  The quorum to validly constitute the meetings shall be two thirds of its members and their resolutions shall be adopted by a majority of participants, except in cases where the law requires a qualified majority.\n\nThe discussions of the Plenum are confidential, must be kept secret by attendees and all those who could know them by reason of their duties.\n\nThe management board in general, sets the working conditions of the Court, exercises disciplinary powers in cases of gross misconduct, distributes cases between Sections and appoints delegates instructors.\n\nThe management board is composed of the President of the Court of Auditors and the Presidents of the Audit and Prosecution Sections. The Secretary-General acts as Secretary of the Management Board, with the right to speak but not to vote.\n\nIt is the body of the Court of Auditors assigned the functions of verifying the accounts of public sector entities, reviewing and auditing of the accounts subject to audit, examination of the audit procedures conducted in the various departments and making proposals to the Plenum regarding the results of the audit procedures (report, motion or memo) taken to the Spanish Parliament.\n\nThe Audit Section is organized into eight departments: five sectoral departments, which are aligned, as far as possible, with the large areas of the financial-economic activity in the public sector; two territorial departments, one of which audits economic and financial activity of the Autonomous Regions and Autonomous Cities and another for local entities and a department of Political Parties.\n\nThe section consists of seven Audit Counsellors appointed by the audit departments.  One of them is also the President of the Audit Section.\n\nIt is the jurisdictional body of the Court. Among its functions are prepare the Summary of the court proceedings during the relevant financial year and make an appropriate proposal to the Plenum, submit to the Plenum the amendments to be made to the structure of the Section, as well as creating new rooms when the number of cases so require and laying the criteria on the basis of which case-allocation is decided among the Rooms and Counsellors of the Prosecution Section.\n\nThe Prosecution Section comprises the President and the Audit Counsellors, aware of court proceedings as first instance bodies or attached to the Courtroom or Courtrooms.\n\nThe Court of Auditors Prosecutor's Office functionally reports to the Attorney General and is composed of the Chief Prosecutor (member of the Plenum of the Court), and the Prosecuting Attorneys. The Prosecutor of the Court of Auditors is appointed by the Government.\n\nThe Court of Auditors Prosecutors’ Office is responsible for being heard in audit procedures before final approval and issue its opinion on the General State Accounts and the  other reports, memoranda, motions and memos of the Court of Auditors, being able to request the adoption of the measures that it deems appropriate in order to assign liability for the financial responsibilities that may result; take notice of all the audit procedures and court proceedings being dealt with in the Court of Auditors for the purpose of clarifying the possible financial liabilities arising from them and bringing an action for accounting liability and deducting the claims of this nature in the repayment for debtor balance proceedings and in the auditing of accounts.\n\nThe General Secretariat performs the functions leading to the proper exercise of governmental powers of the President of the Court, the Plenum and the Management Board in all matters relating to the Court of Auditors the internal system.\n\nThe General Secretariat is vested with the powers of management, processing, documentation and registration of matters within the competence of the President, the Plenum and the Management Board. The Secretary-General acts as Secretary of the Plenum and the Management Board, with the right to speak but not to vote.\n\n"}
{"id": "24905042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24905042", "title": "Crypto-communism", "text": "Crypto-communism\n\nCrypto-communism is a secret support for, or admiration of communism. An individual or group keeps this support or admiration hidden to avoid political persecution or political suicide. Crypto-Bolshevism is a prominent form of crypto-communism, asserting secret Bolshevism.\n"}
{"id": "2951154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2951154", "title": "E-governance", "text": "E-governance\n\nElectronic governance or e-governance is the application of information and communication technology (ICT) for delivering government services, exchange of information, communication transactions, integration of various stand-alone systems and services between government-to-citizen (G2C), government-to-business (G2B), government-to-government (G2G), government-to-employees (G2E) as well as back-office processes and interactions within the entire government framework. Through e-governance, government services are made available to citizens in a convenient, efficient, and transparent manner. The three main target groups that can be distinguished in governance concepts are government, citizens, and\nbusinesses/interest groups. In e-governance, there are no distinct boundaries.\n\nAlthough the two terms are often used interchangeably, there is a difference between e-governance and e-government. E-government refers to the use of the ICTs in public administration which, when combined with organizational change and new skills, are intended to improve public services and democratic processes and to strengthen support to the public. However, e-government has no provision for governance of ICTs. The governance of ICTs typically requires a substantial increase in regulation and policy-making capabilities, as well as additional expertise and opinion-shaping processes among various social stakeholders. The perspective of e-governance is \"the use of the technologies that both help to govern and have to be governed\". The central goal of e-governance is to reach the beneficiary and to ensure that their service needs are met. Ideally, the government will automatically recognize the importance of achieving this goal in order to maximize its efficiency.\n\nFurthermore, e-government uses one-way communication protocol whereas e-governance uses two-way communication protocol. Establishing the identity of the end beneficiary is a challenge in all citizen-centric services. Statistical information published by governments and global bodies do not always reveal the facts. The best form of e-governance cuts down on the unwanted interference of too many layers while delivering governmental services. It depends on good infrastructural setup with the support of local processes and parameters for governments to reach their citizens or end beneficiaries. A budget for planning, development, and growth can be derived from well laid out e-governance systems.\n\nThe relevance of BI Analytics has brought forth a paradigm shift in assimilating and visualizing huge chunks of data in near real-time manner. The pivot of all good decision-making systems is correct, up-to-date and compliant data. Governments not only want the transformation of their own country and countrymen but also expect improved relations and healthy trade across the world. Development should be transformative and continuously evolving. Internal as well as external IT systems should work in tandem with government policies and procedures. Data Analytics has the ability to change the color and complexion of the world. E-governance should induce up-to-date information, initiate effective interaction, and engage with transparent transactions in compliance with rule of law, thus enabling a sustainable transformation model.\n\nThe public–private partnership (PPP)-based e-governance projects are hugely successful in India. Many countries implement e-government policy in an attempt to build a corruption-free government.\n\nThe goal of government-to-citizen (G2C) e-governance is to offer a variety of ICT services to citizens in an efficient and economical manner and to strengthen the relationship between government and citizens using technology.\n\nThere are several methods of government-to-customer e-governance. Two-way communication allows citizens to instant message directly with public administrators, and cast remote electronic votes (electronic voting) and instant opinion voting. Transactions such as payment of services, such as city utilities, can be completed online or over the phone. Mundane services such as name or address changes, applying for services or grants, or transferring existing services are more convenient and no longer have to be completed face to face.\n\nG2C e-governance is unbalanced across the globe as not everyone has Internet access and computing skills, but the United States, European Union, and Asia are ranked the top three in development.\n\nThe Federal Government of the United States has a broad framework of G2C technology to enhance citizen access to Government information and services. benefits.gov is an official US government website that informs citizens of benefits they are eligible for and provides information on how to apply for assistance. US State Governments also engage in G2C interaction through the Department of Transportation, Department of Public Safety, United States Department of Health and Human Services, United States Department of Education, and others. As with e-governance on the global level, G2C services vary from state to state. The Digital States Survey ranks states on social measures, digital democracy, e-commerce, taxation, and revenue. The 2012 report shows Michigan and Utah in the lead and Florida and Idaho with the lowest scores. Municipal governments in the United States also use government-to-customer technology to complete transactions and inform the public. Much like states, cities are awarded for innovative technology. Government Technology's \"Best of the Web 2012\" named Louisville, KY, Arvada, CO, Raleigh, NC, Riverside, CA, and Austin, TX the top five G2C city portals.\n\nEuropean countries were ranked second among all geographic regions. The Single Point of Access for Citizens of Europe supports travel within Europe and Europe is a 1999 initiative supporting an online government. Main focuses are to provide public information, allow customers to have access to basic public services, simplify online procedures, and promote electronic signatures. Estonia is the first and the only country in the world with e-residency which enables anyone in the world outside Estonia to access Estonian online services. \n\nAsia is ranked third in comparison, and there are diverse G2C programs between countries. Singapore's eCitizen Portal is an organized single access point to government information and services. South Korea's Home Tax Service (HTS) provides citizens with 24/7 online services such as tax declaration. Taiwan has top ranking G2C technology including an online motor vehicle services system, which provides 21 applications and payment services to citizens.\n\nGovernment-to-Citizen is the communication link between a government and private individuals or residents. Such G2C communication most often refers to that which takes place through Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs), but can also include direct mail and media campaigns. G2C can take place at the federal, state, and local levels. \nG2C stands in contrast to G2B, or Government-to-Business networks.\n\nOne such Federal G2C network is USA.gov, the United States' official web portal, though there are many other examples from governments around the world.\n\nA full switch to government-to-citizen e-governance will cost a large amount of money in development and implementation. In addition, government agencies do not always engage citizens in the development of their e-gov services or accept feedback. Customers identified the following barriers to government-to-customer e-governance: not everyone has Internet access, especially in rural or low-income areas, G2C technology can be problematic for citizens who lack computing skills. Some G2C sites have technology requirements (such as browser requirements and plug-ins) that won't allow access to certain services, language barriers, the necessity for an e-mail address to access certain services, and a lack of privacy.\n\nE-governance to Employee partnership (G2E) Is one of four main primary interactions in the delivery model of E-governance. It is the relationship between online tools, sources, and articles that help employees maintain communication with the government and their own companies. E-governance relationship with Employees allows new learning technology in one simple place as the computer. Documents can now be stored and shared with other colleagues online.\nE-governance makes it possible for employees to become paperless and makes it easy for employees to send important documents back and forth to colleagues all over the world instead of having to print out these records or fax G2E services also include software for maintaining personal information and records of employees. Some of the benefits of G2E expansion include:\n\n\nGovernment-to-employees (abbreviated G2E) is the online interactions through instantaneous communication tools between government units and their employees. G2E is one out of the four primary delivery models of e-Government.\n\nG2E is an effective way to provide e-learning to the employees, bring them together and to promote knowledge sharing among them. It also gives employees the possibility of accessing information in regard to compensation and benefits policies, training and learning opportunities and civil rights laws. G2E services also include software for maintaining personal information and records of employees.\n\nG2E is adopted in many countries including the United States, Hong Kong, and New Zealand.\n\nFrom the start of 1990s e-commerce and e-product, there has rampant integration of e-forms of government process. Governments have now tried to use the efficiencies of their techniques to cut down on waste. E-government is a fairly broad subject matter, but all relate to how the services and representation are now delivered and how they are now being implemented.\n\nMany governments around the world have gradually turned to Information technologies (IT) in an effort to keep up with today's demands. Historically, many governments in this sphere have only been reactive, but recently there has been a more proactive approach in developing comparable services such things as e-commerce and e-business.\n\nBefore, the structure emulated private-like business techniques. Recently that has all changed as e-government begins to make its own plan. Not only does e-government introduce a new form of record keeping, but it also continues to become more interactive to better the process of delivering services and promoting constituency participation.\n\nThe framework of such an organization is now expected to increase more than ever by becoming efficient and reducing the time it takes to complete an objective. Some examples include paying utilities, tickets, and applying for permits. So far, the biggest concern is accessibility to Internet technologies for the average citizen. In an effort to help, administrations are now trying to aid those who do not have the skills to fully participate in this new medium of governance, especially now as e-government progressing to more e-governance terms.\n\nAn overhaul of the structure is now required as every pre-existing sub-entity must now merge under one concept of e-government. As a result, Public Policy has also seen changes due to the emerging of constituent participation and the Internet. Many governments such as Canada's have begun to invest in developing new mediums of communication of issues and information through virtual communication and participation. In practice, this has led to several responses and adaptations by interest groups, activist, and lobbying groups. This new medium has changed the way the polis interacts with government.\n\nThe purpose to include e-governance to government is to means more efficient in various aspects. Whether it means to reduce cost by reducing paper clutter, staffing cost, or communicating with private citizens or public government. E-government brings many advantages to play such as facilitating information delivery, application process/renewal between both business and private citizen, and participation with the constituency. There are both internal and external advantages to the emergence of IT in government, though not all municipalities are alike in size and participation.\nIn theory, there are currently 4 major levels of E-government in municipal governments:\nThese, along with 5 degrees of technical integration and interaction of users include: \n\nThe adoption of e-government in municipalities evokes greater innovation in e-governance by being specialized and localized. The level success and feedback depends greatly on the city size and government type. A council-manager government municipality typically works the best with this method, as opposed to mayor-council government positions, which tend to be more political. Therefore, they have greater barriers towards its application. Council-Manager governments are also more inclined to be effective here by bringing innovation and reinvention of governance to e-governance.\n\nThe International City/County Management Association and Public Technology Inc. have done surveys over the effectiveness of this method. The results are indicating that most governments are still in either the primary stages (1 or stage 2), which revolves around public service requests. Though application of integration is now accelerating, there has been little to no instigating research to see its progression as e-governance to the government. We can only theorize it's still within the primitive stages of e-governance.\n\nGovernment-to-Government (abbreviated G2G) is the online non-commercial interaction between Government organizations, departments, and authorities and other Government organizations, departments, and authorities. Its use is common in the UK, along with G2C, the online non-commercial interaction of local and central Government and private individuals, and G2B the online non-commercial interaction of local and central Government and the commercial business sector.\n\nG2G systems generally come in one of two types: Internal-facing - joining up a single Governments departments, agencies, organizations, and authorities - examples include the integration aspect of the Government Gateway, and the UK NHS Connecting for Health Data SPINE. External facing - joining up multiple Governments IS systems - an example would include the integration aspect of the Schengen Information System (SIS), developed to meet the requirements of the Schengen Agreement.\n\nThe strategic objective of e-governance, or in this case G2G is to support and simplify governance for government, citizens, and businesses. The use of ICT can connect all parties and support processes and activities. Other objectives are to make government administration more transparent, speedy and accountable while addressing the society's needs and expectations through efficient public services and effective interaction between the people, businesses, and government.\nWithin every of those interaction domains, four sorts of activities take place:\nPushing data over the internet, e.g.: regulative services, general holidays, public hearing schedules, issue briefs, notifications, etc.\ntwo-way communications between one governmental department and another, users will interact in dialogue with agencies and post issues, comments, or requests to the agency.\nConducting transactions, e.g.: Lodging tax returns, applying for services and grants.\nGovernance, e.g.: To alter the national transition from passive info access to individual participation by:\n\nIn the field of networking, the Government Secure Intranet (GSi) puts in place a secure link between central government departments. It is an IP-based virtual private network based on broadband technology introduced in April 1998 and further upgraded in February 2004. Among other things, it offers a variety of advanced services including file transfer and search facilities, directory services, email exchange facilities (both between network members and over the Internet) as well as voice and video services. An additional network is currently also under development: the Public Sector Network (PSN) will be the network to interconnect public authorities (including departments and agencies in England; devolved administrations and local governments) and facilitate in particular sharing of information and services among each other.\n\nGovernment-to-Business (G2B) is the online non-commercial interaction between local and central government and the commercial business sector with the purpose of providing businesses information and advice on e-business best practices. G2B: Refers to the conduction through the Internet between government agencies and trading companies. B2G: Professional transactions between the company and the district, city, or federal regulatory agencies. B2G usually include recommendations to complete the measurement and evaluation of books and contracts.\n\nThe objective of G2B is to reduce difficulties for business, provide immediate information and enable digital communication by e-business (XML). In addition, the government should re-use the data in the report proper, and take advantage of commercial electronic transaction protocol. Government services are concentrated on the following groups: human services; community services; judicial services; transport services; land resources; business services; financial \nservices and other. Each of the components listed above for each cluster of related services to the enterprise.\n\nE-government reduces costs and lowers the barrier of allowing companies to interact with the government. The interaction between the government and businesses reduces the time required for businesses to conduct a transaction. For instance, there is no need to commute to a government agency's office, and transactions may be conducted online instantly with the click of a mouse. This significantly reduces transaction time for the government and businesses alike.\n\nE-Government provides a greater amount of information that the business needed, also it makes that information more clear. A key factor in business success is the ability to planand forecast through data-driven future. The government collected a lot of economic, demographic and other trends in the data. This makes the data more accessible to companies which may increase the chance of economic prosperity.\n\nIn addition, E-Government can help businesses navigate through government regulations by providing an intuitive site organization with a wealth of useful applications. The electronic filings of applications for environmental permits give an example of it. Companies often do not know how, when, and what they must apply. Therefore, failure to comply with environmental regulations up to 70%, a staggering figure most likely due to confusion about the requirements, rather than the product of willful disregard of the law.\n\nThe government should concern that not all people are able to access the internet to gain online government services. The network reliability, as well as information on government bodies, can influence public opinion and prejudice hidden agenda. There are many considerations and implementation, designing e-government, including the potential impact of government and citizens of disintermediation, the impact on economic, social and political factors, vulnerable to cyber attacks, and disturbances to the status quo in these areas.\n\nG2B rises the connection between government and businesses. Once the e-government began to develop, become more sophisticated, people will be forced to interact with e-government in the larger area. This may result in a lack of privacy for businesses as their government gets their more and more information. In the worst case, there is so much information in the electron transfer between the government and business, a system which is like totalitarian could be developed. As the government can access more information, the loss of privacy could be a cost.\n\nThe government site does not consider about \"potential to reach many users including those who live in remote areas, are homebound, have low literacy levels, exist on poverty line incomes.\"\n\n\nThe main goal of government to business is to increase productivity by giving business more access to information in a more organize manner while lowering the cost of doing business as well as the ability to cut \"red tape\", save time, reduce operational cost and to create a more transparent business environment when dealing with government.\n\n\nGovernment to business key points:\n\n\nDifference between G2B and B2G\n\n\nConclusion:\n\nThe overall benefit of e-governance when dealing with business is that it enables the business to perform more efficiently.\n\nE-governance is facing numerous challenges world over. These challenges are arising from administrative, legal, institutional and technological factors. The challenge includes security drawbacks such as spoofing, tampering, repudiation, disclosure, elevation of privilege, denial of service and other cyber crimes. Other sets of problems include implementation parts such as funding, management of change, privacy, authentication, delivery of services, standardization, technology issues and use of local languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34837917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34837917", "title": "Elite capture", "text": "Elite capture\n\nElite capture is a form of corruption whereby public resources are biased for the benefit of a few individuals of superior social status in detriment to the welfare of the larger population. Elites are groups of individuals who, because of self-ratifying factors such as social class, asset ownership, religious affiliations, political power, historic discrimination among social groups, political party affiliation, or economic position, have decision-making power in processes of public concern. This specific form of corruption occurs when elites use public funds, originally intended to be invested in services that benefit the larger population, to fund projects that would only benefit them. This differentiates elite capture from embezzlement, misappropriation or other diversion of funds by a public official. Elite capture is related to information asymmetry, inefficient regulation or inefficient allocation of resources because it causes a biased distribution of a public good or a service, resulting a situation wherein certain segments of the population experience reduced access to these public goods. In this context, as long as there is elite capture, the welfare impact will not be Pareto Optimal nor equitable.\n\nFor long it was thought that creating decentralized governments would avoid the limitations of a single planner in society. A centralized government often lacks knowledge and might be subject of intense lobbying, leaving certain territories unattended. On the other hand, theory predicts that when people are involved in governing and have representation in decision making, public spending is supposed to be more efficient, more equitable and more sustainable. However, despite the theoretical predictions, the outcomes of many development projects in decentralized governments have not met these expectations.\nBy yielding power to smaller units, money should be more efficiently distributed, but local governments are more vulnerable to pressure groups. Failure can occur when particular subgroups of the community are able to mobilize resources to further their own self-interest at the expense of the broader community. Local governments are even more vulnerable to capture by local elites than national governments.\nAttempts to reduce elite capture in decentralized governments range from going back to a heavily centralized planner to providing citizens with funds to initiate projects. This last option has been criticized because the citizens’ ability and skills to actually implement programs may be weaker than that of local leaders. \nAccording to the World Bank, development assistance is vulnerable to manipulation or hijack by elites, independently of the form that the assistance may take, because such aid it requires governmental or private agency to ensure transfer to households. It is in this intermediary stage where instances of elite capture are most common. Be it centralized or decentralized government, there is a risk of ineffective public resource delivery involved, where part of the local population will receive more than the rest of the local population. This situation has welfare consequences. \n\nFirst, elite capture of public resources by local elites can be relatively lessened by the presence of media to balance the asymmetry of information. Empirical studies have shown that government responsiveness and accountability to ensure equal distribution of public goods and avoid elite capture is related to the availability of information and general levels of awareness among the local population. Second, the ‘counter-elite’ approach to deal with elite capture advocates challenging elites by completely excluding them in the implementation of projects. It assumes that all elites are inherently bad. By raising public awareness of power inequalities and building local capacity, this approach suggests that community empowerment and political citizenship would be effective in resisting elite domination. This approach is not necessarily effective in challenging elite domination, due to structural dependence of poor people on elites and the weakening of established institutions. Third, the ‘co-opt-elite’ approach suggests that cooperation with elites, rather than confrontation, is the solution to alleviating poverty. It asserts that not all elites are bad, and some of them can play a constructive role in community development. It also assumes a pragmatic use of elites’ networks and resources can benefit poor communities. The ‘counter-elite’ approach is not necessarily effective in eroding elite power, and also risks legitimizing the authority of the elites and worsening inequality.\n\nSimilar Concepts\nElite capture and discrimination are very similar concepts because both imply unequal power status and denial of public resources. Social discrimination can promote elite capture, but is not an interchangable concept. Elite capture is based on a state of an unequal power relations, whereas discrimination may or may not be the cause of an unequal distribution of power. Elite capture is a changing and dynamic process, and power structures change with it when a new elite arises. Discrimination is rather static in this sense. Elite capture is a manifested form of corruption, and social discrimination is a manifestation of a set of beliefs in a society. \nElite capture and state capture are also similar because they are both related to deviation of public resources for private benefits, but differ in how power is exercised. Elite capture is carried out by an elite that is legitimately entitled some level of de jure power. State capture is carried out by elites that exercise de facto power (e.g. powerful unions or big multinational companies) that aim to have influence on the decision making process of the institutions. However, both phenomena are both symptommatic of and a main reason for bad governance because they promote a vicious cycle, with long-term effects on institutional and bureaucratic performance.\n\nAn example of elite capture in the United States is to be found in the literature on the subject of iron triangles, wherein special interests are able to achieve disproportionately favorable outcomes from congressional committees and federal regulators. Oftentimes, personnel between each side of the iron triangle is interchangeable, a revolving door dynamic which is favorable to the development of capture of regulators by the entities they are supposed to oversee. \nAlso, examples are found in most developing countries, where an increasing proportion of government and foreign aid is distributed through community driven development but fail to properly reach the target population. \nAdditional examples are male-dominated cultures where women may be disproportionately influenced by elite capture, since they tend to be excluded from the social elect and public services.\nIt is a phenomenon that may even take place even where there is no clear indicators of ‘capture’ of power or corruption like access to education in rural areas of developing countries. While there are primary schools in the villages, they are somewhat dysfunctional due to lack of maintenance. As a result, children have to go to neighboring villages to study. Usually girls are not sent far away from their villages, limiting their study years. Therefore, girls are systematically denied access to a public resource (education) as opposed to boys in the same village. \nThe absence of an enabling social, political and economic environment can also encourage unintended elite capture. But at the same time, corruption and inefficiency appear to be a concomitant part of the elite capture problem.\nAcademic Approaches\nAs many other activities related to corruption, there has been very few systematic attempts to measure and identify causes and consequences of this phenomenon in economy. The concept itself is still in constant evolution because majority of evidence comes from non-experimental case studies or empirical data sets and there is very little consensus on the outcomes. \nA formal representation of the level of elite capture can be done by considering a single public service and how much does the elite capture changes the per-capita enjoyment of if it was equitably distributed. The idea is to consider how different the average consumption level of a certain public program would be if the average formal elites were eliminated. Empirical studies often analyze total welfare and utility function of a society. The idea is to identifying utility function of all households in three scenarios: current unequal distribution situation, with probability of equitable distributions and unavailability the public service or good to finally compare the data.\n\n"}
{"id": "52766291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52766291", "title": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Jordan", "text": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Jordan\n\nThe Embassy of the State of Palestine in Jordan () is the diplomatic mission of the Palestine in Jordan. It is located in Amman.\n\n"}
{"id": "4239005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4239005", "title": "Formative context", "text": "Formative context\n\nFormative contexts are the institutional and imaginative arrangements that shape a society's conflicts and resolutions. They are the structures that limit both the practice and the imaginative possibilities in a socio-political order, and in doing so shape the routines of conflict over social, political and economic resources that govern access to labor, loyalty, and social station, e.g. government power, economic capital, technological expertise, etc. In a formative context, the institutions structure conflict over government power and capital allocation, whereas the imaginative framework shapes the preconceptions about possible forms of human interaction. Through this, a formative context further creates and sustains a set of roles and ranks, which mold conflict over the mastery of resources and the shaping of the ideas of social possibilities, identities and interests. The formative context of the Western democracies, for example, include the organization of production through managers and laborers, a set of laws administering capital, a state in relation to the citizen, and a social division of labor.\n\nAlso referred to as order, framework, or structure of social life, the concept of formative context was developed by philosopher and social theorist Roberto Unger. Whereas other social and political philosophers have taken the historical context as a given, and seen one existing set of institutional arrangements as necessarily giving birth to another set, Unger rejects this naturalization of the world and moves to explain how such contexts are made and reproduced. The most forceful articulation and development of the concept is in Unger's book \"False Necessity.\" \n\nThe thesis of formative context is central to Unger's theory of false necessity, which rejects the idea of a closed number of institutional arrangements of human societies, e.g. feudalism and capitalism, and that these arrangements are the product of historical necessity, as theories of liberalism or Marxism claim. Rather, Unger argues that there are myriad institutional arrangements that can coalesce, and that they do so through a contingent process of struggle, reconciliation, and innovation among individuals and groups. For Unger, the concept of formative context serves to explain the basis of a certain set of institutional arrangements and their reliance upon each other. It offers an explanation of the cycles of reform and retrenchment of a socio-economic political system and how it remains undisturbed by rivalries and animosities. The theory of false necessity goes on to explain the connections of a formative context, their making and remaking, and how they maintain stability despite the contingent formation.\n\nWhile a formative context of a society exerts a major influence on the course of social actions and behaviors, it is itself hard to challenge, revise, or even identify in the midst of everyday conflicts and routines. Thus there are two criteria for determining if an institution or structure belongs in a formative context, one subjective and one objective. The subjective criteria considers the perspective of the social actors themselves and the arrangements that are assumed in their speech and actions. For example, the attempts of big business and labor to protect themselves through deals with each other, and the political efforts of unorganized labor and petty bourgeoisie to undermine and circumvent these deals by pressuring the government, operate on the same institutional assumption of the distinction between economy and polity, and that victory in one can be offset by the other. The objective criteria is simply that if a substitution of the proposed structure affects the hierarchies or cyclical conflicts—if it alters the social divisions—then it can be included in the formative context. For example, a change in any one of the following conditions would completely change the formative context of a Western democratic state: if the state stopped being democratic or was democratic enough to allow collective militancy and subject private centers of power to public accountability; if business could have its way and override all regulatory controls of govt; or if no workers could unionize or all of them could and did.\n\nThe formative context of the North Atlantic democracies can be organized into four clusters of institutional arrangements: work, law, government, and occupational structure. \n\nThe thesis of formative contexts has been heavily drawn on and used within the Social Study of Information Systems. In the field of Information systems Claudio Ciborra and Giovan Lanzara define the term \"formative context\" as the \"set of institutional arrangements and cognitive imageries that inform actors' practical and reasoning routines in organisations\". They posit that the common inability to inquire into, challenge or shape formative context can inhibit individuals and organizations from acting competently and learning what they need to know in order to make the most of situations and technological transitions as the enchaining effect of Formative Context can lead to cognitive and social inertia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2556089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2556089", "title": "Four-Stage Theory of the Republic of China", "text": "Four-Stage Theory of the Republic of China\n\nThe Four-Stage Theory of the Republic of China or the Theory of the Four Stages of the Republic of China is a viewpoint proposed by Chen Shui-bian, the President of the Republic of China (Taiwan) from 2000 to 2008, in 2005. It is a viewpoint regarding the political status of the Republic of China, whose government retreated to Taiwan after the Chinese Civil War in 1949. The main idea of the theory is that the time line for the development of the Republic of China can be classified into four stages, which are:\n\n\nBy this theory, Chen pointed out that the Republic of China was at the 4th stage after the first ruling party rotation of the central government in 2000. That is, Taiwan, with the official name called the \"Republic of China\", is already an independent sovereign state separate from People's Republic of China. This theory is welcomed by the mainstream of the Pan-Green coalition (led by the Democratic Progressive Party) in Taiwan, which supports eventual \"de jure\" Taiwan independence; but is not welcomed by most members of the Pan-Blue coalition (Kuomintang), which supports the eventual reunification of Taiwan with mainland China as part of a single \"Chinese nation\". Some members of the more strongly pro-independence Taiwan Solidarity Union also oppose this view since they deem the ROC to be an illegitimate foreign and colonial regime that should be replaced by the proposed \"Republic of Taiwan\". The Pan-Blue Coalition agrees with the first three stages, but disagrees with the fourth stage, and prefers to maintain the distinction between the \"Republic of China\" (the polity) and \"Taiwan\" (part of the territory the polity governs). The government of the People's Republic of China has also voiced opposition against the fourth stage on the grounds that such an interpretation is a step closer to \"de jure\" Taiwan independence. (Officially, the PRC claims the existence of the ROC only until 1949.)\n\nBoth the \"Free China Journal\" and the \"Free China Weekly\" often referred to the polity as the \"Republic of China on Taiwan\" prior to Lee Teng-hui taking office as the first Taiwan-born President of the Republic of China. During Lee's administration, the term remained in use, and he used the term in his speech at Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, United States in June 1995. It was used to identify the Republic of China with its remaining major component – the island of Taiwan, as opposed to its decades-long claim to all China since losing the civil war in 1949. Prior to this speech, the government officials used \"Republic of China\" when the name of the state was used. Lee's usage is considered as a departure from the convention, as this usage can be interpreted in the sense that the Republic of China's sovereignty does not extend to mainland China, which the People's Republic of China controls.\n\nThe Democratic Progressive Party's 1999 Resolution on Taiwan's Future, which is accorded equivalent status as the Party charter, serves as the baseline of debates toward the \"status quo\". According to the 1999 Resolution: \"Taiwan is a sovereign and independent state and that its national title is the ROC.\" In other words, \"Taiwan is the ROC\".\n\nDuring the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) administration under Chen Shui-bian, he directed that all government publications and websites to use the form \"Republic of China (Taiwan).\" These two variations have been used under their respective administrations for the ROC/Taiwan petition to join the United Nations. Unlike the Cold War era when the KMT-controlled ROC competed with the PRC as the legitimate representative of China (including Taiwan), during Chen Shui-bian's presidency, the ROC did not seek to be the representative of China (i.e. it does not seek the PRC's seat on the Security Council or its ouster) and stresses in its petitions that it was only seeking to represent the people of the land under its effective control (i.e. UN's principle of universality).\n\nIn October 8, 2011, the eve of the centennial celebration of the founding of the Republic of China on October 10, the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) Chairperson Tsai Ing-wen and the presidential candidate for the 2012 Taiwan presidential election explained her stance on the existence of the Republic of China on Taiwan as \"...the Republic of China has lost the land on which it was originally established. It only exists in Taiwan. It has merged into the land and people of Taiwan. Today, the majority of the people in Taiwan can agree that Taiwan is the Republic of China, and the Republic of China is Taiwan.\", \"Taiwan is a sovereign and independent country\", and \"...after we began directly electing our president, the current Republic of China government is no longer a foreign government. It is now the government of Taiwan.\"\n\nChen Yi-shen (陳儀深), an associate researcher at the at Academia Sinica, said \"many are aware that the ROC and Taiwan are two faces of the same coin\" and Tsai's ROC was an extension of the ROC from former presidents Lee Teng-hui and Chen Shui-bian. While some understood \"elections have their own languages\", many Taiwanese, including former DPP Chairman and former President of the Examination Yuan Yao Chia-wen, are absolutely against the ROC and insist \"we need to promote the rectification our nation's name to the Republic of Taiwan\".\n\nTsai won the 2016 Taiwan presidential election and sworn in as first female President of Taiwan on May 20.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "163267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163267", "title": "Free State Project", "text": "Free State Project\n\nThe Free State Project (FSP) is a proposed political migration founded in 2001 to recruit at least 20,000 libertarians to move to a single low-population state (New Hampshire, selected in 2003) in order to make the state a stronghold for libertarian ideas. The project seeks to overcome the historical ineffectiveness of limited government activism which they believe was caused by the small number and diffuse population of libertarian activists across the 50 United States and around the world.\n\nParticipants sign a statement of intent declaring that they intend to move to New Hampshire within five years of the drive reaching 20,000 participants. This statement of intent is intended to function as a form of assurance contract. , 20,000 people have signed this statement of intent—completing the original goal—and 1,909 people are listed as \"early movers\" to New Hampshire on the FSP website, saying they had made their move prior to the 20,000-participant trigger. Approximately a dozen Free Staters were elected to the New Hampshire House of Representatives in the 2012 election and about 18 in the 2014 election.\n\nThe FSP is a social movement generally based upon decentralized decision making. The group hosts various events, but most of FSP's activities depend upon volunteers, and no formal plan dictates to participants or movers what their actions should be in New Hampshire.\n\nThe FSP mission statement, adopted in 2005, states: \n\n\"Life, liberty, and property\" are rights that were enumerated in the October 1774 Declaration and Resolves of the First Continental Congress and in Article 12 of the New Hampshire Constitution.\n\nTo become a participant of the Free State Project, a person is asked to agree to the Statement of Intent (SOI): \n\nThe FSP is open to people with a minimum age of 18 and United States citizenship is not required; people who promote violence, racial hatred, or bigotry are not welcome in the FSP.\n\nThe Free State Project was founded in 2001 by Jason Sorens, then a Ph.D. student at Yale University. Sorens published an article in \"The Libertarian Enterprise\" highlighting the failure of libertarians to elect any candidate to federal office and outlining his ideas for a secessionist movement, calling people to respond to him with interest. Sorens soon published a follow-up article backing away from secession, \"and it never played a role in the FSP’s philosophy from then on.\" Sorens has stated that the movement continues an American tradition of political migration, which includes groups such as Mormon settlers in Utah, Amish religious communities and the \"Jamestown Seventy\", an earlier effort to influence the politics of a particular state through deliberate migration.\nThe organization began without a specific state in mind. A systematic review started by narrowing potential states to those with a population of less than 1.5 million and those where the combined spending in 2000 by the Democratic and Republican parties was less than $5.2 million, the total national spending by the Libertarian Party in that year. Hawaii and Rhode Island were eliminated from this list because of their propensity for centralized government.\n\nIn September 2003, the state vote was held and participants voted using the Condorcet method to choose the state. New Hampshire was the winner, with Wyoming coming in second by a 57% to 43% margin. Alaska, Delaware, Idaho, Maine, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota and Vermont were also on the list.\n\nNew Hampshire was chosen because the perceived individualist culture of the state was thought to resonate well with libertarian ideals. However, the Free State Project has drawn criticism from some New Hampshire residents concerned about population pressure and opposition to increased taxation. On the other hand, some Republicans have responded more favorably to the project because they also favor a small government.\n\nIn December 2012, state representative Cynthia Chase (D-Keene) said \"Free Staters are the single biggest threat the state is facing today. There is, legally, nothing we can do to prevent them from moving here to take over the state, which is their openly stated goal. In this country you can move anywhere you choose and they have that same right. What we can do is to make the environment here so unwelcoming that some will choose not to come, and some may actually leave. One way is to pass measures that will restrict the “freedoms” that they think they will find here\".\n\nIn 2012, the Concord Police Department applied for $258,000 in federal government funding to buy a Lenco BearCat armored vehicle for protection against terrorist attacks, riots, or shooting incidents. The application said: \"Groups such as the Sovereign Citizens, Free Staters and Occupy New Hampshire are active and present daily challenges\". The grant from the United States Department of Homeland Security was successful and the Concord City Council unanimously approved of the grant after having revised the application to remove references to those political movements.\n\nIn September 2014, Republican Party Senate nominee Scott Brown, a former United States Senator from Massachusetts, said his election campaign needed \"Freestaters\" to support him in his one-minute closing statement at the Granite State Debate.\n\nOn February 3, 2016, the Free State Project announced via social media that 20,000 people had signed the Statement of Intent. In a press conference later that day, then FSP president Carla Gericke officially announced that the move had been triggered and that signers were expected to follow up on their pledge. The project organization will change focus from recruiting signers to encouraging them to move to New Hampshire, stating \"we want 20,000 movers\".\n\nThe Free State Project aligns itself with no political party, takes no official political positions, supports no candidates in elections and neither supports nor opposes any particular legislation.\n\nThe Free State Project receives its funding from individual donors interested in moving as part of the FSP or attending one of the annual events. Donations are tax deductible as the FSP is a tax-exempt nonprofit educational organization, falling under category 501(c)(3). This affects all donations since July 20, 2009.\n\nSeveral early movers have been elected to the New Hampshire legislature. In 2006, one of its participants, Joel Winters, was elected to the state legislature, running as a Democrat. He was re-elected in 2008, but defeated in 2010. In 2010, 12 Republican Free Staters were elected to the New Hampshire House of Representatives.\n\nOn December 5, 2012, Free Stater and self-described anarchist Tim O'Flaherty was elected to the state House of Representatives under the Democratic Party ticket, representing Manchester Ward 5. He was defeated for re-election in 2014.\n\nIn 2012, elected participants wrote and passed House Bill 418 which requires state agencies to consider open source software and data formats when making acquisitions. However, it died in the Senate.\n\nThe Free State Project is the official organizer of two annual events in New Hampshire:\n\nIn 2006, Democrat Joel Winters became the first known free stater to become elected to the 400-member New Hampshire House of Representatives. Every two years, the entire House is up for election. In 2010, 12 Free Staters were elected. In 2012, 11 more were elected. In 2014, at least 18 were elected. In 2016, at least 15 were elected (out of 32).\n\n\n\n\nOn February 17, 2006, economist Walter Block publicly expressed his support for the FSP and is quoted as saying:\nJeffrey Tucker reflected about his experiences at the New Hampshire Liberty Forum in Nashua, saying in part: \"If you are willing to look past mainstream media coverage of American politics, you can actually find exciting and interesting activities taking place that rise above lobbying, voting, graft and corruption\".\n\nThe project has been endorsed by Ron Paul and Gary Johnson.\n\nIn 2010, Lew Rockwell from the Mises Institute endorsed the project and referred to the city of Keene, New Hampshire as \"The northern capital of libertarianism\".\n\nIn 2011, Peter Schiff said he had considered moving at one point.\n\nCritics argue that the Free State Project is \"radical\", a \"fantasy\", or that they \"go too far\" in seeking to restrict government.\n\nThe Free State Project was the centerpiece of the 2011 documentary film \"Libertopia\" as well as the 2014 crowdfunded documentary \"101 Reasons: Liberty Lives in New Hampshire\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "440006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=440006", "title": "Führerprinzip", "text": "Führerprinzip\n\nThe Führerprinzip (German for \"leader principle\") prescribed the fundamental basis of political authority in the governmental structures of the Third Reich. This principle can be most succinctly understood to mean that \"the \"Führer\"s word is above all written law\" and that governmental policies, decisions, and offices ought to work toward the realization of this end. In actual political usage, it refers mainly to the practice of dictatorship within the ranks of a political party itself, and as such, it has become an earmark of political fascism.\n\nThe \"Führerprinzip\" was not invented by the Nazis. Hermann von Keyserling, an ethnically German philosopher from Estonia, was the first to use the term. One of Keyserling's central claims was that certain \"gifted individuals\" were \"born to rule\" on the basis of Social Darwinism.\n\nThe ideology of the \"Führerprinzip\" sees each organization as a hierarchy of leaders, where every leader (\"Führer\", in German) has absolute responsibility in his own area, demands absolute obedience from those below him and answers only to his superiors. This required obedience and loyalty even over concerns of right and wrong. The supreme leader, Adolf Hitler, answered to God and the German people. Italian philosopher Giorgio Agamben has argued that Hitler saw himself as an incarnation of \"auctoritas\", and as the living law or highest law itself, effectively combining in his persona executive power, judicial power and legislative power. After the campaign against the alleged Röhm Putsch, Hitler declared: \"in this hour, I was responsible for the fate of the German nation and was therefore the supreme judge of the German people!\"\n\nThe \"Führerprinzip\" paralleled the functionality of military organizations, which continue to use a similar authority structure today, although in democratic countries members are supposed to be restrained by codes of conduct. The \"Freikorps\" – German paramilitary organizations made up of men who had fought in World War I and been mustered out after Germany's defeat, but who found it impossible to return to civilian life – were run on the Fuehrer Principle. Many of the same men had, earlier in life, been part of various German youth groups in the period from 1904-1913. These groups had also accepted the idea of blind obedience to a leader. The justification for the civil use of the \"Führerprinzip\" was that unquestioning obedience to superiors supposedly produced order and prosperity in which those deemed 'worthy' would share.\n\nIn the case of the Nazis, the \"Führerprinzip\" became integral to the Nazi Party in July 1921, when Adolf Hitler forced a showdown with the original leaders of the party after he learned that they were attempting to merge it with the somewhat larger German Socialist Party. Learning of this, and knowing that any merger would dilute his influence over the group, Hitler quit the Nazis. Realizing that the party would be completely ineffective without Hitler as their front man, the founder of the party, Anton Drexler, opened negotiations with Hitler, who delivered an ultimatum: he must be recognized as the sole leader (\"Führer\") of the party, with dictatorial powers. The executive committee gave in to his demands, and Hitler rejoined the party a few days later to become its permanent ruler, with Drexler kicked upstairs to be honorary chairman for life.\n\nIn time, as the party expanded, it fragmented somewhat, with the northern faction led by the Strasser brothers, Otto and Gregor, and including Joseph Goebbels, holding more socialist views then the southern faction controlled by Hitler in Munich. They differed in other ways as well, including on the party's acceptance of the Fuehrer Principle. In another confrontation engineered by Hitler, a party conference was called on February 14, 1926 in Bamberg. At this conference, Hitler won over the leaders of the northern faction with his oratorical skills, and the question of whether the NSDAP would follow the \"Führerprinzip\" was put to rest for good. \n\nWhen Hitler finally came to absolute power, after being appointed Chancellor and assuming the powers of the President when Paul von Hindenburg died, he changed his title to \"Fuehrer and Reich Chancellor\", and the \"Führerprinzip\" became an integral part of German society. Appointed mayors replaced elected local governments. Schools lost elected parents' councils and faculty advisory boards, with all authority being put in the headmaster's hands. The Nazis suppressed associations and unions with elected leaders, putting in their place mandatory associations with appointed leaders. The authorities allowed private corporations to keep their internal organization, but with a simple renaming from hierarchy to \"Führerprinzip\". Conflicting associations, e.g. sports associations responsible for the same sport, were \"coordinated\" into a single one under the leadership of a single \"Führer\", who appointed the \"Führer\" of a regional association, who appointed the sports club Führer, often appointing the person whom the club had previously elected. Shop stewards had their authority carefully circumscribed to prevent their infringing on that of the plant leader. Eventually, virtually no activity or organization in Germany could exist that was completely independent of party and/or state leadership.\n\nHermann Göring told Nevile Henderson that \"When a decision has to be taken, none of us counts more than the stones on which we are standing. It is the Führer alone who decides\". In practice, the selection of unsuitable candidates often led to micromanagement and commonly to an inability to formulate coherent policy. Albert Speer noted that many Nazi officials dreaded making decisions in Hitler's absence. Rules tended to become oral rather than written; leaders with initiative who flouted regulations and carved out their own spheres of influence might receive praise and promotion rather than censure.\n\nMany propaganda films developed the importance of the \"Führerprinzip\". \"Flüchtlinge\" depicted Volga German refugees saved from Communist persecution by a leader demanding unquestioning obedience. \"Der Herrscher\" altered its source material to depict its hero, Clausen, as the unwavering leader of his munitions firm, who, faced with his children's machinations, disowns them and bestows the firm on the state, confident that a worker will arise capable of continuing his work and, as a true leader, needing no instruction. \"Carl Peters\" shows the title character in firm, decisive action to hold and win African colonies, but brought down by a parliament that does not realize the necessity of \"Führerprinzip\".\n\nIn the schools, adolescent boys were presented with Nordic sagas as the illustration of \"Führerprinzip\", which was developed with such heroes as Frederick the Great and Otto von Bismarck.\n\nThis combined with the glorification of the one, central \"Führer\". During the Night of Long Knives, it was claimed that his decisive action saved Germany, though it meant (in Goebbels's description) suffering \"tragic loneliness\" from being a Siegfried forced to shed blood to preserve Germany. In one speech Robert Ley explicitly proclaimed \"The Führer is always right.\" Booklets given out for the Winter Relief donations included \"The Führer Makes History\", a collection of Hitler photographs, and \"The Führer’s Battle in the East\" Films such as \"Der Marsch zum Führer\" and \"Triumph of the Will\" glorified him.\n\nCarl Schmitt – drawn to the Nazi party by his admiration for a decisive leader praised him in his pamphlet \"State, Volk and Movement\" because only the ruthless will of such a leader could save Germany and its people from the \"asphalt culture\" of modernity, to bring about unity and authenticity.\n\nDuring the post-war Nuremberg Trials, Nazi war criminals—and, later, Adolf Eichmann during the trial in Israel—used the \"Führerprinzip\" concept to argue that they were not guilty of war crimes by claiming that they were only following orders. Eichmann may have declared his conscience was inconvenienced by war events in order to \"do his job\" as best he could. \n\nIn \"Eichmann in Jerusalem\", Hannah Arendt concluded that, aside from a desire for improving his career, Eichmann showed no trace of anti-Semitism or psychological abnormalities whatsoever. She called him the embodiment of the \"banality of evil\", as he appeared at his trial to have an ordinary and common personality, displaying neither guilt nor hatred, denying any form of responsibility. Eichmann argued he was simply \"doing his job\" and maintained he had always tried to act in accordance with Kant's categorical imperative. Arendt suggested that these statements most strikingly discredit the idea that Nazi criminals were manifestly psychopathic and different from common people, that even the most ordinary of people can commit horrendous crimes if placed in the catalyzing situation, and given the correct incentives. However, Arendt disagreed with this interpretation, as Eichmann justified himself with the \"Führerprinzip\". Arendt argued that children obey, whereas adults adhere to an ideology.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "652214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=652214", "title": "Hung parliament", "text": "Hung parliament\n\nA hung parliament is a term used in legislatures under the Westminster system to describe a situation in which no particular political party or pre-existing coalition (also known as an alliance or bloc) has an absolute majority of legislators (commonly known as members or seats) in a parliament or other legislature. This situation is also known, albeit less commonly, as a balanced parliament, or as a legislature under no overall control, and can result in a minority government. The term is not relevant in multi-party systems where it is rare for a single party to hold a majority.\n\nIn the Westminster System, in the circumstance of a hung parliament, no party or coalition has an automatic mandate to assume control of the executive – a status usually known in parliamentary systems as \"forming (a) government\". However, an absolute majority may still be gained through the formation of a new coalition government, or the addition of previously unaffiliated members to a pre-existing coalition. However, a minority government may instead result: that is, the party that has the most members is allowed to form government without an absolute majority, provided that it has the express, ongoing support of unaffiliated members, such as minor parties and/or independent legislators.\n\nA normal objective of parliamentary systems – especially those requiring responsible government, such as the Westminster system – is the formation of a stable government (i.e. ideally one that lasts a full parliamentary term, until the next election would normally be due). This requires a government to be able to muster sufficient votes in parliament to pass motions of confidence and supply, especially motions of no-confidence and budget bills). If such motions fail, they normally result in the dissolution of parliament and a fresh election. In some parliamentary systems, however, a new government may be formed without recourse to an election – if, for example, a minor party holds the balance of power, it may publicly express for the opposition, thereby creating a new majority.\n\nThe term hung parliament is most often used of parliaments dominated by two major parties or coalitions. General elections in such systems usually result in one party having an absolute majority and thus quickly forming a new government. In most parliamentary systems, a hung parliament is considered exceptional and is often seen by all parties and observers as undesirable. In other contexts, a hung parliament may be seen as ideal – for example, if opinions among the voting public are polarised regarding one or more issues, a hung parliament may lead to the emergence of a compromise or consensus.\n\nIf a legislature is bicameral, the term \"hung parliament\" is usually used only with respect to the lower house.\n\nIn a multi-party system with legislators elected by proportional representation or a similar systems, it is usually exceptionally rare and difficult for any party to have an absolute majority. Under such situations, hung parliaments are often taken for granted and coalition governments are normal. However, the term may be used to describe an election in which no established coalition wins an outright majority (such as the German federal election of 2005 or the 2018 Italian general election).\n\nBecause Ireland uses PR-STV, it is rare for any one party to have a majority on its own. \nThe last such occasion was 1977. However, one or other coalitions are known to be possible before and during the election. Therefore, a \"hung Dáil\" (Dáil Éireann being the lower and most dominant chamber of the Oireachtas/Parliament) in Ireland refers more to the inability of a coalition of parties who traditionally enter government together or would be expected to govern together, from doing so.\n\nThe President has no direct role in the formation of governments in the case of a hung parliament. However he retains the power to convene a meeting of either or both the Dáil and Senate which could become important if there was a government trying to use parliamentary recess to prevent confidence votes and hold onto power. The President may also refuse to dissolve Dáil Eireann and call an election if the Taoiseach loses a vote of confidence, instead giving the other parties a chance to see if they can put together a government without proceeding to another election.\n\nIn 2016, Fine Gael and Labour, who had been in government the previous five years, were unable, due to Labours collapse, to enter government again. Fianna Fáil had enough seats to put together a rainbow government with the other centre-left, hard left parties and independents but negotiations broke down. Fianna Fáil had also promised not to enter coalition with Sinn Féin due to the current leaderships Provisional IRA connections.\n\nThe press began to speculate about a Germany style \"Grand Coalition\" similar to the Christian Democrats and Social Democrats there. Many members of FF considered FG too right wing to enter coalition with and threatened to leave the party this came to pass. As talks continued on without a new government (the old government, constitutionally, which had just been voted out, remaining in power including ministers who had lost their seats) FF agreed to allow a government to form by abstention. The parliamentary arithmetic fell in such a way that if FF TD's abstained on confidence and supply matters, a FG minority govt could, with the support of a group of independents, form a new government. This was agreed in exchange for a number of policy concessions. \nOnce the deal with FF was signed, Taoiseach Enda Kenny conducted talks with the independents and entered government for a second term.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, before World War I, a largely stable two-party system existed for generations; traditionally, only the Tories and Whigs, or from the mid-19th century the Conservative and Liberal parties, managed to deliver Members of Parliament in significant numbers. Hung parliaments were thus rare, especially during the 19th century. The possibility of change arose when, in the aftermath of the Act of Union, 1800, a number of Irish MPs took seats in the House, though initially these followed the traditional alignments. However, two Reform Acts (in 1867 and in 1884) significantly extended the franchise and redrew the constituencies, and coincided with a change in Irish politics. After the 1885 general election, neither party had an overall majority. The Irish Parliamentary Party held the balance of power and made Irish Home Rule a condition of their support. However, the Liberal Party split on the issue of Irish Home Rule, leading to another general election in 1886, in which the Conservatives won the most seats and governed with the support of the fragment of Liberalism opposed to Home Rule, the Liberal Unionist Party.\n\nBoth the election of January 1910, and that of December 1910 produced a hung parliament with an almost identical number of seats won by the governing Liberal Party and the Conservative Party. This was due both to the constitutional crisis and to the rise of the Labour Party. The elections of 1929 resulted in the last hung parliament for many years; in the meantime, Labour had replaced the Liberals as one of the two dominating parties.\n\nSince the elections of 1929, there have been three general elections that resulted in hung parliaments in the UK. The first was the election in February 1974, and the ensuing parliament lasted only until October. The second was the May 2010 election, the result of which was a hung parliament with the Conservative party as the largest single party. The results for the 3 main parties were: Conservatives 306, Labour 258, Liberal Democrats 57. The third one resulted from the snap election held in June 2017 that had been called for by Theresa May in order to strengthen her majority heading into Brexit negotiations later in 2017. However, this election backfired on May and her Conservative Party, resulting in a hung parliament after the snap election.\n\nThe formation of the coalition resulting from the 2010 election led to the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011, which instituted fixed five-year Parliaments and transferred the power to call early elections from the Prime Minister to Parliament itself. This was the idea of the Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg, then the leader of the Liberal Democrats, who said that this would stop the Prime Minister and leader of the Conservative Party, David Cameron, from calling a snap election to end the hung parliament, as many other Conservatives had requested.\n\nHung parliaments can also arise when slim government majorities are eroded by by-election defeats and defection of Members of Parliament to opposition parties, as well as resignations of MPs from the House of Commons. This happened in December 1996 to the Conservative government of John Major (1990–97) and in mid-1978 to the Labour government of James Callaghan (1976–79); this latter period covers the era known as the Winter of Discontent. The minority government of Jim Callaghan came when Labour ended their 15-month Lib-Lab pact with the Liberals having lost their majority in early 1977.\n\nAccording to researchers Andrew Blick and Stuart Wilks-Heeg, the phrase \"hung parliament\" did not enter into common usage in the UK until the mid-1970s. It was first used in the press by journalist Simon Hoggart in \"The Guardian\" in 1974.\n\nAcademic treatments of hung parliaments include David Butler's \"Governing Without a Majority: Dilemmas for Hung Parliaments in Britain\" (Sheridan House, 1986) and Vernon Bogdanor's 'Multi-Party Politics and the Constitution' (Cambridge University Press, 1983).\n\nThree recent Canadian Parliaments (the 38th, the 39th, and the 40th Parliaments) were hung parliaments, although that term is not used in Canada. Rather, the term \"minority government\" is used to describe the situation in which the party with the greatest number of seats in the House of Commons (but less than a majority) forms the Government. The aftermath of all three of these elections was that the largest party ruled as a \"minority government\". Although minority governments have tended to be short-lived, the two successive minorities under Prime Minister Stephen Harper managed to hold on to power from February 2006 until a no confidence vote in March 2011 resulted in the dissolution of Parliament and elections held on 2 May 2011. The subsequent election saw a majority parliament elected with Harper's Conservative Party obtaining a 24-seat majority. The make-up of the 40th Canadian Parliament hung parliament resulted in the 2008–09 Canadian parliamentary dispute. The Conservative Party had a plurality of seats, however, the Liberal Party and New Democratic Party together held enough seats to have a larger plurality and reached an accord to form a minority coalition government. The Bloc Québécois agreed to provide support on confidence votes. On 4 December 2008, Governor General Michaëlle Jean granted Prime Minister Stephen Harper a prorogation on the condition that parliament reconvene early in the new year; the date was set as 26 January 2009. The first session of the 40th parliament thus ended, delaying a vote of no-confidence.\n\nAustralian parliaments are modelled on the Westminster system, with a hung parliament typically defined as a lack of a lower house parliamentary majority from either the Australian Labor Party or Liberal/National Coalition.\n\nHung parliaments are rare at the federal level in Australia, as a virtual two-party system, in which the Australian Labor Party competes against an alliance of the conservative parties, has existed with only brief interruptions since the early 20th century. Prior to 1910, no party had a majority in the House of Representatives. As a result, there were frequent changes of government, several of which took place during parliamentary terms. Since 1910, when the two-party system was cemented, there have been two hung parliaments, the first in 1940, and the second in 2010. At the 1940 federal election, incumbent Prime Minister Robert Menzies secured the support of the two crossbenchers and continued to govern, but in 1941 the independents switched their support to Labor, bringing John Curtin to power.\n\nDeclining support for the major parties in recent times is leading to more non-majoritarian outcomes at elections. At the 2010 federal election, which resulted in an exact 72-72 seat tie between Labor and The Liberal-National Coalition, incumbent Prime Minister Julia Gillard secured the support of four out of six Independent and Green Party crossbenchers and continued to govern.\n\nIn the most recent election a hung parliament was only narrowly averted with the Liberal-National Coalition winning 76 seats, the bare minimum required to form a majority government. The Liberal-National Coalition government lost its majority government status after a by-election in 2018.\n\nHaving hung Parliaments in both Australia and the United Kingdom at the same time, and also briefly including Canada as well, is unprecedented in the history of the Commonwealth of Nations. \n\nHung parliaments are rather more common at a state level. The Tasmanian House of Assembly and the unicameral Parliament of the Australian Capital Territory are both elected by Hare-Clark proportional representation, thus, elections commonly return hung parliaments. In other states and territories, candidates contest single-member seats. With far fewer seats than federal parliament, hung parliaments are more likely to be elected. Recent examples include New South Wales in 1991, Queensland in 1998 and 2015, Victoria in 1999, South Australia in 1997 and 2002, Western Australia in 2008, the Australian Capital Territory in 2008, and Tasmania in 2010.\n\nHung parliaments had a relatively uncommon place in New Zealand politics prior to the introduction of proportional representation in 1993. Only on five occasions since the beginnings of modern party politics in 1890 has a hung parliament occurred, in 1911, 1922, 1928, 1931 & 1993 respectively. The rarity between 1936 and 1996 was due to the regression into a two party system, alternating between the long dominating New Zealand Labour Party and New Zealand National Party. Since the first MMP election in 1996 no single party has gained an outright majority in parliament. Subsequent governments have all been formed as either coalitions or under confidence and supply agreements. \n\nIn countries used to decisive election outcomes, a hung parliament is often viewed as an unfavourable outcome, leading to relatively weak and unstable government. A period of uncertainty after the election is common, as major party leaders negotiate with independents and minor parties to establish a working majority.\n\nAn aspiring head of government may seek to build a coalition government; in Westminster systems, this typically involves agreement on a joint legislative programme and a number of ministerial posts going to the minor coalition partners, in return for a stable majority. Alternatively, a minority government may be formed, establishing confidence and supply agreements in return for policy concessions agreed in advance, or relying on case by case support.\n\nIn the Western Australian state election of 2008 the Australian Labor Party won more seats than the Liberal Party at 28 to 24. The National Party along with three independents had the seats needed to give either party a majority. To help the Liberal Party form government, the Nationals supported the party on the condition that the Royalties for Regions policy was implemented.\n\nIn the 1999 Victorian state election, the Labor Party won 42 seats, while the incumbent Liberal National Coalition retained 43, with 3 seats falling to independents. The Labor Party formed a minority government with the 3 independents.\n\nThe 2010 Tasmanian state election resulted in a hung parliament. After a period of negotiation, the incumbent Labor government led by David Bartlett was recommissioned, but containing the Leader of the Tasmanian Greens, Nick McKim, as a minister, and the Greens' Cassy O'Connor as Cabinet Secretary.\n\nIn the 2010 federal election, neither Labor nor the Liberal coalition secured the majority of seats required to form a Government in their own right. In order to counter the potential instability of minority government involved groups may negotiate written agreements defining their terms of support. Such measures were undertaken by the Gillard Government in 2010.\n\nIn India if an election results in a 'hung assembly' in one of the state Legislative Assemblies and no party is capable of gaining confidence then fresh elections are announced to be held as soon as possible. Until this occurs President's Rule (or in the State of Jammu and Kashmir 'Governor's Rule') is applied. In India there have been many situations of hung assemblies in the state legislatures.\n\nThe first such occasion was in 1911 when the Liberal Party won fewer seats than the opposition Reform Party despite tallying the most votes. A vote of no confidence was placed by Reform and the Liberals survived by just one vote. This prompted Prime Minister Sir Joseph Ward to resign, his replacement Thomas Mackenzie was later defeated in July 1912 in a vote with several MPs and Labour crossing the floor to vote with the opposition, the last time in New Zealand history a government has changed on a confidence vote. This broke 23 years of Liberal governance and William Massey formed a new Reform Party government. Massey governed through to his death in 1925, though in 1922 the Reform Party suffered major losses and Massey was forced negotiate with several Independent MPs to retain power.\n\nIn 1928, Reform were ousted from governance and Joseph Ward once again won back power. However, the Reform and United (Liberal) parties were tied on seats with Labour holding the balance of power. Labour chose to back Ward rather than let Reform leader Gordon Coates remain in office. In the next election in 1931, there was again a three-way deadlock. On this occasion the Reform and United parties became a coalition government out of mutual fear of Labour's ever-increasing appeal as the Great Depression worsened.\n\n1993 was the last time a hung parliament occurred in New Zealand. Governor-General Dame Catherine Tizard asked Sir David Beattie to form a committee, along with three retired appeal court judges, to decide whom to appoint as Prime Minister. \n\nIn the February 1974 General Election, no party gained an overall parliamentary majority. Labour won the most seats (301, which was 17 seats short of an overall majority) with the Conservatives on 297 seats, although the Conservatives had a larger share of the popular vote. As the incumbent Prime Minister, Edward Heath remained in office, attempting to build a coalition with the Liberals. When these negotiations were unsuccessful Heath resigned and Labour led by Harold Wilson took over in a minority government.\n\nIn the 2010 UK General Election, another hung parliament occurred with the Conservatives as the largest party, and discussions followed to help create a stable government. This resulted in agreement on a coalition government, which was also a majority government, between the Conservative Party, which won the most votes and seats in the election, and the Liberal Democrats.\n\nIn the 2017 UK General Election, a hung parliament occurred for the second time in seven years with the Conservatives again being the largest party. The Conservatives led by Theresa May formed a minority government, supported by a confidence-and-supply agreement with the Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party.\n\nThere have been occasions when, although a parliament or assembly is technically hung, the party in power has a working majority. For example, in the United Kingdom, the tradition is that the Speaker and Deputy Speakers do not vote and Sinn Féin MPs never take their seats, so these members can be discounted from the opposition numbers.\n\nIn 2005, this was the case in the 60-seat National Assembly for Wales, where Labour lost their majority when Peter Law was expelled for standing against the official candidate in the 2005 Westminster election in the Blaenau Gwent constituency. When the Assembly was first elected on 1 May 2003, Labour won 30 seats, Plaid Cymru won 12, the Conservatives won 11, Liberal Democrats won 6, and the John Marek Independent Party won a seat.\n\nWhen Dafydd Elis-Thomas (Plaid Cymru) was reelected as the presiding officer, this reduced the number of opposition AMs who could vote to 29, as the presiding officer votes only in the event of a tie and, even then, not on party political lines but according to Speaker Denison's rule. Thus, Labour had a working majority of one seat until Law ran in Blaenau Gwent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7198484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7198484", "title": "Internal security", "text": "Internal security\n\nInternal security, or IS, is the act of keeping peace within the borders of a sovereign state or other self-governing territories, generally by upholding the national law and defending against internal security threats. Responsibility for internal security may range from police to paramilitary forces, and in exceptional circumstances, the military itself.\n\nThreats to the general peace may range from low-level civil disorder, large scale violence, or even an armed insurgency. Threats to internal security may be directed at either the state's citizens, or the organs and infrastructure of the state itself, and may range from petty crime, serious organised crime, political or industrial unrest, or even domestic terrorism. Foreign powers may also act as a threat to internal security, by either committing or sponsoring terrorism or rebellion, without actually declaring war.\n\nGovernmental responsibility for internal security will generally rest with an interior ministry, as opposed to a defence ministry. Depending on the state, a state's internal security will be maintained by either the ordinary police or law enforcement agencies or more militarised police forces (known as Gendarmerie or, literally, the Internal Troops.). Other specialised internal security agencies may exist to augment these main forces, such as border guards, special police units, or aspects of the state's intelligence agencies. In some states, internal security may be the primary responsibility of a secret police force.\n\nThe level of authorised force used by agencies and forces responsible for maintaining internal security might range from unarmed police to fully armed paramilitary organisations, or employ some level of less-lethal weaponry in between. For violent situations, internal security forces may contain some element of military type equipment such as non-military armored vehicles.\n\nDepending on the organisation of the state, internal security forces may have jurisdiction on national or federal levels. As the concept of internal security refers to the entity of the state and its citizens, persons who are threats to internal security may be designated as an enemy of the state or enemy of the people.\n\nPersons detained by internal security forces may either be dealt with by the normal criminal justice system, or for more serious crimes against internal security such as treason, they may face special measures such as secret trials. In times of extreme unrest, internal security actions may include measures such as internment (detention without trial).\n\nDepending on the nature of the specific state's form of government, enforcing internal security will generally not be carried out by a country's military forces, whose primary role is external defence, except in times of extreme unrest or other state of emergency, short of civil war. Often, military involvement in internal security is explicitly prohibited, or is restricted to authorised military aid to the civil power as part of the principle of civilian control of the military. Military special forces units may in some cases be put under the temporary command of civilian powers, for special internal security situations such as counter terrorism operations.\n\n"}
{"id": "243433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=243433", "title": "Iran hostage crisis", "text": "Iran hostage crisis\n\nThe Iran hostage crisis was a diplomatic standoff between Iran and the United States of America. Fifty-two American diplomats and citizens were held hostage for 444 days from November 4, 1979, to January 20, 1981, after a group of Iranian college students belonging to the Muslim Student Followers of the Imam's Line, who supported the Iranian Revolution, took over the U.S. Embassy in Tehran. It stands as the longest hostage crisis in recorded history.\n\nThe crisis was described by Western media as an \"entanglement\" of \"vengeance and mutual incomprehension\". American President Jimmy Carter called the hostage-taking an act of \"blackmail\" and the hostages \"victims of terrorism and anarchy\". In Iran it was widely seen as an act against the U.S. and its influence in Iran, including its perceived attempts to undermine the Iranian Revolution and its longstanding support of the Shah of Iran, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, who was overthrown in 1979.\n\nAfter being overthrown, Shah Pahlavi was admitted to the U.S. for cancer treatment. Iran demanded that he be returned to stand trial for crimes he was accused of committing during his reign. Specifically, he was accused of committing crimes against Iranian citizens with the help of his secret police. Iran's demands were rejected by the United States, and Iran saw the decision to grant him asylum as American complicity in those atrocities. The Americans saw the hostage-taking as an egregious violation of the principles of international law, such as the Vienna Convention, which granted diplomats immunity from arrest and made diplomatic compounds inviolable.\n\nThe crisis reached a climax after diplomatic negotiations failed to win release for the hostages. Carter ordered the U.S. military to attempt a rescue operation using warships—including the and —that were patrolling the waters near Iran. On April 24, 1980, the attempt, known as Operation Eagle Claw, failed, resulting in the accidental deaths of eight American servicemen and one Iranian civilian, as well as the destruction of two helicopters. Six American diplomats who had evaded capture were eventually rescued by a joint CIA-Canadian effort on January 27, 1980.\n\nShah Pahlavi left the United States in December 1979 and was ultimately granted asylum in Egypt, where he died from complications of cancer on July 27, 1980. In September 1980 the Iraqi military invaded Iran, beginning the Iran–Iraq War. These events led the Iranian government to enter negotiations with the U.S., with Algeria acting as a mediator. The crisis is considered a pivotal episode in the history of Iran–United States relations. \n\nPolitical analysts cite it as a major factor in the downfall of Carter's presidency and his landslide loss in the 1980 presidential election; the hostages were formally released into United States custody the day after the signing of the Algiers Accords, just minutes after American President Ronald Reagan was sworn into office. In Iran the crisis strengthened the prestige of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini and the political power of theocrats who opposed any normalization of relations with the West. The crisis also led to American economic sanctions against Iran, further weakening ties between the two countries.\n\nIn February 1979, less than a year before the crisis, the Pahlavi dynasty was overthrown during the Iranian Revolution. For several decades before that, the United States had allied with and supported the Shah. During World War II, Allied powers Britain and the Soviet Union occupied Iran to force the abdication of first Pahlavi monarch Reza Shah Pahlavi, in favor of his eldest son, Crown Prince Mohammad. The Allies feared that Reza Shah intended to align his petroleum-rich country with Nazi Germany, but Reza Shah's earlier declaration of neutrality, and his refusal to allow Iranian territory to be used to train or supply Soviet troops against Germany, were the strongest motives for the Allied invasion of Iran. Because of its importance in the Allied victory, Iran was subsequently called \"The Bridge of Victory\" by Winston Churchill.\n\nBy the 1950s Mohammad Reza Pahlavi was engaged in a power struggle with Iran's prime minister, Mohammad Mosaddegh, an immediate descendant of the preceding Qajar dynasty. Mosaddegh led a general strike on behalf of impoverished Iranians, demanding a share of the nation's petroleum revenue from Britain's Anglo-Iranian Oil Company. However, he overstepped in trying to get $50 million in damages and lost revenue from the British. In 1953, the British and American spy agencies helped Iranian royalists depose Mosaddegh in a military \"coup d'état\" codenamed Operation Ajax, allowing the Shah to extend his power. The Shah appointed himself an absolute monarch rather than a constitutional monarch, his position before the 1953 crisis, with the aim of assuming complete control of the government and purging the disloyal. The U.S. continued to support and fund the Shah after the coup, with the Central Intelligence Agency training the government's SAVAK secret police. In the subsequent decades of the Cold War, various economic, cultural, and political issues united opposition against the Shah and led to his overthrow.\n\nMonths before the revolution, on New Year's Eve 1977, President Carter further angered anti-Shah Iranians with a televised toast to Pahlavi, declaring how beloved the shah was by his people. After the revolution culminated in February 1979 with the return of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini from France, the American Embassy was occupied and its staff held hostage briefly. Rocks and bullets had broken so many of the embassy's front-facing windows that they had been replaced with bulletproof glass. The embassy's staff was reduced to just over 60 from a high of nearly one thousand earlier in the decade.\n\nThe Carter administration tried to mitigate anti-American feeling by promoting a new relationship with the \"de facto\" Iranian government and continuing military cooperation in hopes that the situation would stabilize. However, on October 22, 1979, the United States permitted the Shah, who had lymphoma, to enter New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center for medical treatment. The State Department had discouraged the request, understanding the political delicacy. But in response to pressure from influential figures including former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and Council on Foreign Relations Chairman David Rockefeller, the Carter administration decided to grant it.\n\nThe Shah's admission to the United States intensified Iranian revolutionaries' anti-Americanism and spawned rumors of another U.S.–backed coup that would re-install him. Ayatollah Khomeini, who had been exiled by the shah for 15 years, heightened the rhetoric against the \"Great Satan\", as he called the United States, talking of \"evidence of American plotting\". In addition to ending what they believed was American sabotage of the revolution, the hostage takers hoped to depose the provisional revolutionary government of Prime Minister Mehdi Bazargan, which they believed was plotting to normalize relations with the United States and extinguish Islamic revolutionary order in Iran. The occupation of the embassy on November 4, 1979, was also intended as leverage to demand the return of the shah to stand trial in Iran in exchange for the hostages.\n\nA later study claimed that there had been no American plots to overthrow the revolutionaries, and that a CIA intelligence-gathering mission at the embassy had been \"notably ineffectual, gathering little information and hampered by the fact that none of the three officers spoke the local language, Persian.\" Its work, the study said, was \"routine, prudent espionage conducted at diplomatic missions everywhere.\"\n\nOn the morning of February 14, 1979 – the same day that the U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan, Adolph Dubs, was kidnapped and fatally shot by Muslim extremists in Kabul – the Organization of Iranian People's Fedai Guerrillas stormed the U.S. Embassy in Tehran and took a Marine named Kenneth Kraus hostage. Ambassador William Sullivan surrendered the embassy to save lives, and with the assistance of Iranian Foreign Minister Ebrahim Yazdi, returned the embassy to U.S. hands within three hours. Kraus was injured in the attack, kidnapped by the militants, tortured, tried, and convicted of murder. He was to be executed, but President Carter and Sullivan secured his release within six days. This incident became known as the Valentine's Day Open House.\n\nThe next attempt to seize the American Embassy was planned for September 1979 by Ebrahim Asgharzadeh, a student at the time. He consulted with the heads of the Islamic associations of Tehran's main universities, including the University of Tehran, Sharif University of Technology, Amirkabir University of Technology (Polytechnic of Tehran), and Iran University of Science and Technology. They named their group Muslim Student Followers of the Imam's Line.\n\nAsgharzadeh later said there were five students at the first meeting, two of whom wanted to target the Soviet Embassy because the USSR was \"a Marxist and anti-God regime\". Two others, Mohsen Mirdamadi and Habibolah Bitaraf, supported Asgharzadeh's chosen target: the United States. \"Our aim was to object against the American government by going to their embassy and occupying it for several hours,\" Asgharzadeh said. \"Announcing our objections from within the occupied compound would carry our message to the world in a much more firm and effective way.\" Mirdamadi told an interviewer, \"We intended to detain the diplomats for a few days, maybe one week, but no more.\" Masoumeh Ebtekar, the spokeswoman for the Iranian students during the crisis, said that those who rejected Asgharzadeh's plan did not participate in the subsequent events.\n\nThe students observed the procedures of the Marine Security Guards from nearby rooftops overlooking the embassy. They also drew on their experiences from the recent revolution, during which the U.S. Embassy grounds were briefly occupied. They enlisted the support of police officers in charge of guarding the embassy and of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards.\n\nAccording to the group and other sources, Ayatollah Khomeini did not know of the plan beforehand. The students had wanted to inform him, but according to the author Mark Bowden, Ayatollah Mohammad Mousavi Khoeiniha persuaded them not to. Khoeiniha feared that the government would use the police to expel the students as they had the occupiers in February. The provisional government had been appointed by Khomeini, and so Khomeini was likely to go along with the government's request to restore order. On the other hand, Khoeiniha knew that if Khomeini first saw that the occupiers were faithful supporters of him (unlike the leftists in the first occupation) and that large numbers of pious Muslims had gathered outside the embassy to show their support for the takeover, it would be \"very hard, perhaps even impossible\", for him to oppose the takeover, and this would paralyze the Bazargan administration, which Khoeiniha and the students wanted to eliminate.\n\nSupporters of the takeover stated that their motivation was fear of another American-backed coup against their popular revolution. They claimed that in 1953, the American Embassy had acted as a \"den of spies\" from which the coup was organized. Documents were later found in the embassy suggesting that some staff members had been working with American intelligence agencies. After the Shah entered the United States, Ayatollah Khomeini called for street demonstrations.\n\nOn November 4, 1979, one of the demonstrations organized by Iranian student unions loyal to Khomeini erupted into an all-out conflict right outside the walled compound housing the U.S. Embassy.\n\nAround 6:30 a.m., the ringleaders gathered between three hundred and five hundred selected students and briefed them on the battle plan. A female student was given a pair of metal cutters to break the chains locking the embassy's gates and hid them beneath her chador.\n\nAt first, the students planned a symbolic occupation, in which they would release statements to the press and leave when government security forces came to restore order. This was reflected in placards saying: \"Don't be afraid. We just want to sit in.\" When the embassy guards brandished firearms, the protesters retreated, with one telling the Americans, \"We don't mean any harm.\" But as it became clear that the guards would not use deadly force and that a large, angry crowd had gathered outside the compound to cheer the occupiers and jeer the hostages, the plan changed. According to one embassy staff member, buses full of demonstrators began to appear outside the embassy shortly after the Muslim Student Followers of the Imam's Line broke through the gates.\n\nAs Khomeini's followers had hoped, Khomeini supported the takeover. According to Foreign Minister Yazdi, when he went to Qom to tell Khomeini about it, Khomeini told him to \"go and kick them out.\" But later that evening, back in Tehran, Yazdi heard on the radio that Khomeini had issued a statement supporting the seizure, calling it \"the second revolution\" and the embassy an \"American spy den in Tehran\".\nThe occupiers bound and blindfolded the Marines and staff at the embassy and paraded them in front of photographers. In the first couple of days, many of the embassy workers who had sneaked out of the compound or had not been there at the time of the takeover were rounded up by Islamists and returned as hostages. Six American diplomats managed to avoid capture and took refuge in the British Embassy before being transferred to the Canadian Embassy. Others went to the Swedish Embassy in Tehran for three months. In a joint covert operation known as the Canadian caper, the Canadian government and the CIA managed to smuggle them out of Iran on January 28, 1980, using Canadian passports and a cover story that identified them as a film crew.\n\nA State Department diplomatic cable of November 8, 1979, details \"A Tentative, Incomplete List of U.S. Personnel Being Held in the Embassy Compound\".\n\nThe Muslim Student Followers of the Imam's Line demanded that Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi return to Iran for trial and execution. The U.S. maintained that the Shah—who was to die less than a year later, in July 1980—had come to America for medical attention. The group's other demands included that the U.S. government apologize for its interference in the internal affairs of Iran, including the overthrow of Prime Minister Mosaddegh in 1953, and that Iran's frozen assets in the United States be released.\nThe initial plan was to hold the embassy for only a short time, but this changed after it became apparent how popular the takeover was and that Khomeini had given it his full support. Some attributed the decision not to release the hostages quickly to President Carter's failure to immediately deliver an ultimatum to Iran. His initial response was to appeal for the release of the hostages on humanitarian grounds and to share his hopes for a strategic anti-communist alliance with the Ayatollah. As some of the student leaders had hoped, Iran's moderate prime minister, Bazargan, and his cabinet resigned under pressure just days after the takeover.\n\nThe duration of the hostages' captivity has also been attributed to internal Iranian revolutionary politics. As Ayatollah Khomeini told Iran's president:\n\nThis has united our people. Our opponents do not dare act against us. We can put the constitution to the people's vote without difficulty, and carry out presidential and parliamentary elections.\n\nTheocratic Islamists, as well as leftist political groups like the socialist People's Mujahedin of Iran, supported the taking of hostages as a counterattack against \"American imperialism\". According to scholar Daniel Pipes, writing in 1980, the Marxist-leaning leftists and the Islamists shared a common antipathy toward market-based reforms under the late Shah, and both subsumed individualism, including the unique identity of women, under conservative, though contrasting, visions of collectivism. Accordingly, both groups favored the Soviet Union over the United States in the early months of the Iranian Revolution. The Soviets, and possibly their allies Cuba, Libya, and East Germany, were suspected of providing indirect assistance to the participants in the takeover of the U.S. embassy in Tehran. The PLO under Yasser Arafat provided personnel, intelligence liaisons, funding, and training for Khomeini's forces before and after the Revolution, and was suspected of playing a role in the embassy crisis. Fidel Castro reportedly praised Khomeini as a revolutionary anti-imperialist who could find common cause between revolutionary socialists and anti-American Islamists. Both expressed disdain for modern capitalism and a preference for authoritarian collectivism. Cuba and its socialist ally Venezuela, under Hugo Chávez, would later form ALBA in alliance with the Islamic Republic as a counter to neoliberal American influence.\n\nRevolutionary teams displayed secret documents purportedly taken from the embassy, sometimes painstakingly reconstructed after shredding, to buttress their claim that \"the Great Satan\" (the U.S.) was trying to destabilize the new regime and that Iranian moderates were in league with the U.S. The documents – including telegrams, correspondence, and reports from the U.S. State Department and CIA – were published in a series of books called \"Documents from the U.S. Espionage Den\" (). According to a 1997 Federation of American Scientists bulletin, by 1995, 77 volumes of \"Documents from the U.S. Espionage Den\" had been published. Many of these volumes are now available online.\n\nBy embracing the hostage-taking under the slogan \"America can't do a thing\", Khomeini rallied support and deflected criticism of his controversial theocratic constitution, which was scheduled for a referendum vote in less than one month. The referendum was successful, and after the vote, both leftists and theocrats continued to use allegations of pro-Americanism to suppress their opponents: relatively moderate political forces that included the Iranian Freedom Movement, the National Front, Grand Ayatollah Mohammad Kazem Shariatmadari, and later President Abolhassan Banisadr. In particular, carefully selected diplomatic dispatches and reports discovered at the embassy and released by the hostage-takers led to the disempowerment and resignation of moderate figures such as Bazargan. The failed rescue attempt and the political danger of any move seen as accommodating America delayed a negotiated release of the hostages. After the crisis ended, leftists and theocrats turned on each other, with the stronger theocratic group annihilating the left.\n\nThe hostage-takers, declaring their solidarity with other \"oppressed minorities\" and \"the special place of women in Islam\", released one woman and two African Americans on November 19. Before release, these hostages were required by their captors to hold a press conference in which Kathy Gross and William Quarles praised the revolution's aims, but four further women and six African-Americans were released the following day. The only African-American hostage not released that month was Charles A. Jones, Jr. One more hostage, a white man named Richard Queen, was released in July 1980 after he became seriously ill with what was later diagnosed as multiple sclerosis. The remaining 52 hostages were held until January 1981, up to 444 days of captivity.\n\nThe hostages were initially held at the embassy, but after the failed rescue mission, they were scattered around Iran to make a single rescue impossible. Three high-level officials – Bruce Laingen, Victor L. Tomseth, and Mike Howland – were at the Foreign Ministry at the time of the takeover. They stayed there for some months, sleeping in the ministry's formal dining room and washing their socks and underwear in the bathroom. At first, they were treated as diplomats, but after the provisional government fell, their treatment deteriorated. By March, the doors to their living space were kept \"chained and padlocked.\"\n\nBy midsummer 1980, the Iranians had moved the hostages to prisons in Tehran to prevent escapes or rescue attempts and to improve the logistics of guard shifts and food delivery. The final holding area, from November 1980 until their release, was the Teymur Bakhtiar mansion in Tehran, where the hostages were finally given tubs, showers, and hot and cold running water. Several foreign diplomats and ambassadors – including former Canadian ambassador Ken Taylor – visited the hostages over the course of the crisis and relayed information back to the U.S. government, including dispatches from Laingen.\n\nIranian propaganda stated that the hostages were \"guests\" and were treated with respect. Asgharzadeh, the student leader, described the original plan as a nonviolent and symbolic action in which the \"gentle and respectful treatment\" of the hostages would dramatize to the world the offended sovereignty and dignity of Iran. In America, an Iranian chargé d'affaires, Ali Agha, stormed out of a meeting with an American official, exclaiming: \"We are not mistreating the hostages. They are being very well taken care of in Tehran. They are our guests.\"\n\nThe actual treatment was far different. The hostages described beatings, theft, and fear of bodily harm. Two of them, William Belk and Kathryn Koob, recalled being paraded blindfolded before an angry, chanting crowd outside the embassy. Others reported having their hands bound \"day and night\" for days or even weeks; long periods of solitary confinement; and months of being forbidden to speak to one another or to stand, walk, or leave their space unless they were going to the bathroom. All of the hostages \"were threatened repeatedly with execution, and took it seriously\". The hostage-takers played Russian roulette with their victims.\n\nThe most terrifying night for the hostages came on February 5, 1980, when guards in black ski masks roused them from their sleep and led them blindfolded to other rooms. They were searched after being ordered to strip naked and keep their hands up. They were then told to kneel down, still wearing blindfolds. \"This was the greatest moment,\" one hostage said. Another later recalled, \"It was an embarrassing moment. However, we were too scared to realize it.\" The guards cocked their weapons and readied them to fire, but finally ejected their rounds and told the prisoners to get dressed. The hostages were later told that the exercise had been \"just a joke,\" something the guards \"had wanted to do.\"\n\nOne, Michael Metrinko, was kept in solitary confinement for months. On two occasions, when he expressed his opinion of Ayatollah Khomeini, he was punished severely. The first time, he was kept in handcuffs for two weeks, and the second time, he was beaten and kept alone in a freezing cell for two weeks.\n\nAnother hostage, U.S. Army medic Donald Hohman, went on a hunger strike for several weeks, and two hostages attempted suicide. Steve Lauterbach broke a water glass and slashed his wrists after being locked in a dark basement room with his hands tightly bound. He was found by guards and rushed to the hospital. Jerry Miele, a CIA communication technician, smashed his head into the corner of a door, knocking himself unconscious and cutting a deep gash. \"Naturally withdrawn\" and looking \"ill, old, tired, and vulnerable,\" Miele had become the butt of his guards' jokes, and they had rigged up a mock electric chair to emphasize the fate that awaited him. His fellow hostages applied first aid and raised the alarm, and he was taken to a hospital after a long delay created by the guards.\n\nOther hostages described threats to boil their feet in oil (Alan B. Golacinski), cut their eyes out (Rick Kupke), or kidnap and kill a disabled son in America and \"start sending pieces of him to your wife\" (David Roeder).\n\nFour hostages tried to escape, and all were punished with stretches of solitary confinement when their attempts were discovered.\nQueen, the hostage sent home because of his multiple sclerosis, first developed dizziness and numbness in his left arm six months before his release. His symptoms were misdiagnosed by the Iranians at first as a reaction to drafts of cold air. When warmer confinement did not help, he was told that it was \"nothing\" and that the symptoms would soon disappear. Over the months, the numbness spread to his right side, and the dizziness worsened until he \"was literally flat on his back, unable to move without growing dizzy and throwing up.\"\n\nThe cruelty of the Iranian prison guards became \"a form of slow torture.\" The guards often withheld mail – telling one hostage, Charles W. Scott, \"I don't see anything for you, Mr. Scott. Are you sure your wife has not found another man?\" – and the hostages' possessions went missing.\n\nAs the hostages were taken to the aircraft that would fly them out of Tehran, they were led through a gauntlet of students forming parallel lines and shouting, \"Marg bar Amrika\" (\"death to America\"). When the pilot announced that they were out of Iran, the \"freed hostages went wild with happiness. Shouting, cheering, crying, clapping, falling into one another's arms.\"\n\nIn the United States, the hostage crisis created \"a surge of patriotism\" and left \"the American people more united than they have been on any issue in two decades\". The hostage-taking was seen \"not just as a diplomatic affront\", but as a \"declaration of war on diplomacy itself.\" Television news gave daily updates. In January 1980, the \"CBS Evening News\" anchor Walter Cronkite began ending each show by saying how many days the hostages had been captive. President Carter applied economic and diplomatic pressure: Oil imports from Iran were ended on November 12, 1979, and with Executive Order 12170, around US$8 billion of Iranian assets in the United States were frozen by the Office of Foreign Assets Control on November 14.\n\nDuring the weeks leading up to Christmas in 1979, high school students made cards that were delivered to the hostages. Community groups across the country did the same, resulting in bales of Christmas cards. The National Christmas Tree was left dark except for the top star.\n\nThe two Trenton, N.J., newspapers at the time, \"The Trenton Times\" and \"the Trentonian\" and perhaps others around the country, printed full-page color American flags in their newspapers for readers to cut out and place in the front windows of their homes as support for the hostages to be left in their windows until the hostages were brought home safely.\n\nA severe backlash against Iranians in the United States developed. One Iranian American later complained, \"I had to hide my Iranian identity not to get beaten up, even at university.\"\n\nAccording to Bowden, a pattern emerged in President Carter's attempts to negotiate the hostages' release: \"Carter would latch on to a deal proffered by a top Iranian official and grant minor but humiliating concessions, only to have it scotched at the last minute by Khomeini.\"\n\nOn the day the hostages were seized, six American diplomats evaded capture and remained in hiding at the home of the Canadian diplomat John Sheardown, under the protection of the Canadian ambassador, Ken Taylor. In late 1979, the government of Prime Minister Joe Clark secretly issued an Order in Council allowing Canadian passports to be issued to some American citizens so that they could escape. In cooperation with the CIA, which used the cover story of a film project, two CIA agents and the six American diplomats boarded a Swissair flight to Zurich, Switzerland, on January 28, 1980. Their rescue from Iran, known as the Canadian caper, was fictionalized in the 2012 film \"Argo\".\n\nCyrus Vance, the United States Secretary of State, had argued against Zbigniew Brzezinski's, the National Security Advisor, push for a military solution to the crisis. Vance, struggling with gout, went to Florida on Thursday, April 10, 1980, for a long weekend. On Friday Brzezinski held a newly scheduled meeting of the National Security Council where the president authorized Operation Eagle Claw, a military expedition into Tehran to rescue the hostages. Deputy Secretary Warren Christopher, who attended the meeting in Vance's place, did not inform Vance. Furious, Vance handed in his resignation on principle, calling Brzezinski \"evil\".\n\nLate in the afternoon of April 24, 1980, eight RH‑53D helicopters flew from the aircraft carrier USS \"Nimitz\" to a remote road serving as an airstrip in the Great Salt Desert of Eastern Iran, near Tabas. They encountered severe dust storms that disabled two of the helicopters, which were traveling in complete radio silence. Early the next morning, the remaining six helicopters met up with several waiting Lockheed C-130 Hercules transport aircraft at a landing site and refueling area designated \"Desert One\".\n\nAt this point, a third helicopter was found to be unserviceable, bringing the total below the six deemed vital for the mission. The commander of the operation, Col. Charles Alvin Beckwith, recommended that the mission be aborted, and his recommendation was approved by President Carter. As the helicopters repositioned themselves for refueling, one ran into a C‑130 tanker aircraft and crashed, killing eight U.S. servicemen and injuring several more.\n\nIn May 1980 the Joint Chiefs of Staff commissioned a Special Operations review group of six senior military officers, led by Adm. James L. Holloway III, to thoroughly examine all aspects of the rescue attempt. The group identified 23 issues that were significant in the failure of the mission, 11 of which it deemed major. The overriding issue was operational security—that is, keeping the mission secret so that the arrival of the rescue team at the embassy would be a complete surprise. This severed the usual relationship between pilots and weather forecasters; the pilots were not informed about the local dust storms. Another security requirement was that the helicopter pilots come from the same unit. The unit picked for the mission was a U.S. Navy mine-laying unit flying CH-53D Sea Stallions; these helicopters were considered the best suited for the mission because of their long range, large capacity, and compatibility with shipboard operations.\n\nTwo hours into the flight, the crew of helicopter No. 6 saw a warning light indicating that a main rotor might be cracked. They landed in the desert, confirmed visually that a crack had started to develop, and stopped flying in accordance with normal operating procedure. Helicopter No. 8 landed to pick up the crew of No. 6, and abandoned No. 6 in the desert without destroying it. The report by Holloway's group pointed out that a cracked helicopter blade could have been used to continue the mission and that its likelihood of catastrophic failure would have been low for many hours, especially at lower flying speeds. The report found that the pilot of No. 6 would have continued the mission if instructed to do so.\n\nWhen the helicopters encountered two dust storms along the way to the refueling point, the second more severe than the first, the pilot of No. 5 turned back because the mine-laying helicopters were not equipped with terrain-following radar. The report found that the pilot could have continued to the refueling point if he had been told that better weather awaited him there, but because of the command for radio silence, he did not ask about the conditions ahead. The report also concluded that \"there were ways to pass the information\" between the refueling station and the helicopter force \"that would have small likelihood of compromising the mission\"—in other words, that the ban on communication had not been necessary at this stage.\n\nHelicopter No. 2 experienced a partial hydraulic system failure but was able to fly on for four hours to the refueling location. There, an inspection showed that a hydraulic fluid leak had damaged a pump and that the helicopter could not be flown safely, nor repaired in time to continue the mission. Six helicopters was thought to be the absolute minimum required for the rescue mission, so with the force reduced to five, the local commander radioed his intention to abort. This request was passed through military channels to President Carter, who agreed.\n\nAfter the mission and its failure were made known publicly, Khomeini credited divine intervention on behalf of Islam, and his prestige skyrocketed in Iran. Iranian officials who favored release of the hostages, such as President Bani Sadr, were weakened. In America, President Carter's political popularity and prospects for being re-elected in 1980 were further damaged after a television address on April 25 in which he explained the rescue operation and accepted responsibility for its failure.\n\nA second rescue attempt, planned but never carried out, would have used highly modified YMC-130H Hercules aircraft. Three aircraft, outfitted with rocket thrusters to allow an extremely short landing and takeoff in the Shahid Shiroudi football stadium near the embassy, were modified under a rushed, super-secret program known as Operation Credible Sport. One crashed during a demonstration at Eglin Air Force Base on October 29, 1980, when its braking rockets were fired too soon. The misfire caused a hard touchdown that tore off the starboard wing and started a fire, but all on board survived. After Carter lost the presidential election in November, the project was abandoned.\n\nThe failed rescue attempt led to the creation of the 160th SOAR, a helicopter aviation Special Operations group.\n\nWith the completion of negotiations, the hostages were released on January 20, 1981. That day, at the moment President Reagan completed his 20‑minute inaugural address after being sworn in, the 52 American hostages were released to U.S. personnel. There are theories and conspiracy theories regarding why Iran postponed the release until that moment. \"(See also: October Surprise conspiracy theory)\" They were flown from Iran to Algeria as a symbolic gesture of appreciation for the Algerian government's help in resolving the crisis. The flight continued to Rhein-Main Air Base in West Germany and on to an Air Force hospital in Wiesbaden, where former President Carter, acting as emissary, received them. After medical check-ups and debriefings, the hostages made a second flight to a refueling stop in Shannon, Ireland, where they were greeted by a large crowd. The ex-hostages were then flown to Stewart Air National Guard Base in Newburgh, New York. From Newburgh, they traveled by bus to the United States Military Academy at West Point and stayed at the Thayer Hotel for three days, receiving a heroes' welcome all along the route. Ten days after their release, they were given a ticker tape parade through the Canyon of Heroes in New York City.\n\nThe Iraqi invasion of Iran occurred less than a year after the embassy employees were taken hostage. The journalist Stephen Kinzer argues that the dramatic change in American–Iranian relations, from allies to enemies, helped embolden the Iraqi leader, Saddam Hussein, and that the United States' anger with Iran led it to aid the Iraqis after the war turned against them. The United States supplied Iraq with, among other things, \"helicopters and satellite intelligence that was used in selecting bombing targets.\" This assistance \"deepened and widened anti-American feeling in Iran.\"\n\nThe hostage-taking was unsuccessful for Iran in some respects. It lost international support for its war against Iraq, and the negotiated settlement was considered almost wholly favorable to the United States because it did not meet any of Iran's original demands. Nevertheless, the crisis strengthened Iranians who had supported the hostage-taking. Anti-Americanism became even more intense. Politicians such as Khoeiniha and Behzad Nabavi were left in a stronger position, while those associated with – or accused of association with – America were removed from the political picture. A Khomeini biographer, Baqer Moin, described the crisis as \"a watershed in Khomeini's life\" that transformed him from \"a cautious, pragmatic politician\" into \"a modern revolutionary single-mindedly pursuing a dogma\". In Khomeini's statements, \"imperialism\" and \"liberalism\" were \"negative words\", while \"revolution\" \"became a sacred word, sometimes more important than \"Islam\"\".\n\nSome have suggested that the greatest benefit of the takeover of the American Embassy was the acquisition of intelligence contained within the embassy, including the identity of informants to the U.S. government, which the new Islamist government could use to remove potential dissenters and consolidate its gains.\n\nThe Iranian government commemorates the event every year with a demonstration at the embassy and the burning of an American flag. However, on November 4, 2009, prodemocracy protesters and reformists demonstrated in the streets of Tehran. When the authorities encouraged them to chant \"death to America,\" the protesters instead chanted \"death to the dictator\" (referring to Iran's Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei) and other antigovernment slogans.\n\nGifts, including lifetime passes to any minor league or Major League Baseball game, were showered on the hostages upon their return to the United States.\n\nIn 2000 the hostages and their families tried unsuccessfully to sue Iran under the Antiterrorism Act of 1996. They originally won the case when Iran failed to provide a defense, but the State Department then tried to end the lawsuit, fearing that it would make international relations difficult. As a result, a federal judge ruled that no damages could be awarded to the hostages because of the agreement the United States had made when the hostages were freed.\n\nThe former U.S. Embassy building is now used by Iran's government and affiliated groups. Since 2001 it has served as a museum to the revolution. Outside the door, there is a bronze model based on the Statue of Liberty on one side and a statue portraying one of the hostages on the other.\n\n\"The Guardian\" reported in 2006 that a group called the Committee for the Commemoration of Martyrs of the Global Islamic Campaign had used the embassy to recruit \"martyrdom seekers\": volunteers to carry out operations against Western and Israeli targets. Mohammad Samadi, a spokesman for the group, signed up several hundred volunteers in a few days.\n\nThe United States and Iran broke off formal diplomatic relations over the hostage crisis. Iran selected Algeria as its protecting power in the United States, transferring the mandate to Pakistan in 1992. The United States selected Switzerland as its protecting power in Iran. Relations are maintained through the Iranian Interests Section of the Pakistan Embassy and the U.S. Interests Section of the Swiss Embassy.\nThere were 66 original captives: 63 taken at the embassy and three captured and held at the Foreign Ministry offices. Three of the hostages were operatives of the CIA.\n\nThirteen hostages were released November 19–20, 1979, and one was released on July 11, 1980.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA small number of hostages were not connected to diplomatic staff. All were released by late 1981.\n\nAll State Department and CIA employees taken hostage received the State Department Award for Valor. Political Officer Michael J. Metrinko received two: one for his time as a hostage and another for his daring rescue of Americans who had been jailed in Tabriz months before the embassy takeover.\n\nThe U.S. military later awarded the 20 servicemen among the hostages the Defense Meritorious Service Medal. The only hostage serviceman not issued the medal was Staff Sgt Joseph Subic, Jr., who \"did not behave under stress the way noncommissioned officers are expected to act\" – that is, he cooperated with the hostage-takers, according to other hostages.\n\nThe Humanitarian Service Medal was awarded to the servicemen of Joint Task Force 1–79, the planning authority for Operation Rice Bowl/Eagle Claw, who participated in the rescue attempt.\n\nThe Air Force Special Operations component of the mission was given the Air Force Outstanding Unit award for performing their part of the mission flawlessly, including evacuating the Desert One refueling site under extreme conditions.\n\n\nAllegations that the Reagan administration negotiated a delay in the release of the hostages until after the 1980 presidential election have been numerous but unproven. Gary Sick, principal White House aide for Iran and the Persian Gulf on the Carter administration's National Security Council, claimed in his book \"October Surprise: America's Hostages in Iran and the Election of Ronald Reagan\" that CIA Director William Casey and possibly Vice President George H. W. Bush went to Paris to negotiate such a delay. Many others have made the same allegations.\n\n\n90% of the contributions to the ideas and the consummation of the plan was Canadian. And the movie gives almost full credit to the American CIA. And with that exception, the movie is very good. But Ben Affleck's character in the film was ... only in Tehran a day and a half. And the main hero, in my opinion, was Ken Taylor, who was the Canadian ambassador who orchestrated the entire process.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nRecords of the Prime Minister's Office, Correspondence & Papers; 1979–97 at discovery.nationalarchives.gov.uk:\nIRAN. Internal situation in Iran; Attack on British Embassy; Hostage-taking at US Embassy; Freezing of Iranian Assets; US Mission to release hostages; Relations with US & UK following hostage taking at US Embassy.\n\n"}
{"id": "56260561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56260561", "title": "John Gartner (psychologist)", "text": "John Gartner (psychologist)\n\nJohn D. Gartner is a psychologist and therapist in the U.S.\n\nHe graduated magna cum laude from Princeton University in New Jersey and received his Ph.D. in clinical psychology from the University of Massachusetts and completed his post-doctoral training at New York Hospital - Cornell Medical School.\nGartner is a therapist with a private practice in Baltimore and Manhattan, where he specialized in the treatment of borderline personality disorder, bipolar disorder and depression.\n\nGartner collected in the first months of 2017 more than 25.000 signatures of mental health professionals on a petition, directed to the national opposition leader, Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer.\nAt the end of April 2017 he was able to forward the petition with more than 41.000 signatures of mental healthcare professionals to Washington D.C..\nCore of the petition: \"My professional judgement is that Donald Trump manifests a serious mental illness that renders him psychologically incapable of competently discharging the duties of President of the United States.\"\n\"And I respectfully request him be removed from office, according to article 3 of the 25th Amendment, and so on\".\n\nAccording to Gartner, President Trump's mental handicaps are a mix of 1.narcissism, 2. paranoia; 3.sociopathy; and 4. a dash of sadism.\n\nJohn Gartner is the president of Duty To Warn, an organisation of professionals from several branches where professionals have duty to warn patients, clients and the community if they are aware of a potential danger.\n\nHe is author of books including:\n\n"}
{"id": "16433878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16433878", "title": "Left Alternative", "text": "Left Alternative\n\nLeft Alternative was a UK political party resulting from the split within Respect – The Unity Coalition in late 2007.\n\nThe party operated in England and Wales and was backed by the Socialist Workers Party (SWP). Soon after the split, the electoral label Left List was adopted and this label faced its first major electoral test in the London mayoral elections and London Assembly elections on 1 May 2008. Lindsey German, the Mayoral candidate, came seventh and in both the Mayoral and Assembly elections, Left List received less than 1% of the vote, well down on Respect's performance in 2004. The name Left Alternative was subsequently adopted.\n\nRespect was created in January 2004, using the issue of the war in Iraq to mobilise its vote. Beyond this issue, it attempted to have a broad socialist agenda. Respect allows its members to hold membership of other political organisations and notably included the SWP. Respect's most high-profile figure has been George Galloway, then Respect Member of Parliament for Bethnal Green and Bow, who was expelled from the Labour Party in 2003 for \"bringing the party into disrepute\".\n\nIn September 2007, Galloway wrote a letter to Respect's national council members saying that the party was \"too disorganised\" and \"faced oblivion\" unless it reformed its internal party management. The letter also criticised the amount of money spent on the Organising for Fighting Unions conference and on an intervention at the Pride London LGBT rights event.\n\nThe letter was the opening shot in a dispute in Respect initially between Galloway and his supporters (including founding member Salma Yaqoob) on one side, and supporters of the SWP on the other. However the arguments later began to affect all of the membership including those not in the SWP or close to Galloway or Yaqoob. In particular, Galloway called for the appointment of a National Organiser, who would support the National Secretary, John Rees (then an SWP member). The SWP perceived this to be an attempt to undermine John Rees who was the dominant voice for the SWP within Respect's leadership. A letter from their Central Committee stated: \"The SWP believed that the post was created to undermine Respect National Secretary John Rees.\"\n\nIn the course of the dispute, the SWP expelled three members who sided with Galloway: Kevin Ovenden and Rob Hoveman, who both worked for George Galloway, and Nick Wrack, who was nominated for the position of National Organiser.\n\nOn 3 November 2007, Galloway's side announced plans to hold a \"Respect Renewal\" conference on 17 November, the same day as the planned national conference of Respect. The Respect Renewal conference was an open event and organisers claim 350 people attended. This figure was disputed by Chris Harman in \"International Socialism\". The Respect national conference, which went ahead on the same day was attended by 270 delegates from 49 local branches and 17 student groups, as well as 90 observers.\n\nLinda Smith, Respect's national chair at the time of the split, has claimed: \"The sectarianism and ‘control freak’ methods of the SWP have led us to a situation where Respect is irretrievably split.\" The SWP has attributed the split to a shift to the right by George Galloway and his allies, motivated by electoralism (placing election-winning above other principles). This, say the SWP leadership, led to attacks on the SWP as the most prominent left group in Respect.\n\nThe Electoral Commission refused to take a side in the split and therefore continued to recognise Linda Smith as the Nominating Officer for Respect. This means that her signature is required for candidates wishing to use the electoral label \"Respect\" (and similar registered names) on ballot papers in UK elections. A letter from the Electoral Commission to Linda Smith on 23 January 2008, set out its position on the split, following confusion on the matter from both sides.\n\nFollowing the split, the side that included the SWP (but not Galloway or Linda Smith) nominated candidates in two district council by-elections. They could not use the name \"Respect\" on ballot papers without the signature of the nominating officer. Instead, both had no label on the ballot papers.\n\nThis side in the Respect split announced that in the London mayoral elections planned for 1 May 2008 it would stand Lindsey German for mayor (Respect's candidate in 2004 and chosen as Respect's candidate in 2007 prior to the schism) and candidates for the London Assembly, elected on the same date. It announced that its candidates would contest these elections under a new electoral label, the Left List, since Linda Smith had not allowed them to be listed on ballot papers as Respect candidates.\n\nThe Left List contested every constituency and stood on the London-wide proportional representation list.\nAt the council elections on 1 May 2008, the Left List also contested seats as the Left List or the Left Party, Maxine Bowler in Burngreave, Sheffield. Respect Renewal stood in the City and East London constituency as well as contesting the London-wide list. George Galloway headed the London-wide party list, and Respect Renewal candidates stood under the name Respect (George Galloway).\n\nBoth factions of Respect suffered as a result and together failed to reach the previous number of votes.\n\nThe organisation's website began to display the title Left Alternative in late June 2008. On 10 September 2008 John Rees and Lindsey German resigned from the Left Alternative National Committee. Most elected councillors who had joined Left List at the time of the split from Respect subsequently defected to other parties, mainly Labour, over the course of 2008. In 2008, one Left List councillor defected to the Conservative Party. In June of that year, the three remaining Left List councillors in Tower Hamlets, including the Chair and Nominating Officer of the Left List, defected to the Labour Party as did one Respect Renewal councillor.\n\nThe organisation's website ceased operation in mid-2009. The party deregistered from the Electoral Commission Register of Political Parties in April 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "12476895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12476895", "title": "Libertarian conservatism", "text": "Libertarian conservatism\n\nLibertarian conservatism or conservative libertarianism is a political philosophy and ideology that combines right-libertarian politics and conservative values. Libertarian conservatism advocates the greatest possible economic liberty and the least possible government regulation of social life, mirroring \"laissez-faire\" liberalism, but harnesses this to a belief in a more traditional and conservative social philosophy emphasizing authority and duty. Libertarian conservatism prioritizes liberty as its main emphasis, promoting free expression, freedom of choice and free market capitalism to achieve socially and culturally conservative ends as they reject liberal social engineering, or in the opposite way but not excluding the above, libertarian conservatism could be understood as promoting civil society through conservative institutions and authority - as family, fatherland, religion, education - in the quest of libertarian ends for less state power.\n\nFor Larry Johnston, in political science, the term \"libertarian conservatism\" is used to refer to ideologies that combine the advocacy of economic principles such as fiscal discipline, respect for contracts, defense of private property and free markets and the traditional conservative stress on self-help and freedom of choice under a \"laissez-faire\" and economically liberal capitalist society with social tenets such as the importance of religion and the value of traditional morality through a framework of limited, constitutional, representative government.\n\nFor Margaret Randall, libertarian conservatism began as an expression of individualism and the demand for personal freedom. \n\n\"Freedom and Virtue: The Conservative/Libertarian Debate\", edited by George W. Carey, contains essays which describe \"the tension between liberty and morality\" as \"the main fault line dividing the two philosophies\".\n\nNelson Hultberg wrote that there is \"philosophical common ground\" between libertarians and conservatives. \"The true conservative movement was, from the start, a blend of political libertarianism, cultural conservatism, and non-interventionism abroad bequeathed to us via the Founding Fathers\". He said that such libertarian conservatism was \"hijacked\" by neoconservatism, \"by the very enemies it was formed to fight – Fabians, New Dealers, welfarists, progressives, globalists, interventionists, militarists, nation builders, and all the rest of the collectivist ilk that was assiduously working to destroy the Founders' Republic of States\".\n\nThomas DiLorenzo wrote that libertarian conservative constitutionalists believe that the way to limit government is to enforce the United States Constitution. However, DiLorenzo criticized them by writing: \"The fatal flaw in the thinking of the libertarian/conservative constitutionalists stems from their unawareness or willful ignorance of how the founders themselves believed the Constitution could be enforced: by the citizens of the free, independent, and sovereign states, not the federal judiciary\". He wrote that the powers accrued to the federal government during the American Civil War overthrew the Constitution of 1787.\n\nIn the 1950's Frank Meyer, a prominent contributor to the \"National Review\", called his own combination libertarianism and conservatism as \"fusionism\".\n\nIn the 1990s, Lew Rockwell, Murray Rothbard and others described their libertarian conservative views as paleolibertarianism. They continued libertarian opposition to \"all forms of government intervention – economic, cultural, social, international\", but also upholding cultural conservatism in social thought and behavior. They opposed a licentious libertarianism which advocated \"freedom from bourgeois morality, and social authority\". Rockwell later stated that they dropped that self-description because people confused it with paleoconservatism, which they rejected.\n\nLaurence M. Vance wrote: \"Some libertarians consider libertarianism to be a lifestyle rather than a political philosophy... They apparently don't know the difference between libertarianism and libertinism\".\n\nFriedrich Hayek, Ludwig von Mises, Milton Friedman, Richard Posner, Richard Epstein and Albert Jay Nock have been described as libertarian conservatives. Former U.S. Congressman Ron Paul and his son U.S. Senator Rand Paul have been described as combining libertarian and conservative \"small government\" ideas and showing how the Constitution defends the individual and most libertarian views.\n\nIn 1975, Ronald Reagan stated: \"I believe the very heart and soul of conservatism is libertarianism\". However, some libertarians criticized Reagan for un-libertarian policy positions.\n\nEdward Feser emphasized that libertarianism does not require individuals to reject traditional conservative values. Libertarianism supports the ideas of liberty, privacy and ending the war on marijuana at the legal level without changing personal values.\n\nLibertarian conservatism subscribes to the libertarian idea of free market capitalism, advocating minimal to no government interference in the market. A number of libertarian conservatives favor Austrian economics and are critical of fiat money, with many supporting policies like pay what you want cafes. Libertarian conservatives also advocate for ways to privatize services run by the government, from airports to toll booths.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "562651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=562651", "title": "List of corporate collapses and scandals", "text": "List of corporate collapses and scandals\n\nA corporate collapse typically involves the insolvency or bankruptcy of a major business enterprise. A corporate scandal involves alleged or actual unethical behavior by people acting within or on behalf of a corporation. Many recent corporate collapses and scandals have involved false or inappropriate accounting of some sort (see list at accounting scandals).\nThe following list of corporations involved major collapses, through the risk of job losses or size of the business, and meant entering into insolvency or bankruptcy, or being nationalised or requiring a non-market loan by a government.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46427592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46427592", "title": "List of cults of personality", "text": "List of cults of personality\n\nThis is a list of regimes of countries or individual leaders around the world which have been discussed in the media or academia as having created a cult of personality. A cult of personality uses various techniques, including mass media, propaganda, the arts, patriotism, and government-organized demonstrations and rallies to create an heroic image, of a leader, often inviting worshipful behavior through uncritical flattery and praise.\n\nNur Muhammad Taraki of the ruling communist party served as President of Afghanistan from 1978 to 1979, when he told people to refer to him titles such as the \"Great Leader\". In the 1990s, warlord general Abdul Rashid Dostum, who controlled most of northern Afghanistan, created a somewhat cult of personality in the region.\n\nLong time ruler of communist Albania Enver Hoxha had what the OECD called \"an overwhelming cult of personality and an ultra-centralised, authoritarian form of decision-making\". Hoxha was widely portrayed as a genius who commented on virtually all facets of life from culture to economics to military matters. Statues were erected in cities. Each schoolbook required quotations from him on the subjects being studied. The ruling party of the time, the Party of Labour of Albania, honored him with titles such as Supreme Comrade, Sole Force and Great Teacher. When Hoxha died in 1985, Ramiz Alia took power. Robert D. McFadden of \"The New York Times\" wrote that Alia's policies of liberalization were \"too little, too late\", and the country descended into violent anarchy. Alia served one year in prison for corruption, but the anarchy prevented further charges from being brought against the former Communist regime.\n\nJuan Domingo Perón, elected three times as President of Argentina, and his second wife, Eva Duarte de Perón, were immensely popular among many of the Argentine people, and to this day they are still considered icons by the leading Justicialist Party. Followers of the Peróns praised their efforts to eliminate poverty and dignify labor, while their detractors considered them demagogues and dictators. To achieve their political goals, the Peronists had to unite around the head of state. As a result, a personality cult developed around both Perón and his wife.\n\nHeydar Aliyev's cult of personality became a significant part of Azerbaijani politics and society after Heydar Aliyev came to power in 1993 and it continued after his death in 2003, when his son Ilham Aliyev succeeded him. Aliyev, a former Soviet politburo member and the leader of Soviet Azerbaijan from 1969 to 1987, became the President of Azerbaijan in 1993. He then began to carefully design an autocratic system, with heavy reliance on family and clan members, oil revenues and patronage.\n\nIn Azerbaijan, Heydar Aliyev is presented as the \"Father of the Azeri nation\", often compared to Mustafa Kemal Atatürk.\n\nDuring the Vargas Era, the Brazilian Department of Information and Propaganda (DIP) promoted a Messiah-style image of Brazilian dictator Getúlio Vargas by broadcasting propaganda every day and by showing him as \"saviour of the Brazilian people\".\n\nIn recent years there has been a growing cult of personality in modern Brazil around the former Brazilian president Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, promoted by the Workers' Party and more recently, around Jair Bolsonaro, promoted by right-wing militants.\n\nA personality cult in the Republic of China was centered on the Kuomintang party founder Sun Yat-sen, and his successor, Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek. The personality cult of Chiang Kai-shek went further after the republican government fled to Taiwan. He was usually referred to as \"Lord Chiang\" (蔣公) in public and a space between the characters of his name and title was required in printed materials. Articles in textbooks and songs glorifying him were commonly seen in Taiwan before 1987.\n\nThe People's Republic of China under Chairman Mao Zedong can also be considered a cult of personality, the most obvious symbol of which is his massive portrait situated on the north end of Tiananmen Square. The culture of the People's Republic of China before 1978 was highly influenced by the personality cult of Mao Zedong which reached its peak during the Cultural Revolution. Mao was referred to as \"the great leader Chairman Mao\" (伟大领袖毛主席) in public and he was entitled \"the great leader, the great supreme commander, the great teacher and the great helmsman\" (伟大的领袖、伟大的统帅、伟大的导师、伟大的舵手) in Cultural Revolution. Badges and books of his quotations were mass-produced. Most people were required to recite the Quotations of Chairman Mao and printed material at that time usually quoted Mao's words in bold as well as in the preface. The Loyalty dance (忠字舞) was also introduced during the Cultural Revolution which lasted from 1966 to 1976.\n\nThe cult of personality continued for a short time after Mao's death. His successor, Chairman Hua Guofeng also practiced the cult of personality and he was referred to as \"the brilliant leader Chairman Hua\" (英明领袖华主席). Reforms in 1978 led to a deconstruction of Mao's cult status and the Chinese Communist Party under Deng Xiaoping and his successors such as Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao were averse to a of personality style of rule lest it recreate the chaos of the Cultural Revolution.\n\nThe rise and consolidation of power under General Secretary Xi Jinping has given way to a return to Mao-style personality cult centered around General Secretary Xi in state media and propaganda messages, with a political theory bearing his name being enshrined into the Communist Party's constitution in the 19th National Congress in October 2017.\n\nFormer president Álvaro Uribe Vélez became the center of a Cult of Personality in Colombia in the later years of the country's armed conflict. Supporters refer to him as \"The Great Colombian\" in spite of his family's ties to the Medellín Cartel and the numerous human rights scandals that marred his presidency. After Uribe failed to amend the constitution that would allow him to stay in power for a third term in 2010, he founded a political party that uses the former president's silhouette as logo. The party's attempts to be named after its \"only leader\" were thwarted in 2012.\n\nAlthough it was reported that one of Fidel Castro's dying wishes was not to have buildings or streets named after him, and that statues of him not be erected, in order to avoid a cult of personality, it is generally believed that such a cult had already developed by the time of his death.\n\nThe Egyptian state practiced a Cult of Personality around Gamal Abdel Nasser during his rule. It has been alleged that the Egyptian media has created a personality cult around the current President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi.\n\nThe first president of Equatorial Guinea, Francisco Macías Nguema, was the centre of an extreme personality cult, perhaps fueled by his consumption of copious amounts of \"bhang\" and \"iboga\", and he assigned himself titles such as the \"Unique Miracle\" and \"Grand Master of Education, Science, and Culture\". The island of Fernando Pó had its name Africanized after him to Masie Ngueme Biyogo Island; upon his overthrow in 1979, its name was again changed to Bioko. The capital, Santa Isabel, had its name changed to Malabo. In 1978, he changed the national motto of the Coat of arms of Equatorial Guinea to \"There is no other God than Marcias Nguema\".\n\nThis tradition has been continued by Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo who has been accused of building his own personality cult. As evidence of this, in July 2003, the state-operated radio declared that Obiang was \"the country's god\" and that he had \"all power over men and things.\" It added that the president was \"in permanent contact with the Almighty\" and that he \"can decide to kill without anyone calling him to account and without going to hell.\" He personally made similar comments in 1993. Macías had also proclaimed himself a god.\n\nObiang has encouraged his cult of personality by ensuring that public speeches end with well-wishing for himself rather than end with well-wishing for the republic. Many important buildings have a presidential lodge, many towns and cities have streets commemorating Obiang's coup against Macías, and many people wear clothes with his face printed on them.\n\nLike his predecessor and other African dictators such as Idi Amin and Mobutu Sese Seko, Obiang has assigned to himself several creative titles. Among them are \"gentleman of the great island of Bioko, Annobón and Río Muni.\" He also refers to himself as \"El Jefe\" (the boss).\n\nUnder the , a puppet government installed by the Nazis, the leader, Marshal Philippe Petain, was known to have a cult of personality around himself. A song was made just for him called \"Maréchal nous voila!\" (lit. Marshal, Here We Are!) and was mandatory for all school children to learn.\n\nCambodian schoolchildren in French Indochina at one point in the early 1940s began their school-day with prayers to Marshal Philippe Pétain of Vichy France, opening with the words, \"Our father, which art our Leader, glorious be thy name... deliver us from evil.\"\n\nAdolf Hitler, Führer (\"leader\") of Nazi Germany, was referenced by Nazi propaganda in a number of honorary titles (\"Supreme Judge of the German People\", \"First Soldier of the German Reich\", \"First Worker of the New Germany\", \"Greatest Military Commander of All Time\", \"Military Leader of Europe\", \"High Protector of the Holy Mountain\", etc.). Numerous works in popular music and literature featured Adolf Hitler prominently. Hitler was usually depicted as a heroic, god-like figure, loved, feared and respected by the German people.\n\nDictator François Duvalier fostered a personality cult around himself and he claimed that he was the physical embodiment of the nation. He revived the traditions of \"vodou\", later on exploiting them in order to consolidate his power by claiming that he himself was a \"houngan\", or \"vodou\" priest. In an effort to make himself even more imposing, Duvalier deliberately modeled his image on that of Baron Samedi. The most celebrated image from the time shows a standing Jesus Christ with a hand on a seated Papa Doc's shoulder with the caption \"I have chosen him\". In 1986, the Haitian constitution outlawed Duvalier-type personality cults.\n\n\nIndia's first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru was known to foster a personality cult around himself. Many leaders opposed Nehru's style of functioning, his economic policies and his socialist agenda. C Rajagopalachari criticized the personality cult surrounding Nehru, saying that there should be an opposition group within the Congress because it was running with \"accelerators and no brakes\" without a true opposition. Rajagopalachari later formed the liberal Swatantra Party because of his opposition to Nehru's style of functioning. The expression 'Nehruvian consensus' reflects the dominance of Nehruvian ideals, this dominance is considered to be a product of Nehru's personality cult and the statism that is associated with it, that is, the overarching faith in the state and the leadership. The Congress party, led by Nehru's kin has been accused of propagating his personality cult.\n\nDuring the Guided Democracy era, there was a personality cult around President Sukarno. He was made president for life by the MPRS in 1963. His ideological writings on Manipol-USDEK and NASAKOM became mandatory subjects in Indonesian schools and universities, while his speeches were to be memorized and discussed by all students. All newspapers, the only radio station (RRI, government-run), and the only television station (TVRI, also government-run) were made into \"tools of the revolution\" and functioned to spread Sukarno's messages. Sukarno developed a personality cult, with the capital of newly acquired West Irian renamed to Sukarnapura and the highest peak in the country was renamed from Carstensz Pyramid to Puntjak Sukarno (Sukarno Peak).\n\nSukarno was popularly referred to as \"bung\" (\"comrade\"), and he painted himself as a man of the people who carried the aspirations of Indonesia and dared to take on the West. Also, some other titles were given to him, like \"Great Leader of the Revolution\". When Suharto became president, Sukarno's cult and roles were erased by the new government in de-Soekarnoization policy.\n\nThe New Order government created some propaganda, in which President Suharto is depicted as the \"main hero\" during the 1949 General Offensive, as well as during the 30 September Movement. He was also granted the title of \"Bapak Pembangunan\" (Father of Development) in 1983. In September 1998, four months after the fall of Suharto, Information Minister Yunus Yosfiah declared that the \"Pengkhianatan G30S/PKI\" film would no longer be compulsory viewing material, reasoning that it was an attempt to manipulate history and create a cult with Suharto as the protagonist.\n\nFollowing the Iranian Revolution, a cult of personality developed around Supreme Leaders Ruhollah Khomeini and Ali Khamenei. This is most evident in the ubiquitous visual depictions of both men. According to Baqer Moin, as part of Khomeini's personality cult, he \"had been transformed into a semi-divine figure. He was no longer a grand ayatollah and deputy of the Imam, one who represents the Hidden Imam, but simply 'The Imam'.\" Khomeini's personality cult fills a central position in foreign- and domestically-targeted Iranian publications. The methods used to create his personality cult have been compared to those used by such figures as Joseph Stalin, Mao Zedong and Fidel Castro, and it was encouraged by Khomeini himself (which was negatively noted by his enemies inside Iran). Regarding Khamenei, Amir Taheri has written, \"Like Khomeini before him, Khamenehi is the object of a massive cult of personality. Official flatterers describe him as a \"Divine Gift to Mankind\" or as the \"Shining Sun of the Imamate.\" In official discourse, he is quoted more often than either Prophet Muhammad or the Koran itself. Objects which he has touched during provincial visits are collected and sold as icons...\"\n\nAs a sign of his consolidation of power as Iraq's dictator, Saddam Hussein's personality cult pervaded Iraqi society. He had thousands of portraits, posters, statues and murals erected in his honor all over Iraq. His face could be seen on the sides of office buildings, schools and classrooms, airports, and shops, as well as on all denominations of Iraqi currency (the dinar). Saddam's personality cult reflected his efforts to appeal to the various elements in Iraqi society. This was seen in his variety of apparel: he appeared in the costumes of the Bedouin, the traditional clothes of the Iraqi peasant (which he essentially wore during his childhood), and even appeared in Kurdish clothing, but he also appeared in Western suits fitted by his favorite tailor, projecting the image of an urbane and modern leader. Sometimes he would also be portrayed as a devout Muslim, wearing a full headdress and robe, praying towards Mecca, but most often he was depicted wearing a military uniform.\n\nAn international airport, a university, a bridge, a dam, a stadium, an art centre, a street, an urban district (Saddam-city), a rocket and other objects were named after him. Saddam even had many well-decorated (by golden flush toilets) palaces for his own private use. People brought many gifts to Saddam that were collected in a special palace. According to his order, every tenth brick of reconstructed ancient buildings (including Nebuchadnezzar's palace) was marked with his name or signature. His biography and his literary works were required reading in schools and Ba'ath party functioneers examined students' knowledge of them. Many written songs, novels, scientific and propaganda articles were devoted to him. State TV was broadcast with his image in the background and a mosque at the corner of the screen and it very often showed him, or his hands being kissed by children and other people.\n\nAfter the fall of his regime, made visible by the toppling of his statue on Firdous Square in Baghdad on April 9, 2003, all statues of Saddam were destroyed. All other aspects of his cult were dissolved as well.\n\nThe cult of Il Duce of fascist Italy Benito Mussolini was in many respects the unifying force of the fascist regime, acting as a common denominator for various political groups and social classes in both the fascist party and the wider Italian society. A basic slogan proclaimed that Mussolini was always right (). Endless publicity revolved around him. He was generally portrayed in a \"macho\" manner, although he could also appear as a Renaissance man, a military man, a family man, or even as a common man. This reflected his presentation as a universal man, expert in all subjects; a light was left on his office long after he was asleep as a part of fascist propaganda in order to present him as an insomniac owing to his driven to work nature. Mussolini himself oversaw which photographs could appear, rejecting some, for instance, because he was not sufficiently prominent in a group. Legends of Mussolini defying death during the First World War and surviving assassination attempts were circulated in order to give the dictator a mythical, immortal aura. In addition to depicting Mussolini as being chosen by God, the regime presented him as having omnipotent, godlike or superhuman powers. His image proclaimed that he had improved the Italian people morally, materially, and spiritually. Even before his seizure of power, he was proclaimed the Duce in song. The war on Ethiopia was presented as a revival of the Roman Empire, with Mussolini as Augustus.\n\nWith the entry of media tycoon Silvio Berlusconi into Italian politics in the 2000s, some critics claimed that a new kind of cult of personality was in place, favored by Berlusconi's three national television networks and newspapers. Moreover, the hymn of Berlusconi's movements Forza Italia and People of Freedom was \"Meno male che Silvio c'è\", literally \"Thank goodness for Silvio\". In addition to that, Berlusconi often described himself as the Jesus Christ of Italian politics. These attitudes were seen by public opinion as clear examples of the new political style that Berlusconi brought into Italy, focused on the leader's charisma, cult of personality and media domination. Silvio Berlusconi was Prime Minister of Italy for three terms and four governments. He governed the country for a total of almost ten years (less than one year in 1994–1995; five years in 2001–2006; and three and a half years in 2008–2011).\n\nPresident Nursultan Nazarbayev is the subject of a state sponsored personality cult in Kazakhstan, where he has assumed the title \"Leader of the Nation\".\n\nA cult of personality is centered around the founders of the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Kaysone Phomvihane and the less prominent Prince Souphanouvong since their deaths in the early 1990s as there were no personality cults bestowed to them during their time in power. Kaysone's portrait is displayed on public government buildings as well as on Laotian Kip bills. There is a museum built in Vientiane in order to honor Kaysone's life. Statues are also erected in his honor. Souphanouvong's name and face are also seen in memorials, museums, and statues all across Laos, with a university being named after him in Luang Prabang. Due to Souphanouvong's past position as only a figurehead president and leader of the communist Pathet Lao movement with Kaysone holding the real power over Laos, the display of Souphanouvong's personality cult are seen with much lesser prominence than Kaysone.\n\nA cult of personality devoted to Colonel Muammar Gaddafi existed in Libya during his rule. His face appeared on a wide variety of items, including postage stamps, watches, and school satchels. Quotations from \"The Green Book\" appeared on a wide variety of places, from street walls to airports and even on pens, and they were also put to pop music for public release.\n\nGaddafi claimed that he disliked the personality cult surrounding him, but he tolerated it because the Libyan people adored him. Biographers Blundy and Lycett believed that he was \"a populist at heart\". Throughout Libya, crowds of supporters would turn up to public events at which he appeared; described as \"spontaneous demonstrations\" by the government, there are recorded instances of groups being coerced or paid to attend.\n\nHe was typically late to public events, and he would sometimes not show up at all. Although Bianco thought that he had a \"gift for oratory\", he was considered a poor orator by biographers Blundy and Lycett. Biographer Daniel Kawczynski noted that Gaddafi was famous for his \"lengthy, wandering\" speeches, which typically involved criticizing Israel and the U.S.\n\nThe peer-reviewed academic journal \"North Korean Review\", published by the Institute for North Korean Studies at the University of Detroit Mercy in Detroit, Michigan, United States, reports that \"Like his father [Kim Jong-Il] during his lifetime, Kim Jong-un has so far avoided a cult of personality around himself that would include statues, street and place names, or images in pins or in apartments. He inherited, however, a few titles such as 'Great Sun of the 21st century,' 'Marshal,' or his father's title 'Great Leader' [widaehan ryŏngdoja]. The other 'Great Leader' [widaehan suryŏng] is still exclusively used for Kim II-sung.\"\"\n\nIn the Philippines, many local politicians engage in some sort of cult of personality. The most famous are those of former President Ferdinand Marcos, who was dictator from 1972 to 1986 and the Aquino family. They are often branded as \"epalitiko\" by the media, which is a contraction of the words \"epal\" (slang for \"attention-grabber\"), and \"pulítiko\" (\"politician\"). They put their images and their names on billboards of government projects. They also print tarpaulins, usually with their images in order to establish a sense of connection with their constituents. Senate Bill No. 1967 or Anti-Signage of Public Works Act, colloquially known as the Anti-Epal Bill, was filed by Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago on November 2011, and refiled again in July 2013 in an effort to stop the practice.\n\nA cult of personality developed in Poland around the figure of Józef Piłsudski, a Polish military commander and politician, starting from the interwar period and continuing after his death in 1935 until the present day. During the interwar period, Piłsudski's personality cult was propagated by the state media, which described him as a masterful strategist and a political visionary, and associated him with his role in regaining Polish independence in the aftermath of World War I, and his leadership in the ensuing Polish–Soviet War. It has survived decades of repression, particularly during the era of communist rule.\n\nIn modern Poland, Piłsudski is recognized as an important and largely positive figure in Polish history. Polish Independence Day is commemorated on November 11, the date when Piłsudski assumed power in Poland after the First World War.\nThe Law and Justice party builds the cult of the deceased president Lech Kaczyński\n\nIn 1986 \"The New York Times\" reporter, David Binder stated that Romanian dictator Nicolae Ceaușescu presided over \"a cult of personality that has equaled, or even surpassed, those of Stalin's Russia, Mao's China and Tito's Yugoslavia.\"\n\nInspired by the personality cult surrounding Kim Il-sung in North Korea, it started with the 1971 July Theses which reversed the liberalization of the 1960s and imposed a strict nationalist ideology. Initially, the cult of personality was only focused on Ceaușescu himself; however, by the early 1980s, his wife Elena was also a focus of the cult even to the extent that she got credit for scientific achievements which she could never have accomplished. It remained in force until the overthrow of the regime in 1989 and the couple's execution.\n\nRussia has a very long history of worshiping rulers; as the Tsars were glorified as wise and gracious leaders, some historians take the line that the communist regime adapted this tradition. In the era of Stalinism, the Soviet state fostered an extreme cult of personality around Joseph Stalin.\n\nNikita Khrushchev recalled Marx's criticism in his 1956 \"Secret Speech\" denouncing Joseph Stalin and his cult of personality to the 20th Party Congress:\nSome authors (e.g., Alexander Zinovyev) have argued that Leonid Brezhnev's rule was also characterized by a cult of personality, though unlike Stalin, Brezhnev did not initiate large-scale persecutions in the country. One of the aspects of Leonid Brezhnev's cult of personality was his obsession with titles, rewards and decorations, leading to his inflated decoration with medals, orders and so on. This was often ridiculed by the ordinary people and led to the creation of many political jokes.\n\nSome journalists and Russian oppositionists argue that there is now a cult of personality around Vladimir Putin (see also Putinism). Currently, one-fourth of the Russian population believes that a cult of personality reminiscent of Soviet Union-era leaders has developed around Vladimir Putin, while another thirty percent believed that there were increasing signs of a personality cult surrounding Putin. Evidence of this includes food products named after him. Other evidence of Putin's personality cult includes the existence of the Army of Putin, his own female fan club as well as his involvement in action man publicity stunts. According to the United States Government-funded Radio Free Europe, in December 2015, a Russian youth group by the name of \"Network\" published a book titled \"World-Changing Words: Key quotes of Vladimir Putin\", which has been compared to Mao Zedong's Little Red Book.\n\nIn Chechnya, the head of the republic Ramzan Kadyrov has been accused of creating a cult of personality around himself.\n\nA cult of personality surrounded Francisco Franco during his Falangist regime. During his regime, he was depicted like a king, for example, he wore the uniform of a captain general (a rank traditionally reserved for the king), resided in the royal Pardo Palace, appropriated the kingly privilege of walking beneath a canopy, and his portrait appeared on most Spanish coins. Indeed, although his formal titles were Jefe del Estado (Head of State) and \"Generalísimo de los Ejércitos Españoles\" (Generalissimo of the Spanish Armed Forces), he was referred to as \"Caudillo de España por la gracia de Dios,\" (By the Grace of God, the Leader of Spain). \"Por la Gracia de Dios\" is a technical, legal formulation which states sovereign dignity in absolute monarchies, and it had only been used by monarchs before Franco used it himself. \n\nAs one of his strategies to maintain power over Syria, Hafez al-Assad developed a state-sponsored cult of personality. Portraits of him, often depicting him engaging in heroic activities, were placed in every public space. He named myriad numbers of places and institutions in Syria after himself, and other members of his family. At school, children were taught to sing songs of adulation for Hafez al-Assad. Teachers would begin each school day with the slogan \"Our eternal leader, Hafez al-Assad\". The personality cult that he developed portrayed him as a wise, modest and just leader of the country. This strategy of creating a cult of personality was continued by Hafez's son and the later Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad.\n\nThailand's former King Bhumibol Adulyadej (1946-2016) is officially venerated in a personality cult, both during his reign and after his death. The Kingdom is disseminated with huge portraits of him, his son and successor King Vajiralongkorn, and other members of the royal family. He was also protected by lèse majesté laws which allow critics to be jailed for three to fifteen years.\nPresident of the Togolese Republic Gnassingbé Eyadéma had a personality cult of titanic proportions, including, but not limited to, an entourage of one thousand dancing women who sang and danced in praise of him; schoolchildren beginning their day by singing his praises; portraits which adorned most stores; a bronze statue in the capital city, Lomé; $20 wristwatches with his portrait, which disappeared and re-appeared every fifteen seconds; and even a comic book that depicted him as a superhero with powers of invulnerability and superhuman strength. In addition, the date of a failed attempt on Eyadéma's life was annually commemorated as \"the Feast of Victory Over Forces of Evil.\" Eyadéma even changed his first name from Étienne to Gnassingbé to note the date of the 1974 plane crash of which he was claimed to be the only survivor.\n\nIn Turkey, founder of the Turkish Republic Mustafa Kemal Atatürk is commemorated by a myriad of memorials throughout the country, such as the Atatürk International Airport in Istanbul, the Atatürk Bridge over the Golden Horn (Haliç), the Atatürk Dam, and Atatürk Stadium. His titles include Great Leader (Ulu Önder), Eternal Commander (Ebedî Başkomutan), Head Teacher (Baş Öğretmen), and Eternal Chief (Ebedî Şef). Atatürk statues have been erected in all Turkish cities by the Turkish Government, and most towns have their own memorial to him. His face and name are seen and heard everywhere in Turkey; his portrait can be seen in all public buildings, in all schools and classrooms, on all school textbooks, on all Turkish lira banknotes, and in the homes of many Turkish families. At the exact time of his death, on every 10 November, at 09:05, most vehicles and people in the country's streets pause for one minute in remembrance. In 1951, the outlawing () or representing him, which is still in force. A government website was created to denounce the websites that violate this law, and the Turkish government as of 2011 has filters in place to block websites deemed to contain materials insulting to his memory.\n\nThe start of Atatürk's cult of personality is placed in the 1920s when the first statues started being built. The idea of Atatürk as the \"father of the Turks\" is ingrained in Turkish politics and politicians in that country are evaluated in relation to his cult of personality. The persistence of the phenomenon of Atatürk's personality cult has become an area of deep interest to scholars.\n\nAtatürk impersonators are also seen around Turkey much after Atatürk's death to preserve what is called the \"world's longest-running personality cult\".\n\nIn recent years there has been a growing cult of personality in modern Turkey around current President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdoğan.\n\nSaparmurat Niyazov, who was President of Turkmenistan from 1985 to 2006, is another oft-cited cultivator of a cult of personality. Niyazov simultaneously cut funding to and partially disassembled the education system in the name of \"reform\", while injecting ideological indoctrination into it by requiring all schools to use his own book, the Ruhnama, as their primary text, and like Kim Il-sung, there is even a creation myth surrounding him. During Niyazov's presidency there was no freedom of the press nor was there freedom of speech. This further meant that opposition to Niyazov was strictly forbidden and major opposition figures have been imprisoned, institutionalized, deported, or they have fled the country, and their family members are routinely harassed by the authorities. Additionally, a silhouette of Niyazov was used as a logo on television broadcasts, Krasnovodsk town was renamed \"Turkmenbashi\" after him, and schools, airports and even a meteorite are also named after him and members of his family. Statues and pictures of him were also \"erected everywhere\". For these, and other reasons, the US government said that by the time he died, \"Niyazov's personality cult … had reached the dimensions of a state-imposed religion.\"\n\nHuman Rights Watch, in its \"World Report 2012\", says there is a cult of personality of President Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow and that it is strengthening. Agence France-Presse reports a developing personality cult. Reporters Without Borders says the president is promoting a cult of personality around himself and that his portraits have taken the place of the ones of the previous president.\nA number of scholarly papers and peer-reviewed articles have assessed the personality cult that some claim has developed around U.S. president Donald Trump. One is in a paper that appeared in the 2016 American Political Science Association Annual Meeting. In the paper, Sarah Oates, from the University of Maryland Philip Merrill College of Journalism, and Wendy W. Moe, from the University of Maryland Robert H. Smith School of Business, discussed the subject broadly and then stated that \"during the 2016 Presidential primaries, the 'cult of personality' candidate, Trump, won the primary.\" Another is in a book by University of Dayton distinguished professor of history Larry Schweikart and political commentator and author Joel Pollak. In their book, \"How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution\", they state that \"some conservatives looked forward to Trump's defeat as a chance to rid the GOP of the insufficiently conservative insurgents who were bringing it to defeat by choosing a candidate who was a mere reality-show Hollywood celebrity, a lifetime liberal who was hijacking their party and their cause with a vain cult of personality.\" A third was written by ethnologists Jonathan Rosa and Yarimar Bonilla who wrote, \"although we do not minimize the devastating impact that [Trump] administration's policies will have, or the new president's ominous behavior, we are wary of exceptionalizing the current moment. Our goal is thus to deprovincialize Trump, that is, to locate his election within broader historical, political, and economic assemblages of which it is but one part.\"...\"This effort might include [studying] Trump's xenophobia, bombast, and cult of personality, reminiscent of leaders in South Africa, Gambia, Uganda, Libya, and Zimbabwe.\" Also, stressing Trumps's own actions towards strengthening his own cult of personality, University of London U.S. Centre on American Politics and Policy's Daniel Kato noted that \"according to political theorist Hannah Arendt's thinking Trump may yet hunker down, drawing strength from the resistance to him, and continue to consolidate his cult of personality.\"\n\nMany articles, editorials, and even a number of elected officials on both ends of the political spectrum have noted Trump's emerging cult of personality, while others have cited in particular his repeated claim that \"the news media are the enemy of the people\" as one hallmark of such a central figure, deriving directly from Stalin's use of the phrase.\n\nIn Venezuela, a cult of personality has been created around the late President Hugo Chavez, in which his supporters venerate him. Chávez largely received his support through his charisma and by spending Venezuela's oil funds on the poor. Since his death, his followers, known as \"Chavistas\" refer to his death as a \"transition to immortality\", commonly calling Chávez the \"eternal commander\". Among his followers, Chávez has been compared to holy figures, especially by his successor Nicolás Maduro.\n\nAccording to Tomas Straka of Andres Bello University, Chávez's cult of personality began following the 1992 Venezuelan coup d'état attempts which Chávez led, with Straka explaining that some Venezuelans \"saw no solution to their most fundamental problems and they saw in Chávez a savior, or an avenger of those groups that had no hope\". Since the beginning of Chávez's tenure in 1999, the Venezuelan government manipulated the Venezuelan public with social programs depicting him as a great leader for the people. The struggles that Chávez endured throughout his presidency, such as the 2002 Venezuelan coup d'état attempt, also drew compassion from his followers which boosted his support. By the time of Chávez's death, speculation about potential Chavista reactions to his death were compared to the sorrow felt by those in North Korea who mourned the death of Kim Jong-il, with one scholar of Latin America from the University of California Santa Barbara, Juan Pablo Lupi, stating that the creation of Chávez's cult of personality was \"very well-staged, all this process of myth-making and appealing to the feelings and religious sentiment of the people. This is something that is quasi-religious\". The creation of Chávez's cult of personality was a strategy used by his government to maintain legitimacy before and after his death.\n\nThe Vietnamese communist regime has continually maintained a personality cult around Ho Chi Minh since the 1950s in the North, and it was later extended to the South after reunification, which it sees as a crucial part of its propaganda campaign surrounding Ho and the Party's past. Ho Chi Minh is frequently glorified in schools by schoolchildren. Opinions, publications and broadcasts that are critical of Ho Chi Minh or that identify his flaws are banned in Vietnam, and the commentators are arrested or fined for \"opposing the people's revolution\". Ho Chi Minh is even glorified to a religious status as an \"immortal saint\" by the Vietnamese Communist Party, and some people \"worship the President\", according to a BBC report.\n\nThe former capital of South Vietnam, Saigon, was officially renamed Ho Chi Minh City on 1 May 1975, one day after its capture, which officially ended the Vietnam War.\n\nJosip Broz Tito (in power from 1945 until 1980) developed cult of personality around himself. His cult is described as a combination of a \"peasant chief, protector and the legendary hero\". During his lifetime, his cult of personality included, among other things, naming places after him (including four cities), celebrations of his birthday (including Relay of Youth), widespread use of his portraits, writing his name in landscapes, so they can be seen from the air, etc.\n\nMobutu Sese Seko used his cult of personality to create a god-like public image of himself in Zaire, which today is the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Mobutu created a centralized state, amassed massive wealth for himself and presided over the economic deterioration of his country and human rights abuses.\n\nHe used mass media communications to entrench his rule.\n\nMobutu embarked on a campaign of pro-African cultural awareness and in 1972, he formally changed his name to Mobutu Sese Seko Nkuku Ngbendu Wa Za Banga (\"The all-powerful warrior who, because of his endurance and inflexible will to win, goes from conquest to conquest, leaving fire in his wake.\")\n\nPeople's Mujahedin of Iran has built a vast cult of personality around its leaders Masoud and Maryam Rajavi.\n\n"}
{"id": "4843627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4843627", "title": "List of fascist movements", "text": "List of fascist movements\n\nThis article discusses regimes and movements that have described themselves as fascist, or are alleged to have been fascist or sympathetic to fascism.\n\nIt is often a matter of dispute whether a certain government is to be characterized as fascist (radical authoritarian nationalism), authoritarian, totalitarian, or a police state. The term \"fascism\" itself is controversial, and has been defined in various ways by different authors. Many of the regimes and movements discussed in this article can be considered fascist according to some definitions but not according to others. See definitions of fascism for more information on that subject.\n\nThe first fascist country, Italy, was ruled by Benito Mussolini (\"Il Duce\") until he was dismissed and arrested on 25 July 1943. Mussolini was then rescued from prison by the Wehrmacht, and set up a short-lived puppet state named \"Repubblica di Salò\" in northern Italy under the protection of the Wehrmacht.\n\nThe National Socialist German Workers Party (Nazis) came to power in Germany as a minority party when its leader, Adolf Hitler, was named chancellor following the elections of 1933. Hitler moved swiftly to consolidate power, first through passage of the Enabling Act of 1933. After the death of President Paul von Hindenburg in 1934, the entire power of the German state was concentrated in Hitler's hands.\n\nThe German National socialists were known for their use of thuggery and intimidation of political opponents and dissenters, including outright persecution of the country's Jewish citizenry, resulting in the Holocaust. Nonetheless, they were widely popular among many segments of the German population, particularly the working class, for their perceived success in reversing the nation's economic decline. One of Hitler's cornerstone policies was known as Lebensraum, which served as the rationale for Germany's expansionist foreign policy and ultimately led to the Second World War.\n\nRight-wing elements in Japan, including industrialists, military officers, and the nobility, had long opposed democracy as an anathema to national unity. Military cliques began to dominate the national government starting in the 1930s. A major militarist nationalist movement in Japan from the 1920s to the 1930s was the Imperial Way Faction \"Kodoha\" of which future wartime Prime Minister Hideki Tōjō was a part. In 1936, Japan and Germany signed the Anti-Comintern Pact, aimed at countering the Soviet Union and the Communist International. In 1940, Prime Minister Fumimaro Konoye established the Imperial Rule Assistance Association, or Taisei Yokusankai, to consolidate all political parties under a single umbrella group. That same year, Japan joined Germany and Italy in the Tripartite Pact.\n\nEngelbert Dollfuß's idea of a \"Ständestaat\" was borrowed from Mussolini. Dollfuß dissolved parliament and established a clerical-fascist dictatorship which lasted until Austria was incorporated into Nazi Germany through the \"Anschluss\" of 1938.\n\nMany historians have argued that Brazil's Estado Novo under Getúlio Vargas was a Brazilian variant of the continental fascist regimes. Briefly, Vargas' regime was aligned with Plínio Salgado's Integralist Party, Brazil's fascist movement. Vargas launched a cult of personality that endures to this day, on top of the \"Worker's Rights\" (such as the rights to vacations and minimal wage) being extremely similar to Mussonili's own \"Worker's Rights\". Criticism on whether the government was fascist or not derives from the fact that Vargas followed the Castilhismo ideology, which is strongly Positivist, incompatible with Fascism's metaphysical, traditionalist, almost occultist ideas.\n\nIn Chile, during the 1930s, there was a fascist-nazi party named National Socialist Movement of Chile (MNS), ruled by Jorge González von Marées, an Adolf Hitler sympathizer. However, the MNS was dissolved in 1938.\n\nIn the 1930s, an elitist group around Chiang Kai-shek looked to fascism as a \"quick\" solution to the modernization of China. The Blue Shirts Society (藍衣社 in Chinese, hereinafter referred to as the BSS), was a secret clique in the Kuomintang (KMT, or the Chinese Nationalist Party). Under the direction of Chiang Kai-shek it sought to lead the KMT and China by following the ideology of Fascism and was a secret police or para-military force.\n\nChiang Kai-shek was confident in his goal to modernize China through an essentially Western method (fascism) and his ability to use it as an instrument while molding it into a Confucianist philosophy. His ideas were given shape by the Blueshirts – in effect an elitist organization within the Kuomintang government structure. This organization practiced the ancient Chinese theory of \"knowledge and action\" in order to inspire the Chinese people.\n\nLikewise, the more left-wing though politically syncretic faction of the Kuomintang led by Wang Jingwei, which split from the mainline right-wing faction of the Kuomintang led by Chiang Kai-shek, gradually embraced and espoused increasingly fascist oriented positions, including anti-communist doctrine. This eventually led to their recognition by members of the Axis Powers, including Germany and Italy, when Wang Jingwei's faction of the Kuomintang gained prominence and assumed control of a puppet regime based in Nanjing established in 1941 by forces of the invading Japanese military.\n\n\"Poglavnik\" Ante Pavelić, leader of the infamous Ustaše movement, came to power in 1941 as the Croatian puppet leader under the control of Nazi Germany. Under the indirect control of Germany, the Ustaše regime was based heavily upon both upon clerical fascism and the Italian model of fascism, with elements of racial integrity and organic nationalism drawn from Nazism.\n\nThe Lapua Movement, established in 1929, originally a nationalist movement that opposed Sweden and Russia, turned into a fascist movement in the early 1930s. However, the party's origins could date back to the early 1920s, in anti-communist forces during the Finnish Civil War. They attempted a coup d'état in 1932, after which the movement was banned. The Lapua Movement, however, affected the selection of Pehr Evind Svinhufvud as the president and the passing of extensive anti-communist laws. Finland stayed a democracy throughout World War II, despite co-operating with Nazi Germany.\n\nThe Vichy regime of Philippe Pétain, established following France's defeat by Germany, collaborated with the Nazis. However, the minimal importance of fascists in the government until its direct occupation by Germany makes it appear to seem more similar to the regime of Franco or Salazar than the model fascist powers. While it has been argued that anti-Semitic raids performed by the Vichy regime were more in the interests of pleasing Germany than in service of ideology, anti-semitism was a full component of the \"National Revolution\" ideology of Vichy.\n\nAs early as October 1940 the Vichy regime introduced the infamous \"statut des Juifs\", that produced a new legal definition of Jewishness and which barred Jews from certain public offices. They interned Liberals, Communists, Jews, Gypsies, homosexuals, in concentration camps as soon as 1940.\n\nAlso, in May 1941 the Parisian police force had collaborated in the internment of foreign Jews. As a means of identifying Jews, the German authorities required all Jews in the occupied zone to wear a yellow badge. On the 11 June, they demanded that 100,000 Jews be handed over for deportation.\n\nThe most infamous of these mass arrests was the so-called Vel' d'Hiv Roundup (\"Rafle du Vel' d'Hiv\") which took place in Paris on the 16 and 17 July 1942. The Vélodrome d'Hiver was a large cycle track situated on the rue Nélaton near the Quai de Grenelle in the 15th arrondissement of Paris. In a vast operation codenamed \"Spring Breeze\" (\"Vent printanier\"), the French police rounded up 13,152 Jews from Paris and its surrounding suburbs. These were mostly adult men and women however approximately 4,000 children were among them. Identifications for the arrests were made easier by the large number of files on Jews complied and held by Vichy authorities since 1940. The French police, headed by René Bousquet, were entirely responsible for this operation and no German soldiers assisted. Pierre Laval, head of Vichy, included the children in the deportations to Auschwitz against general German orders. Most of the deportees sealed in the transports died en route due to lack of food or water. The few survivors were sent to the gas chambers. A few months later, a police operation took place in Marseille, known as the Battle of Marseille, and led to massive raids in the so-called \"free zone\", administrated by Vichy.\n\nIoannis Metaxas' 1936 to 1941 dictatorship was partly fascist in its ideological nature, and might hence be characterized as quasi-fascist or authoritarian. It had a National Youth Organisation based on the Hitlerjugend, developed an armamentistic-centered economy, established a police-state akin to that of Nazi Germany (Greece received tactical and material support from Himmler, who exchanged correspondence with the Greek Minister of State Security Konstantinos Maniadakis) and brutality against communists in big cities such as Athens(communism was not known at small towns and villages of Greece yet). The Colonel George Papadopoulos' 1967 to 1974 military dictatorship, which was supported by the United States, however, was less ideological and lacked a clear fascist element other than militarism.\n\nBy 1932, support for right-wing ideology, embodied by Prime Minister Gyula Gömbös, had reached the point where Hungarian Regent Miklós Horthy could not postpone appointing a fascist prime minister. Horthy also showed signs of admiring the efficiency and conservative leanings of the Italian fascist state under Mussolini and was not too reluctant to appoint a fascist government (with terms for the extent of Horthy's power). Horthy would keep control over the mainstream fascist movement in Hungary until near the end of the Second World War. However, Gömbös never had a truly powerful fascist base of support. Instead, the radical Arrow Cross Party, which gained support in Budapest as well as the countryside, became a powerful political movement, gaining nearly 800,000 votes in the election of 1939. Horthy became paranoid due to his new rival, and imprisoned the Arrow Cross Party's leader, Ferenc Szálasi. However, this action only increased popular support for the fascist movement. In another attempt to challenge the Arrow Cross, Horthy's government began to imitate the Arrow Cross Party's ideology. Starting in 1938, several racial laws, mostly against Jews, were passed by the regime, but the extremist Arrow Cross Party, led by Ferenc Szálasi, was banned until German pressure lifted the law, and until Germany occupied Hungary during Operation Margarethe on March 19, 1944, no Jews were in direct danger of being annihilated. In July 1944, armor-colonel Ferenc Koszorús and the First Armour Division, under Horthy's orders, resisted the Arrow Cross militia and prevented the deportation of the Jews of Budapest, thus saved over 200,000 lives. This act impressed upon the German occupying forces, including Adolf Eichmann, that as long as Hungary continued to be governed by Horthy, no real \"Endlösung\" could begin. Following Horthy's attempt to have Hungary change sides on October 13, Szálasi, with German military support, launched Operation Panzerfaust and replaced Admiral Horthy as Head of State. The regime changed to a system more in line with Nazism and would remain this way until the capture of Budapest by Soviet troops. Over 400,000 Jews were sent by Hungary to German death camps from 1944 to 1945.\n\nVidkun Quisling had staged a \"coup d'état\" during the German invasion on April 9, 1940. This first government was replaced by a Nazi puppet government under his leadership from February 1, 1943. His party never had any substantial support in Norway, undermining his attempts to emulate the Italian fascist state.\n\nThe Estado Novo regime of António de Oliveira Salazar borrowed many of the ideas towards military and governance from Mussolini's Fascist regime and adapted to the Spanish example of paternal iconography for authoritarianism. Even though the regime was supportive of Mussolini and Hitler's efforts, it kept on the political sidelines throughout the war and instead offered only aid and business with both Italy and Germany during this period.\n\nDuring the 1930s, the rise of fascist-inspired organizations occurred in Poland. Fascist organizations like the Association of Polish Fascists (Związek Faszystów Polskich) were however marginal and ephemeral. Fascist-inspired organizations were however stronger than parties with clearly fascist programs. National Radical Camp Falanga was the most prominent of them. It was created by radical youth members with National Democratic origins. Falanga was nonetheless quickly banned by the authoritarian ruling Sanacja regime and continued to operate clandestinely. It was also involved in frequent street violence and anti-Semitic riots.\n\nThe Iron Guard turned more and more into a pro-Nazi and pro-German movement and took power in September 1940 when Ion Antonescu forced King Carol II to abdicate. However, the cohabitation between the Iron Guard and Ion Antonescu was short-lived.\n\nDuring the 1930s, the group combined a mix of Christian faith, antisemitism, and calls for land reform for farmers, who still lived in a quasi-feudal society. However, the extremely violent nature of the movement made it difficult for the Iron Guard to attract conservatives and middle class people, and as a result, the movement could never be as successful as the Nazi Party.\n\nThe Antonescu regime that followed had elements of fascism, but it lacked a clear political program or party. It was more a military dictatorship. The regime was characterized by nationalism, antisemitism, and anti-communism, but had no social program. Despite the Iaşi pogrom and a near-liquidation of the Jews of many parts of Moldavia, the regime ultimately refused to send the Romanian Jews to German death camps. The regime was overthrown on 23 August 1944 in a coup led by the king Mihai of Romania.\n\nThe Slovak People's Party was a quasi-fascist nationalist movement. It was associated with the Roman Catholic Church and founded by Father Andrej Hlinka. His successor Monsignor Jozef Tiso was a president of nominally independent Slovakia in 1939–1945. His government colleagues like Vojtech Tuka or Alexander Mach collaborate with fascism. The clerical element lends comparison with Austrofascism or the clerical fascism of Croatia, though not to the excesses of either model. The market system was run on principles agreeing with the standard Italian fascist model of industrial regulation.\n\nAfter the 1936 arrest and execution of its founder, José Antonio Primo de Rivera, during the Spanish Civil War, the fascist Falange Española Party was allied to and ultimately came to be dominated by Generalísimo Francisco Franco, who became known as \"El Caudillo\", the undisputed leader of the Nationalist side in the war and, after victory, head of state until his death over 35 years later. However, it was best described as an autocracy based on the Falangist fascist principles in its early years. By the mid-1950s, the Spanish Miracle and the rise of Opus Dei in the Franco regime led to Falangist fascism being discarded and fascists minimized in importance.\n\nThere have been three waves of fascism in South Africa. Beginning with D F Malan's support of Hitler's brown shirts and the activities of Robey Leibbrandt in the 1930s and 1940s, the second wave during the 1970s and 1980s which created fringe right-wing groups such as the Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging.\n\nYugoslav Radical Union was a Yugoslav fascist group run by Milan Stojadinović. Party members wore green shirt uniforms, addressed Stojadinović as \"Vodja\" and used the Roman salute. The party was dissolved following the Axis invasion of Yugoslavia\n\nPrior to World War II, fascist or quasi-fascist movements also appeared in democratic nations, often taking their inspiration from the regimes established by Mussolini and Hitler.\n\nThe New Guard attempted to violently remove New South Wales Premier Jack Lang from office.\n\nIn the 1930s, Canada had fascist fringe groups within it. One stronger group was the \"Parti national social chrétien\" of Adrien Arcand which had significant support. Arcand believed in the anti-Semitic policies of Hitler and called himself the \"Canadian Führer\". In 1934, his Quebec-based party merged with the western-based fascist Nationalist Party of Canada. In 1938, the English Canadian and French Canadian fascist movements united into the National Unity Party. The only fascist politician ever to be elected in Canada was a man by the name of P. M. Campbell who ran and won under the fascist Unity Party of Alberta for Lethbridge in a 1937 Alberta Provincial By-Election. In 1940, all fascist parties were banned under Canada's War Measures Act.\n\nThe Rexist movement and the Vlaamsch Nationaal Verbond party achieved some electoral success in the 1930s. The party could be label as clerical fascist with its roots in Catholic Conservatism. The party gained rapid support for a brief period, focusing on the secularism, corruption, and ineffectiveness on parliamentary democracy in Belgium. Many of its members assisted the Nazi occupation during World War II. The Verdinaso movement, too, can be considered fascist. Its leader, Joris Van Severen, was killed before the Nazi occupation. Some of its adepts collaborated, but others joined the resistance. These collaborationist movements are generally classified as belonging to the National Socialist model or the German fascist model because of its brand of racial nationalism and the close relation with the occupational authorities.\n\nFascist sympathizers led by General Eoin O'Duffy established the Army Comrades Association, or \"Blueshirts\" in 1932 as a veterans organization. Renamed the National Guard, it eventually became the paramilitary wing of the United Ireland Party. The Blueshirts wanted to establish a corporate state in Ireland and frequently clashed with Republican supporters of the ruling Fianna Fáil, who were using force to disrupt that party's meetings. O’Duffy planned a parade in Dublin in 1933, and the government, fearing a coup, banned the organization. The organization began to decline soon after. Blueshirts under O’Duffy's leadership later fought for Franco during the Nationalist uprising in Spain.\n\nA reactionary nationalist movement called Acción Revolucionaria Mexicana (Mexican Revolutionary Action), founded by former Villista general Nicolas Rodriguez Carrasco, agitated for right-wing causes, such as the deportation of Jews and Chinese-Mexicans, throughout the 1930s. ARM maintained a paramilitary force called the Goldshirts, which clashed frequently with Communist activists, and supported the presidential faction of Plutarco Calles against the liberal reformist president Lázaro Cárdenas. The paramilitary group was banned in 1936 and the ARM officially disbanded in 1942, when Mexico declared war against the Axis.\n\nThe \"Verbond van Actualisten\" (Union of Actualists) was the oldest fascist movement in the Netherlands. It was established on 22 January 1923 and its ideology was based on Mussolini's Italian fascist movement. It ceased all activities in November 1928 after having had no success at all. It was succeeded by the \"Vereeniging De Bezem\" (Association 'The Broom') which was founded on 15 December 1928 by some men who previously were active in the \"Verbond van Actualisten\". Its aim was to clean Dutch politics – hence the name. Its downfall in 1932 was caused by continuous discord between its leaders. On 14 December 1931 Anton Mussert and Cornelis van Geelkerken founded the \"Nationaal-Socialistische Beweging in Nederland\" (NSB), the National Socialist Movement in the Netherlands. It started as a fascist movement, Italian style, but at the same time its ideology was based on Hitlers NSDAP. In the years 1935–1936 the party embraced antisemitism. Its best pre-war election result was 7,9% of the voters (1935). The maximum number of member of the NSB was 100,000 (around 1,25% of the Dutch population). Soon after the German occupation in May 1940 the NSB became the only allowed political party. Never once during the years of WW II the NSB was giving any real power, instead, the Germans used the NSB for their own purposes. After the German defeat, the NSB disappeared. On 29 June 1932 Jan Baars (previously active in the \"Vereeniging 'De Bezem\"') founded the \"Algemeene Nederlandsche Fascisten Bond\" (General Dutch Fascist Federation). It was the first Dutch fascist political party to gain significant election results and it had a considerable number of members. Its political views were quite moderate and it disapproved German Nazi racism and antisemitism. It ended its existence in 1934. Its main successful successor was \"Zwart Front\" (Black Front), 1934–1941. Its leaders were of a Catholic origin and the party was strongly based on Italian fascism. During the pre-war period, it never established a prominent position like Mussert's NSB. After the German invasion in May 1940, the number of members rose from 4,000 to 12,000. The Germans prohibited \"Zwart Front\" in December 1941.\n\nOther, smaller, fascist and Nazi parties were: \"Verbond van Nationalisten\" (Union of Nationalists, 1928–1934), the \"Nationaal-Socialistische Nederlandsche Arbeiders Partij\" (National Socialist Dutch Workers Party, 1931–1941), \"Nationaal-Socialistische Partij\" (National Socialist Party, 1932–1941), \"Nederlandsche Fascisten Unie\" (Dutch Fascist Union, 1933), \"Unie van Nederlandsche Fascisten\" (Union of Dutch Fascists, 1933), \"Oranje-Fascisten\" (Orange Fascists, 1933), \"Frysk Fascisten Front\" (Frisian Fascist Front, 1933), \"Corporatieve Concentratie\" (Corporative Concentration, 1933–1934), \"Verbond voor Nationaal Herstel\" (Union for National Restoration, 1933–1941), \"Nederlandsche Nationaal-Socialistische Partij\" (Dutch National Socialist Party, 1935) and the \"Nederlandsche Volkspartij\" (Dutch People's Party, 1938–1940).\n\nDutch fascism and Nazism is known for its lack of coherence and it was dominated by the egos of its leaders. An important fact for its marginal position in pre-war Dutch politics was the absence of a 'lost generation' of combatants of WW I.\n\nIn Lebanon, the Kataeb Party (Phalange) was formed in 1936, with inspiration of the Spanish Falange and Italian Fascism. The founder of the party, Pierre Gemayel, founded the party after returning from a visit at the 1936 Summer Olympics. The party is still active today, although it has abandoned the Falangist and Fascist ideology in place of Phoenicianism, social Conservatism, Republicanism, and anti-Islam.\n\nThe \"Sveriges Fascistiska Folkparti\" (\"SFF\"; \"Fascist People's Party of Sweden\") was founded in 1926. Major figures of the party included its founding leader, Konrad Hallgren, a former German officer, and Swedish soldiers Sven Olov Lindholm and Sven Hedengren.\n\nIn 1929 a delegation of the party, led by Hallgren and Lindholm, attended a major rally of the German Nazi party, at Nuremberg. Afterwards, the \"SFF\" was more strongly influenced by Nazism and changed its name to \"Sveriges Nationalsocialistiska Folkparti\" (\"SNF\"; Swedish National Socialist People's Party). The \"SNF\" was one of several Swedish Nazi parties.\n\nSir Oswald Mosley, an admirer of Mussolini, established the British Union of Fascists in 1932 as a nationalist alternative to the three mainstream political parties in Britain. Though the BUF achieved only limited success in some local elections, their existence caused frequent riots, usually instigated by Communist movements. Alarmed at the violence caused by the BUF, the government passed the Public Order Act in 1936 to restrict its activity. During the latter years of the decade, the party experienced a revival in popularity on the back of its anti-war campaign. The BUF was banned in 1940 and Mosley was interned for the duration of the war. The relative stability of democratic institutions, the long-time assimilation of Jews, and the lack of a strong, threatening Communist movement, had made it difficult for fascism to succeed in Britain.\n\nThe Silver Legion of America (1933-1941), claiming around 15,000 members, managed to run a candidate for President on a third-party ticket, but was outlawed after Nazi Germany's declaration of war on the United States in late 1941.\n\nDespite the arousal of fascist movements across Europe and the world, many were different in their nature in ideology. Some like the Iron Guard and Arrow Cross Party had strong support among the proletariat, unlike Nazism and Italian Fascism, which relied more on the support of the middle class. Meanwhile, some regimes, especially those appointed by Hitler like Vichy France, was made up of the conservative and aristocratic elite. Others also had different degrees of Catholic elements. Some groups, like the ones in Croatia, Austria, Belgium, and Slovakia, had its roots in reactionary and populist Catholicism. The Iron Guard also had strong religious influences and was defined, by its leaders, as more of a religious order than a political party. Fascist leaders like Francisco Franco and Vidkun Quisling tried to stage direct military coups, while other fascist groups formed political parties and tried to take power through the existing democratic process, such as Oswald Mosley's British Union of Fascists.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15459916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15459916", "title": "List of wars by death toll", "text": "List of wars by death toll\n\nThis list of wars by death toll includes death toll estimates of all deaths that are either directly or indirectly caused by war. These numbers usually include the deaths of military personnel which are the direct results of battle or other military wartime actions, as well as the wartime/war-related deaths of soldiers, which are the results of war-induced epidemics, famines, atrocities, genocide, etc.\n\n\"\"'Note: the identity of a single \"war\" cannot be reliably given in some cases, and some \"wars\" can be taken to last over more than a human lifetime, e.g.\n\"Reconquista\" (711–1492, 781 years)\n\"Muslim conquests in India\" (12th to 16th c., 500 years)\n\"Crusades\" (ten or more campaigns during the period 1095–1291, 196 years),\n\"Mongol conquests\" (1206–1368, 162 years),\n\"early Muslim conquests\" (622–750, 128 years),\n\"Hundred Years' War\" (1337–1453, 115 years).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "233475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233475", "title": "Multi-party system", "text": "Multi-party system\n\nA multi-party system is a system in which multiple political parties across the political spectrum run for national election, and all have the capacity to gain control of government offices, separately or in coalition. Apart from one-party-dominant and two-party systems, multi-party systems tend to be more common in parliamentary systems than presidential systems and far more common in countries that use proportional representation compared to countries that use first-past-the-post elections. \n\nFirst-past-the-post requires concentrated areas of support for large representation in the legislature whereas proportional representation better reflects the range of a population's views. Proportional systems may have multi-member districts with more than one representative elected from a given district to the same legislative body, and thus a greater number of viable parties. Duverger's law states that the number of viable political parties is one plus the number of seats in a district. \n\nArgentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Croatia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Lebanon, Maldives, Mexico, Moldova, Nepal, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Tunisia and Ukraine are examples of nations that have used a multi-party system effectively in their democracies. In these countries, usually no single party has a parliamentary majority by itself. Instead, multiple political parties are compelled to form compromised coalitions for the purpose of developing power blocks and attaining legitimate mandate.\n\nA system where only two parties have the possibility of winning an election is called two-party system. A system where only three parties have a \"realistic possibility\" of winning an election or forming a coalition is sometimes called a \"Third-party system\". But, in some cases the system is called a \"Stalled Third-Party System,\" when there are three parties and all three parties win a large number of votes, but only two have a chance of winning an election. Usually this is because the electoral system penalises the third party, e.g. as in Canadian or UK politics. In the 2010 elections, the Liberal Democrats gained 23% of the total vote but won less than 10% of the seats due to the first-past-the-post electoral system. Despite this, they still had enough seats (and enough public support) to form coalitions with one of the two major parties, or to make deals in order to gain their support. An example is the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition formed after the 2010 general election. Another is the Lib-Lab pact during Prime Minister James Callaghan's Minority Labour Government; when Labour lost its three-seat majority in 1977, the pact fell short of a full coalition. In Canada, there are three major federal political parties; the Conservative Party of Canada, the Liberal Party of Canada, and the New Democratic Party of Canada. However, the Liberals and Conservatives have been the only two parties to form government in Canada with the New Democrats as the third party, except in the 2011 Canadian election when the New Democrats were the Official Opposition.\n\nUnlike a one-party system (or a two-party system), a multi-party system encourages the general constituency to form multiple distinct, officially recognized groups, generally called political parties. Each party competes for votes from the enfranchised constituents (those allowed to vote). A multi-party system prevents the leadership of a single party from controlling a single legislative chamber without challenge.\n\nIf the government includes an elected Congress or Parliament, the parties may share power according to proportional representation or the first-past-the-post system. In proportional representation, each party wins a number of seats proportional to the number of votes it receives. In first-past-the-post, the electorate is divided into a number of districts, each of which selects one person to fill one seat by a plurality of the vote. First-past-the-post is not conducive to a proliferation of parties, and naturally gravitates toward a two-party system, in which only two parties have a real chance of electing their candidates to office. This gravitation is known as Duverger's law. Proportional representation, on the other hand, does not have this tendency, and allows multiple major parties to arise. But, recent coalition governments, such as that in the U.K., represent two-party systems rather than multi-party systems. This is regardless of the number of parties in government.\n\nA two-party system requires voters to align themselves in large blocs, sometimes so large that they cannot agree on any overarching principles. Some theories argue that this allows centrists to gain control. On the other hand, if there are multiple major parties, each with less than a majority of the vote, the parties are strongly motivated to work together to form working governments. This also promotes centrism, as well as promoting coalition-building skills while discouraging polarization.\n\n"}
{"id": "21309716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21309716", "title": "Orangism (Luxembourg)", "text": "Orangism (Luxembourg)\n\nOrangism was a movement in the 19th century Grand Duchy of Luxembourg favouring the personal union of the Netherlands and Luxembourg under the House of Orange-Nassau. Made up of many notable figures, mainly nobles and Roman Catholic clergy, they were moderate liberals or conservative-liberals and slightly anti-clerical. At first they favoured maintaining the Grand Duchy's autonomous status and, especially during the Belgian Revolution, opposed it being merged into Belgium. In the end the western part of the Grand Duchy (the present province of Luxembourg) passed to Belgium, whilst the eastern part and the Orange grand duchy continued as an independent state. In 1890 the heads of the House of Orange were grand dukes of Luxembourg, but on the death of king and grand duke William III in 1890 he was succeeded by his relation Adolphe as grand duke since Luxembourg's constitution did not allow a woman (Princess Wilhelmina) to hold the throne. The movement's newsletter was the \"Journal de la Ville et du Pays Luxembourg\".\n\nThe movement was led by Gaspard-Théodore-Ignace de la Fontaine (1787–1871) and other notable members included:\n"}
{"id": "846426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=846426", "title": "Political crime", "text": "Political crime\n\nIn criminology, a political crime or political offence is an offence involving overt acts or omissions (where there is a duty to act), which prejudice the interests of the state, its government, or the political system. It is to be distinguished from state crime, in which it is the states that break both their own criminal laws or public international law.\n\nStates will define as political crimes any behaviour perceived as a threat, real or imagined, to the state's survival, including both violent and non-violent oppositional crimes. A consequence of such criminalisation may be that a range of human rights, civil rights, and freedoms are curtailed, and conduct which would not normally be considered criminal \"per se\" (in other words, that is not antisocial according to those who engage in it) is criminalised at the convenience of the group holding power.\n\nThus, there may be a question of the morality of a law which simply criminalises ordinary political dissent, even though the majority of those who support the current regime may consider criminalisation of politically motivated behaviour an acceptable response when the offender is driven by more extreme political, ideological, religious or other beliefs, \n\nAt one extreme, crimes such as treason, sedition, and terrorism are political because they represent a direct challenge to the government in power. Espionage is usually considered a criminal act. But offenders do not have to aim to overthrow the government or to depose its leaders to be acting in a way perceived as \"political\". A state may perceive it threatening if individuals advocate change to the established order, or argue the need for reform of long-established policies, or engage in acts signifying some degree of disloyalty, e.g. by burning the nation's flag in public. But the scope of such crimes can be rather less direct.\n\nStructural functionist criminologists recognise that states invest their resources in maintaining order through social conformity, i.e. a particular culture is encouraged and maintained through the primary social discourses which may include religious, economic, social, or other less formal concerns. Any interference with the media of communication or the sets of meanings embedded in the communications themselves may be perceived as a threat to the political authority of the state. Hence, whether in hard copy or electronically, if individuals distribute material containing uncensored information which undermines the credibility of state-controlled news media, this may be considered threatening.\n\nMoreover, even an offence against non-governmental institutions, persons, or practices may be deemed political. Violence or even discrimination against an ethnic or racial group, as well trade union strikes or picketing against private employers, can be perceived as a political crime when those in power see such conduct as undermining the political (and economic) stability of the state. In this context, note that the Law Enforcement Code of Conduct passed by the International Association of Chiefs of Police says in part: \"The fundamental duties of a police officer include serving the community, safeguarding lives and property, protecting the innocent, keeping the peace and ensuring the rights of all to liberty, equality and justice\" (cited in Robinson, 2002). This code requires that police behave in a courteous and fair manner, that they treat all citizens in a respectable and decent manner, and that they never use unnecessary force. When they do, it is argued that this constitutes a crime (e.g. as an assault) and, if it is institutionalised, then over time, the use of unnecessary force become a state crime.\n\nMarxist criminologists argue that most political crime arises from the efforts of the state to reproduce the structures of inequality: racism, sexism, ethnic preference as well as class advantages. Thus, states will protect property rights and reduce the rights of trade unions to represent the interests of the poor. Even war could be grounded in the problems of local capitalists in wealthy countries in the effort to move raw materials, profits and jobs in a globalised political economy, and opposing such a war will be a political crime. Marxists do not dispute that, for a society to function efficiently, social order is necessary. But they consider that, in all societies, one class, usually characterised as the \"ruling class\", gains far more than other classes. Marxists agree with functionalists that socialisation plays a crucial role in promoting conformity and order. However, unlike the latter, they are highly critical of the ideas, values and norms of \"capitalist ideology\". Modern Marxists point to education and the media as socialising agencies, which delude or \"mystify\" the working class into conforming to a social order, which works against its real interests. Thus, all controls which directly or indirectly explit the criminal law to control access to the discourses are political crimes.\n\nMiller says that one of the defining characteristics of power in modern history has been the rationalisation and bureaucratisation of law. Legal codification, or at least debates over the merits of legal codification, became an almost global phenomenon in the nineteenth century as state power was centralised. In particular, the rationalisation of criminal law standardised not just the concept of crime, but was adopted as the means to eliminate the \"deviant\" as a threat to a modern, uniform, moral standard. In this, the religious establishment began to play a new role in defining \"evil\" in which threats to the political or social norm became as dangerous as threats to religious orthodoxy. Thus, political speech became one of the most likely activities to be criminalised. The freedom of association and to meet may also be criminalised if the purpose is to express oppositional political views.\n\nBecause a political offender may be fighting against a tyrannical government, treaties have usually specified that a person cannot be extradited for a political offense. Thomas Jefferson wrote:\n\nPeople convicted or suspected of certain crimes classified as terrorism by the government of their country (or some foreign countries) reject that classification. They consider that their fight is a legitimate one using legitimate means, and thus their crimes should be more appropriately called political crimes and justify special treatment in the penal system (as if they were soldiers in a war and therefore covered by the Geneva Convention). States tend to consider the political nature of the crimes an aggravating factor in the sentencing process and make no distinction between the terrorists and \"ordinary\" offenders, e.g. the convicted murderers of Action Directe consider themselves political prisoners.\n\nWhere there is no clear separation between the state and the prevailing religion, the edicts of the church may be codified as law and enforced by the secular policing and judicial authorities. This is a highly functionalist mechanism for enforcing conformity in all aspects of cultural life and the use of the label \"crime\" adds an extra layer of stigma to those convicted.\n\n"}
{"id": "5883157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5883157", "title": "Political history of East Africa", "text": "Political history of East Africa\n\nThe following is a list of the political history of East Africa.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1450022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1450022", "title": "Political psychology", "text": "Political psychology\n\nPolitical psychology is an interdisciplinary academic field dedicated to understanding politics, politicians and political behavior from a psychological perspective. The relationship between politics and psychology is considered bi-directional, with psychology being used as a lens for understanding politics and politics being used as a lens for understanding psychology. As an interdisciplinary field, political psychology borrows from a wide range of other disciplines, including: anthropology, sociology, international relations, economics, philosophy, media, journalism and history.\n\nPolitical psychology aims to understand interdependent relationships between individuals and contexts that are influenced by beliefs, motivation, perception, cognition, information processing, learning strategies, socialization and attitude formation. Political psychological theory and approaches have been applied in many contexts such as: leadership role; domestic and foreign policy making; behavior in ethnic violence, war and genocide; group dynamics and conflict; racist behavior; voting attitudes and motivation; voting and the role of the media; nationalism; and political extremism. In essence political psychologists study the foundations, dynamics, and outcomes of political behavior using cognitive and social explanations.\n\nPolitical psychology originated from Western Europe, France, where it was closely tied to the emergence of new disciplines and paradigms as well as to the precise social and political context in various countries.\nThe discipline political psychology was formally introduced during the Franco-Prussian war and the socialist revolution, stirred by the rise of the Paris Commune (1871). The term \"political psychology\" was first introduced by the ethnologist Adolph Bastian in his book \"Man in History\" (1860). The philosopher Hippolyte Taine (1828–1893), a founder of the Ecole Libre de Sciences Politiques, applied Bastian's theories in his works \"The Origins of Contemporary France\" (1875–1893), to ideas on the founding and development of the Third Republic. The head of Ecole Libre de Sciences Politiques, Emile Boutmy (1835–1906), was a famous explorer of social, political and geographical concepts of national interactions. He contributed various works on political psychology such as \"English People; A study of their Political Psychology\" (1901) and \"The American People; Elements of Their Political Psychology\" (1902). The contributor of crowd theory Gustave Le Bon (1841–1931) suggested that crowd activity subdued will and polluted rational thought which resulted in uncontrollable impulses and emotions. He suggested in his works \"Psychology of Socialism\" (1896) and \"Political Psychology and Social Defense\" (1910) that in the uncontrollable state of a crowd people were more vulnerable to submission and leadership, and suggested that embracing nationalism would remedy this.\n\nMeanwhile in Italy, the Risorgimento (1870) instigated various social reforms and voting rights. The large division in social class during this period led lawyer Gaetano Mosca (1858–1914) to publish his work, \"The Ruling Class: Elements of Political Science\" (1896), which theorized the presence of the ruling and the ruled classes of all societies. Vilfredo Pareto (1828–1923), inspired by Mosca's concepts, contributed \"The Rise and Fall of the Elites\" (1901) and \"The Socialist System\" (1902–1903) to the discipline of political psychology, theorizing on the role of class and social systems. His work \"The Mind and Society\" (1916) offers a sociology treatise. Mosca and Pareto's texts on the Italian elite contributed to the theories of Robert Michels (1875–1936). Michels was a German socialist fascinated by the distinction between the largely lower class run parliament in Germany and upper class run parliament in Italy. He wrote \"Political Parties: A Sociological Study of the Oligarchic Tendencies of Modern Democracy\" (1911).\n\nA large psychoanalytical influence was contributed to the discipline of political psychology by Sigmund Freud (1856–1939). His texts \"Totem and Taboo\" (1913) and \"Group Psychology and the Analysis of the Ego\" (1921) linked psychoanalysis with politics. Freud and Bullitt (1967) developed the first psychobiographical explanation to how the personality characteristics of U.S. President Woodrow Wilson affected his decision making during World War I. Wilhelm Reich (1897–1957), inspired by the effects of World War II, was interested in whether personality types varied according to epoch, culture and class. He described the bidirectional effect of group, society and the environment with personality. He combined Freudian and Marxist theories in his book \"The Mass Psychology of Fascism\" (1933). He also edited \"The Journal for Political Psychology and Sexual Economy\" (1934–1938) which was the first journal to present political psychology in the principal of western language.\n\nIn Germany, novice political alterations and fascist control during World War II spurred research into authoritarianism from Frankfurt school. Philosopher Herbert Marcuse (1898–1979) opened up issues concerning freedom and authority in his book, \"\" (1941), where he suggested groups compromise on individual rights. Theodor Adorno (1903–1969) also investigated authoritarian individuals and anti-Semitism. His report \"The Authoritarian Personality\" (1950) attempts to determine the personality type susceptible to following fascism and anti-democratic propaganda. Nazi movements during World War II also spurred controversial psychologists such as Walther Poppelreuter (1932) to lecture and write about political psychology that identified with Hitler. The psychologist Eric Jaensch (1883–1940) contributed the racist book \"The Anti-type\" (1933).\n\nAt the turn of the century, Oxford University and Cambridge University introduced disciplinary political psychology courses such as \"The Sciences of the Man\", along with the foundation of the Psychological society (1901) and the Sociological society (1904). Oxford historian G. B. Grundy (1861–1948) noted political psychology (1917) as a sub-discipline of history. Motivated by social and political behavior during World War I, he deemed a new branch of historical science, \"The Psychology of Men Acting in Masses\". He referred to science to instrument the clarification of mistaken beliefs about intention. The intellectual Graham Wallas (1859–1932) implicated the significance of studying psychology in politics in \"Human Nature in Politics\" (1908). Wallace emphasized the importance of enlightening politicians and the public about the psychological processes in order to raise awareness on exploitation while developing control over one's own psychological intellect. He suggested in \"Great Society\" (1917) that recognition of such processes could help to build a more functional humanity.\n\nAcross the Atlantic the first American to be considered a political psychologist was Harold Lasswell (1902–1978) whose research was also spurred by a sociological fascination of World War I. His work \"Propaganda Technique in the World War\" (1927) discussed the use of applying psychological theories in order to enhance propaganda technique. Lasswell moved to Europe shortly after where he started to tie Freudian and Adler personality theories to politics and published \"Psychopathology and Politics\" (1930). His major theories involved the motives of the politically active and the relation between propaganda and personality.\n\nAnother contributing factor to the development of Political Psychology was the introduction of psychometrics and \"The Measurement of Attitude\" by Thurstone and Chave (1929). The methodological revolution in social science gave quantitative grounds and therefore more credibility to Political Psychology. Research into political preference during campaigns was spurred by George Gallup (1901–1984), who founded the \"American Institute of Public Opinion\". The 1940s election in America drew a lot of attention in connection with the start of World War II. Gallup, Roper and Crossley instigated research into the chances of Roosevelt being re-elected. Lazarsfeld, Berelson and Gaudet (1944) also conducted a famous panel study \"The People's Choice\" on the 1940s election campaign. These studies drew attention to the possibility of measuring political techniques using psychological theories. The entry of the US into World War II spiraled vast research into fields such as war technique, propaganda, group moral, psycho-biography and culture conflict to name a few, with the U.S. army and Navy recruiting young psychologists. Thus the discipline quickly developed and gained international accreditation.\n\nMcGuire identifies three broad phases in the development of political psychology, these three phases are:\n1.The era of personality studies in the 1940s and 1950s dominated by psychoanalysis \n2.The era of political attitudes and voting behavior studies in the 1960s and 1970s characterized by the popularity of \"rational man\" assumptions\n3.An era since the 1980s and 1990s, which has focused on political beliefs, information processing and decision making, and has dealt in particular with international politics.\n\nThe study of personality in political psychology focuses on the effects of leadership personality on decision-making, and the consequences of mass personality on leadership boundaries. Key personality approaches utilized in political psychology are psychoanalytic theories, trait-based theories and motive-based theories.\n\nSigmund Freud (1856–1939) made significant contributions to the study of personality in political psychology through his theories on the unconscious motives of behavior. Freud suggested that a leader's behavior and decision making skill were largely determined by the interaction in their personality of the id, ego and superego, and their control of the pleasure principle and reality principle. The psychoanalytic approach has also been used extensively in psychobiographies of political leaders. Psychobiographies draw inferences from personal, social and political development, starting from childhood, to understand behavior patterns that can be implemented to predict decision-making motives and strategies.\n\nTraits are personality characteristics that show to be stable over time and in different situations, creating predispositions to perceive and respond in particular ways. Gordon Allport (1897-1967) realized the study of traits introducing central, secondary, cardinal and common traits. These four distinctions suggest that people demonstrate traits to varying degrees, and further that there is a difference between individual and common traits to be recognized within a society. Hans Eysenck (1916-1997) contributed three major traits, currently however Costa and McCrae's (1992) \"Big Five\" personality dimensions are the most recognized. These include; neuroticism, extraversion, agreeableness, openness to experience and conscientiousness. Theories in political psychology induce that one's combination of these traits has implications for leadership style and capacity. For example, individuals who score highly on extroversion are demonstrated as having superior leadership skills.\nThe Myers-Briggs Type indicator (MBTI) is a personality assessment scale commonly used in the study of political personality and for job profiling.\n\nIn terms of political psychology motivation is viewed as goal-oriented behavior driven by a need for three things; power, affiliation intimacy, and achievement. These categories were grouped by Winter (1996) from Murray's (1938) twenty suggested common human goals. Need for power affects the style in which a leader performs. Winter and Stewart (1977) suggested that leaders high in power motivation and low in need of affiliation intimacy motivation make better presidents. Affiliation-motivated leaders alternatively tend to collaborate joint efforts in the absence of threat. Lastly, achievement motivation has demonstrated to not correspond with political success, especially if it is higher than power motivation (Winter, 2002). Motivation between a leader and those whom they are ruling needs to be consistent with success. Motives have been shown to be correlated more highly with situation and time since last goal-fulfillment, rather than consistent traits. The Thematic Apperception Test (TAT) is commonly used for assessing motives. However, in the case of leadership assessment this test is more difficult to implement therefore more applicable tests are often used such as content analysis of speeches and interviews.\n\nThe authoritarian personality is a syndrome theory that was developed by the researchers Adorno, Frenkel-Brunswick, Levinson and Sanford (1950) at The University of California. The American Jewish Committee subsidized research and publishing on the theory since it revolved around ideas developed from World War II events. Adorno (1950) explained the authoritarian personality type from a psychoanalytic point of view suggesting it to be a result of highly controlled and conventional parenting. Adorno (1950) explained that individuals with an authoritarian personality type had been stunted in terms of developing an ability to control the sexual and aggressive id impulses. This resulted in a fear of them and thus a development of defense mechanisms to avoid confronting them. Authoritarian personality types are persons described as swinging between depending on yet resenting authority. The syndrome was theorized to encompass nine characteristics; conventionalism, authoritarian submission, authoritarian aggression, anti-intraception (an opposition to subjective or imaginative tendencies), superstition and stereotypy, power and toughness, destructiveness and cynicism, sex obsession, and projectivity. The authoritarian personality type is suggested to be; ethnocentric, ego-defensive, mentally rigid, conforming and conventional, adverse to the out of the ordinary, and as having conservative political views. The book \"The Authoritarian Personality\" (1950) introduces several scales based on different authoritarian personality types. These are; the F-scale which measures from where and to what degree fascist attitudes develop, the anti-Semitism scale, the ethnocentrism scale and the politico economic conservatism scale. The F-scale however, is the only scale that is expected to measure implicit authoritarian personality tendencies.\n\nBob Altemeyer (1996) deconstructed the authoritarian personality using trait analysis. He developed a Right-wing Authoritarianism (RWA) scale based on the traits; authoritarian submission, authoritarian aggression, and conventionalism. Altmeyer (1996) suggested that those who score high on the F-scale have a low ability for critical thinking and therefore are less able to contradict authority. Altmeyer's theories also incorporate the psychodynamic point of view, suggesting that authoritarian personality types were taught by their parents to believe that the world was a dangerous place and thus their impulses lead them to make impulsive, emotional and irrational decisions. The beliefs and behavior of an authoritarian are suggested to be easily manipulated by authority instead of being based on internal values. Altmeyer also theorized that leaders with authoritarian personality types were more susceptible to the fundamental attribution error. There are many weaknesses associated with this syndrome and the F-scale. It may have been more relevant during the period in which it was produced, being shortly after World War II. The authoritarian personality is generally related to a fascist image however it is suggested to explain behavior of individuals in all political fields.\n\nTrait-based frameworks, excluding the Freudian approach, were suggested by James Barber (1930–2004) in \"The Presidential Character\" (1972) who highlighted the importance of psychobiography in political personality analysis. Barber suggested that leadership personality comprised three dimensions; \"character\", \"world view\", and \"style\". Barber also proposed that leadership typology followed a pattern leading from an individuals first political success and that it is includes two variables; the effort that a leader puts in and the personal satisfaction that the leader gains. This typology is fairly limited in its dimensions.\n\nEtheredge (1978) proposed the importance of the traits; \"dominance\", \"interpersonal trust\", \"self-esteem\" and \"introversion-extroversion\", in leadership views and policy shaping. Etheredge found from studies on leaders during the Soviet Union, that those who scored highly on dominance were more likely to support the use of force during debate settlement. He found that the trait introversion can lead to a lack of co-operation, and that extroversion usually leads to cooperation and negotiation. Further he suggested that interpersonal trust and self-esteem were closely related to not advocating force.\n\nMargaret Hermann (1976) introduced the Leader Trait Assessment (LTA) and advocated the development of the Profiler-Plus. The Profiler-Plus is a computer system used to code spontaneous interview answers for seven major characteristics; need for power, cognitive complexity, task-interpersonal emphasis, self-confidence, locus of control, distrust of others, and ethnocentrism. This method can profile large bodies of leadership related text whilst removing any subjective bias from content analysis. It is efficient and has high reliability.\nHermann and Preston (1994) suggested 5 distinct variables of leadership style; their involvement in policy making, their willingness to tolerate conflict, their level and reasons for motivation, their information managing strategies, and their conflict resolving strategies.\n\nAn alternative approach is the Operational-Code method introduced by Nathan Leites (1951) and restructured by Alexander George (1979). The code is based on five philosophical beliefs and five instrumental beliefs. A Verbs in Context (VIC) coding system employed through the Profiler-Plus computer program once again allows substantial bodies of written and spoken speech, interviews and writings to be analyzed subjectively. The method attempts to be able to predict behavior thorough applying knowledge of various beliefs.\n\nAlthough political behavior is governed and represented by a leader the consequential influence of the leader largely depends upon the context in which they are placed and in which type of political climate they are running. For this reason group behavior is also instrumental for understanding sociopolitical environments\n\nGroup behavior is key in understanding the structure, stability, popularity and ability to make successful decisions of political parties. Individual behavior deviates substantially in a group setting therefore it is difficult to determine group behavior by looking solely at the individuals that comprise the group. Group form and stability is based upon several variables; size, structure, the purpose that the group serves, group development and influences upon a group.\n\nGroup size has various consequences. In smaller groups individuals are more committed (Patterson and Schaeffer, 1997) and there is a lower turnover rate (Widmeyer, Brawley and Carron, 1990). Large groups display greater levels of divergence (O'Dell, 1968) and less conformity (Olson and Caddell, 1994). Group performance also diminishes with size increase, due to decreased co-ordination and free-riding. The size of a political party or nation can therefore have consequential effects on their ability to co-ordinate and progress.\n\nThe structure of a group is altered by member diversity, which largely affects its efficiency. Individual diversity with in a group has proven to demonstrate less communication and therefore to increase conflict (Maznevski, 1994). This has implications for political parties based in strongly colonial or multiracial nations.\nMember diversity has consequences for; status, role allocation and role strain within a group, all of which can cause disagreement. Thus maintenance of group cohesion is key. Cohesion is affected by several factors; the amount of time members spend in the group, the amount that members like one another, the amount of reward that the group offers, the amount of external threat to the group and the level of warmth offered by leaders. These factors should be considered when attempting to form an efficient political group. President decision efficiency for example is affected by the degree to which members of the advisory group have a hierarchical status and by the roles that each member is assigned.\n\nStudying the purpose for formation of a group, whether it is serving a \"functional\" purpose or an \"interpersonal attraction\" purpose (Mackie and Goethals, 1987), has implications for political popularity. Often people join groups in order to fulfill certain survival, interpersonal, informational and collective needs. A political party that provides; stability, clear information, offers power to individuals and satisfies a sense of affiliation, will gain popularity. Shutz's (1958) \"Fundamental interpersonal relations orientation\" theory suggests that groups satisfy the need for control, intimacy and inclusion. Groups also form due to natural attraction. Newcomb (1960) states that we are drawn to others close in socioeconomic status, beliefs, attitudes and physical appearance. Similarity in certain respects can thus be related to how much a person is attracted to joining one group over another.\n\nGroup development tends to happen in several stages; forming, storming, norming, performing, and adjourning (Tuckman, 1965). Group awareness of these stages is important in order for members to acknowledge that a process is taking place and that certain stages such as storming are part of progression and that they should not be discouraged or cause fear of instability. Awareness of group development also allows for models to be implemented in order to manipulate different stages. External influences upon a group will have different effects depending upon which stage the group is at in its course. This has implications for how open a group should be depending upon the stage of development it is at, and on its strength.\nConsistency is also a key aspect in a group for success (Wood, 1994).\n\nThe application of conformity is key for understanding group influence in political behaviour. Decision making within a group is largely influenced by conformity. It is theorized to occur based on two motives; normative social influence and informational social influence (Asch, 1955). Chance of conformity is influenced by several factors; an increase in group size but only to a certain degree at which it plateaus, and degree of unanimity and commitment to the group. Therefore, the degree of popularity of a political group can be influenced by its existing size and the believed unanimity and commitment by the public of the already existing members. The degree by which the group conforms as a whole can also be influenced by the degree of individuation of its members.\nAlso, the conformity within political groups can be related to the term, 'political coalition.' Humans represent groups as if there was a special category of an individual. For example, for cognitive simplicity, ancestral groups anthropomorphize each other because they have similar thoughts, values, and a historical background. Even though the member of a group may have an irrational or wrong argument about a political issue, there is a high possibility for the other members to conform to it because of the mere fact that they are in the same coalition. \n\nPower is another influential factor within a group or between separate groups. The \"critical bases of power\" developed by French and Raven (1959) allocates the following types of power as the most successful; reward power, coercive power, legitimate power, referent power and expert power.\nThe way in which power is exerted upon a group can have repercussive outcomes for popularity. Referent power results in greater popularity of a political group or leader than coercive power (Shaw and Condelli, 1986). This has implications for leaders to manipulate others to identify with them, rather than to enforce consequential punishment. However, if coercive power is enforced, success and a trusted leader (Friedland, 1976) are necessary in order for group conflict not to escalate. Extrinsic punishment and reward are also suggested to detract from intrinsic motivation. A sense of freedom must be advocated to the group.\n\nDecision-making is an important political process which influences the course of a country's policy. Group decision-making is largely influenced by three rules; \"majority-wins rule\", \"truth-wins rule\", and \"first-shift rule\". Decision-making is also coerced by conformity. Irrational decisions are generally made during emotional periods. For example, an unpopular political party may receive more votes during a period of actual or perceived economic or political instability. Controversial studies by George Marcus (2003) however imply that high levels of anxiety can actually cause an individual to analyze information more rationally and carefully, resulting in more well-informed and successful decisions. The psychology of decision-making however must be analyzed in accordance with whether it is within a leadership context or a between group context. The implementation of successful decision-making is often enhanced by group decision-making (Hill, 1982) especially if the decision is important to the group and when the group has been working together for an extended period of time (Watson, Michaelson and Sharp, 1991). However groups can also hinder decision-making if a correct answer is not clear. Janis (1972) introduced the notion of Groupthink that advocates an increased chance of groups making faulty decisions under several conditions; strong group cohesion, isolation of group decision from public review, the presence of a directive leader in the group, and high stress levels.\nGroup polarization (Janis, 1972) suggests that group decision-making is often more extreme whether is it more risky or cautious. \"Groupthink\" refers to \"a mode of thinking that people engage in when they are deeply involved in a cohesive in-group, when the members' striving for unanimity override their motivation to realistically appraise alternative courses of action.\"\n\nTechniques to establish more effective decision making skills in political dimensions have been suggested. Hirt and Markman (1995) claim that implementing an individual in a group to find faults and to critique will enable the members to establish alternative view points. George (1980) suggested \"multiple advocacy\" which implements that a neutral person analyses the pros and cons of various advocate suggestions and thus makes an informed decision.\n\nApplied psychology theories to improve productivity of political groups include implementing \"team development\" techniques, \"quality circles\" and autonomous work groups.\n\nEvolutionary Psychology plays a significant role in understanding the state and people of how the current political regime came to be. It is an approach that focuses on the structure of human behavior claiming it’s dependence on the social and ecological environment. Developed through natural selection, the human brain functions to react appropriately to environmental challenges of coalitional conflict using psychological mechanisms and modifications. An example of political conflict would involve state aggression such as war. Psychological mechanisms work to digest what is taken in from internal and external information regarding the current habitat and project it in the most suited form of action such as acts of aggression, retrieval, dominance, and so forth. \n\nIn order to make inferences and predictions about behavior concerning voting decision, certain key public influences must be considered. These influences include the role of emotions, political socialization, political sophistication, tolerance of diversity of political views and the media. The effect of these influences on voting behavior is best understood through theories on the formation of attitudes, beliefs, schema, knowledge structures and the practice of information processing. The degree to which voting decision is affected by internal processing systems of political information and external influences, alters the quality of making truly democratic decisions.\n\nThe application of psychology for understanding conflict and extreme acts of violence can be understood in both individual and group terms. Political conflict is often a consequence of ethnic disparity and \"ethnocentrism\" Sumner (1906).\n\nOn an individual level participators in situations of conflict can either be perpetrators, bystanders or altruists. The behavior of perpetrators is often explained through the authoritarian personality type. Individual differences in levels of empathy have been used to explain whether an individual chooses to stand up to authority or ignore a conflict. Rotter's (1954) locus of control theory in personality psychology has also been used to determine individual differences in reaction to situations of conflict.\n\nGroup behavior during conflict often affects the actions of an individual. The bystander effect introduced by Darley and Latane (1968) demonstrates that group behavior causes individuals to monitor whether others think it is necessary to react in a situation and thus base their behavior on this judgment. They also found that individuals are more likely to diffuse responsibility in group situations. These theories can be applied to situations of conflict and genocide in which individuals remove personal responsibility and therefore justify their behavior. Social identity theory explains that during the Holocaust of World War II political leaders used the Jews as an out-group in order to increase in-group cohesion. This allowed for the perpetrators to depersonalize from the situation and to diffuse their responsibility. The out-groups were held in separate confines and dehumanized in order to aid the in-group to disengage themselves from relating.\n\nResearch by Dr. Dan Kahan has demonstrated that individuals are resistant to accepting new political views even if they are presented with evidence that challenges their views. The research also demonstrated that if the individual was required to write a few sentences about experiences they enjoyed or spend a few moments affirming their self-worth, the individual was more likely to accept the new political position.\n\nAlthough somewhat unusual, evolutionary psychology can also explain conflicts in politics and the international society. A journal by Anthony C. Lopez, Rose McDermott and Michael Bang Petersen uses this idea to give out hypothesis to explain political events. According to the authors, instincts and psychological characteristics developed through evolution is still existent with modern people. They suggest human being as \"adaptation executers\"; people designed through natural selection, and not \"utility maximizers\"; people who strive for utility in every moment. Though a group of people, perhaps those who are in the same political coalition, may seem as if they pursue a common utility maximization, it is difficult to generalize the theory of \"utility maximizers\" into a nation-view because people evolved in small groups. This approach helps scholars to explain seemingly irrational behaviors like aggressiveness in politics and international society because \"irrational behavior\" would be the result of a mismatch between the modern world and evolutionary psychology.\n\nFor example, according to evolutionary psychology, coalitional aggression is more commonly found with males. This is because of their psychological mechanism designed since ancestral times. During those times men had more to earn when winning wars compared to women (they had more chance of finding a mate, or even many mates). Also, the victorious men had more chance of reproduction which eventually led to the succession of aggressive, eager-to-war DNAs. As a result, the authors hypothesize that countries with more men will tend to show more aggressive politics thereby having more possibility of triggering conflicts within and especially among states.\n\nIndeed some exceptions do exists in this theory as this is just a hypothesis. However it is viable enough to be a hypothesis to be tested to explain certain political events like war and crisis.\n\nOn an individual level terrorism has been explained as a display of psychopathological personality disorders. Terrorists have demonstrated to show narcissistic personality traits (Lasch, 1979, Pearlstein, 1991). Post (2004) argues that narcissistic and borderline personality disorders are found in terrorists and that mechanisms such as splitting and externalization are used by terrorists. Others such as Silke (2004) and Mastors and Deffenbaugh (2007) refute this view. Crenshaw (2004) showed that certain terrorist groups are actually careful in not enlisting those demonstrating pathology. The authoritarian personality theory has also been used as an explanation for terrorist behavior in individuals.\n\nIn terms of explaining reasons for which individuals join terrorist groups, motivational theories such as need for power and need for affiliation intimacy are suggested. Festinger (1954) explained that people often join groups in order to compare their own beliefs and attitudes. Joining a terrorist group could be a method to remedy individual uncertainty. Taylor and Louis (2004) explained that individuals strive for meaningful behavior. This can also be used to explain why terrorists look for such radical beliefs and demonstrations. Studies on children in northern Ireland by Field (1979) have shown that exposure to violence can lead to terrorist behavior later on. Implicating the effect of developing acceptable norms in groups. However this view has also been criticized (Taylor, 1998). Other theories suggest that goal frustration can result in aggression (Dollard, Doob. Miller, mower, and Sears, 1939) and that aggression can lead to frustration (Borum, 2004).\nGroup settings can cause a social identity and terrorist behavior to manifest. Methods such as dehumanization allow individuals to detach more easily from moral responsibility, and group influence increase the chance that individuals will concede to conformity and compliance. Manipulations of social control and propaganda can also instrument terrorist involvement.\n\nIn fact, a strategic model has been proposed to examine the political motivations of terrorists. The strategic model, the dominant paradigm in terrorism studies, considers terrorists are rational actors who attack civilians for political ends. According to this view, terrorists are political utility maximizers. The strategic model rests on three core assumptions which are: (1)terrorists are motivated by relatively stable and consistent political preferences; (2)terrorists evaluate the expected political payoffs of their available options; and (3)terrorism is adopted when the expected political return is superior to those of alternative options. However, it turns out that terrorists' decision-making process does not fully conform to the strategic model. According to Abrahms, Max who is the author of \"What Terrorists Really Want: Terrorist Motives and Counterterrorism Strategy.\" there are seven common tendencies that represent important empirical puzzles for the strategic model, going against the conventional thought that terrorists are rational actors.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15611519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15611519", "title": "Political radicalism", "text": "Political radicalism\n\nThe term political radicalism (in political science known as radicalism) denotes political principles focused on altering social structures through revolutionary or other means and changing value systems in fundamental ways.\n\nDerived from the Latin (\"root\"), the denotation of radical has changed since its eighteenth-century coinage to comprehend the entire political spectrum—yet it retains the \"change at the root\" connotation fundamental to revolutionary societal change. Historically, radicalism has referred exclusively to the radical left (under the single category of far-left politics) and rarely incorporating far-right politics—though these may have revolutionary elements. The prominent exception is in the United States, where some consider radicalism to include both political extremes of the radical left and the radical right. In traditional labels of the spectrum of political thought, the opposite of radical – on the \"right\" of the political spectrum – is termed \"reactionary\".\n\nThe nineteenth-century \"Cyclopaedia of Political Science\" (1881, 1889) reports that \"radicalism is characterized less by its principles than by the manner of their application\". Conservatives often used the term \"radical\" pejoratively whereas contemporary left radicals used the term \"conservative\" derogatorily, thus contemporary denotations of \"radical\", \"radicalism\" and \"political radicalism\" comprise far-left (hard left, radical left) and far-right (hard right, radical right).\n\nThe \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" records the first political usage of \"radical\" as ascribed to the British Whig Party parliamentarian Charles James Fox, who in 1797 proposed a \"radical reform\" of the electoral system, franchise to provide universal manhood suffrage, thereby idiomatically establishing \"radical\" to denote supporters of the reformation of the British Parliament. Throughout the nineteenth century, the term was combined with political notions and doctrines, thus producing the concepts of working class radicalism, middle class-, philosophic-, democratic- bourgeois-, Tory- and plebeian radicalism. In the event, politically influential radical leaders give rise to their own trend of political radicalism (see Spencean radicalism and Carlilean radicalism). Philosophically, the French political scientist Jean-Jacques Rousseau (1712–1778) is the principal theoretician proposing \"political radicalism\" as feasible in republican political philosophy, \"viz\" the French Revolution (1789–1799) and other modern revolutions—the antithesis to the liberalism of John Locke (1632–1704).\n\n"}
{"id": "39311177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39311177", "title": "Praetorianism", "text": "Praetorianism\n\nPraetorianism means excessive or abusive political influence of the Armed Forces in a country.\n\nDaniel R. Headrick, professor of History and Social Sciences at Roosevelt University, describes praetorianism as a type of militarism oriented to the interior life of a nation, often related to minor countries, that does not aspire to fight or win international wars, but instead to maintain its influence in the domestic political system, controlling decisions that could affect the interests of the military as a corporation, or supporting some particular political faction or party.\n"}
{"id": "6112194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6112194", "title": "Real freedom", "text": "Real freedom\n\nReal freedom is a term coined by the political philosopher and economist Philippe Van Parijs. It expands upon notions of negative freedom by incorporating not simply institutional or other constraints on a person's choices, but also the requirements of physical reality, resources and personal capacity. To have real freedom, according to Van Parjis, an individual must:\n\nUnder this conception, a moral agent could be \"negatively\" free to take a holiday in Miami, because no-one is forcing them not to (condition 1 is met); but not \"really\" free to do so, because they cannot afford the flight (condition 2 is not met). Similarly, someone could be negatively free to swim across the English Channel; but not really free, because they are not a good enough swimmer and would not be able to succeed in the task. Real freedom is, then, a matter of \"degree\" — one is more or less really free, not just either really free or not; and no-one has \"complete\" real freedom — no-one is currently really free to teleport to Mars, for instance.\n\nReal freedom expands on negative freedom by adding the idea of actually being able to exercise a capacity or resource in the absence of constraint; but does not go as far as some ideas of positive freedom, by refraining from appeal to self-government by a real, best, or higher self.\n\nVan Parijs uses the concept of real freedom as part of his influential argument for a universal basic income.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26550", "title": "Reconquista", "text": "Reconquista\n\nThe (Spanish and Portuguese for \"reconquest\") is a name used in English to describe the period in the history of the Iberian Peninsula of about 780 years between the Umayyad conquest of Hispania in 711 and the fall of the Nasrid kingdom of Granada to the expanding Christian kingdoms in 1491. The completed conquest of Granada was the context of the Spanish voyages of discovery and conquest (Columbus got royal support in Granada in 1492, months after its conquest), and the Americas—the \"New World\"—ushered in the era of the Spanish and Portuguese colonial empires.\n\nTraditional historiography has marked the beginning of the \"\" with the Battle of Covadonga (718 or 722), the first known victory in Iberia by Christian military forces since the 711 military intervention in Iberia of combined Arab-Berber forces. In that small battle, a group led by the nobleman Pelagius defeated a Muslim patrol in the mountains of northern Iberia and established the independent Christian Kingdom of Asturias. It ended with the conquest of the Emirate of Granada, the last Muslim state in the peninsula, in 1491.\n\nAfter 1491, the entire peninsula was controlled by Christian rulers. The conquest was followed by the Alhambra Decree (1492) which expelled Jews who would not convert to Christianity from Castile and Aragon, and a series of edicts (1499–1526) which forced the conversions of the Muslims in Spain. Since the mid-19th century, the idea of a 'reconquest' took hold in Spain associated with its rising nationalism and colonialism.\n\nTraditional historiography has stressed since the 19th century the existence of the \"Reconquista\", a continuous phenomenon by which the Christian Iberian kingdoms opposed and conquered the Muslim kingdoms, understood as a common enemy who had militarily seized territory from native Iberian Christians.\nThe concept of a Christian reconquest of the peninsula first emerged, in tenuous form, at the end of the 9th century. A landmark was set by the Christian \"Chronica Prophetica\" (883–884), a document stressing the Christian and Muslim cultural and religious divide in Iberia and the necessity to drive the Muslims out.\n\nBoth Christian and Muslim rulers fought amongst themselves. Alliances between Muslims and Christians were not uncommon. Blurring distinctions even further were the mercenaries from both sides who simply fought for whoever paid the most. The period is seen today to have had long episodes of relative religious tolerance.\n\nThe Crusades, which started late in the 11–12th century, bred the religious ideology of a Christian reconquest, confronted at that time with a similarly staunch Muslim Jihad ideology in Al-Andalus by the Almoravids, and to an even greater degree by the Almohads. In fact, previous documents from the 10th and 11th centuries are mute on any idea of \"reconquest\". Propaganda accounts of Muslim-Christian hostility came into being to support that idea, most notably the \"Chanson de Roland\", a fictitious 11th-century French version of the Battle of Roncevaux Pass (778) dealing with the Iberian \"Saracens\" (\"Moors\"), and taught as historical fact in the French educational system since 1880.\n\nThe modern idea of the earlier concept of \"Reconquista\" is inextricably linked to the foundational myths of Spanish nationalism in the 19th century, and consolidated by the mid-20th century during Franco's National-Catholic dictatorship, based on a strong underlying Castilian ideological element. The idea of a \"liberation war\" of \"reconquest\" against the Muslims, depicted as foreigners, suited well the anti-Republican rebels during the Spanish Civil War who agitated for the banner of a Spanish fatherland threatened by regional nationalisms and communism. Their rebellious pursuit was thus a crusade for the restoration of the Church's unity, where Franco stood for both Pelagius of Asturias and El Cid.\n\nSome contemporary authors consider it proved that the process of Christian state-building in Iberia was indeed often defined by the reclamation of lands that had been lost to the Moors in generations past. In this way, state-building might be characterised—at least in ideological, if not practical, terms—as a process by which Iberian states were being 'rebuilt'.. In turn, other recent historians dispute the whole concept of \"Reconquista\" as a concept created \"a posteriori\" in the service of later political goals. A few historians point out that Spain and Portugal did not previously exist as nations, and therefore the heirs of the Christian Visigothic Kingdom were not technically reconquering them, as the name suggests. One of the first Spanish intellectuals to question the idea of a \"reconquest\" that lasted for eight centuries was José Ortega y Gasset, writing in the first half of the 20th century. However, the term is still widely in use.\n\nIn 711, Muslim Moors, mainly North African Berber soldiers with some Arabs, crossed the Strait of Gibraltar and began their conquest of the Visigothic Kingdom of Hispania. After their conquest of the Visigothic Kingdom's Iberian territories, the Muslims crossed the Pyrenees and took control of Septimania in 719, the last province of the Visigothic Kingdom to be occupied. From their stronghold of Narbonne, they launched raids into the Duchy of Aquitaine.\n\nThe invading Islamic armies did not exceed 60,000 men. These armies established an Islamic rule known as Al-Andalus that would last 300 years in much of the Iberian Peninsula and 770 years in Granada.\n\nAfter the establishment of a local Emirate, Caliph Al-Walid I, ruler of the Umayyad caliphate, removed many of the successful Muslim commanders. Tariq ibn Ziyad, the first governor of the newly conquered province of Al-Andalus, was recalled to Damascus and replaced with Musa bin Nusair, who had been his former superior. Musa's son, Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa, apparently married Egilona, Roderic's widow, and established his regional government in Seville. He was suspected of being under the influence of his wife and was accused of wanting to convert to Christianity and of planning a secessionist rebellion. Apparently a concerned Al-Walid I ordered Abd al-Aziz's assassination. Caliph Al-Walid I died in 715 and was succeeded by his brother Sulayman ibn Abd al-Malik. Sulayman seems to have punished the surviving Musa bin Nusair, who very soon died during a pilgrimage in 716. In the end, Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa's cousin, Ayyub ibn Habib al-Lakhmi became the emir of \"Al-Andalus\".\n\nThe conquering generals were necessarily acting independently, due to the methods of communication available. Successful generals in the field and in a distant province would gain the personal loyalty of their officers and warriors and their ambitions were likely watched by certain circles of the distant government with a degree of concern and suspicion. Old rivalries and perhaps even full-fledged conspiracies between generals may have had influence over this development. In the end, the formerly successful generals were replaced by a younger generation considered more loyal to the government in Damascus.\n\nA serious weakness amongst the Muslim conquerors was the ethnic tension between Berbers and Arabs. The Berbers were indigenous inhabitants of North Africa who had only recently converted to Islam; they provided most of the soldiery of the invading Islamic armies but sensed Arab discrimination against them. This latent internal conflict jeopardized Muslim unity.\n\nAfter the Islamic Moorish conquest of most of the Iberian Peninsula in 711–718 and the establishment of the emirate of Al-Andalus, an Umayyad expedition suffered a major defeat at the Battle of Toulouse and was halted for a while on its way north. Odo of Aquitaine had married his daughter to Uthman ibn Naissa, a rebel Berber and lord of Cerdanya (and, perhaps, contemporary Catalonia), in an attempt to secure his southern borders in order to fend off Charles Martel's attacks on the north. However, a major punitive expedition led by Abdul Rahman Al Ghafiqi, the latest emir of Al-Andalus, defeated and killed Uthman, and the Muslim governor mustered an expedition north across the western Pyrenees, looted areas up to Bordeaux, and defeated Odo in the Battle of the River Garonne in 732.\n\nA desperate Odo turned to his archrival Charles Martel for help, who led the Frankish and remaining Aquitanian armies against the Umayyad armies and defeated them at the Battle of Tours in 732, killing Abdul Rahman Al Ghafiqi. While Moorish rule began to recede, it would remain in parts of the Iberian peninsula for another 760 years.\n\nThe first victory in resistance to Muslim rule occurred in Asturias in 722. A drastic increase of taxes by the emir Anbasa ibn Suhaym Al-Kalbi provoked several rebellions in Al-Andalus, which a series of succeeding weak emirs were unable to suppress. Around 722, a Muslim military expedition was sent into the north in late summer to suppress a rebellion led by Pelagius of Asturias (Pelayo in Spanish, Pelayu in Asturian). Traditional historiography has hailed Pelagius' victory at Covadonga as the beginning of the \"Reconquista\". No Muslim source mentions the battle at Covadonga, in contrast with the Battle of Toulouse in 721, with a death toll of perhaps tens of thousands, which was mourned for centuries as a large scale tragedy by the Iberian Muslims. For Pelagius, however, the Christian victory secured his independent rule, while the precise date and circumstances of the battle are unclear. Among the possibilities is that Pelagius' rebellion was successful because the greater part of the Muslim forces were focusing in Septimania and Toulouse (721).\n\nTwo northern realms, the Basque Navarre and Asturias, despite their small size, demonstrated an ability to maintain their independence. Because the Umayyad rulers based in Córdoba were unable to extend their power over the Pyrenees, they decided to consolidate their power within the Iberian peninsula. Arab-Berber forces made periodic incursions deep into Asturias, but this area was a \"cul-de-sac\" on the fringes of the Islamic world fraught with inconveniences during campaigns and little interest.\n\nIt comes then as no surprise that, besides focusing on raiding the Arab-Berber strongholds of the Meseta, Alphonse I centred on expanding his domains at the expense of the neighbouring Galicians and Basques at either side of his realm just as much. During the first decades, Asturian control over part of the kingdom was weak, and for this reason it had to be continually strengthened through matrimonial alliances and war with other peoples from the north of the Iberian Peninsula. After Pelayo's death in 737, his son Favila of Asturias was elected king. Favila, according to the chronicles, was killed by a bear during a trial of courage. Pelayo's dynasty in Asturias survived and gradually expanded the kingdom's boundaries until all of northwest Iberia was included by roughly 775. However, credit is due not to him but to his successors, the \"Banu Alfons\" from the Arab chronicles. Further expansion of the northwestern kingdom towards the south occurred during the reign of Alfonso II (from 791–842). A king's expedition arrived in and pillaged Lisbon in 798, probably concerted with the Carolingians.\n\nThe Asturian kingdom became firmly established with the recognition of Alfonso II as king of Asturias by Charlemagne and the Pope. During his reign, the bones of St. James the Great were declared to have been found in Galicia, at Santiago de Compostela. Pilgrims from all over Europe opened a channel of communication between the isolated Asturias and the Carolingian lands and beyond, centuries later.\n\nAfter the Umayyad conquest of the Iberian heartland of the Visigothic kingdom, the Muslims crossed the Pyrenees and gradually took control of Septimania, starting in 719 with the conquest of Narbonne through 725 when Carcassone and Nîmes were secured. From the stronghold of Narbonne, they tried to conquer Aquitaine but suffered a major defeat at the Battle of Toulouse (721).\n\nTen years after halting their advance north, Odo of Aquitaine married his daughter to Uthman ibn Naissa, a rebel Berber and lord of Cerdanya (perhaps all of contemporary Catalonia as well), in an attempt to secure his southern borders to fend off Charles Martel's attacks on the north. However, a major punitive expedition led by Abdul Rahman Al Ghafiqi, the latest emir of Al-Andalus, defeated and killed Uthman.\n\nAfter expelling the Muslims from Narbonne in 759 and driving their forces back over the Pyrenees, the Carolingian king Pepin the Short conquered Aquitaine in a ruthless eight-year war. Charlemagne followed his father by subduing Aquitaine by creating counties, taking the Church as his ally and appointing counts of Frankish or Burgundian stock, like his loyal William of Gellone, making Toulouse his base for expeditions against Al-Andalus. Charlemagne decided to organize a regional subkingdom in order to keep the Aquitanians in check and to secure the southern border of the Carolingian Empire against Muslim incursions. In 781, his three-year-old son Louis was crowned king of Aquitaine, under the supervision of Charlemagne's trustee William of Gellone, and was nominally in charge of the incipient Spanish March.\n\nMeanwhile, the takeover of the southern fringes of Al-Andalus by Abd ar-Rahman I in 756 was opposed by Yusuf ibn Abd al-Rahman, autonomous governor (\"wāli\") or king (\"malik\") of al-Andalus. Abd ar-Rahman I expelled Yusuf from Cordova, but it took still decades for him to expand to the north-western Andalusian districts. He was also opposed externally by the Abbasids of Baghdad who failed in their attempts to overthrow him. In 778, Abd al-Rahman closed in on the Ebro valley. Regional lords saw the Umayyad emir at the gates and decided to enlist the nearby Christian Franks. According to Ali ibn al-Athir, a Kurdish historian of the 12th century, Charlemagne received the envoys of Sulayman al-Arabi, Husayn, and Abu Taur at the Diet of Paderborn in 777. These rulers of Zaragoza, Girona, Barcelona, and Huesca were enemies of Abd ar-Rahman I, and in return for Frankish military aid against him offered their homage and allegiance.\n\nCharlemagne, seeing an opportunity, agreed upon an expedition and crossed the Pyrenees in 778. Near the city of Zaragoza Charlemagne received the homage of Sulayman al-Arabi. However the city, under the leadership of Husayn, closed its gates and refused to submit. Unable to conquer the city by force, Charlemagne decided to retreat. On the way home the rearguard of the army was ambushed and destroyed by Basque forces at the Battle of Roncevaux Pass. The Song of Roland, a highly romanticized account of this battle, would later become one of the most famous chansons de geste of the Middle Ages. Around 788 Abd ar-Rahman I died and was succeeded by Hisham I. In 792 Hisham proclaimed a jihad, advancing in 793 against the Kingdom of Asturias and Carolingian Septimania (Gothia). They defeated William of Gellone, Count of Toulouse, in battle, but William led an expedition the following year across the eastern Pyrenees. Barcelona, a major city, became a potential target for the Franks in 797, as its governor Zeid rebelled against the Umayyad emir of Córdoba. An army of the emir managed to recapture it in 799, but Louis, at the head of an army, crossed the Pyrenees and besieged the city for two years until it finally capitulated in 801.\n\nThe main passes in the Pyrenees were Roncesvalles, Somport and La Jonquera. Charlemagne established across them the vassal regions of Pamplona, Aragon, and Catalonia respectively. Catalonia was itself formed from a number of small counties, including Pallars, Girona, and Urgell; it was called the \"Marca Hispanica\" by the late 8th century. They protected the eastern Pyrenees passes and shores and were under the direct control of the Frankish kings. Pamplona's first king was Iñigo Arista, who allied with his Muslim kinsmen the Banu Qasi and rebelled against Frankish overlordship and overcame a Carolingian expedition in 824 that led to the setup of the Kingdom of Pamplona. Aragon, founded in 809 by Aznar Galíndez, grew around Jaca and the high valleys of the Aragon River, protecting the old Roman road. By the end of the 10th century, Aragon was annexed by Navarre. Sobrarbe and Ribagorza were small counties and had little significance to the progress of the \"Reconquista\".\n\nIn the late 9th century under Count Wilfred, Barcelona became the \"de facto\" capital of the region. It controlled the other counties' policies in a union, which led in 948 to the independence of Barcelona under Count Borrel II, who declared that the new dynasty in France (the Capets) were not the legitimate rulers of France nor, as a result, of his county. These states were small and, with the exception of Navarre, did not have the capacity for attacking the Muslims in the way that Asturias did, but their mountainous geography rendered them relatively safe from being conquered, and their borders remained stable for two centuries.\n\nIn the High Middle Ages, the fight against the Moors in the Iberian Peninsula became linked to the fight of the whole of Christendom. The \"Reconquista\" was originally a mere war of conquest. It only later underwent a significant shift in meaning toward a religiously justified war of liberation (see the Augustinian concept of a Just War). The papacy and the influential Abbey of Cluny in Burgundy not only justified the acts of war but actively encouraged Christian knights to seek armed confrontation with Moorish \"infidels\" instead of with each other.\n\nFrom the 11th century onwards indulgences were granted: In 1064 Pope Alexander II promised the participants of an expedition against Barbastro (\"Tagr al-Andalus\", Aragon) a collective indulgence 30 years before Pope Urban II called the First Crusade. Papal interest in Christian-Muslim relations in the peninsula was not without precedent – Popes Leo IV (847–855), John VIII (872–882) and John XIX (1024–33) are all known to have displayed substantial interest in the region. Not until 1095 and the Council of Clermont did the \"Reconquista\" amalgamate the conflicting concepts of a peaceful pilgrimage and armed knight-errantry. But the papacy left no doubt about the heavenly reward for knights fighting for Christ (\"militia Christi\"): in a letter, Urban II tried to persuade the \"reconquistadores\" fighting at Tarragona to stay in the Peninsula rather than joining the armed pilgrimage to conquer Jerusalem, saying that their contribution for Christianity was equally important. The pope promised them the same indulgences that he had promised to those who chose to join the First Crusade.\n\nLater military orders such as the Order of Santiago, Montesa, Order of Calatrava, and the Knights Templar were founded or called to fight in Iberia. The Popes called the knights of Europe to join the effort to destroy the Muslim states of the peninsula. After the so-called Disaster of Alarcos, French, Navarrese, Castilian, Portuguese and Aragonese armies united against the Muslim forces in the massive \"battle of Las Navas de Tolosa\" (1212). The large territories awarded to military orders and nobles were the origin of the latifundia in today's Andalusia and Extremadura in Spain, and Alentejo in Portugal.\n\nIn an atmosphere of constant conflict, warfare and daily life were strongly intertwined during this period. Small, lightly equipped armies reflected the need for society to be on constant alert. These forces were capable of moving long distances in short times, allowing a quick return home after sacking a target. Battles were mainly waged between clans, expelling intruder armies or sacking expeditions.\n\nIn the context of the relative isolation of the Iberian Peninsula from the rest of Europe, and the contact with Moorish culture, geographical and cultural differences necessitated the use of military strategies, tactics, and equipment that were markedly different from those found in the rest of western Europe during this period.\n\nMedieval Iberian armies mainly comprised two types of forces: the cavalry (mostly nobles, but including commoner knights from the 10th century on) and the infantry, or \"peones\" (peasants). Infantry only went to war if needed, which was not frequent.\n\nIberian cavalry tactics involved knights approaching the enemy, throwing javelins, then withdrawing to a safe distance before commencing another assault. Once the enemy formation was sufficiently weakened, the knights charged with thrusting spears (lances did not arrive in Hispania until the 11th century). There were three types of knights (\"caballeros\"): royal knights, noble knights (\"caballeros hidalgos\"), and commoner knights (\"caballeros villanos\", or \"mounted soldier from a villa\"). Royal knights were mainly nobles with a close relationship with the king, and thus claimed a direct Gothic inheritance.\n\nRoyal knights were equipped in the same manner as their Gothic predecessors: mail hauberk, kite shield, a long sword (designed to fight from the horse), javelins, spears and a Visigothic axe. Noble knights came from the ranks of the \"infanzones\" or lower nobles, whereas the commoner knights were not noble but were wealthy enough to afford a horse. Uniquely in Europe, these horsemen comprised a militia cavalry force with no feudal links, being under the sole control of the king or the count of Castile because of \"fueros\" (charters) with the crown. Both noble and common knights wore padded armour and carried javelins, spears and round-tasselled shields (influenced by Moorish shields), as well as a sword.\n\nThe \"peones\" were peasants who went to battle in service of their feudal lord. Poorly equipped, with bows and arrows, spears and short swords, they were mainly used as auxiliary troops. Their function in battle was to contain the enemy troops until the cavalry arrived and to block the enemy infantry from charging the knights. The longbow, the composite bow, and the crossbow were the basic types of bows and were especially popular in the infantry.\n\nArmour was typically made of leather, with iron scales; full coats of chain mail were extremely rare and horse barding completely unknown. Head protections consisted of a round helmet with nose protector (influenced by the designs used by Vikings, who attacked during the 8th and 9th centuries) and a chain mail headpiece. Shields were often round or kidney-shaped, except for the kite-shaped designs used by the royal knights. Usually adorned with geometric designs, crosses or tassels, shields were made out of wood and had a leather cover.\n\nSteel swords were the most common weapon. The cavalry used long double-edged swords and the infantry short, single-edged ones. Guards were either semicircular or straight, but always highly ornamented with geometrical patterns. Spears and javelins were up to 1.5 metres long and had an iron tip. The double-axe – made of iron, 30 cm long, and possessing an extremely sharp edge – was designed to be equally useful as a thrown weapon or in close combat. Maces and hammers were not common, but some specimens have remained and are thought to have been used by members of the cavalry.\n\nFinally, mercenaries were an important factor, as many kings did not have enough soldiers available. Norsemen, Flemish spearmen, Frankish knights, Moorish mounted archers, and Berber light cavalry were the main types of mercenaries available and used in the conflict.\n\nThis style of warfare remained dominant in the Iberian Peninsula until the late 11th century, when lance tactics entered from France, although the traditional horse javelin-shot techniques continued to be used. In the 12th and 13th centuries, soldiers typically carried a sword, a lance, a javelin, and either bow and arrows or crossbow and darts/bolts. Armor consisted of a coat of mail over a quilted jacket, extending at least to the knees, a helmet or iron cap, and bracers protecting the arms and thighs, either metal or leather.\n\nShields were round or triangular, made of wood, covered with leather, and protected by an iron band; the shields of knights and nobles would bear the family's coat of arms. Knights rode in both the Muslim style, \"a la jineta\" (i.e. the equivalent of a modern jockey's seat), a short stirrup strap and bended knees allowed for better control and speed, or in the French style, \"a la brida\", a long stirrup strap allowed for more security in the saddle (i.e. the equivalent of the modern cavalry seat, which is more secure) when acting as heavy cavalry. Horses were occasionally fitted with a coat of mail as well.\n\nThe northern principalities and kingdoms survived in their mountainous strongholds (see above). However, they started a definite territorial expansion south at the turn of the 10th century (Leon, Najera). The fall of the Caliphate of Cordova (1031) heralded a period of military expansion for the northern kingdoms, now divided into several mighty regional powers after the division of the Kingdom of Navarre (1035). A myriad of autonomous Christian kingdoms emerged thereafter.\n\nThe Kingdom of Asturias was located in the Cantabrian Mountains, a wet and mountainous region in the north of the Iberian Peninsula. It was the first Christian power to emerge. The kingdom was established by a nobleman, Pelagius (\"Pelayo\"), who had possibly returned after the Battle of Guadalete in 711 and was elected leader of the Asturians, laying the foundations for the Kingdom of Asturias and starting the Astur-Leonese dynasty that spanned from 718 to 1037 and led the initial efforts in the Iberian peninsula to take back the territories then ruled by the Moors. Although the new dynasty first ruled in the mountains of Asturias, with the capital of the kingdom established initially in Cangas de Onís, and was in its dawn mostly concerned with securing the territory and settling the monarchy, the latest kings (particularly Alfonso III of Asturias) emphasized the nature of the new kingdom as heir of that in Toledo and the restoration of the Visigothic nation in order to vindicate the expansion to the south. However, such claims have been overall dismissed by modern historiography, emphasizing the distinct, autochthonous nature of the Cantabro-Asturian and Vasconic domains with no continuation to the Gothic Kingdom of Toledo.\n\nPelagius' kingdom initially was little more than a gathering point for the existing guerrilla forces. During the first decades, the Asturian dominion over the different areas of the kingdom was still lax, and for this reason it had to be continually strengthened through matrimonial alliances with other powerful families from the north of the Iberian Peninsula. Thus, Ermesinda, Pelagius' daughter, was married to Alfonso, Dux Peter of Cantabria's son. Alfonso's son Fruela married Munia, a Basque from Álava, after crushing a Basque uprising (probably resistance). Their son is reported to be Alfonso II, while Alfonso I's daughter Adosinda married Silo, a local chief from the area of Flavionavia, Pravia.\n\nAlfonso's military strategy was typical of Iberian warfare at the time. Lacking the means needed for wholesale conquest of large territories, his tactics consisted of raids in the border regions of Vardulia. With the plunder he gained further military forces could be paid, enabling him to raid the Muslim cities of Lisbon, Zamora, and Coimbra. Alfonso I also expanded his realm westwards conquering Galicia.\n\nDuring the reign of King Alfonso II (791–842), the kingdom was firmly established, and a series of Muslim raids caused the transfer of the Asturian capital to Oviedo. The king is believed to have initiated diplomatic contacts with the kings of Pamplona and the Carolingians, thereby gaining official recognition for his kingdom and his crown from the Pope and Charlemagne.\n\nThe bones of St. James the Great were proclaimed to have been found in Iria Flavia (present day Padrón) in 813 or probably two or three decades later. The cult of the saint was transferred later to Compostela (from Latin \"campus stellae\", literally \"the star field\"), possibly in the early 10th century when the focus of Asturian power moved from the mountains over to León, to become the Kingdom of León or Galicia-León. Santiago's were among many saint relics proclaimed to have been found across north-western Iberia. Pilgrims started to flow in from other Iberian Christian realms, sowing the seeds of the later Way of Saint James (11–12th century) that sparked the enthusiasm and religious zeal of continental Christian Europe for centuries.\n\nDespite numerous battles, neither the Umayyads nor the Asturians had sufficient forces to secure control over these northern territories. Under the reign of Ramiro, famed for the highly legendary Battle of Clavijo, the border began to slowly move southward and Asturian holdings in Castile, Galicia, and León were fortified, and an intensive program of re-population of the countryside began in those territories. In 924 the Kingdom of Asturias became the Kingdom of León, when León became the seat of the royal court (it didn't bear any official name).\n\nAlfonso III of Asturias repopulated the strategically important city León and established it as his capital. King Alfonso began a series of campaigns to establish control over all the lands north of the Douro river. He reorganized his territories into the major duchies (Galicia and Portugal) and major counties (Saldaña and Castile), and fortified the borders with many castles. At his death in 910 the shift in regional power was completed as the kingdom became the Kingdom of León. From this power base, his heir Ordoño II was able to organize attacks against Toledo and even Seville.\n\nThe Caliphate of Córdoba was gaining power, and began to attack León. King Ordoño allied with Navarre against Abd-al-Rahman, but they were defeated in Valdejunquera in 920. For the next 80 years, the Kingdom of León suffered civil wars, Moorish attack, internal intrigues and assassinations, and the partial independence of Galicia and Castile, thus delaying the reconquest and weakening the Christian forces. It was not until the following century that the Christians started to see their conquests as part of a long-term effort to restore the unity of the Visigothic kingdom.\n\nThe only point during this period when the situation became hopeful for León was the reign of Ramiro II. King Ramiro, in alliance with Fernán González of Castile and his retinue of \"caballeros villanos\", defeated the Caliph in Simancas in 939. After this battle, when the Caliph barely escaped with his guard and the rest of the army was destroyed, King Ramiro obtained 12 years of peace, but he had to give González the independence of Castile as payment for his help in the battle. After this defeat, Moorish attacks abated until Almanzor began his campaigns. Alfonso V finally regained control over his domains in 1002. Navarre, though attacked by Almanzor, remained intact.\n\nThe conquest of León did not include Galicia which was left to temporary independence after the withdrawal of the Leonese king. Galicia was conquered soon after (by Ferdinand, son of Sancho the Great, around 1038). However, this brief period of independence meant that Galicia remained a kingdom and fief of Leon, which is the reason it is part of Spain and not Portugal. Subsequent kings titled themselves kings of Galicia and León, instead of merely king of León as the two were united personally and not in union.\n\nFerdinand I of León was the leading king of the mid-11th century. He conquered Coimbra and attacked the taifa kingdoms, often demanding the tributes known as parias. Ferdinand's strategy was to continue to demand parias until the taifa was greatly weakened both militarily and financially. He also repopulated the Borders with numerous \"fueros\". Following the Navarrese tradition, on his death in 1064 he divided his kingdom between his sons. His son Sancho II of Castile wanted to reunite the kingdom of his father and attacked his brothers, with a young noble at his side: Rodrigo Díaz, later known as El Cid Campeador. Sancho was killed in the siege of Zamora by the traitor Bellido Dolfos (also known as Vellido Adolfo) in 1072. His brother Alfonso VI took over León, Castile and Galicia.\n\nAlfonso VI the Brave gave more power to the \"fueros\" and repopulated Segovia, Ávila and Salamanca. Once he had secured the Borders, King Alfonso conquered the powerful Taifa kingdom of Toledo in 1085. Toledo, which was the former capital of the Visigoths, was a very important landmark, and the conquest made Alfonso renowned throughout the Christian world. However, this \"conquest\" was conducted rather gradually, and mostly peacefully, during the course of several decades. It was not until after sporadic and consistent population resettlements had taken place that Toledo was decisively conquered.\n\nAlfonso VI was first and foremost a tactful monarch who chose to understand the kings of taifa and employed unprecedented diplomatic measures to attain political feats before considering the use of force. He adopted the title \"Imperator totius Hispaniae\" (\"Emperor of all Hispania\", referring to all the Christian kingdoms of the Iberian Peninsula, and not just the modern country of Spain). Alfonso's more aggressive policy towards the taifas worried the rulers of those kingdoms, who called on the African Almoravids for help.\n\nThe Kingdom of Pamplona primarily extended along either side of the Pyrenees on the Atlantic Ocean. The kingdom was formed when local leader Íñigo Arista led a revolt against the regional Frankish authority and was elected or declared King in Pamplona (traditionally in 824), establishing a kingdom inextricably linked at this stage to their kinsmen, the muwallad Banu Qasi of Tudela.\n\nAlthough relatively weak until the early 11th century, Pamplona took a more active role after the accession of Sancho the Great (1004–1035). The kingdom expanded greatly under his reign, as it absorbed Castile, Leon, and what was to be Aragon, in addition to other small counties that would unite and become the Principality of Catalonia. This expansion also led to the independence of Galicia, as well as gaining overlordship over Gascony.\n\nIn the 12th century, however, the kingdom contracted to its core, and in 1162 King Sancho VI declared himself king of Navarre. Throughout its early history, the Navarrese kingdom engaged in frequent skirmishes with the Carolingian Empire, from which it maintained its independence, a key feature of its history until 1513.\n\nThe Kingdom of Aragon started off as an offshoot of the Kingdom of Navarre. It was formed when Sancho III of Navarre decided to divide his large realm among all his sons. Aragon was the portion of the realm which passed to Ramiro I of Aragon, an illegitimate son of Sancho III. The kingdoms of Aragon and Navarre were several times united in personal union until the death of Alfonso the Battler in 1135.\n\nIn 1137 the heiress of the kingdom married the count of Barcelona, and their son Alfonso II ruled from 1162 the combined possessions of his parents, resulting in what modern historians call the Crown of Aragon.\n\nIn the following centuries, the Crown of Aragon conquered a number of territories in the Iberian peninsula and the Mediterranean, including the kingdom of Valencia and the kingdom of Mallorca. James I of Aragon, also known as James the Conqueror, expanded his territories to the north, south and east. James also signed the Treaty of Corbeil (1258), which released him from the nominal suzerainty of the King of France.\n\nEarly in his reign, James attempted to reunite the Aragonese and Navarrese crowns through a treaty with the childless Sancho VII of Navarre. But the Navarrese nobles rejected him, and chose Theobald IV of Champagne in his stead.\n\nLater on, Ferdinand II of Aragon, married Isabella of Castile, leading to a dynastic union which eventually gave birth to modern Spain, after the conquest of Upper Navarre (Navarre south of the Pyrenees) and the kingdom of Granada.\n\nIn 1139, after an overwhelming victory in the Battle of Ourique against the Almoravids, Afonso Henriques was proclaimed the first King of Portugal by his troops. According to the legend, Christ announced from heaven Afonso's great deeds, whereby he would establish the first Portuguese Cortes at Lamego and be crowned by the Primate Archbishop of Braga. In the Treaty of Zamora in 1143, Alfonso VII of León and Castile recognized Portuguese independence from the Kingdom of León.\n\nIn 1147, Portugal captured Santarém, and seven months later the city of Lisbon was also brought under Portuguese control after the Siege of Lisbon. By the papal bull Manifestis Probatum, Pope Alexander III recognized Afonso Henriques as King of Portugal in 1179.\n\nWith Portugal finally recognized as an independent kingdom by its neighbours, Afonso Henriques and his successors, aided by Crusaders and the military monastic orders the Knights Templar, the Order of Aviz or the Order of Saint James, pushed the Moors to the Algarve on the southern coast of Portugal. After several campaigns, the Portuguese part in the \"Reconquista\" came to an end with the definitive capture of the Algarve in 1249. With all of Portugal now under the control of Afonso III of Portugal, religious, cultural and ethnic groups became gradually homogenized.\n\nAfter the completion of the \"Reconquista\", the Portuguese territory was a Roman Catholic realm. Nonetheless, Denis of Portugal carried out a short war with Castile for possession of the towns of Serpa and Moura. After this, Denis avoided war; he signed the Treaty of Alcanizes with Ferdinand IV of Castile in 1297, establishing the present-day borders.\n\nDuring the suppression of the Knights Templar all over Europe, under the influence of Philip IV of France and Pope Clement V requesting its annihilation by 1312, King Denis reinstituted the Templars of Tomar as the Order of Christ in 1319. Denis believed that the Order's assets should by their nature stay in any given Order instead of being taken by the King, largely for the Templars' contribution to the \"Reconquista\" and the reconstruction of Portugal after the wars.\n\nThe experience gained during the battles of the \"Reconquista\" was fundamental to Conquest of Ceuta, the first step to the establishment of the Portuguese Empire. Likewise, the contact with Muslim's navigation techniques and sciences enabled the creation of Portuguese nautical innovations such as the caravel – the principal Portuguese ship during their voyages of exploration in the Age of Discovery.\n\nMinor Christian realms were the Kingdom of Viguera (970–1005), and the (1094–1102).\n\nClashes and raids on bordering Andalusian lands did not keep the Christian kingdoms from battling among themselves or allying with Muslim kings. Some Muslim kings had Christian-born wives or mothers. Some Christian champions, like El Cid, were contracted by taifa kings to fight against their neighbours. Indeed, El Cid's first battle experience was gained fighting for a Muslim state against a Christian state. At the Battle of Graus in 1063, he and other Castilians fought on the side of al-Muqtadir, Muslim sultan of Zaragoza, against the forces of Ramiro I of Aragon. There is even an instance of a crusade being declared against another Christian king in Iberia.\n\nFollowing the disastrous defeat of Alfonso VIII, King of Castile, at Alarcos, Kings Alfonso IX of León and Sancho VII of Navarre entered an alliance with the Almohads and invaded Castile in 1196. By the end of the year Sancho VII had dropped out of the war under Papal pressure. Early in 1197, at the request of Sancho I, King of Portugal, Pope Celestine III declared a crusade against Alfonso IX and released his subjects from their responsibilities to the king, declaring that \"the men of his realm shall be absolved from their fidelity and his dominion by authority of the apostolic see.\" Together the Kings of Portugal, Castile, and Aragon invaded León. In the face of this onslaught combined with pressure from the Pope, Alfonso IX was finally forced to sue for peace in October 1197.\n\nIn the late years of \"Al-Andalus\", Castile had the might to conquer the remnants of the kingdom of Granada, but the kings preferred to claim the tribute of the Muslim \"parias\". The trade of Granadan goods and the parias were a major means by which African gold entered medieval Europe.\n\nThe \"Reconquista\" was a process not only of war and conquest, but also of repopulation. Christian kings moved their own people to locations abandoned by Muslims in order to have a population capable of defending the borders. The main repopulation areas were the Douro Basin (the northern plateau), the high Ebro valley (La Rioja) and central Catalonia. The repopulation of the Douro Basin took place in two distinct phases. North of the river, between the 9th and 10th centuries, the \"pressure\" (or \"presura\") system was employed. South of the Douro, in the 10th and 11th centuries, the \"presura\" led to the \"charters\" (\"forais\" or \"fueros\"). \"Fueros\" were used even south of the Central Range.\n\nThe \"presura\" referred to a group of peasants who crossed the mountains and settled in the abandoned lands of the Douro Basin. Asturian laws promoted this system, for instance granting a peasant all the land he was able to work and defend as his own property. Of course, Asturian and Galician minor nobles and clergymen sent their own expeditions with the peasants they maintained. This led to very feudalised areas, such as León and Portugal, whereas Castile, an arid land with vast plains and harsh climate, only attracted peasants with no hope in Biscay. As a consequence, Castile was governed by a single count, but had a largely non-feudal territory with many free peasants. \"Presuras\" also appear in Catalonia, when the count of Barcelona ordered the Bishop of Urgell and the count of Gerona to repopulate the plains of Vic.\n\nDuring the 10th century and onwards, cities and towns gained more importance and power, as commerce reappeared and the population kept growing. \"Fueros\" were charters documenting the privileges and usages given to all the people repopulating a town. The \"fueros\" provided a means of escape from the feudal system, as \"fueros\" were only granted by the monarch. As a result, the town council was dependent on the monarch alone and, in turn, was required to provide \"auxilium\" – aid or troops – for their monarch. The military force of the towns became the \"caballeros villanos\". The first \"fuero\" was given by count Fernán González to the inhabitants of Castrojeriz in the 940's. The most important towns of medieval Iberia had \"fueros\", or \"forais\". In Navarre, \"fueros\" were the main repopulating system. Later on, in the 12th century, Aragon also employed the system; for example, the \"fuero\" of Teruel, which was one of the last fueros, in the early 13th century.\n\nFrom the mid-13th century on, no more charters were granted, as the demographic pressure had disappeared and other means of re-population were created. \"Fueros\" remained as city charters until the 18th century in Aragon, Valencia and Catalonia and until the 19th century in Castile and Navarre. \"Fueros\" had an immense importance for those living under them, who were prepared to go to war to defend their rights under the charter. In the 19th century, the abolition of the \"fueros\" in Navarre would be one of the causes of the Carlist Wars. In Castile, disputes over the system contributed to the war against Charles I (Castilian War of the Communities).\n\nDuring the 9th century the Berbers returned to North Africa in the aftermath of revolts. Many governors of large cities distant from the capital, Córdoba, had planned to establish their independence. Then, in 929, the Emir of Córdoba (Abd-ar-Rahman III), the leader of the Umayyad dynasty, declared himself Caliph, independent from the Abbasids in Baghdad. He took all the military, religious, and political power and reorganised the army and the bureaucracy.\n\nAfter regaining control over the dissident governors, Abd-ar-Rahman III tried to conquer the remaining Christian kingdoms of the Iberian peninsula, attacking them several times and forcing them back beyond the Cantabrian Mountains. Abd-ar-Rahman's grandson later became a puppet in the hands of the great Vizier Almanzor (\"al-Mansur\", \"the victorious\"). Almanzor waged several campaigns attacking and sacking Burgos, León, Pamplona, Barcelona, and Santiago de Compostela before his death in 1002.\n\nBetween Almanzor's death and 1031, Al-Andalus suffered many civil wars, which ended in the division into the Taifa kingdoms. The taifas were small kingdoms, established by the city governors. The result was many (up to 34) small kingdoms, each centered upon its capital. Their governors had no larger-scale vision of the Moorish presence in the Iberian peninsula and had no qualms about attacking their neighbouring kingdoms whenever they could gain advantage by doing so.\n\nThe split into the taifa states weakened the Islamic presence, and the Christian kingdoms further advanced as Alfonso VI of León and Castile conquered Toledo in 1085. Surrounded by enemies, taifa rulers sent a desperate appeal to the Berber chieftain Yusuf ibn Tashfin, leader of the Almoravids.\n\nThe Almoravids were a Muslim militia primarily composed of Berber and African Moors, and unlike previous Muslim rulers, they were not so tolerant towards Christians and Jews. Their armies entered the Iberian peninsula on several occasions (1086, 1088, 1093) and defeated King Alfonso at the Battle of Sagrajas in 1086, but initially their purpose was to unite all the taifas into a single Almoravid Caliphate. Their actions halted the southward expansion of the Christian kingdoms. Their only defeat came at Valencia in 1094, due to the actions of El Cid.\n\nMeanwhile, Navarre lost all importance under King Sancho IV, for he lost Rioja to Sancho II of Castile, and nearly became the vassal of Aragon. At his death, the Navarrese chose as their king Sancho Ramírez, King of Aragon, who thus became Sancho V of Navarre and I of Aragon. Sancho Ramírez gained international recognition for Aragon, uniting it with Navarre and expanding the borders south, conquering \"Wasqa\" Huesca deep in the valleys in 1096 and building a fort, El Castellar, 25 km from \"Saraqusta\" Zaragoza.\n\nCatalonia came under intense pressure from the taifas of Zaragoza and Lérida, as well as from internal disputes, as Barcelona suffered a dynastic crisis that led to open war among the smaller counties. But by the 1080s, the situation had calmed down, and the dominion of Barcelona over the smaller counties was restored.\n\nAfter a brief period of disintegration (the second Taifa period), the Almohads, the rising power in North Africa, took over most of \"Al-Andalus\". However they were decisively defeated at the Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa (1212) by a Christian coalition, losing almost all the remaining lands of \"Al-Andalus\" in the following decades. By 1252 only the Kingdom of Granada remained intact but as a vassal state of Castile.\n\nFerdinand and Isabella completed the \"Reconquista\" with a war against the Emirate of Granada that started in 1482 and ended with Granada's surrender on January 2, 1492. The Moors in Castile previously numbered \"half a million within the realm.\" By 1492 some 100,000 had died or been enslaved, 200,000 had emigrated, and 200,000 remained in Castile. Many of the Muslim elite, including Granada's former Emir Muhammad XII, who had been given the area of the Alpujarras mountains as a principality, found life under Christian rule intolerable and emigrated to Tlemcen in North Africa.\n\nIn 1497 Spanish forces took Melilla, west of Oran, and the island of Djerba, south of Tunis, and went on to more important gains, with the bloody seizure of Oran in 1509, and the capture of Bougie and Tripoli in 1510. The Spanish capture of Tripoli cost them some 300 men, while the inhabitants suffered between 3,000 and 5,000 killed and another 5,000–6,000 carried off as slaves. Soon thereafter, however, they faced competition from the rapidly expanding Ottoman Empire in the east and were pushed back.\n\nAs elsewhere in the Muslim world, Christians and Jews were allowed to retain their religions, with their own legal systems and courts, by paying a tax, the \"jizya\". The penalty for not paying it was imprisonment.\n\nThe new Christian hierarchy demanded heavy taxes from non-Christians and gave them rights, such as in the Treaty of Granada (1491) only for Moors in recently Islamic Granada. On July 30, 1492, all the Jewish community – some 200,000 people – were forcibly expelled. The next year the Alhambra decree ordered the expulsion of practicing Jews, leading many to convert to Catholicism. In 1502, Queen Isabella I declared conversion to Catholicism compulsory within the Kingdom of Castile. King Charles V did the same to Moors in the Kingdom of Aragon in 1526, forcing conversions of its Muslim population during the Revolt of the Germanies. Many local officials took advantage of the situation to seize property.\n\nMost of the descendants of those Muslims who submitted to conversion to Christianity – rather than exile – during the early periods of the Spanish and Portuguese Inquisition, the Moriscos, were later expelled from Spain after serious social upheaval, when the Inquisition was at its height. The expulsions were carried out more severely in eastern Spain (Valencia and Aragon) due to local animosity towards Muslims and Moriscos where they were seen as economic rivals by local workers who saw them as cheap labor undermining their bargaining position with the landlords. Exactions imposed on the Moriscos paved the way to a major Morisco revolt happening in 1568, with the final expulsion of the Moriscos from Castile taking place in 1609; they were driven from Aragon at about the same time.\n\nMaking things more complex were the many former Muslims and Jews known as \"Moriscos\", \"Marranos\", and \"Conversos\", who shared ancestors in common with many Christians, especially among the aristocracy, causing much concern over loyalty and attempts by the aristocracy to hide their non-Christian ancestry. Some – the numbers are debated – continued to secretly practice their religions and use their languages well into the sixteenth century. Those that the Spanish Inquisition found to be secretly practicing Islam or Judaism were executed, imprisoned, or exiled. Nevertheless, all those deemed to be \"New Christians\" were repeatedly suspected of illegally continuing in secret to practice their religions various crimes against the Spanish state including continued practice of Islam or Judaism. New Christians were subject to many discriminatory practices starting in the sixteenth century.\n\nThe many advances and retreats created several social types:\n\nReal, legendary, and fictional episodes from the \"Reconquista\" are the subject of much of medieval Galician-Portuguese, Spanish, and Catalan literature such as the \"cantar de gesta\".\n\nSome noble genealogies show the close relations (although not very numerous) between Muslims and Christians. For example, Al-Mansur Ibn Abi Aamir, whose rule is considered to have marked the peak of power for Moorish \"Al-Andalus\" Iberia, married Abda, daughter of Sancho Garcés II of Navarra, who bore him a son, named Abd al-Rahman and commonly known in pejorative sense as Sanchuelo (\"Little Sancho\"; in Arabic: \"Shanjoul\").\n\nAfter his father's death, Sanchuelo/Abd al-Rahman, as a son of a Christian princess, was a strong contender to take over the ultimate power in Muslim al-Andalus. A hundred years later, King Alfonso VI of Castile, considered among the greatest of the Medieval Spanish kings, designated as his heir his son (also a Sancho) by the refugee Muslim princess Zaida of Seville.\n\nThe \"Reconquista\" was a war with long periods of respite between the adversaries, partly for pragmatic reasons and also due to infighting among the Christian kingdoms of the North spanning over seven centuries. Some populations practiced Islam or Christianity as their own religion during these centuries, so the identity of contenders changed over time.\n\nCurrently, festivals called \"moros y cristianos\" (Castilian), \"moros i cristians\" (Catalan), \"mouros e cristãos\" (Portuguese) and \"mouros e cristiáns\" (Galician), which all mean \"Moors and Christians\", recreate the fights as colorful parades with elaborate garments and lots of fireworks, especially on the central and southern towns of the Land of Valencia, like Alcoi, Ontinyent or Villena.\n\nA 2016 study found that the manner of the Reconquest has persistent effects on the Spanish economy to this day. The authors show how territory quickly re-taken during the Reconquest was given to nobility, whereas territory slowly re-taken was more equally distributed and settled. Lands dominated by nobility have worse long-term development outcomes and greater inequality.\n\nOn the conclusion of Iberian victory over the Moors, the Iberian powers, Spain and Portugal didn't stop their warring against the Muslims solely in their homelands—they extended the conflict against Islam overseas. The Spanish under the Hapsburg dynasty soon became the champions of Roman Catholicism in Europe and the Mediterranean against the encroaching threat of the Ottoman Caliphate. In a similar vein, the Portuguese also extended the Reconquista, this time against Muslim states overseas. The conquest of Ceuta marked the beginning of Portuguese expansion into Muslim Africa. Soon, the Portuguese also went into conflict with the Ottoman Caliphate in the Mediterranean, Indian Ocean and Southeast Asia as the Portuguese conquered the Ottomans' allies: the Sultanate of Adal in East Africa, the Sultanate of Delhi in South Asia and the Sultanate of Malacca in Southeast Asia. Meanwhile, the Spanish also went to war against the Sultanate of Brunei in Southeast Asia. The Spanish sent expeditions from New Spain (Mexico) to conquer and Christianize the Philippines, then a territory of the Sultanate of Brunei. Brunei itself was assaulted during the Castilian War. Spain also went to war against the Sultanates of Sulu, Maguindanao, and Lanao in the Spanish-Moro Conflict. The primary inspiration for these wars against Muslim states overseas was the Reconquista.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "278263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=278263", "title": "State of nature", "text": "State of nature\n\nThe state of nature is a concept used in moral and political philosophy, religion, social contract theories and international law to denote the hypothetical conditions of what the lives of people might have been like before societies came into existence. Philosophers of the state of nature theory deduce that there must have been a time before organized societies existed, and this presumption thus raises questions such as: \"What was life like before civil society?\"; \"How did government first emerge from such a starting position?,\" and; \"What are the hypothetical reasons for entering a state of society by establishing a nation-state?\".\n\nIn some versions of social contract theory, there are no rights in the state of nature, only freedoms, and it is the contract that creates rights and obligations. In other versions the opposite occurs: the contract imposes restrictions upon individuals that curtail their natural rights.\n\nSocieties existing before or without a political state are currently studied in such fields as paleolithic history, and the anthropological subfields of archaeology, cultural anthropology, social anthropology, and ethnology, which investigate the social and power-related structures of indigenous and uncontacted peoples living in tribal communities.\n\nThe early Warring States philosopher Mozi was the first thinker in ancient China to develop an ideal state of nature as a premise to defend the need of a single ruler in a state. According to him, on that state each person have their own moral (yi:義). As a result, people were unable to reach agreements and resources were wasted. Since his philosophy promotes the actions that leads to the benefit (li:利) of the state, such natural organization was rejected:\"In the beginning of human life, when there was yet no law and government, the custom was \"everybody according to his moral (yi:義).\" Accordingly each man had his own moral, two men had two different morals and ten men had ten different morals -- the more people the more different notions. And everybody approved of his own moral and disapproved the views of others, and so arose mutual disapproval among men. As a result, father and son and elder and younger brothers became enemies and were estranged from each other, since they were unable to reach any agreement. Everybody worked for the disadvantage of the others with water, fire, and poison. Surplus energy was not spent for mutual aid; surplus goods were allowed to rot without sharing; excellent teachings (dao:道) were kept secret and not revealed.\" Chapter 3 - 1His proposal was to unify morals according to a single standard (fa:法) that can be used by anyone: calculating benefit of each act. In that way, the ruler of the state and his subjects will have the same morals; cooperation and joint efforts will be the rule. Later his proposal was strongly rejected by confucianism (especially Mencius) because of the preference of benefit over morals.\n\nThe pure state of nature or \"the natural condition of mankind\" was described by the 17th century English philosopher Thomas Hobbes, in \"Leviathan\" and in his earlier work \"On the Citizen\". Hobbes argued that all humans are by nature equal in faculties of body and mind (i.e., no \"natural\" inequalities are so great as to give anyone a \"claim\" to an exclusive \"benefit\"). From this equality and other causes in human nature, everyone is naturally willing to fight one another: so that \"during the time men live without a common power to keep them all in awe, they are in that condition which is called warre; and such a warre as is of every man against every man\". In this state every person has a natural right or liberty to do anything one thinks necessary for preserving one's own life; and life is \"solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short\" (\"Leviathan,\" Chapters XIII–XIV). Hobbes described this natural condition with the Latin phrase \"bellum omnium contra omnes\" (meaning war of all against all), in his work \"De Cive\".\n\nWithin the state of nature there is neither personal property nor injustice since there is no law, except for certain natural precepts discovered by reason (\"laws of nature\"): the first of which is \"that every man ought to endeavour peace, as far as he has hope of obtaining it\" (\"Leviathan\", Ch. XIV); and the second is \"that a man be willing, when others are so too, as far forth as for peace and defence of himself he shall think it necessary, to lay down this right to all things; and be contented with so much liberty against other men as he would allow other men against himself\" (\"loc. cit.\"). From here Hobbes develops the way out of the state of nature into political society and government, by mutual contracts.\n\nAccording to Hobbes the state of nature exists at all times among independent countries, over whom there is no law except for those same precepts or laws of nature (\"Leviathan\", Chapters XIII, XXX end). His view of the state of nature helped to serve as a basis for theories of international law and relations.\n\nJohn Locke considers the state of nature in his \"Second Treatise on Civil Government\" written around the time of the Exclusion Crisis in England during the 1680s. For Locke, in the state of nature all men are free \"to order their actions, and dispose of their possessions and persons, as they think fit, within the bounds of the law of nature.\" (2nd Tr., §4). \"The state of Nature has a law of Nature to govern it\", and that law is reason. Locke believes that reason teaches that \"no one ought to harm another in his life, liberty, and or property\" (2nd Tr., §6) ; and that transgressions of this may be punished. Locke describes the state of nature and civil society to be opposites of each other, and the need for civil society comes in part from the perpetual existence of the state of nature. This view of the state of nature is partly deduced from Christian belief (unlike Hobbes, whose philosophy is not dependent upon any prior theology).\n\nAlthough it may be natural to assume that Locke was responding to Hobbes, Locke never refers to Hobbes by name, and may instead have been responding to other writers of the day, like Robert Filmer. In fact, Locke's First Treatise is entirely a response to Filmer's \"Patriarcha\", and takes a step by step method to refuting Filmer's theory set out in \"Patriarcha\". The conservative party at the time had rallied behind Filmer's \"Patriarcha\", whereas the Whigs, scared of another prosecution of Anglicans and Protestants, rallied behind the theory set out by Locke in his \"Two Treatises of Government\" as it gave a clear theory as to why the people would be justified in overthrowing a monarchy which abuses the trust they had placed in it.\n\nMontesquieu makes use of the concept of the state of nature in his \"The Spirit of the Laws\", first printed in 1748. Montesquieu states the thought process behind early human beings before the formation of society. He says that human beings would have the faculty of knowing and would first think to preserve their life in the state. Human beings would also at first feel themselves to be impotent and weak. As a result, humans would not be likely to attack each other in this state. Next, humans would seek nourishment and out of fear, and impulse would eventually unite to create society. Once society was created, a state of war would ensue amongst societies which would have been all created the same way. The purpose of war is the preservation of the society and the self. The formation of law within society is the reflection and application of reason for Montesquieu.\n\nHobbes' view was challenged in the eighteenth century by Jean-Jacques Rousseau, who claimed that Hobbes was taking socialized people and simply imagining them living outside of the society in which they were raised. He affirmed instead that people were neither good nor bad, but were born as a blank slate, and later society and the environment influence which way we lean. In Rousseau's state of nature, people did not know each other enough to come into serious conflict and they did have normal values. The modern society, and the ownership it entails, is blamed for the disruption of the state of nature which Rousseau sees as true freedom.\n\nDavid Hume offers in \"A Treatise of Human Nature\" (1739) that human beings are naturally social: \"'Tis utterly impossible for men to remain any considerable time in that savage condition, which precedes society; but that his very first state and situation may justly be esteem'd social. This, however, hinders not, but that philosophers may, if they please, extend their reasoning to the suppos'd state of nature; provided they allow it to be a mere philosophical fiction, which never had, and never cou'd have any reality.\"\n\nHume's ideas about human nature expressed in the \"Treatise\" suggest that he would be happy with neither Hobbes' nor his contemporary Rousseau's thought-experiments. He explicitly derides as incredible the hypothetical humanity described in Hobbes' \"Leviathan\". Additionally, he argues in \"Of the Origin of Justice and Property\" that if mankind were universally benevolent, we would not hold Justice to be a virtue: \"’tis only from the selfishness and confin’d generosity of men, along with the scanty provision nature has made for his wants, that justice derives its origin.\"\n\nJohn C. Calhoun, in his \"Disquisition on Government\", (1850) wrote that a state of nature is merely hypothetical and argues that the concept is self-contradictory and that political states naturally always existed. \"It is, indeed, difficult to explain how an opinion so destitute of all sound reason, ever could have been so extensively entertained, ... I refer to the assertion, that all men are equal in the state of nature; meaning, by a state of nature, a state of individuality, supposed to have existed prior to the social and political state; and in which men lived apart and independent of each other... But such a state is purely hypothetical. It never did, nor can exist; as it is inconsistent with the preservation and perpetuation of the race. It is, therefore, a great misnomer to call it the state of nature. Instead of being the natural state of man, it is, of all conceivable states, the most opposed to his nature—most repugnant to his feelings, and most incompatible with his wants. His natural state is, the social and political—the one for which his Creator made him, and the only one in which he can preserve and perfect his race. As, then, there never was such a state as the, so called, state of nature, and never can be, it follows, that men, instead of being born in it, are born in the social and political state; and of course, instead of being born free and equal, are born subject, not only to parental authority, but to the laws and institutions of the country where born, and under whose protection they draw their first breath.\"\nJohn Rawls used what amounted to an artificial state of nature. To develop his theory of justice, Rawls places everyone in the original position. The original position is a hypothetical state of nature used as a thought experiment. People in the original position have no society and are under a veil of ignorance that prevents them from knowing how they may benefit from society. They lack foreknowledge of their intelligence, wealth, or abilities. Rawls reasons that people in the original position would want a society where they had their basic liberties protected and where they had some economic guarantees as well. If society were to be constructed from scratch through a social agreement between individuals, these principles would be the expected basis of such an agreement. Thus, these principles should form the basis of real, modern societies since everyone should consent to them if society were organized from scratch in fair agreements.\n\nRawls' Harvard colleague Robert Nozick countered the liberal \"A Theory of Justice\" with the libertarian \"Anarchy, State, and Utopia\", also grounded in the state of nature tradition. Nozick argued that a minimalist state of property rights and basic law enforcement would develop out of a state of nature without violating anyone's rights or using force. Mutual agreements among individuals rather than social contract would lead to this minimal state.\n\nIn Hobbes' view, once a civil government is instituted, the state of nature has disappeared between individuals because of the civil power which exists to enforce contracts and the laws of nature generally. Between nations, however, no such power exists and therefore nations have the same rights to preserve themselves—including making war—as individuals possessed. Such a conclusion led some writers to the idea of an association of nations or worldwide civil society. Among them there were Immanuel Kant with his work on perpetual peace. This aim was taken up by former US President George H W Bush in the drive to create a \"New World Order\" which he describes as \"a world where the rule of law, not the law of the jungle, governs the conduct of nations\".\n\nRawls also examines the state of nature between nations. In his work the \"Law of Peoples\", Rawls applies a modified version of his original position thought experiment to international relationships. Rawls says that peoples, not states, form the basic unit that should be examined. States should be encouraged to follow the principles from Rawls' earlier \"A Theory of Justice\". Democracy seems like it would be the most logical means of accomplishing these goals, but benign non-democracies should be seen as acceptable at the international stage. Rawls develops eight principles for how a people should act on an international stage.\n\n"}
{"id": "21705001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21705001", "title": "The God of the Machine", "text": "The God of the Machine\n\nThe God of the Machine is a book written by Isabel Paterson and published in 1943 in the United States. At the time of its release, it was considered a cornerstone to the philosophy of individualism. Her biographer, Stephen D. Cox, in 2004 described Paterson as the \"earliest progenitor of libertarianism as we know it today\".\n\nIsabel Paterson wrote a regular column for the \"New York Herald Tribune\", where she first articulated many of her beliefs, which reached their final form in \"The God of the Machine\". She also foreshadowed those ideas, especially free trade, in her historical novels during the 1920s and 1930s.\n\nPaterson opposed most parts of the economic program, known as the New Deal, which US president Franklin D. Roosevelt and the Congress put into effect during the 1930s, and she advocated less governmental involvement in social and fiscal matters. She also led a group of younger friends (many of whom were other employees of the \"Herald Tribune\") who shared her views. One member of that group was the young Ayn Rand.\n\nPaterson and Rand promoted each other's books, and they conducted an extensive exchange of letters, touching on religion and philosophy. That correspondence ended with a personal quarrel in 1948. Rand, an atheist, was critical of the attempts of Paterson, a deist, to link capitalism with religion, things that Rand considered incompatible.\n\n"}
{"id": "41764843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41764843", "title": "The Ribbon International", "text": "The Ribbon International\n\nThe Ribbon International is a United Nations Non-Governmental Organization that created a large decorated cloth promoting nuclear disarmament and care and protection of the earth. In an event held on August 4, 1985, panels were connected in an long strip stretching from the Pentagon into Washington D.C. The event was covered in the film \"The Ribbon Starts Here\" by Nigel Noble (1988). Individual sections of the Ribbon are exhibited internationally. In 1991, The Ribbon International became a United Nations Non Governmental Organization. Ribbon events can be held for special designated days such as the International Day of Peace (September 21), Earth Day (April 21), special prayer days or other events. Panels from the Ribbon were displayed at the United Nations Decade for Women international conference in Nairobi in 1985, and others were used by members of Women for a Meaningful Summit at their demonstration at the Geneva Summit (1985). Ribbons were used at peace demonstrations at the Nevada Nuclear Test Site, and the Horse Creek Missile Silo near Cheyenne, Wyoming, and the Great Peace March for Global Nuclear Disarmament in 1986.\n\nThe Ribbon International was created in 1982 as a protest against nuclear war by Justine Merritt (1924–2009)\n\nFollowing a trip to the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum in Hiroshima, Japan, in 1975, Merritt conceived the idea of wrapping the Pentagon with a mile of ribbon to recall (in Merritt's words) \"that we love the earth and its people,\" which is analogous with tying a string around one's finger to remember something. The event took place on August 4, 1985, the 40th anniversary of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.\n\nThe Ribbon was made in the three years leading up to the Pentagon event from hundreds of panels created by local groups co-ordinated nationally by Mary Frances Jaster of Denver with state co-ordinators. Each panel used embroidery, quilting, painting and other techniques. The makers were invited to convey their thoughts and emotions in the panels, with their story on the back.\n\nFriends, relatives, places of worship, and other organizations helped spread Merritt's idea throughout the United States and around the world. Local newsletters and arts and crafts magazines such as \"Fibre Art\", \"Handwoven\", and \"Quilter's Newsletter Magazine\" helped publicize the project. Stories leading up to the Pentagon event appeared in over 2,500 publications, including local newspapers and national publications such as \"McCall's\" (Gittelson 1985), \"Mother Jones\" (Robinson 1985), \"People\" (Grogan and Chandler 1985), and \"Vogue\" magazine (L. Davis 1985). Coverage appeared in \"Time\" magazine (Pierce 1985) and on the front page of the \"Washington Post\" (Saperstein 1985, Kastor 1985, McGrory 1985) after the event. The Ribbon was covered by major radio and television networks. Merritt appeared on \"Good Morning America\" in June and August (before the event) and again in November 1985.\nPanels were received from contributors in every state in the United States. Every state and many towns and organizations held Ribbon joining events. Panels were received from all over the world, including Russia, England, Germany, New Zealand, Italy, Canada, Australia, the Netherlands, and Puerto Rico. A group of women with Church Women United led a grassroots effort around the country, making panels and assisting with preparations in Washington. Their newsletter, which was sent to a half a million members of the Catholic Church, the Russian Orthodox Church in America, the Salvation Army, the Quakers, and 29 other Christian denominations, provided information on how to construct the panels. More than 3,000 Ribbon panels were contributed by this group. The California delegation contributed over 3,000 panels for the Ribbon event. In 1984, they created a display of panels that surrounded Lake Merritt in Oakland. The California group also sent panels to Hiroshima for a Ribbon event that was going to surround the at the Hiroshima Peace Memorial on the same day as the Pentagon event.\n\nMarie Dennis Grosso, Joan Urbanczyk, and Margaret Schellenberg of the Center for a New Creation (a peace group in Arlington, Virginia) coordinated the Washington event. The center concentrated on peacemaking, poverty and economic justice, human rights, and women's issues. Betty Bumpers, an advocate for world peace and wife of former U.S. Senator and Governor of Arkansas Dale Bumpers, also worked on preparations for the Washington event with her group Peace Links, a national nonpartisan organization of women who oppose the nuclear arms buildup.{ Organizers planned a route through Washington D.C., and met with various police authorities and the National Park Service to obtain the required permits. Security was of utmost importance; the course from Virginia into Washington travelled past some of the most important buildings and monuments in the country. Forty-nine churches and one senior's center in the Washington area hosted individual state delegations and participants. The churches held a reception for attendees and provided bag lunches, lodging, and transportation. Host churches also displayed panels.\n\nThe interfaith service for peace, held on August 3 at the Washington National Cathedral, was attended by 5,000 people. Cathedral staff reported that it was the second-largest crowd ever hosted in the building. Over 4,000 panels were on display during the service. Each pew was decorated, and additional Ribbons were draped and tied in various locations around the building. Twenty bagpipers in Highland dress led a procession of 200 people carrying Ribbons into the cathedral. The service also included dancing, meditation, and a performance by the Howard University Gospel Choir. Survivors of the Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombings were in attendance both at the church service and during The Ribbon event the next day.\n\nWhen all 27,000 individual panels were joined together on August 4, it created a ribbon long. Don Wilcox of \"The Craft Report\" described it as \"the largest collaborative craft event in American history\". The Ribbon wrapped around the Pentagon building, through the Pentagon parking lot, down the foot paths alongside the Jefferson Davis Highway and Washington Boulevard, crossed the Potomac River into Washington D.C. at the Arlington Memorial Bridge, and travelled into the National Mall area. The Ribbon then went past the Lincoln Memorial, along the south side of the Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool, continuing east along the National Mall, and around the U.S.Capitol Building. It then turned west along the north side of the National Mall, went around the Ellipse by the White House, passed the Lincoln Memorial, crossed the Potomac River again and returned to the Pentagon. When the chain of panels was completed, hundreds of balloons were released near the Lincoln Memorial. The entire route was lined with people, and crowds gathered at the three designated speaking areas (the Pentagon, the Lincoln Memorial, and the Capitol). Singers, including Pete Seeger and Tom Chapin, rotated between the three stage areas, performing anti-war songs. Newspapers estimated a total attendance of 30,000 to 100,000 people.\n\nVideo filming was done by numerous individuals, and professional television video personnel from New York and Washington, D.C., who donated their time and equipment to create a documentary about the event. The documentary film \"The Ribbon Starts Here\", was produced by Academy Award-winning film maker Nigel Noble, and directed by Nigel Noble and Hilary Raff Lindsay; Nobel Enterprises. The video was released in 1988.\n\nAfter August 4, state coordinators returned home with their Ribbon panels, which were then displayed in libraries, schools, and museums, and used in parades and events. Historical societies and universities now house historical information about the Ribbon and archival collections of panels. Some of the Ribbons and panels were selected as gallery pieces, and are on display in The Peace Museum in Chicago. Sixty Ribbons were selected by the Smithsonian Institution for its political history collection, and others were given to the United Nations. The Texas Women's University in Denton, Texas hosts a major collection of panels and documentation. Panels were also sent to the National Textile Museum.\n\nThe Ribbon evolved into The Ribbon International in the late 1980s, and became a United Nations Non Governmental Organization in 1991. Ribbon events can be held for special designated days such as the International Day of Peace (September 21), Earth Day (April 21), special prayer days or other events. Any individual or group can create a panel for a Ribbon, start a Ribbon in their community, or give a panel as a gift to someone who is engaged in promoting peace, environmental causes, or disarmament.\n\nNew panels continue to be created for display at various environmental and peace events. Ribbons have been given to the New York City Council, Russian President Mikhail Gorbachev, Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, and Pope John Paul II. Panels from the Ribbon were displayed at the United Nations Decade for Women international conference in Nairobi in 1985, and others were used by members of Women for a Meaningful Summit at their demonstration at the Geneva Summit (1985). Ribbons were used at peace demonstrations at the Nevada Nuclear Test Site, and the Horse Creek Missile Silo near Cheyenne, Wyoming, and the Great Peace March for Global Nuclear Disarmament in 1986.\nIn 2000, with the help of Betty Bumpers and her group Peace Links, the Ribbon International United Nations Non Governmental Committee gave each U.S. congressional leader a Ribbon for the United Nations International Year for the Culture of Peace, and for the International Decade for the Promotion of a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World, 2001–2010. Some congressional leaders displayed the Ribbon in their offices.\n\nEvery year the municipality and city of Lugansk, Ukraine takes part in the Ribbon project. Annual events are held in Marion and Gas City, Indiana, and in Lake Havasu, Arizona, where people create Ribbons and hold a Ribbon event for United Nations Day (October 24) or other peace related days.\nIn Japan, the city of Hiroshima includes Ribbons and prayers for peace in their annual commemoration of the nuclear bombing. In Israel, Interns for Peace works with Israeli and Palestinian youth to stage Ribbon events, joining them together at the Gaza Strip. In New Zealand, people joined Ribbons around the United States and Russian Embassies in Wellington. From 2002 to 2012, the Ribbon committee in New York City annually joined Ribbons, starting at the United Nations Headquarters and travelling to the World Trade Center. After the September 11 attacks, Merritt called the Ribbon the \"Ribbon of Tangible Hope\". She wanted to create a Ribbon long enough to stretch from the United Nations to the World Trade Center Memorial site and to a Muslim shrine.\n\nThe Ribbon Committee worked with New York City Council on Nuclear Weapons Abolition Day, held April 28, 2004. Over the years, Church Women United has wrapped the Ribbon around numerous sites. The group held a peace litany joining \"the Ribbon of Tangible Hope\" in the state capital building in Oklahoma City on the fifteenth anniversary of the Oklahoma City bombing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13907397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13907397", "title": "Timeline of the Saffron Revolution", "text": "Timeline of the Saffron Revolution\n\nThis article details the chronology of events in the 2007 Burmese anti-government protests.\n\nPrior to the summer protests, there had been growing unease in the population regarding the economic distress of the country which has stagnant economic growth and is ranked among the 20 poorest countries in the world according to the United Nations. Many, including the United Nations have blamed the economic problems on the inept leadership of the military junta that spends large amount of money maintaining one of the world's largest armies (said to total more than half the country's annual budget). In late 2006, the cost of basic commodities began rising sharply in Burma with rice, eggs, and cooking oil increasing by 30-40%. According to the UN, one in three children is chronically malnourished, government spending on health and education is among the lowest anywhere in the world, and the average income is below $300 a year. Living a privileged, parallel existence, Burma's military forces appear virtually a \"state within a state\", subject to none of the severe economic insecurity that afflicts the rest of the country. Many of the high ranking army generals have become immensely rich; as witnessed in the video of the wedding of senior general Than Shwe's daughter, who is shown wearing diamonds worth many millions of dollars.\n\nAccording to the BBC, on February 22, 2007, a small group of individuals protested the current state of consumer prices in the country. While the protest was small and careful not to be seen as directed at the military junta, officials jailed nine of the protesters. it was the first street protest seen in Rangoon for at least a decade.\n\nOn August 15, 2007 the government removed subsidies on fuel causing a rapid and unannounced increase in prices. The government, which has a monopoly on fuel sales, raised prices of fuel from about $1.40 to $2.80 a gallon, and boosted the price of natural gas by about 500%. This increase in fuel prices led to an increase in food prices. Soon afterwards, protesters took to the streets to protest the current conditions.\n\nWhile the International Monetary Fund and World Bank had been recommending the lifting of subsidies for some time to allow for a free market to determine fuel prices, these organizations did not recommend removing all of the subsidies unannounced. The fuel is sold by Myanma Oil and Gas Enterprise, a state-owned fuel company.\n\nIn response to the increase in fuel prices, citizens protested in demonstrations beginning on August 15. In response to the protests, the government began arresting and beating demonstrators. The government arrested 13 prominent Burmese dissidents including Min Ko Naing, Ko Ko Gyi, Min Zeya, Ko Jimmy, Pyone Cho, Arnt Bwe Kyaw and Ko Mya Aye. The government newspaper New Light of Myanmar reported that these individuals' actions caused civil unrest that \"was aimed at undermining peace and security of the State and disrupting the ongoing National Convention. The United States condemned the arrest of these dissidents on August 22 with the State Department's acting spokesman stating \"The United States calls for the immediate release of these activists and for an end of the regime's blatant attempt to intimidate and silence those who are engaged in peaceful promotion of democracy and human rights in Burma...We call on the regime to engage in a meaningful dialogue with the leaders of Burma's democracy movement and ethnic minority groups and to make tangible steps toward a transition to civilian democratic rule.\"\n\nOn September 5, 2007, Burmese troops forcibly broke up a peaceful demonstration in Pakokku and injured three monks. The next day, other monks later took government officials as hostages in retaliation. They demanded an apology by the deadline of September 17, but the military refused to apologize. This sparked protests involving increasing numbers of monks in conjunction with the withdrawal of religious services for the military. Their role in the protests has been significant due to the reverence paid to them by the civilian population and the military. After these events, protests began spreading across Myanmar, including Yangon (also known as Rangoon), Sittwe, Pakokku and Mandalay.\n\nOn September 22, around two thousand monks marched through Yangon and ten thousand through Mandalay, with other demonstrations in five townships across Myanmar. Those marching through the capital were allowed to pass the house of Nobel peace laureate Aung San Suu Kyi. Although still under house arrest, Suu Kyi made a brief public appearance at the gate of her residence to accept the blessings of the Buddhist monks.\n\nOn September 23, 150 nuns joined the protests in Yangon. On that day, some 15,000 Buddhist monks and laymen marched through the streets of Yangon in the sixth day of escalating peaceful protests against the Burmese military regime. The Alliance of All Burmese Buddhist Monks have vowed to continue the protests until the Burmese military junta is deposed.\n\nOn September 24, eyewitnesses reported between 30,000 and 100,000 people demonstrating in Yangon, making the event the largest Burmese anti-government protest in twenty years. BBC reported that two locally well-known actors, comedian Zargana and film star Kyaw Thu, went to Yangon's golden Shwedagon Pagoda early on Monday to offer food and water to the monks before they started their march. The marches occurred simultaneously in at least 25 cities across Myanmar, with columns of monks stretching up to . At the end of the march, approximately 1,000 monks arrived to greet Aung San Suu Kyi's home but were denied access by police. They chanted prayers before peacefully moving off. Later that day, the military junta's Minister for Religion, Brigadier General Thura Myint Maung, warned the Buddhist monks leading the protests not to go beyond their \"rules and regulations\".\n\nMeanwhile, U.S. President George W. Bush was expected to introduce further unilateral sanctions against the Burmese leaders during his speech to the UN General Assembly. It has been noted that the Bush administration hopes to further embolden the protesters and encourage other countries to follow its lead.The Dalai Lama of Tibet also gave his blessing to the monks in their bid for greater freedom and democracy.\n\nOn September 25, the junta threatened demonstrators with military force and placed army trucks at Shwedagon Pagoda, the assembly point for monks leading the protests. Witnesses said 5,000 monks and laypeople still marched into the Shwedagon. Civilians were forming a human shield around the monks; Reuters quotes one eyewitness: \"They are marching down the streets, with the monks in the middle and ordinary people either side - they are shielding them, forming a human chain.\". Vehicles mounted with loudspeakers toured central Yangon, blaring warnings of military action. \"People are not to follow, encourage or take part in these marches. Action will be taken against those who violate this order,\" the broadcasts said, invoking a law allowing the use of military force to break up illegal protests. Reuters reported that the detained democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi had been moved to the Insein prison on Sunday, a day after she appeared in front of her house to greet marching monks.\n\nEffective September 26, Myanmar's junta imposed dusk-till-dawn curfews on the country's two largest cities of Yangon and Mandalay. Additionally, gatherings of more than five people were prohibited. Meanwhile, truckloads of armed soldiers and riot police were sent into Yangon.\n\nOn September 26 pro-democracy figure Win Naing was arrested at his home in Yangon around 2:30 a.m. after being seen providing food and water to the protesting monks but was released from jail after one night, according to an anonymous friend and Western diplomat. Win Naing is in his 70s and had been arrested on March 8 for holding a press conference with Burmese demonstrators against the national economic hardships. Prominent Burmese comedian Zargana was also arrested overnight. Troops barricaded Shwedagon Pagoda and attacked a group of 700 protesters with batons and tear gas. The police, beating their shields with batons, chased some of the monks and some 200 supporters, while others tried to remain in place near the eastern gate of the pagoda complex. Troops then sealed off the area around the pagoda, attempting to prevent the monks from making further protests. This failed to stop the marches, with up to 5,000 monks progressing through Yangon; some wearing masks in anticipation of tear gas being used.\n\nLater in the day there were reports of at least three Buddhist monks and one woman confirmed killed in the firing by security forces in Yangon when thousands of people led by Buddhist monks continued their protest against the military junta. A doctor in Yangon's general hospital confirmed that three injured monks have been admitted to the hospital after they were beaten up severely by the riot police at Shwedagon pagoda. The Swedish National Radio correspondent in Yangon reported that more than 300 people, many of whom are monks, have been detained. He also reported about a new kind of sentiment in Yangon: \"People come up to me quite spontaneously and voice their opinion in a way they never did before.\" ... \"People feel great admiration for the brave monks\" The Burma Campaign UK said its sources had reported the junta ordering large numbers of maroon monastic robes and telling soldiers to shave their heads, possibly to infiltrate the monks.\n\nOn September 27, the junta security forces began raiding monasteries across the country to quell the protests, arresting at least 200 monks in Yangon and 500 more in the northeast. There are reports that security forces raided at least five Buddhist monasteries including Ngwe Kya Yan in #3 Block 13th Street, South Okklapah Township and arrested over 200 monks. Security forces broke the wall of Ngwe Kya Yan monastery in a raid at about 0:15 a.m. (local time) Thursday morning. Several monks were injured during a clash between the security forces and the monks. \"Bleeding monks were forced into a vehicle. They couldn't cover themselves,\" a local resident told Mizzima. During the two-hour raid last night, monks rang the alarm bell and screamed for help. As the army has announced it would shoot anybody breaking the curfew, civilians did not dare to come to the aid of monks. Simultaneously, the army raided four other monasteries in parts of Yangon and arrested several monks. Sources confirmed that the army had raided the six storied Religious Science Monastery in Chaukhtatgyi Pagoda, Moe Kaung Monastery in Yan Kin township, Maggin Monastery in Thingankyun township, and Thein Phyu monastery in Thein Phyu area and arrested several monks. An anonymous diplomat also said the junta claimed soldiers now had the monks \"under control\" and \"would now turn their attention to civilian protesters\".\n\nAs the day moved on, by some accounts there were 50,000 protesters in Yangon. Protesters bleeding from beatings by security forces are seen scattering and fleeing in Sule. Security forces are reported to be preparing to use insect spray to crack down on protesters. Eyewitnesses said fire engines and insect spray carrier trucks were seen near Theingyi market in downtown Yangon. The BBC received unconfirmed reports that fire crews were ordered to fill their machines with insecticide.\n\nAccording to several news media the armed forces gave the protesters 10 minutes to disperse or face extreme action. The radio station Democratic Voice of Burma reported that nine civilians, including Japanese photographer Kenji Nagai, had been shot and killed by the armed forces. Nagai was working for APF Tsushin, a media company based in Tokyo. The Japanese embassy in Myanmar later confirmed Nagai's death. Amateur video showing Nagai apparently being deliberately shot was aired on Japanese television. Later footage also showed how a Burmese soldier took Nagai's video camera.\n\nSoldiers fired both into the air and directly at students marching toward a high school in Tamwe township in Yangon. Primary school children were inside the school at the time and were reportedly hit by bullets, as were parents arriving to pick up their children. Unconfirmed eyewitness reports say 100 people were shot. Up to 300 of the students outside were arrested after a military truck rammed into the crowd.\n\nSome 50,000 protesters are reported to have demonstrated peacefully in Akyab while soldiers were stationed at seven key places, including government buildings, Lawkanada temple, and Akyi Tong Kong temple.\n\nIn the evening, the Burmese state television reported that nine people have been killed in a force crackdown on pro-democracy protesters in Yangon. It added that eleven demonstrators and 31 soldiers had been injured.\n\nAt the end of the day, it was reported that the junta has formed new regiments to crack down on protesters. According to sources close to the military, Senior General Than Shwe is now directly commanding soldiers after several commanders refused to use force to crack down on protesters. UK newspaper \"The Guardian\" published a report of a letter received by Burmese exiles in Thailand. The letter, allegedly written by disgruntled military officers, expressed support for the protests and read in part, \"On behalf of the armed forces, we declare our support for the non-violent action of the Buddhist monks and members of the public and their peaceful expression...\". The letter also announced the formation of a group called the Public Patriot Army Association. The \"Guardian\" was unable to confirm the authenticity of the letter itself before the story was published.\n\nThere are unconfirmed reports that Than Shwe's family have fled to a foreign country. A chartered Air Bagan flight carrying eight special passengers landed in Vientiane, Laos, at 6 p.m. (local time). Air Bagan is owned by Than Shwe's right hand business tycoon Tay Za.\n\nThe United Nations' special envoy to Myanmar, Ibrahim Gambari, was allowed into the country after the Burmese authorities bowed to international pressure. He was sent to Myanmar after the Security Council convened in New York over the crisis to call for restraint.\n\nOn September 28, Yangon was unusually empty as people were afraid of violent reprisals from the army. The President of the Philippines Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo urged Myanmar \"to take steps toward democracy\". U.S. envoys called on China to use its influence with Myanmar.\n\nThe Myanmar government attempted to dampen public awareness and communications around the protests by cutting Internet access. Troops specifically targeted those caught carrying cameras and beat them. On September 28, after the killing of Japanese photographer Kenji Nagai by the junta, Japanese Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda said he regretted the killing and demanded a full explanation of his death. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations was urged to join the push for a UN mission to Myanmar, while the United Nations Security Council urged restraint from the government.\n\nThere are reports that Burmese troops from middle Myanmar started to march towards Yangon. The troops were from the Central Command based in Taungoo and the South East Command. It was not clear if the troops were marching to reinforce or to challenge the troops in Yangon for shooting the Buddhist monks.\n\nVice Senior-General Maung Aye, Than Shwe's second in command and the commander in chief of the army, reportedly disagreed with the violent approach taken against protestors, and is reported to be scheduled to meet with Aung San Suu Kyi, who was reportedly taken to Yemon Military Camp on the outskirts of Yangon. Another report claimed Maung Aye had staged a coup against Than Shwe, that his troops were guarding Aung San Suu Kyi's home, and that diplomatic sources said that Aung San Suu Kyi had been moved to a police academy compound outside Yangon; although no independent confirmation has been made on the report.\n\nHelfen ohne Grenzen (Help without Frontiers) reported that \"Soldiers from the 66th LID (Light Infantry Division) have turned their weapons against other government troops and possibly police in North Okkalappa township in Yangon and are defending the protesters. At present unsure how many soldiers involved.\" While soldiers from 33rd LID in Mandalay are also reported to have refused orders to take actions against protesters, other reports state many soldiers remained in their barracks. Later reports stated that soldiers from the 99th LID were being sent in to confront them.\n\nA report warned that the military will attempt \"to trick UN envoys by asking their followers to carry out a set-up protest - protesting against the genuine demonstrations. SPDC followers will force the civilians to join in also.\" The same source states compulsory attendance of one person per family in some parts of the town is being demanded. In view of the Internet blackout, a group of \"88-generation activists\" are now urging the United Nations, along with the United States and United Kingdom embassies in Yangon to open a one-page Web service via Wi-Fi access to the general public just to submit news photos. The blog site confirms from different sources that soldiers and police were officially ordered not to shoot at the crowd.\n\nIt has also been reported that the UN envoys will be meeting Lieutenant Senior General Maung Aye, the second chief of the junta.\n\nThe BBC has reported that several hundred people gathered in Yangon and that eyewitness reports said demonstrators were surrounded by security forces and pro-military vigilante groups. United Nations Special Envoy Ibrahim Gambari has arrived in Yangon and was due to fly immediately to Naypyidaw to talk with the junta generals. Eyewitnesses have told the BBC that over 1,000 people were demonstrating against the government. There have been fresh reports of new violence; the French news agency AFP stated that security forces charged a group of around 100 protesters on the Pansoedan bridge in central Yangon. \"They beat people so badly,\" one eyewitness told the agency.\n\nApproximately 5,000 people gathered to demonstrate in Mandalay. The military is reported to have locked up and put most monasteries under guard to prevent egress. People gathered at 80th, 84th, 35th, and 33rd Streets, before joining together; three military trucks followed behind them and tried to break up the demonstrators, arresting one student who attempted to cross the road in front of them. The military forced monks from outside Mandalay to return to their native towns, the military are keeping the homes of NLD Party leaders under guard. Peaceful demonstrations were reported in Mandalay, no shooting was reported. The Ngwe Kyar Yan Monastery in South Okkalarpa which was subject to a raid some days ago is now being repaired, some believe, in an effort to eliminate evidence. A dedicated group of anti-riot troops is reported to have been formed within Brigate-77 led by Col. Thein Han under Minister Aung Thaung and General Htay Oo's supervision. Agricultural Minister General Maung Oo and Minister of Information Brig. General Kyaw Hsan is said to be in charge of arresting monks at night.\n\nOnly an hour after his scheduled arrival at Yangon, it was reported that Ibrahim Gambari, the UN Secretary-General's special adviser on Myanmar, had arrived in Naypyidaw to talk with the junta leaders. White House National Security Council Spokesman Gordon Johndroe has stated that \"We have concerns that Mr. Gambari was swiftly moved from Rangoon (Yangon) to the new capital in the interior, far from population centres\" and urged the junta to allow Gambari wide access to people, religious leaders and Aung San Suu Kyi. When asked if he expected to meet Suu Kyi, Gambari said: \"I expect to meet all the people that I need to meet.\"\n\nAn early report indicates that the junta has denied Gambari a meeting with Aung San Suu Kyi. In addition, the army, late at night, set up a machine-gun nest outside her house.\n\nAn audio message from inside Myanmar says crying crematorium workers say they were forced by soldiers to burn injured (but presumably still living) protesters and civilians to death in YaeWay crematorium on the outskirts of Yangon. The \"Times Online\" later reported that it was \"widely accepted that the cremations began on the night of Friday, September 28\", but the reports of people being burned alive were being \"treated with extreme caution by independent observers and have not been verified\". In Yangon, soldiers rerouted the Sule bus stop to Thamada Cinema in an effort to keep people away from Sule pagoda. Some bus drivers were not informed of this change, and passengers getting off at the old stop were beaten upon dismounting. In Mandalay, non-monk prisoners were taken to a field and a barber was asked to shave their heads so that they could be dressed as monks and forced to create confusion and mistrust of real monks.\n\nMonks and civilians are reported to have called diplomats to state that troops had arrived at three monasteries but had been prevented from entering by local residents who had massed outside. Making threats of returning in larger numbers, the soldiers then departed.\n\nMizzima news reported that in Mandalay, the NLD divisional organising committee member Win Mya Mya was arrested by police sub-Inspector Tun Lwin Naung at 11 p.m. last night at her home. \"She seemed to know in advance of her imminent arrest. She is prepared and took her clothes with her,\" her sister Tin Win Yee, told reporters, \"I am worried about her. This month is the period of Ramadan and she is being treated for her injury sustained in the Depayin incident\".\n\nCitizens in Myitkyina and other townships in northern Myanmar were coerced into joining pro-government rallies designed to manufacture a show of support for a national convention, though most of the speeches were simply condemnations from junta leaders of the uprisings. Two people from each household were required to attend. \"We were warned that we would be punished if we didn't come to the rally. So we attended it because we were afraid,\" said one resident.\n\nNgwe Kyar Yan Monastery in Rangoon, where some 200 monks were detained in the early morning two days earlier, is reported to have been looted by soldiers. Everything of value is said to have been removed, including forty or more Buddha statues and the head of one of the largest Buddhas which contains valuable jewels.\n\nThe largest demonstration in the country at Kyaukpadaung, Mandalay Division, numbered about 30,000 and was led by around 1,000 monks. The demonstrators marched peacefully despite heavy presence by security forces and military troops.\n\nSome 10,000 farmers in Wra Ma, 30 miles north of Taungup, southern Rakhine State, were reported to have joined hands to protest against the government. The demonstrators are said to have been angry at the government's action against monks in Yangon. The report states the authorities in Taungup sent a platoon of police to the village soon after they received the information about the demonstration.\n\nContrary to earlier reports, UN envoy Ibrahim Gambari has at last been allowed to meet with imprisoned Nobel laureate and elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi. The two spoke for ninety minutes at the State guest house in Yangon after Gambari returned from talks with the junta in the more remote capital of Naypyidaw. Gambari met with acting Prime Minister Thein Sein, Culture Minister Khin Aung Myint and Information Minister Kyaw Hsan, but has not been given audience with senior general Than Shwe, which could mean that either Than Shwe is boycotting the UN's right to involvement by not meeting Gambari personally or, in line with earlier, unconfirmed reports, that there are rifts developing in the upper levels of power within the junta and the other three figures now hold more power.\n\nFollowing telephone talks with the UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown, the Premier of the People's Republic of China, Wen Jiabao, announced: \"China hopes all parties concerned in Myanmar show restraint, resume stability through peaceful means as soon as possible, promote domestic reconciliation and achieve democracy and development\". Javier Solana, the European Union's foreign policy chief, urged China to lean harder on Myanmar. Mark Canning, the United Kingdom's ambassador in Myanmar, told the BBC of the deep underlying political and economic reasons for the demonstrations, which he said would not go away easily; \"The cork has been put in the bottle, but the pressures are still there.\"\n\nMeanwhile, the former US ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton, attending Britain's opposition Conservative Party conference in Blackpool, told BBC television that China is the key to political change in Myanmar, not UN envoy Ibrahim Gambari who has met the military junta.\n\nColonel Hla Win, a central member of the military junta, is reportedly interested in seeking political asylum in Norway. The colonel is said to have defected recently, and is now hiding in the jungle with rebels of the Karen people. The colonel defected after being ordered to raid two monasteries and detain hundreds of monks. According to the colonel, these monks were to be killed and dumped in the jungle.\n\nAn eyewitness in Yangon says a monastery on Wei-za-yan-tar Road was raided early this morning. Monks studying inside were ordered out and one by one had their heads bashed against the brick wall of the monastery. Their robes were torn off and they were thrown in trucks and driven away. The head monk is confirmed to have died later that day. Only 10 of 200 remained afterward, hiding inside, and the ground was covered with blood. Many civilians who had gathered to help were held back by the military with bayonets.\n\nThe Japanese Deputy Foreign Minister Mitoji Yabunaka, in Myanmar because of the death of Kenji Nagai, arrived in Naypyidaw to speak to government leaders.\n\nThe barricades around the Shwedagon Pagoda were removed, witnesses told Reuters, but soldiers were still stationed at the four entrances. Monks say at least five of their brethren have been killed during the clashes with security forces during the protests. Eyewitnesses say troops and police are still positioned at many street corners and key locations around Yangon, making it impossible for demonstrators to gather.\n\nThe United Nations envoy Ibrahim Gambari is still waiting to see Myanmar's military junta chief, Than Shwe; it is not clear why he has not yet been granted an audience. Mark Canning, the British ambassador to Myanmar, says China is pushing hard for Gambari's mission to be as long and as far-reaching as possible.\nThousands of heavily armed soldiers are reported to be patrolling the streets of Yangon, and there are no signs of protests against the junta. The troops are stopping pedestrians and car drivers and searching them for cameras. The internet and mobile phone networks are still largely disrupted. General Than Shwe is expected to meet Ibrahim Gambari on Tuesday, officials say.\n\nAround 4,000 monks are said to have been rounded up by the military during the last week in an attempt to stamp out the protests. They are being held at a disused race course and a technical college. A \"BBC\" report said sources from a government-sponsored militia stated they would soon be moved away from Yangon. The monks have been disrobed and are shackled, sources told the \"BBC Radio\" Burmese service. The Democratic Voice of Burma, the banned opposition broadcaster, has published a photograph which they say shows the body of a monk floating near the mouth of the Yangon river.\n\n5,000 protesters are reported to have gathered in the town of Man Aung, Rakhine State, in the morning. At 9 a.m. they marched while holding two banners displaying their demands; for the release of all political prisoners, a reduction in commodity prices, and national reconciliation. The demonstration finished at 11 a.m.\n\nThree people were arrested at a protest in Sanchaung Township in Yangon a report in \"The Irrawaddy\" stated.\n\nIbrahim Gambari met with Aung San Suu Kyi for a second time, just hours after returning from talks with Than Shwe in Naypyidaw, where he conveyed concerns over the violent crackdown.\n\nA report about imprisoned monks in Myanmar stated they were refusing to touch food given them by the military, and by doing so symbolically maintain their boycott of the regime.\n\nMyanmar prime minister General Soe Win, reportedly died of leukemia in Rangoon Defense Hospital, Mingladon, Yangon. But other sources claimed the rumours were false.\n\nThe Human Rights Council met and discussed the situation in Myanmar during a Special session, and passed a resolution deploring the violent repression of peaceful demonstrations, and urging the release of all those arrested during the demonstrations.\n\nA \"BBC\" report stated Gambari is currently in Singapore for a brief meeting with Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, but has not spoken with journalists. The report stated he is preparing a key report on his talks with Burma's leaders and is likely to brief the UN Security Council later this week. A spokeswoman said that he will meet UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon on Thursday and may brief the Security Council on Friday, the French news agency AFP said.\n\nReports from Yangon have stated some 25 monks were arrested by security forces in a raid on a temple overnight. As a result of the military crackdown on anti-government protests, \"[s]cores of monks\" are trying to leave Yangon, a \"BBC\" report stated, many monks were at the railway station because bus drivers refused to carry them as passengers, fearing they would not be allowed petrol. Since daybreak military vehicles fitted with loudspeakers patrolled Rangoon's streets blaring: \"We have photographs. We are going to make arrests.\" Some 80 monks and 149 women thought to be nuns, who had been detained during part of the military's crackdown on protesters, had been freed, Reuters reported.\n\nRiot police and soldiers are reported to be scouring Yangon with photographs to identify and arrest participants in last week's protests. Yangon is patrolled day and night, and troops are still stationed at major road junctions and places like the Sule pagoda, the report states.\n\nA report about nightly actions against demonstrators quoted one resident who said: \"The repression is continuing every night. When there are no more witnesses, they drive through the suburbs at night and kill the people.\" The report stated that there is hunger and misery, many of the monks who demonstrated last week came from Okalapa Township and after suppressing Yangon centre on September 29, troops turned their attention to that township the following day.\n\nThe body of the Japanese journalist, Kenji Nagai, has been returned to Japan, a \"BBC\" report stated. An autopsy will try to determine the exact cause of his death; Japanese officials said that he was not shot accidentally as Burmese authorities have said, but was shot at close range. APF News, who employed Nagai, are demanding that the camera he held in his hand when he was killed be returned; so far only his second camera, thought to be a back-up, has been returned. Toru Yamaji, the head of APF News, said: \"Our biggest task now is to confirm and report on what's in [his camera] and what he wanted to tell the people on his last day\".\n\nAnother report from the \"BBC\" stated that up to 10,000 people, many of them monks who led the protests, had been \"rounded up for interrogation in recent days\". United States diplomats who visited 15 monasteries found them empty, while others were being barricaded and guarded by soldiers, the report said.\n\nMeanwhile, a Burmese army major has revealed that secret codes were issued ordering the military to shoot and kill protesting monks in Rangoon.\n\nThe opposition rejected the junta's conditional offer of talks with Aung San Suu Kyi. Shari Villarosa, the United States top diplomat in Myanmar, has been invited to talk with the military leaders. The envoy will 'clearly convey Washington's condemnation of last week's bloody repression' a US spokesperson said. The invitation follows a state television broadcast stating nearly 2,100 people had been arrested over the last week and some 700 had now been freed.\n\nReuters report that protesters who applauded the demonstrations could face two to five years in jail, while the leaders could face 20 years. The Democratic Voice of Burma forwarded reports of some 50 students who demonstrated in Mandalay who had been sentenced to five years hard labor.\n\nSome 60 troops from a battalion based in Akyab are reported to have been sent to the town of Man Aung, on Man Aung Island, to deal with demonstrations that continued for three days, ending on October 2.\n\nAfter meeting with many of the parties involved Ibrahim Gambari returned to New York and briefed the Security Council about his visit. The ambassador from Myanmar said that of his country had it had \"indeed [experienced] a daunting challenge. However, we have been able to restore stability. The situation has now returned to normalcy. Currently, people all over the country are holding peaceful rallies within the bounds of the law to welcome the successful conclusion of the national convention, which has laid down the fundamental principles for a new constitution, and to demonstrate their aversion to recent provocative demonstrations.\"\n\nYangon residents were reported to be \"keeping up a low-key resistance\", harassing troops by tossing rocks at them. In response, security forces detained some of the rock throwers. The retired General, U Aung Kyi, currently serving as Deputy Minister of Labor, was appointed as an official go-between for talks between Aung San Suu Kyi and the military junta on 8 October 2007.\n\nYe Min Tun, a foreign ministry official for ten years, told the BBC how \"appalling\" treatment of Buddhist monks during last month's protests forced him to resign from the military regime. Asked whether he thought the pro-democracy movement was now finished, the diplomat said: \"I think it's not the end. I think it's just the beginning of the revolution.\"\n\nSouth African president Nelson Mandela withdrew an invitation to Gary Player to host a fundraising golf tournament because of the former British Open champion's business links with Burma.\n\nThere are reports that a member of the National League for Democracy, named Win Shwe, 42, died during interrogation in the central Myanmar region of Sagaing. He and five colleagues were arrested on September 26. White House foreign affairs spokesman Gordon Johndroe said \"The United States strongly condemns the atrocities committed by the junta and calls for a full investigation into the death of Win Shwe during his detention in Burma. The junta must stop the brutal treatment of its people and peacefully transition to democracy or face new sanctions from the United States.\" Witnesses claim that security forces are raiding houses in search of anyone whom they suspect to have been involved in the protests.\nThe body of Win Shwe was not released, Thailand-based Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) said. \"His body was not sent to his family and the interrogators indicated that they had cremated it instead.\" Fears are being expressed for others still held in police custody.\n\nSources are claiming that five military generals and more than 400 soldiers of Sikai Division near Mandalay have been jailed for refusing to shoot and beat monks and civilians during the protests. Many civil servants are also staying away from work to show their disapproval of the junta's action.\nRolls Royce also made an official statement today that it was ceasing all business dealings with the junta. It said it would cease aircraft engine repair work and terminate a contract involving the lease of an aircraft to a Burmese airline. A spokesman said last night: \"At that point, Rolls-Royce will have no further involvement in Burma.\"\n\nThe Security Council met and issued a statement and reaffirmed its \"strong and unwavering support for the Secretary-General's good offices mission\", especially the work by Ibrahim Gambari It also \"strongly deplore[d] the use of violence against peaceful demonstrations in Myanmar\", welcomed the Human Rights Council of 2 October 2007, and \"emphasize[d] the importance of the early release of all political prisoners and remaining detainees\", as well as urging the junta to prepare for a \"genuine dialogue\" with democratically elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi. Although a statement does not have the power of a resolution, it requires the consent of all its members and has been seen as a shift in position of China. Official government-run media in Burma called the UN statement \"regrettable,\" and stated that more than half of those arrested during the protests have since been released.\n\nMilitary rulers have arrested what is thought to be the last four known leaders, part of the \"88 Students Generation\" activists of the 1988 pro-democracy uprising. Those detained include prominent woman activist Thin Thin Aye (also known as Mie Mie), Aung Htoo and Htay Kywe. Amnesty International has issued a statement expressing grave concern for their safety and for others still being held.\n\nThousands have attended a \"pro-government\" rally in Rangoon. It is widely believed to have been organised by the junta and it is claimed that many of the participants are being forced to attend. Burmese dissident groups claim that the numbers who attended the rally is much smaller than the governments figures. They also claim that people have been bussed to the rallies by the junta and coerced with bribes of money and threatened with losing their jobs and homes. AFP news agency also reported that every factory in the city's industrial zone had each been obliged to send 50 participants to the rally.\n\nAmnesty International issued a revised statement saying that six dissidents have now been arrested in Yangon over the weekend. They said: \"Continued arrests fly in the face of the promises made this week by the Myanmar authorities to cooperate with the United Nations.\"\n\nGambari is expected to arrive in Bangkok to prepare for what he hopes will be a return visit to Myanmar, just two weeks after his last high-profile visit. The US Secretary of State and the White House wanted him to return there ahead of his plans to tour other southeast Asian capitals.\n\nGambari arrived in Thailand and issued a statement describing the latest arrests in Yangon as \"extremely disturbing\" [and] \"counter to the spirit of mutual engagement\" between the UN and Burma. He has a meeting scheduled to meet military officials in Burma in mid November but the UN is hoping that they will allow him to bring the visit forward. Meanwhile, PM Gordon Brown is pushing the EU to propose tougher sanctions on Burma ahead of an EU meeting in Luxembourg. The EU will be discussing the banning of imports of gemstones, timber and metals.\n\nThe EU have announced an agreement for further sanctions against the military junta but some have conceded that its leverage with Burma is limited and sanctions have so far controversially steered clear of its energy sector of which French oil giant Total is currently a major investor.\n\nJapan has cancelled funding of more than $4.7 m for a human resources centre based in Rangoon University. Chief Cabinet Secretary Nobutaka Machimura said the decision was made in response to the recent military action in Burma. A White House spokesman today said the US is considering toughening its own existing sanctions. Meanwhile, ASEAN has said it will not consider suspending Myanmar as a member, and rejected any proposal for economic sanctions. Burma says it arrested approximately 100 monks in recent weeks and that only 10 people have died, but it is absolutely clear that the real figures are much much higher.\n\nThree high-profile demonstrators have been released by the Burmese government; Zagana, a prominent comedian along with actor Kyaw Thu, and his wife were said to have been released late on Wednesday. In a published statement the junta stated: \"Those who led, got involved in and supported the unrest which broke out in September are being interrogated.\" [and] \"Some are still being called in for questioning and those who should be released will be.\" Officials now claim that a total of 2,927 people had been detained and nearly 500 were still being held, this is an increase of almost 800 since last official figures released on October 8. Those released had been asked to sign a \"pledge\" first.\n\nReports in the \"Democratic Voice of Burma\" claim that the NLD party chairman U Kyaw Khine, and secretary Ko Min Aung, have both been sentenced to seven and a half years imprisonment. U Htun Kyi and U Than Pe, two members of the NLD organising committee in Sandoway township, were sentenced to four and half years, while another party member from Gwa township, U Sein Kyaw, is standing trial. A total of around 280 party members were arrested, including 50 members in Kyaukse township in Mandalay Division, while others are reportedly on the run. Whilst reporting the same news, \"The Irrawaddy\" added a report about U Indriya, a monk from Sait-Ta-Thuka monastery, who is said to be one of the leaders of a peaceful demonstration in Sittwe. As a result, he has been sentenced to seven and a half years imprisonment.\n\nTwo former schoolteachers, Tin Maung Oo and Ni Ni Mai, appeared in court after they spoke out against a pro-government rally in Paung Tal township, Bago division. On October 16 at about 5am, a pro-government group were marching past the teachers house, shouting slogans denouncing the monk-led demonstrations and supporting the National Convention. The protestors stopped at seeing a sign hung outside by Maung Oo, which denounced those who tortured and killed monks and civilians. Ni Ni Mai stood in the doorway and asked the protestors if 'they really agreed with the killing of monks and civilians in Rangoon' at which the protestors stopped chanting slogans and some of them dropped their placards. A leader of the government protest is reported to have taken photographs of the couple and their house; later that day the township police chief and two female police officers came to arrest them. The couple are due to appear in court for sentencing on October 30.\n\nPresident Bush has announced further sanctions against the Burmese military. He has tightened export controls and frozen more financial assets held by the junta and urged China and India to apply more pressure. In a White House statement he said: \"Monks have been beaten and killed. \"Thousands of pro-democracy protesters have been arrested\". \"Burma's rulers continue to defy the world's just demand to stop their vicious persecution\". \"We are confident that the day is coming when freedom's tide will reach the shores of Burma.\"\n\nA senior British diplomat told the BBC that some 2,500 people are still being held by the military. British officials also received first-hand accounts of grim conditions under which many detainees are still being held. Night raids are said to be continuing with hundreds being arrested.\n\nBurma's military announced the lifting of a curfew in two main cities, Mandalay and Rangoon. The statement is being widely seen as a sign that the government is confident that it has now gained control of the recent dissent. However it is unclear whether the recent government ban on assemblies of more than five people had also been lifted.\n\nIt has been announced that the UN Human rights expert Paolo Sergio Pinheiro is to be allowed to visit Burma. Burmese Foreign Minister Nyan Win wrote to the UN stating that Pinheiro could arrive before mid-November. This will be the first visit by Pinheiro in four years, previously the military junta has refused to give their permission. Pinheiro welcomed news of his invitation, telling Reuters news agency that it was \"an important sign that the government wants to engage again in constructive dialogue with the UN and the Human Rights Council\". The BBC's Laura Trevelyan reports from the UN that the timing of the invitation is significant, a summit of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (Asean) is due to open on 17 November. The regime may believe that the move could reduce further criticism from members of Asean.\n\nRights groups report that hundreds of ethnic minority tribespeople are fleeing Burma into the border state of Mizoram, India to escape the military regime. They claim that they are being forced to join pro-government rallies, in some cases at gunpoint, and if they refuse they face fines of up to 10,000 kyats [$7]; while others have been arrested including Christian pastors. Many of the exodus are from the Christian minority ethnic Chin people who say they have been persecuted by the junta for being Christians and non-ethnic Burmese. Although they were initially welcomed in Mizoram after the 1988 military crackdown they now face threats of a pushback, as the Mizos, (who are ethnic cousins of Chins), are now strongly opposing \"unrestricted migration from the Chin State\" for fear that they may one day be outnumbered by them.\n\nMeanwhile, India has been accused of allowing its strategic and business interests to prevail in Burma, and for failing to put pressure on the generals.\n\nHundreds of riot police and troops armed with rifles and teargas launchers are said to be back in force on the streets of Rangoon and are also said to be surrounding the Shwedagon and Sule pagodas, that were the focal point of peaceful demonstrations led by Buddhist monks last month. The military police are also said to have large coils of barbed wire ready to block streets, though according to Reuters there are no new protest developments. The troop presence coincides with the end of Buddhist Lent, and is thought to be aimed at preventing new protests. It also comes a day after detained pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi met a military officer for talks. State Councilor for China, Tang Jiaxuan told Gambari of the UN, (who is expected to return to Burma in early November), that words were the way forward. \"The Myanmar issue, after all, has to be appropriately resolved by its own people and government through their own efforts of dialogue and consultation.\"\n\nMore than 100 buddhist monks marched through the central town of Pakokku, northwest of Yangon. The first time they have returned to the streets since the crack-down by the junta in September. One monk who was on the march told the Democratic Voice of Burma, a Norway-based radio station run by dissident journalists: \"We are continuing our protest from last month as we have not yet achieved any of the demands we asked for. \"Our demands are for lower commodity prices, national reconciliation and immediate release of [pro-democracy leader] Aung San Suu Kyi and all the political prisoners.\" Thai-based director of the Human Rights Education Institute of Burma, Aung Nyo Min said \"This is very significant... we are very encouraged to see the monks are taking up action and taking up peaceful demonstrations in Burma.\"\n\nThe military regime in Burma are to expel the United Nations' top diplomat in the country, UN officials have said. UN's Burma country chief, Charles Petrie, to Naypyidaw the new capital to tell him his mandate was not going to be renewed. It is not clear when he will have to leave. Mr Petrie is known to have voiced his concerns over the junta's violent break up of peaceful demonstrations in September: \"The events clearly demonstrated the everyday struggle to meet basic needs and the urgent necessity to address the deteriorating humanitarian situation in the country,\" Mr Petrie's statement said, 24 October, United Nations Day.\n"}
{"id": "30439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30439", "title": "Totalitarianism", "text": "Totalitarianism\n\nTotalitarianism is a political concept of a mode of government which prohibits opposition parties, restricts individual opposition to the state and its claims, and exercises an extremely high degree of control over public and private life. It is regarded as the most extreme and complete form of authoritarianism. Political power in totalitarian states has often been held by rule by one leader which employ all-encompassing propaganda campaigns broadcast by state-controlled mass media. Totalitarian regimes and are often marked by political repression, personality cultism, control over the economy, restriction of speech, mass surveillance and widespread use of state terrorism. Historian Robert Conquest describes a \"totalitarian\" state as one recognizing no limits to its authority in any sphere of public or private life and which extends that authority to whatever length feasible.\n\nThe concept was first developed in the 1920s by both Weimar jurist (and later Nazi academic) Carl Schmitt and, concurrently, by the Italian fascists. Italian fascist Benito Mussolini said \"Everything within the state, nothing outside the state, nothing against the state\". Schmitt used the term \"Totalstaat\" in his influential 1927 work on the legal basis of an all-powerful state, \"The Concept of the Political\". Later, the concept was used extensively to compare Nazism and Stalinism. The Economist has described China's recently developed social credit system to screen and rank its citizens based on their personal behavior as \"totalitarian\".\n\nTotalitarian regimes are different from other authoritarian ones. The latter denotes a state in which the single power holder – an individual \"dictator\", a committee or a junta or an otherwise small group of political elite – monopolizes political power. \"[The] authoritarian state [...] is only concerned with political power and as long as that is not contested it gives society a certain degree of liberty\". Authoritarianism \"does not attempt to change the world and human nature\". In contrast, a totalitarian regime attempts to control virtually all aspects of the social life, including the economy, education, art, science, private life and morals of citizens. Some totalitarian governments may promote an elaborate ideology: \"The officially proclaimed ideology penetrates into the deepest reaches of societal structure and the totalitarian government seeks to completely control the thoughts and actions of its citizens\". It also mobilizes the whole population in pursuit of its goals. Carl Joachim Friedrich writes that \"a totalist ideology, a party reinforced by a secret police, and monopoly control of [...] industrial mass society\" are the three features of totalitarian regimes that distinguish them from other autocracies.\n\nThe notion of totalitarianism as a \"total\" political power by the state was formulated in 1923 by Giovanni Amendola, who described Italian Fascism as a system fundamentally different from conventional dictatorships. The term was later assigned a positive meaning in the writings of Giovanni Gentile, Italy’s most prominent philosopher and leading theorist of fascism. He used the term \"totalitario\" to refer to the structure and goals of the new state, which were to provide the \"total representation of the nation and total guidance of national goals\". He described totalitarianism as a society in which the ideology of the state had influence, if not power, over most of its citizens. According to Benito Mussolini, this system politicizes everything spiritual and human: \"Everything within the state, nothing outside the state, nothing against the state\". \n\nOne of the first to use the term \"totalitarianism\" in the English language was the Austrian writer Franz Borkenau in his 1938 book \"The Communist International\", in which he commented that it united the Soviet and German dictatorships more than it divided them. The label \"totalitarian\" was twice affixed to the Hitler regime during Winston Churchill's speech of October 5, 1938 before the House of Commons in opposition to the Munich Agreement, by which France and Great Britain consented to Nazi Germany's annexation of the Sudetenland. Churchill was then a backbencher MP representing the Epping constituency. In a radio address two weeks later, Churchill again employed the term, this time applying the concept to \"a Communist or a Nazi tyranny\".\n\nThe leader of the historic Spanish reactionary conservative party called the Spanish Confederation of the Autonomous Right declared his intention to \"give Spain a true unity, a new spirit, a totalitarian polity\" and went on to say: \"Democracy is not an end but a means to the conquest of the new state. When the time comes, either parliament submits or we will eliminate it\".\n\nGeorge Orwell made frequent use of the word totalitarian and its cognates in multiple essays published in 1940, 1941 and 1942. In his essay \"Why I Write\", he wrote: \"The Spanish war and other events in 1936-37 turned the scale and thereafter I knew where I stood. Every line of serious work that I have written since 1936 has been written, directly or indirectly, against totalitarianism and for democratic socialism, as I understand it\".\n\nDuring a 1945 lecture series entitled \"The Soviet Impact on the Western World\" (published as a book in 1946), the pro-Soviet British historian E. H. Carr claimed: \"The trend away from individualism and towards totalitarianism is everywhere unmistakable\" and that Marxism–Leninism was by far the most successful type of totalitarianism as proved by Soviet industrial growth and the Red Army's role in defeating Germany. Only the \"blind and incurable\" could ignore the trend towards totalitarianism, said Carr.\n\nIn \"The Open Society and Its Enemies\" (1945) and \"The Poverty of Historicism\" (1961), Karl Popper articulated an influential critique of totalitarianism: in both works, he contrasted the \"open society\" of liberal democracy with totalitarianism and argued that the latter is grounded in the belief that history moves toward an immutable future in accordance with knowable laws.\n\nIn \"The Origins of Totalitarianism\", Hannah Arendt argued that Nazi and Communist regimes were new forms of government and not merely updated versions of the old tyrannies. According to Arendt, the source of the mass appeal of totalitarian regimes is their ideology, which provides a comforting, single answer to the mysteries of the past, present and future. For Nazism, all history is the history of race struggle and for Marxism all history is the history of class struggle. Once that premise is accepted, all actions of the state can be justified by appeal to nature or the law of history, justifying their establishment of authoritarian state apparatus.\n\nIn addition to Arendt, many scholars from a variety of academic backgrounds and ideological positions have closely examined totalitarianism. Among the most noted commentators on totalitarianism are Raymond Aron, Lawrence Aronsen, Franz Borkenau, Karl Dietrich Bracher, Zbigniew Brzezinski, Robert Conquest, Carl Joachim Friedrich, Eckhard Jesse, Leopold Labedz, Walter Laqueur, Claude Lefort, Juan Linz, Richard Löwenthal, Karl Popper, Richard Pipes, Leonard Schapiro and Adam Ulam. Each one of these describes totalitarianism in slightly different ways, but they all agree that totalitarianism seeks to mobilize entire populations in support of an official state ideology and is intolerant of activities which are not directed towards the goals of the state, entailing repression or state control of business, labour unions, non-profit organizations, religious organizations and buildings and political parties.\n\nThe concept became prominent in Western anti-communist political discourse during the Cold War era as a tool to convert pre-war anti-fascism into postwar anti-communism.\n\nThe political scientists Carl Friedrich and Zbigniew Brzezinski were primarily responsible for expanding the usage of the term in university social science and professional research, reformulating it as a paradigm for the Soviet Union as well as fascist regimes. Friedrich and Brzezinski argue that a totalitarian system has the following six, mutually supportive, defining characteristics:\n\nTotalitarian regimes in Germany, Italy and the Soviet Union had initial origins in the chaos that followed in the wake of World War I and allowed totalitarian movements to seize control of the government while the sophistication of modern weapons and communications enabled them to effectively establish what Friedrich and Brzezinski called a \"totalitarian dictatorship\". Some social scientists have criticized Friedrich and Brzezinski's anti-totalitarian approach, arguing that the Soviet system, both as a political and as a social entity, was in fact better understood in terms of interest groups, competing elites, or even in class terms (using the concept of the \"nomenklatura\" as a vehicle for a new ruling class). These critics pointed to evidence of popular support for the regime and widespread dispersion of power, at least in the implementation of policy, among sectoral and regional authorities. For some followers of this pluralist approach, this was evidence of the ability of the regime to adapt to include new demands. However, proponents of the totalitarian model claimed that the failure of the system to survive showed not only its inability to adapt, but the mere formality of supposed popular participation.\n\nThe German historian Karl Dietrich Bracher, whose work is primarily concerned with Nazi Germany, argues that the \"totalitarian typology\" as developed by Friedrich and Brzezinski is an excessively inflexible model and failed to consider the \"revolutionary dynamic\" that Bracher asserts is at the heart of totalitarianism. Bracher maintains that the essence of totalitarianism is the total claim to control and remake all aspects of society combined with an all-embracing ideology, the value on authoritarian leadership and the pretence of the common identity of state and society, which distinguished the totalitarian \"closed\" understanding of politics from the \"open\" democratic understanding. Unlike the Friedrich-Brzezinski definition, Bracher argued that totalitarian regimes did not require a single leader and could function with a collective leadership, which led the American historian Walter Laqueur to argue that Bracher's definition seemed to fit reality better than the Friedrich-Brzezinski definition.\n\nIn his book \"The True Believer\", Eric Hoffer argues that mass movements like Stalinism, fascism and Nazism had a common trait in picturing Western democracies and their values as decadent, with people \"too soft, too pleasure-loving and too selfish\" to sacrifice for a higher cause, which for them implies an inner moral and biological decay. He further claims that those movements offered the prospect of a glorious future to frustrated people, enabling them to find a refuge from the lack of personal accomplishments in their individual existence. The individual is then assimilated into a compact collective body and \"fact-proof screens from reality\" are established.\n\nIn the 1990s, François Furet used the term \"totalitarian twins\" to link Stalinism and Nazism. Eric Hobsbawm criticized Furet for his temptation to stress a common ground between two systems of different ideological roots.\n\nIn the field of Soviet history, the totalitarian concept has been disparaged by the revisionist school, some of whose more prominent members were Sheila Fitzpatrick, Jerry F. Hough, William McCagg, Robert W. Thurston and J. Arch Getty. Though their individual interpretations differ, the revisionists have argued that the Soviet state under Joseph Stalin was institutionally weak, that the level of terror was much exaggerated and that—to the extent it occurred—it reflected the weaknesses rather than the strengths of the Soviet state. Fitzpatrick argued that the Stalin's purges in the Soviet Union provided an increased social mobility and therefore a chance for a better life.\n\nWriting in 1987, Walter Laqueur said that the revisionists in the field of Soviet history were guilty of confusing popularity with morality and of making highly embarrassing and not very convincing arguments against the concept of the Soviet Union as a totalitarian state. Laqueur argued that the revisionists' arguments with regard to Soviet history were highly similar to the arguments made by Ernst Nolte regarding German history. Laqueur asserted that concepts such as modernization were inadequate tools for explaining Soviet history while totalitarianism was not.\n\nLaqueur's argument has been criticized by modern revisionist historians, such as Paul Buhle, who claim that Laqueur wrongly equates Cold-war revisionism with the German revisionism. The latter reflected a \"revanchist, military-minded conservative nationalism\". More recently, Enzo Traverso has attacked the creators of the concept of totalitarianism, who invented it to designate the enemies of the West. For Domenico Losurdo, totalitarianism is a polysemic concept with origins in Christian theology, and that applying it to the political sphere requires an operation of abstract schematism which makes use of isolated elements of historical reality to place fascist regimes and the USSR in the dock together, serving the anti-communism of Cold War-era intellectuals rather than reflecting intellectual research. Other scholars, such as F. William Engdahl, Sheldon Wolin and Slavoj Žižek, have linked totalitarianism to capitalism and liberalism and used concepts, such as totalitarian democracy, inverted totalitarianism or totalitarian capitalism.\n\nIn the 2010s, Vladimir Tismaneanu, Richard Shorten and Aviezer Tucker argued that totalitarian ideologies can take different forms in different political systems, but all of them focus on utopianism, scientism and/or political violence. They think that both Nazism and Soviet Communism emphasised the role of specialisation in modern societies and saw polymathy as \"a thing of the past\"; both claimed to have statistical scientific support for their claims, which led to a strict \"ethical\" control of culture, psychological violence and persecution of entire groups. Their arguments have been criticised by other scholars due to their partiality and anachronism. For instance, Juan Francisco Fuentes treats totalitarianism as an “invented tradition” and the use of notion of “modern despotism” as a “reverse anachronism”. For Fuentes, “the anachronistic use of totalitarian/totalitarianism involves the will to reshape the past in the image and likeness of the present.”\n\nNon-political aspects of the culture and motifs of totalitarian countries have themselves often been labeled innately \"totalitarian\". For example, Theodore Dalrymple, a British author, physician and political commentator, has written for \"City Journal\" that brutalist structures are an expression of totalitarianism given that their grand, concrete-based design involves destroying gentler, more-human places such as gardens. In 1949, author George Orwell described the Ministry of Truth in \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" as an \"enormous, pyramidal structure of white concrete, soaring up terrace after terrace, three hundred metres into the air\". Columnist Ben Macintyre of \"The Times\" wrote that it was \"a prescient description of the sort of totalitarian architecture that would soon dominate the Communist bloc\".\n\nAnother example of totalitarianism in architecture is the Panopticon, a type of institutional building designed by English philosopher and social theorist Jeremy Bentham in the late eighteenth century. The concept of the design is to allow a watchman to observe (-opticon) all (pan-) inmates of an institution without their being able to tell whether or not they are being watched. It was invoked by Michel Foucault in \"Discipline and Punish\" as metaphor for \"disciplinary\" societies and their pervasive inclination to observe and normalise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27970381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27970381", "title": "Transformative social change", "text": "Transformative social change\n\nTransformative social change is a philosophical, practical and strategic process to affect revolutionary change within society, i.e., social transformation. It is effectively a systems approach applied to broad-based social change and social justice efforts to catalyze sociocultural, socioeconomic and political revolution. In seeking to integrate and then politicize personal development and social development as an overarching approach to social change at multiple levels, addressing a wide range of issues, using holistic, nonviolent methods, it may be best classified as a new social movement. Rather than focus on particular issue(s), it seeks to impact the culture of left of center social movement and organizing work. However, by considering the dismantling of and liberation from oppressive systems, including economic, as core to its goal, it defies even definitions put forth for new social movements. As a comprehensive approach to progressive social change, it seeks distinguishes to itself from the \"ordinary\" change of conventional social change, social justice and their respective organizing practices by placing emphasis on personal, organizational and social systemic change that cannot be undone, or \"deep change\".\n\nA key premise defining transformative social change is that \"the ends of justice can never be served by the means of injustice, even when the injustice is as subtle as the mental framework instilled by the quest for liberation.(\"Change vs. Transformation\" by Angel Kyodo Williams) Williams further proposes that \"because suffering cannot be alleviated by instigating suffering\"; the conditions under which social justice activists and seekers operate within organizationally need to exemplify the conditions they wish to ultimately see cultivated within society at large. This ideal coincides with the quote often attributed to but not said by Gandhi, \"You must be the change you wish to see in the world.\"\n\nSeeking to better define and cohere the emerging and evolving work of transformative social change, a People's Movement Assembly process was held at the 2010 US Social Forum in Detroit, Michigan, in which the following framework for defining transformation was agreed to by way of resolution:\n\n~Transformation, as applied to social change, is a process through which who we are – individually or collectively – is changed so deeply that the following are altered:\n\nFurther, the work of transformation requires the following components:\n\n~ Transformation can and does consist of multi-disciplinary practices, modalities and paths, but overall it points toward the centrality of consistent, rigorous practice capable of undoing conditioning. Such a practice must effect systemic changes, internal and external. We refer to the broad spectrum of varied modalities as transformative practices.\n\n~ Transformation happens in its own time and it can’t be undone. We expect processes of transformation, as distinct from change, to be inclined towards being irreversible.\n\n~ In the transformation process, one identity or self passes away and a new, radically altered one emerges. The new way of being is more integrated, resourceful and aligned. This is apparent to others in your presence, your actions and your increased capacity to respond based on vision, rather than reaction. This process repeats itself and deepens through continued engagement in transformative practices and processes. The old, previous “form” sheds again and new emerges again.\n\n~ The methods and philosophy of transformation must be rooted in an explicit analysis of oppression.\n\n~ We recognize that this work is grounded in ancient wisdom, lineages and history, and that it is entering a new phase of coherence that allows us to move forward.\n\nApplied transformation leads to the following outcomes:\n\nIn 2009, the Seasons Fund for Social Transformation, a funding collaborative of representatives from small to large foundations, including W. W. Kellogg Foundation, Ford Foundation, Hidden Leaf Fund, Fetzer Institute, Jewish Funds for Justice, Seeds of Justice, Unitarian Universalist Veatch Program and small family funds held an inaugural Transformative Leadership Awards and awarded six collaborative teams $30,000 and two finalists $5,000 for their work in the field.\n\nTransformative social change is influenced by the work of social movements led by individuals that are viewed as attending to both their personal or spiritual development as well as systemic social issues because of the \"realization that action is not enough\":\n\nIn 2002, scholars Raymond Allen Morrow and Carlos Alberto Torres used the phrase \"transformative social change\" as part of the subtitle in their book \"Reading Freire and Habermas: Critical Pedagogy and Transformative Social Change\" as a term to convey the intersection between Paulo Freire's critical pedagogy and Jürgen Habermas' critical social theory, and the implications those convergences have for educational practice. However, the term is never specifically defined in the book, nor is any distinct theory set \n\nThe phrase is being applied as a social change field and movement in which developing inner awareness and nurturing one's inner life, i.e., personal development, is seen as essential in effective social justice work. This is taken to mean from an aligned, sustainable, and nonviolent place. It seeks to operationalize, in practical terms, the ideal of embodiment of the future desired state, in other words, to actualize Gandhi's exhortation to \"be the change.\"\n\nWhile transformative social change has evolved to include secular practices with no specific spiritual ties, its emphasis on collective liberation shares history, principles and proponents with spiritual activism and liberation spirituality. Likewise, it shares principles of transformative learning and transformative justice, Examples of \"transformative practice\" include: yoga, meditation, centering prayer, tai chi, forward stance and types of somatic practices.\n\nTransformative community organizing is being taught in university courses, in fields such as social work, community health, sociology, and other service learning classes. Scholars such as Loretta Pyles have offered a transformative organizing framework, grounded in feminist social change work, and affirming a practice of collective and self-inquiry based on meditative traditions and social movement practices, such as popular education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39396340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39396340", "title": "Vicent Franch", "text": "Vicent Franch\n\nVicent Franch i Ferrer (Burriana, Castellón; 1949) is a Spanish jurist, politologist, journalist and writer.\n\nFranch is a Senior Professor of Constitutional Law and Political and Administration Science at the University of Valencia. He was the appointed judge for the Administration Courtroom of the Superior Court of the Valencian Community from 1990 to 1995.\n\nHe has been Director of the Electoral Documentation Centre of the Valencian Community. Some years ago he was appointed Director of the series of books 'Estudi General-Textos Valencians' of the \"Alfons el Magnànim\" Institution of the Council of Valencia. The aim of this collection is to recover the most important Valencian contributions to social debate and thought, from the time of Arnau de Vilanova to the present. Several times he has been Director of the Department of Constitutional Law and Political and Administration Science of the University of Valencia. At present he is director of the magazine \"Tractat de l'Aigua\" (Valencian Interdisciplinary Review on Water).\nDuring the Spanish Transition he was first President and later \"Síndic Major\" of the Agrupació Borrianenca de Cultura (Cultural Association of Burriana). He was mayor of the village of Aín, in the province of Castelló, from 1999 to 2003.\n\nDuring these years Franch has also taken part in several debates, and in colloquia and conferences. He has also taken part in many courses and seminars.\n\nVicent Franch is the author of roughly a dozen books and of nearly one hundred articles, which deal with Valencian political history, local Spanish law, linguistic rights and political theory and practice. He has written several studies and reports about the present problems of the Valencian regional government, and he is the author of a lengthy report about the change in the electoral system of the Spanish Senate, which was requested by the Senate itself in 1997.\n\nTogether with other university professors, he wrote the Morella Statute (1979). During the Spanish Transition, this document proposed different versions of the Statute of Autonomy for the Valencian region. Franch has supervised and published several studies about polls and the political behaviour of Valencians. He is the author of a set of proposals for the reform of the Valencian Statute of Autonomy (2005), and also about linguistic rights.\n\nThe following publications can be pointed out:\n\nFiction writing is one of Franch's most beloved hobbies, and he has published several books of fiction. Among the most notable:\n\nFranch was director of the series \"El Conte del Diumenge\" (\"Prometeo\" Publishing House) during its last period (1900–1980). From time to time he has written literary reviews.\n\nFranch has been a press columnist since 1976 and has written articles for many newspapers and magazines, both in Spanish and in Valencian:\n\nFranch may have written and published more than 2500 press columns and articles over the years. At present he is preparing the publication of several books containing his entire journalistic output.\n\n"}
{"id": "31333042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31333042", "title": "World Organization of Jews from Arab Countries", "text": "World Organization of Jews from Arab Countries\n\nWorld Organization of Jews from Arab Countries (WOJAC) was an international advocacy organization, created in 1975, representing Jewish refugees from Arab countries. The World Organization of Jews from Arab Countries was created to make certain that any \"just settlement of the refugee problem\" recognizes those Jews who were forced to flee from lands where they had lived for centuries.\n\nThe WOJAC functioned for approximately 25 years (from 1975 until 1999). WOJAC's aspiration was to operate in the national arena, to counterbalance the claims of the Palestinian leadership on the right to the land and on the refugee question.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53718636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53718636", "title": "Wreath of wheat ears", "text": "Wreath of wheat ears\n\nWreath of wheat ears () is a political symbol, visually a wreath made of ears of wheat. It usually represents the class of farmers in the society.\n\nThe wreath of wheat ears appeared in emblems and logos of many socialist and communist countries, especially the former Soviet states, for its symbolic meaning of peasantry.\n\n"}
