{"id": "57724143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57724143", "title": "AMADEE-18", "text": "AMADEE-18\n\nAMADEE-18 is a Mars simulation project. It was launched in February 2018 in a desert in Oman. It is mission of the Austrian Space Forum (OeWF). \n\n"}
{"id": "847879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=847879", "title": "Age of the universe", "text": "Age of the universe\n\nIn physical cosmology, the age of the universe is the time elapsed since the Big Bang. The current measurement of the age of the universe is billion (10) years within the Lambda-CDM concordance model. The uncertainty has been narrowed down to 21 million years, based on a number of projects that all give extremely close figures for the age. These include studies of the microwave background radiation, and measurements by the Planck satellite, the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe and other probes. Measurements of the cosmic background radiation give the cooling time of the universe since the Big Bang, and measurements of the expansion rate of the universe can be used to calculate its approximate age by extrapolating backwards in time.\n\nThe Lambda-CDM concordance model describes the evolution of the universe from a very uniform, hot, dense primordial state to its present state over a span of about 13.8 billion years of cosmological time. This model is well understood theoretically and strongly supported by recent high-precision astronomical observations such as WMAP. In contrast, theories of the origin of the primordial state remain very speculative. If one extrapolates the Lambda-CDM model backward from the earliest well-understood state, it quickly (within a small fraction of a second) reaches a singularity. This is known as the \"initial singularity\" or the \"Big Bang singularity\". This singularity is not understood as having a physical significance in the usual sense, but it is convenient to quote times measured \"since the Big Bang\" even though they do not correspond to a physically measurable time. For example, \"10 seconds after the Big Bang\" is a well-defined era in the universe's evolution. If one referred to the same era as \"13.8 billion years minus 10 seconds ago\", the precision of the meaning would be lost because the minuscule latter time interval is eclipsed by uncertainty in the former.\n\nThough the universe might in theory have a longer history, the International Astronomical Union presently use \"age of the universe\" to mean the duration of the Lambda-CDM expansion, or equivalently the elapsed time since the Big Bang in the current observable universe.\n\nSince the universe must be at least as old as the oldest things in it, there are a number of observations which put a lower limit on the age of the universe; these include the temperature of the coolest white dwarfs, which gradually cool as they age, and the dimmest turnoff point of main sequence stars in clusters (lower-mass stars spend a greater amount of time on the main sequence, so the lowest-mass stars that have evolved off of the main sequence set a minimum age).\n\nThe problem of determining the age of the universe is closely tied to the problem of determining the values of the cosmological parameters. Today this is largely carried out in the context of the ΛCDM model, where the universe is assumed to contain normal (baryonic) matter, cold dark matter, radiation (including both photons and neutrinos), and a cosmological constant. The fractional contribution of each to the current energy density of the universe is given by the density parameters Ω, Ω, and Ω. The full ΛCDM model is described by a number of other parameters, but for the purpose of computing its age these three, along with the Hubble parameter formula_1, are the most important.\n\nIf one has accurate measurements of these parameters, then the age of the universe can be determined by using the Friedmann equation. This equation relates the rate of change in the scale factor \"a\"(\"t\") to the matter content of the universe. Turning this relation around, we can calculate the change in time per change in scale factor and thus calculate the total age of the universe by integrating this formula. The age \"t\" is then given by an expression of the form\nwhere formula_1 is the Hubble parameter and the function \"F\" depends only on the fractional contribution to the universe's energy content that comes from various components. The first observation that one can make from this formula is that it is the Hubble parameter that controls that age of the universe, with a correction arising from the matter and energy content. So a rough estimate of the age of the universe comes from the Hubble time, the inverse of the Hubble parameter. With a value for formula_1 around , the Hubble time evaluates to formula_5 = billion years.\n\nTo get a more accurate number, the correction factor \"F\" must be computed. In general this must be done numerically, and the results for a range of cosmological parameter values are shown in the figure. For the Planck values (Ω, Ω) = (0.3086, 0.6914), shown by the box in the upper left corner of the figure, this correction factor is about \"F\" = 0.956. For a flat universe without any cosmological constant, shown by the star in the lower right corner, \"F\" = is much smaller and thus the universe is younger for a fixed value of the Hubble parameter. To make this figure, Ω is held constant (roughly equivalent to holding the CMB temperature constant) and the curvature density parameter is fixed by the value of the other three.\n\nApart from the Planck satellite, the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe (WMAP) was instrumental in establishing an accurate age of the universe, though other measurements must be folded in to gain an accurate number. CMB measurements are very good at constraining the matter content Ω and curvature parameter Ω. It is not as sensitive to Ω directly, partly because the cosmological constant becomes important only at low redshift. The most accurate determinations of the Hubble parameter \"H\" come from Type Ia supernovae. Combining these measurements leads to the generally accepted value for the age of the universe quoted above.\n\nThe cosmological constant makes the universe \"older\" for fixed values of the other parameters. This is significant, since before the cosmological constant became generally accepted, the Big Bang model had difficulty explaining why globular clusters in the Milky Way appeared to be far older than the age of the universe as calculated from the Hubble parameter and a matter-only universe. Introducing the cosmological constant allows the universe to be older than these clusters, as well as explaining other features that the matter-only cosmological model could not.\n\nNASA's Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe (WMAP) project's nine-year data release in 2012 estimated the age of the universe to be years (13.772 billion years, with an uncertainty of plus or minus 59 million years).\n\nHowever, this age is based on the assumption that the project's underlying model is correct; other methods of estimating the age of the universe could give different ages. Assuming an extra background of relativistic particles, for example, can enlarge the error bars of the WMAP constraint by one order of magnitude.\n\nThis measurement is made by using the location of the first acoustic peak in the microwave background power spectrum to determine the size of the decoupling surface (size of the universe at the time of recombination). The light travel time to this surface (depending on the geometry used) yields a reliable age for the universe. Assuming the validity of the models used to determine this age, the residual accuracy yields a margin of error near one percent.\n\nIn 2015, the Planck Collaboration estimated the age of the universe to be billion years, slightly higher but within the uncertainties of the earlier number derived from the WMAP data. By combining the Planck data with external data, the best combined estimate of the age of the universe is old. \n\nCalculating the age of the universe is accurate only if the assumptions built into the models being used to estimate it are also accurate. This is referred to as strong priors and essentially involves stripping the potential errors in other parts of the model to render the accuracy of actual observational data directly into the concluded result. Although this is not a valid procedure in all contexts (as noted in the accompanying caveat: \"based on the fact we have assumed the underlying model we used is correct\"), the age given is thus accurate to the specified error (since this error represents the error in the instrument used to gather the raw data input into the model).\n\nThe age of the universe based on the best fit to Planck 2015 data alone is billion years (the estimate of billion years uses Gaussian priors based on earlier estimates from other studies to determine the combined uncertainty). This number represents an accurate \"direct\" measurement of the age of the universe (other methods typically involve Hubble's law and the age of the oldest stars in globular clusters, etc.). It is possible to use different methods for determining the same parameter (in this case – the age of the universe) and arrive at different answers with no overlap in the \"errors\". To best avoid the problem, it is common to show two sets of uncertainties; one related to the actual measurement and the other related to the systematic errors of the model being used.\n\nAn important component to the analysis of data used to determine the age of the universe (e.g. from Planck) therefore is to use a Bayesian statistical analysis, which normalizes the results based upon the priors (i.e. the model). This quantifies any uncertainty in the accuracy of a measurement due to a particular model used.\n\nIn the 18th century, the concept that the age of the Earth was millions, if not billions, of years began to appear. However, most scientists throughout the 19th century and into the first decades of the 20th century presumed that the universe itself was Steady State and eternal, with maybe stars coming and going but no changes occurring at the largest scale known at the time.\n\nThe first scientific theories indicating that the age of the universe might be finite were the studies of thermodynamics, formalized in the mid-19th century. The concept of entropy dictates that if the universe (or any other closed system) were infinitely old, then everything inside would be at the same temperature, and thus there would be no stars and no life. No scientific explanation for this contradiction was put forth at the time.\n\nIn 1915 Albert Einstein published the theory of general relativity and in 1917 constructed the first cosmological model based on his theory. In order to remain consistent with a steady state universe, Einstein added what was later called a cosmological constant to his equations. However, already in 1922, also using Einstein's theory, Alexander Friedmann, and independently five years later Georges Lemaître, showed that the universe cannot be static and must be either expanding or contracting. Einstein's model of a static universe was in addition proved unstable by Arthur Eddington.\n\nThe first direct observational hint that the universe has a finite age came from the observations of 'recession velocities', mostly by Vesto Slipher, combined with distances to the 'nebulae' (galaxies) by Edwin Hubble in a work published in 1929. Earlier in the 20th century, Hubble and others resolved individual stars within certain nebulae, thus determining that they were galaxies, similar to, but external to, our Milky Way Galaxy. In addition, these galaxies were very large and very far away. Spectra taken of these distant galaxies showed a red shift in their spectral lines presumably caused by the Doppler effect, thus indicating that these galaxies were moving away from the Earth. In addition, the farther away these galaxies seemed to be (the dimmer they appeared to us) the greater was their redshift, and thus the faster they seemed to be moving away. This was the first direct evidence that the universe is not static but expanding. The first estimate of the age of the universe came from the calculation of when all of the objects must have started speeding out from the same point. Hubble's initial value for the universe's age was very low, as the galaxies were assumed to be much closer than later observations found them to be.\n\nThe first reasonably accurate measurement of the rate of expansion of the universe, a numerical value now known as the Hubble constant, was made in 1958 by astronomer Allan Sandage. His measured value for the Hubble constant came very close to the value range generally accepted today.\n\nHowever Sandage, like Einstein, did not believe his own results at the time of discovery. His value for the age of the universe was too short to reconcile with the 25-billion-year age estimated at that time for the oldest known stars. Sandage and other astronomers repeated these measurements numerous times, attempting to reduce the Hubble constant and thus increase the resulting age for the universe. Sandage even proposed new theories of cosmogony to explain this discrepancy. This issue was finally resolved by improvements in the theoretical models used for estimating the ages of stars. As of 2013, using the latest models for stellar evolution, the estimated age of the oldest known star is billion years.\n\nThe discovery of microwave cosmic background radiation announced in 1965 finally brought an effective end to the remaining scientific uncertainty over the expanding universe. It was a chance result from work by two teams less than 60 miles apart. In 1964, Arno Penzias and Robert Wilson were trying to detect radio wave echoes with a supersensitive antenna. The antenna persistently detected a low, steady, mysterious noise in the microwave region that was evenly spread over the sky, and was present day and night. After testing, they became certain that the signal did not come from the Earth, the Sun, or our galaxy, but from outside our own galaxy, but could not explain it. At the same time another team, Robert H. Dicke, Jim Peebles, and David Wilkinson, were attempting to detect low level noise which might be left over from the Big Bang and could prove whether the Big Bang theory was correct. The two teams realized that the detected noise was in fact radiation left over from the Big Bang, and that this was strong evidence that the theory was correct. Since then, a great deal of other evidence has strengthened and confirmed this conclusion, and refined the estimated age of the universe to its current figure.\n\nThe space probes WMAP, launched in 2001, and Planck, launched in 2009, produced data that determines the Hubble constant and the age of the universe independent of galaxy distances, removing the largest source of error.\n\n"}
{"id": "40836275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40836275", "title": "Cosmic age problem", "text": "Cosmic age problem\n\nThe cosmic age problem is a historical problem in astronomy concerning the age of the universe. The problem was that at various times in the 20th century, some objects in the universe were estimated to be older than the time elapsed since the Big Bang, as estimated from measurements of the expansion rate of the universe known as the Hubble constant, denoted H. (This is more correctly called the Hubble parameter, since it generally varies with time).\nIf so, this would represent a contradiction, since objects such as galaxies, stars and planets could not have existed in the extreme temperatures and densities shortly after the Big Bang.\n\nSince around 1997–2003, the problem is believed to be solved by most cosmologists: modern cosmological measurements lead to a precise estimate of the age of the universe (i.e. time since the Big Bang) of 13.8 billion years, and recent age estimates for the oldest objects are either younger than this, or consistent allowing for measurement uncertainties.\n\nFollowing theoretical developments of the Friedmann equations by Alexander Friedmann and Georges Lemaître in the 1920s, and the discovery of the expanding universe by Edwin Hubble in 1929, it was immediately clear that tracing this expansion backwards in time predicts that the universe had almost zero size at a finite time in the past. This concept, initially known as the \"Primeval Atom\" by Lemaitre, was later elaborated into the modern Big Bang theory. If the universe had expanded at a constant rate in the past, the age of the universe now (i.e. the time since the Big Bang) is simply the inverse of the Hubble constant, often known as the \"Hubble time\". For Big Bang models with zero cosmological constant and positive matter density, the actual age must be somewhat younger than this Hubble time; typically the age would be between 66% and 90% of the Hubble time, depending on the density of matter.\n\nHubble's early estimate of his constant was 550 (km/s)/Mpc, and the inverse of that is 1.8 billion years. It was believed by many geologists such as Arthur Holmes in the 1920s that the Earth was probably over 2 billion years old, but with large uncertainty. The possible discrepancy between the ages of the Earth and the universe was probably one motivation for the development of the Steady State theory in 1948 as an alternative to the Big Bang; in the (now obsolete) steady state theory, the universe is infinitely old and on average unchanging with time. The steady state theory postulated spontaneous creation of matter to keep the average density constant as the universe expands, and therefore most galaxies still have an age less than 1/H. However, if H had been 550 (km/s)/Mpc, our Milky Way galaxy would be exceptionally large compared to most other galaxies, so it could well be much older than an average galaxy, therefore eliminating the age problem.\n\nIn the 1950s, two substantial errors were discovered in Hubble's extragalactic distance scale: first in 1952, Walter Baade discovered there were two classes of Cepheid variable star. Hubble's sample comprised different classes nearby and in other galaxies, and correcting this error made all other galaxies twice as distant as Hubble's values, thus doubling the Hubble time. A second error was discovered by Allan Sandage and coworkers: for galaxies beyond the Local Group, Cepheids were too faint to observe with Hubble's instruments, so Hubble used the brightest stars as distance indicators. Many of Hubble's \"brightest stars\" were actually HII regions or clusters containing many stars, which caused another underestimation of distances for these more distant galaxies. Thus, in 1958 Sandage published the first reasonably accurate measurement of the Hubble constant, at 75 (km/s)/Mpc, which is close to modern estimates of 68–74 (km/s)/Mpc.\n\nThe age of the Earth (actually the Solar System) was first accurately measured around 1955 by Clair Patterson at 4.55 billion years, essentially identical to the modern value. For H ~ 75 (km/s)/Mpc, the inverse of H is 13.0 billion years; so after 1958 the Big Bang model age was comfortably older than the Earth.\n\nHowever, in the 1960s and onwards, new developments in the theory of stellar evolution enabled age estimates for large star clusters called globular clusters: these generally gave age estimates of around 15 billion years, with substantial scatter. Further revisions of the Hubble constant by Sandage and Gustav Tammann in the 1970s gave values around 50–60 (km/s)/Mpc, and an inverse of 16-20 billion years, consistent with globular cluster ages.\n\nHowever, in the late 1970s to early 1990s, the age problem re-appeared: new estimates of the Hubble constant gave higher values, with Gerard de Vaucouleurs estimating values 90–100 (km/s)/Mpc, while Marc Aaronson and co-workers gave values around 80-90  (km/s)/Mpc. Sandage and Tammann continued to argue for values 50-60, leading to a period of controversy sometimes called the \"Hubble wars\". The higher values for H appeared to predict a universe younger than the globular cluster ages, and gave rise to some speculations during the 1980s that the Big Bang model was seriously incorrect.\n\nThe age problem was eventually thought to be resolved by several developments between 1995-2003: firstly, a large program with the Hubble space telescope measured the Hubble constant at 72 (km/s)/Mpc with 10 percent uncertainty. Secondly, measurements of parallax by the Hipparcos spacecraft in 1995 revised globular cluster distances upwards by 5-10 percent; this made their stars brighter than previously estimated and therefore younger, shifting their age estimates down to around 12-13 billion years. Finally, from 1998-2003 a number of new cosmological observations including supernovae, cosmic microwave background observations and large galaxy redshift surveys led to the acceptance of dark energy and the establishment of the Lambda-CDM model as the standard model of cosmology. The presence of dark energy implies that the universe was expanding more slowly at around half its present age than today, which makes the universe older for a given value of the Hubble constant. The combination of the three results above essentially removed the discrepancy between estimated globular cluster ages and the age of the universe.\n\nMore recent measurements from WMAP and the Planck spacecraft lead to an estimate of the age of the universe of 13.80 billion years with only 0.3 percent uncertainty (based on the standard Lambda-CDM model), and modern age measurements for globular clusters and other objects are currently smaller than this value (within the measurement uncertainties). A substantial majority of cosmologists therefore believe the age problem is now resolved.\n\n"}
{"id": "585226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=585226", "title": "Cosmography", "text": "Cosmography\n\nCosmography is the science that maps the general features of the cosmos or universe, describing both heaven and Earth (but without encroaching on geography or astronomy). The 14th-century work \"'Aja'ib al-makhluqat wa-ghara'ib al-mawjudat\" by Persian physician Zakariya al-Qazwini is considered to be an early work of cosmography.\n\nTraditional Hindu, Buddhist and Jain cosmography schematize a universe centered on Mount Meru surrounded by rivers, continents and seas. These cosmographies posit a universe being repeatedly created and destroyed over time cycles of immense lengths.\n\nIn 1551, Martín Cortés de Albacar, from Zaragoza, Spain, published \"Breve compendio de la esfera y del arte de navegar\". Translated into English and reprinted several times, the work was of great influence in Britain for many years. He proposed spherical charts and mentioned magnetic deviation and the existence of magnetic poles.\n\nPeter Heylin's 1652 book \"Cosmographie\" (enlarged from his \"Microcosmos\" of 1621) was one of the earliest attempts to describe the entire world in English, and being the first known description of Australia and among the first of California. The book has 4 sections, examining the geography, politics, and cultures of Europe, Asia, Africa, and America, with an addendum on \"Terra Incognita\", including Australia, and extending to Utopia, Fairyland, and the \"Land of Chivalrie\".\n\nIn 1659, Thomas Porter published a smaller, but extensive \"Compendious Description of the Whole World\", which also included a chronology of world events from Creation forward. These were all part of a major trend in the European Renaissance to explore (and perhaps comprehend) the known world.\n\nThe word was also commonly used by Buckminster Fuller in his lectures.\n\nIn astrophysics, the term \"cosmography\" is beginning to be used to describe attempts to determine the large-scale matter distribution and kinematics of the observable universe, dependent on the Friedmann–Lemaître–Robertson–Walker metric but independent of the temporal dependence of the scale factor on the matter/energy composition of the Universe.\n"}
{"id": "1864889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1864889", "title": "Cosmology", "text": "Cosmology\n\nCosmology (from the Greek κόσμος, \"kosmos\" \"world\" and -λογία, \"-logia\" \"study of\") is the study of the origin, evolution, and eventual fate of the universe. Physical cosmology is the scientific study of the universe's origin, its large-scale structures and dynamics, and its ultimate fate, as well as the scientific laws that govern these areas.\n\nThe term \"cosmology\" was first used in English in 1656 in Thomas Blount's \"Glossographia\", and in 1731 taken up in Latin by German philosopher Christian Wolff, in \"Cosmologia Generalis\".\n\nReligious or mythological cosmology is a body of beliefs based on mythological, religious, and esoteric literature and traditions of creation myths and eschatology.\n\nPhysical cosmology is studied by scientists, such as astronomers and physicists, as well as philosophers, such as metaphysicians, philosophers of physics, and philosophers of space and time. Because of this shared scope with philosophy, theories in physical cosmology may include both scientific and non-scientific propositions, and may depend upon assumptions that cannot be tested. Cosmology differs from astronomy in that the former is concerned with the Universe as a whole while the latter deals with individual celestial objects. Modern physical cosmology is dominated by the Big Bang theory, which attempts to bring together observational astronomy and particle physics; more specifically, a standard parameterization of the Big Bang with dark matter and dark energy, known as the Lambda-CDM model.\n\nTheoretical astrophysicist David N. Spergel has described cosmology as a \"historical science\" because \"when we look out in space, we look back in time\" due to the finite nature of the speed of light.\n\nPhysics and astrophysics have played a central role in shaping the understanding of the universe through scientific observation and experiment. Physical cosmology was shaped through both mathematics and observation in an analysis of the whole universe. The universe is generally understood to have begun with the Big Bang, followed almost instantaneously by cosmic inflation; an expansion of space from which the universe is thought to have emerged 13.799 ± 0.021 billion years ago. Cosmogony studies the origin of the Universe, and cosmography maps the features of the Universe.\n\nIn Diderot's Encyclopédie, cosmology is broken down into uranology (the science of the heavens), aerology (the science of the air), geology (the science of the continents), and hydrology (the science of waters).\n\nMetaphysical cosmology has also been described as the placing of humans in the universe in relationship to all other entities. This is exemplified by Marcus Aurelius's observation that a man's place in that relationship: \"He who does not know what the world is does not know where he is, and he who does not know for what purpose the world exists, does not know who he is, nor what the world is.\"\n\nPhysical cosmology is the branch of physics and astrophysics that deals with the study of the physical origins and evolution of the Universe. It also includes the study of the nature of the Universe on a large scale. In its earliest form, it was what is now known as \"celestial mechanics\", the study of the heavens. Greek philosophers Aristarchus of Samos, Aristotle, and Ptolemy proposed different cosmological theories. The geocentric Ptolemaic system was the prevailing theory until the 16th century when Nicolaus Copernicus, and subsequently Johannes Kepler and Galileo Galilei, proposed a heliocentric system. This is one of the most famous examples of epistemological rupture in physical cosmology.\nIsaac Newton's \"Principia Mathematica\", published in 1687, was the first description of the law of universal gravitation. It provided a physical mechanism for Kepler's laws and also allowed the anomalies in previous systems, caused by gravitational interaction between the planets, to be resolved. A fundamental difference between Newton's cosmology and those preceding it was the Copernican principle—that the bodies on earth obey the same physical laws as all the celestial bodies. This was a crucial philosophical advance in physical cosmology.\n\nModern scientific cosmology is usually considered to have begun in 1917 with Albert Einstein's publication of his final modification of general relativity in the paper \"Cosmological Considerations of the General Theory of Relativity\" (although this paper was not widely available outside of Germany until the end of World War I). General relativity prompted cosmogonists such as Willem de Sitter, Karl Schwarzschild, and Arthur Eddington to explore its astronomical ramifications, which enhanced the ability of astronomers to study very distant objects. Physicists began changing the assumption that the Universe was static and unchanging. In 1922 Alexander Friedmann introduced the idea of an expanding universe that contained moving matter. Around the same time (1917 to 1922) the Great Debate took place, with early cosmologists such as Heber Curtis and Ernst Öpik determining that some nebulae seen in telescopes were separate galaxies far distant from our own.\nIn parallel to this dynamic approach to cosmology, one long-standing debate about the structure of the cosmos was coming to a climax. Mount Wilson astronomer Harlow Shapley championed the model of a cosmos made up of the Milky Way star system only; while Heber D. Curtis argued for the idea that spiral nebulae were star systems in their own right as island universes. This difference of ideas came to a climax with the organization of the Great Debate on 26 April 1920 at the meeting of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences in Washington, D.C. The debate was resolved when Edwin Hubble detected Cepheid Variables in the Andromeda galaxy in 1923 and 1924. Their distance established spiral nebulae well beyond the edge of the Milky Way.\n\nSubsequent modelling of the universe explored the possibility that the cosmological constant, introduced by Einstein in his 1917 paper, may result in an expanding universe, depending on its value. Thus the Big Bang model was proposed by the Belgian priest Georges Lemaître in 1927 which was subsequently corroborated by Edwin Hubble's discovery of the red shift in 1929 and later by the discovery of the cosmic microwave background radiation by Arno Penzias and Robert Woodrow Wilson in 1964. These findings were a first step to rule out some of many alternative cosmologies.\n\nSince around 1990, several dramatic advances in observational cosmology have transformed cosmology from a largely speculative science into a predictive science with precise agreement between theory and observation. These advances include observations of the microwave background from the COBE, WMAP and Planck satellites, large new galaxy redshift surveys including 2dfGRS and SDSS, and observations of distant supernovae and gravitational lensing. These observations matched the predictions of the cosmic inflation theory, a modified Big Bang theory, and the specific version known as the Lambda-CDM model. This has led many to refer to modern times as the \"golden age of cosmology\".\n\nOn 17 March 2014, astronomers at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics announced the detection of gravitational waves, providing strong evidence for inflation and the Big Bang. However, on 19 June 2014, lowered confidence in confirming the cosmic inflation findings was reported.\n\nOn 1 December 2014, at the \"Planck 2014\" meeting in Ferrara, Italy, astronomers reported that the universe is 13.8 billion years old and is composed of 4.9% atomic matter, 26.6% dark matter and 68.5% dark energy.\n\nReligious or mythological cosmology is a body of beliefs based on mythological, religious, and esoteric literature and traditions of creation and eschatology.\n\nCosmology deals with the world as the totality of space, time and all phenomena. Historically, it has had quite a broad scope, and in many cases was founded in religion. In modern use metaphysical cosmology addresses questions about the Universe which are beyond the scope of science. It is distinguished from religious cosmology in that it approaches these questions using philosophical methods like dialectics. Modern metaphysical cosmology tries to address questions such as:\n\n\nTable notes: the term \"static\" simply means not expanding and not contracting. Symbol \"G\" represents Newton's gravitational constant; Λ (Lambda) is the cosmological constant.\n\n"}
{"id": "57151017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57151017", "title": "Drakoo wave energy converter", "text": "Drakoo wave energy converter\n\nThe Drakoo wave energy converter is a technological device that uses the motion of ocean surface waves to generate electricity.\n\nThe Drakoo WEC does not fall under any of the usual wave energy converter classifications: its working principle, based on a twin-chamber oscillating water column system, is to transform waves into a continuous water flow which drives a hydro turbine generator.\n\nafter being patented in 2008, the Drakoo technology has successfully been tested in NTU lab and, subsequently, in the deep wave flume of NAREC in 2012(UK).\n\nOn December 23, 2016, Hann Ocean Energy, the Singapore wave developer company which invented and patented the technology, announced the first successful power production during a trial in its testing facility in Nantong, with a peak power output of 3.8 kW at a wave height of 0.6m.\n\nThe technology continuously increased its performances along the years, reaching firstly a peak output power of 9.3 kW in November 2017 and of 11.2 kW in March 2018. Moreover, during the World Future Energy Summit 2018, in Abu Dhabi, Hann Ocean Energy reported about sales inquiries from the Persian Gulf for the application of the Drakoo WEC for wellhead platforms.\n"}
{"id": "13566263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13566263", "title": "Dukhin number", "text": "Dukhin number\n\nThe Dukhin number () is a dimensionless quantity that characterizes the contribution of the surface conductivity to various electrokinetic and electroacoustic effects, as well as to electrical conductivity and permittivity of fluid heterogeneous systems. \n\nIt was introduced by Lyklema in “Fundamentals of Interface and Colloid Science”. A recent IUPAC Technical Report used this term explicitly and detailed several means of measurement in physical systems.\n\nThe Dukhin number is a ratio of the surface conductivity formula_1 to the fluid bulk electrical conductivity K multiplied by particle size \"a\":\n"}
{"id": "944638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=944638", "title": "Earth's energy budget", "text": "Earth's energy budget\n\nEarth's energy budget accounts for the balance between the energy Earth receives from the Sun, the energy Earth radiates back into outer space after having been distributed throughout the five components of Earth's climate system and having thus powered the so-called Earth’s heat engine. This system is made up of earth's water, ice, atmosphere, rocky crust, and all living things.\n\nQuantifying changes in these amounts is required to accurately model the Earth's climate. \n\nReceived radiation is unevenly distributed over the planet, because the Sun heats equatorial regions more than polar regions. The atmosphere and ocean work non-stop to even out solar heating imbalances through evaporation of surface water, convection, rainfall, winds, and ocean circulation. Earth is very close to being in radiative equilibrium, the situation where the incoming solar energy is balanced by an equal flow of heat to space; under that condition, global temperatures will be \"relatively\" stable. Globally, over the course of the year, the Earth system—land surfaces, oceans, and atmosphere—absorbs and then radiates back to space an average of about 240 watts of solar power per square meter. Anything that increases or decreases the amount of incoming or outgoing energy will change global temperatures in response.\n\nHowever, Earth's energy balance and heat fluxes depend on many factors, such as atmospheric composition (mainly aerosols and greenhouse gases), the albedo (reflectivity) of surface properties, cloud cover and vegetation and land use patterns.\n\nChanges in surface temperature due to Earth's energy budget do not occur instantaneously, due to the inertia of the oceans and the cryosphere. The net heat flux is buffered primarily by becoming part of the ocean's heat content, until a new equilibrium state is established between radiative forcings and the climate response.\n\nIn spite of the enormous transfers of energy into and from the Earth, it maintains a relatively constant temperature because, as a whole, there is little net gain or loss: Earth emits via atmospheric and terrestrial radiation (shifted to longer electromagnetic wavelengths) to space about the same amount of energy as it receives via insolation (all forms of electromagnetic radiation).\n\nTo quantify Earth's \"heat budget\" or \"heat balance\", let the insolation received at the top of the atmosphere be 100 units (100 units = about 1,360 watts per square meter facing the sun), as shown in the accompanying illustration. Called the albedo of Earth, around 35 units are reflected back to space: 27 from the top of clouds, 2 from snow and ice-covered areas, and 6 by other parts of the atmosphere. The 65 remaining units are absorbed: 14 within the atmosphere and 51 by the Earth’s surface. These 51 units are radiated to space in the form of terrestrial radiation: 17 directly radiated to space and 34 absorbed by the atmosphere (19 through latent heat of condensation, 9 via convection and turbulence, and 6 directly absorbed). The 48 units absorbed by the atmosphere (34 units from terrestrial radiation and 14 from insolation) are finally radiated back to space. These 65 units (17 from the ground and 48 from the atmosphere) balance the 65 units absorbed from the sun in order to maintain zero net gain of energy by the Earth.\n\nThe total amount of energy received per second at the top of Earth's atmosphere (TOA) is measured in watts and is given by the solar constant times the cross-sectional area of the Earth. Because the surface area of a sphere is four times the cross-sectional surface area of a sphere (i.e. the area of a circle), the average TOA flux is one quarter of the solar constant and so is approximately 340 W/m². Since the absorption varies with location as well as with diurnal, seasonal and annual variations, the numbers quoted are long-term averages, typically averaged from multiple satellite measurements.\n\nOf the ~340 W/m² of solar radiation received by the Earth, an average of ~77 W/m² is reflected back to space by clouds and the atmosphere and ~23 W/m² is reflected by the surface albedo, leaving ~240 W/m² of solar energy input to the Earth's energy budget. This gives the earth a mean net albedo of 0.29.\n\nThe geothermal heat flux from the Earth's interior is estimated to be 47 terawatts. This comes to 0.087 watt/square metre, which represents only 0.027% of Earth's total energy budget at the surface, which is dominated by 173,000 terawatts of incoming solar radiation.\n\nHuman production of energy is even lower, at an estimated 18 TW.\n\nPhotosynthesis has a larger effect: photosynthetic efficiency turns up to 2% of incoming sunlight into biomass, for a total photosynthetic productivity of earth between ~1500–2250 TW (~1%+/-0.26% solar energy hitting the Earth's surface).\n\nOther minor sources of energy are usually ignored in these calculations, including accretion of interplanetary dust and solar wind, light from stars other than the Sun and the thermal radiation from space. Earlier, Joseph Fourier had claimed that deep space radiation was significant in a paper often cited as the first on the greenhouse effect.\n\nLongwave radiation is usually defined as outgoing infrared energy leaving the planet. However, the atmosphere absorbs parts initially, or cloud cover can reflect radiation. Generally, heat energy is transported between the planet's surface layers (land and ocean) to the atmosphere, transported via evapotranspiration and latent heat fluxes or conduction/convection processes. Ultimately, energy is radiated in the form of longwave infrared radiation back into space.\n\nRecent satellite observations indicate additional precipitation, which is sustained by increased energy leaving the surface through evaporation (the latent heat flux), offsetting increases in longwave flux to the surface.\n\nIf the incoming energy flux is not equal to the outgoing energy flux, net heat is added to or lost by the planet (if the incoming flux is larger or smaller than the outgoing respectively).\n\nAn imbalance must show in something on Earth warming or cooling (depending on the direction of the imbalance), and the ocean being the larger thermal reservoir on Earth, is a prime candidate for measurements.\n\nEarth's energy imbalance measurements provided by Argo floats have detected an accumulation of ocean heat content (OHC). The estimated imbalance was measured during a deep solar minimum of 2005–2010 to be 0.58 ± 0.15 W/m². This level of detail cannot be inferred directly from measurements of surface energy fluxes, which have combined uncertainties of the order of ± 17 W/m².\n\nSeveral satellites indirectly measure the energy absorbed and radiated by Earth and by inference the energy imbalance. The NASA Earth Radiation Budget Experiment (ERBE) project involves three such satellites: the Earth Radiation Budget Satellite (ERBS), launched October 1984; NOAA-9, launched December 1984; and NOAA-10, launched September 1986.\n\nToday NASA's satellite instruments, provided by CERES, part of the NASA's Earth Observing System (EOS), are designed to measure both solar-reflected and Earth-emitted radiation.\n\nThe major atmospheric gases (oxygen and nitrogen) are transparent to incoming sunlight but are also transparent to outgoing thermal (infrared) radiation. However, water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane and other trace gases are opaque to many wavelengths of thermal radiation. The Earth's surface radiates the net equivalent of 17 percent of the incoming solar energy in the form of thermal infrared. However, the amount that directly escapes to space is only about 12 percent of incoming solar energy. The remaining fraction, 5 to 6 percent, is absorbed by the atmosphere by greenhouse gas molecules.\nWhen greenhouse gas molecules absorb thermal infrared energy, their temperature rises. Those gases then radiate an increased amount of thermal infrared energy in all directions. Heat radiated upward continues to encounter greenhouse gas molecules; those molecules also absorb the heat, and their temperature rises and the amount of heat they radiate increases. The atmosphere thins with altitude, and at roughly 5–6 kilometres, the concentration of greenhouse gases in the overlying atmosphere is so thin that heat can escape to space.\n\nBecause greenhouse gas molecules radiate infrared energy in all directions, some of it spreads downward and ultimately returns to the Earth's surface, where it is absorbed. The Earth's surface temperature is thus higher than it would be if it were heated only by direct solar heating. This supplemental heating is the natural greenhouse effect. It is as if the Earth is covered by a blanket that allows high frequency radiation (sunlight) to enter, but slows the rate at which the low frequency infrared radiant energy emitted by the Earth leaves.\n\nA change in the incident radiated portion of the energy budget is referred to as a radiative forcing.\n\nClimate sensitivity is the steady state change in the equilibrium temperature as a result of changes in the energy budget.\n\nClimate forcings are changes that cause temperatures to rise or fall, disrupting the energy balance. Natural climate forcings include changes in the Sun's brightness, Milankovitch cycles (small variations in the shape of Earth's orbit and its axis of rotation that occur over thousands of years) and volcanic eruptions that inject light-reflecting particles as high as the stratosphere. Man-made forcings include particle pollution (aerosols) that absorb and reflect incoming sunlight; deforestation, which changes how the surface reflects and absorbs sunlight; and the rising concentration of atmospheric carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, which decreases the rate at which heat is radiated to space.\n\nA forcing can trigger feedbacks that intensify (positive feedback) or weaken (negative feedback) the original forcing. For example, loss of ice at the poles, which makes them less reflective, causes greater absorption of energy and so increases the rate at which the ice melts, is an example of a positive feedback.\n\nThe observed planetary energy imbalance during the recent solar minimum shows that solar forcing of climate, although natural and significant, is overwhelmed by anthropogenic climate forcing.\n\nIn 2012, NASA scientists reported that to stop global warming atmospheric CO content would have to be reduced to 350 ppm or less, assuming all other climate forcings were fixed. The impact of anthropogenic aerosols has not been quantified, but individual aerosol types are thought to have substantial heating and cooling effects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13551670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13551670", "title": "Electroacoustic phenomena", "text": "Electroacoustic phenomena\n\nElectroacoustic phenomena arise when ultrasound propagates through a fluid containing ions. The associated particle motion generates electric signals because ions have electric charge. This coupling between ultrasound and electric field is called electroacoustic phenomena. The fluid might be a simple Newtonian liquid, or complex heterogeneous dispersion, emulsion or even a porous body. There are several different electroacoustic effects depending on the nature of the fluid.\n\n\nHistorically, the IVI was the first known electroacoustic effect. It was predicted by Debye in 1933.\n\nThe streaming vibration current was experimentally observed in 1948 by Williams. A theoretical model was developed some 30 years later by Dukhin and others. This effect opens another possibility for characterizing the electric properties of the surfaces in porous bodies. A similar effect can be observed at a non-porous surface, when sound is bounced off at an oblique angle. The incident and reflected waves superimpose to cause oscillatory fluid motion in the plane of the interface, thereby generating an AC streaming current at the frequency of the sound waves.\n\nThe electrical double layer can be regarded as behaving like a parallel plate capacitor with a compressible dielectric filling. When sound waves induce a local pressure variation, the spacing of the plates varies at the frequency of the excitation, generating an AC displacement current normal to the interface. For practical reasons this is most readily observed at a conducting surface. It is therefore possible to use an electrode immersed in a conducting electrolyte as a microphone, or indeed as a loudspeaker when the effect is applied in reverse.\n\nColloid vibration potential measures the AC potential difference generated between two identical relaxed electrodes, placed in the dispersion, if the latter is subjected to an ultrasonic field. When a sound wave travels through a colloidal suspension of particles whose density differs from that of the surrounding medium, inertial forces induced by the vibration of the suspension give rise to a motion of the charged particles relative to the liquid, causing an alternating electromotive force. The manifestations of this electromotive force may be measured, depending on the relation between the impedance of the suspension and that of the measuring instrument, either as colloid vibration potential or as \"colloid vibration current\".\n\nColloid vibration potential and current was first reported by Hermans and then independently by Rutgers in 1938. It is widely used for characterizing the ζ-potential of various dispersions and emulsions. The effect, theory, experimental verification and multiple applications are discussed in the book by Dukhin and Goetz.\n\nElectric sonic amplitude was experimentally discovered by Cannon with co-authors in early 1980s. It is also widely used for characterizing ζ-potential in dispersions and emulsions. There is review of this effect theory, experimental verification and multiple applications published by Hunter.\n\nWith regard to the theory of CVI and ESA, there was an important observation made by O'Brien, who linked these measured parameters with dynamic electrophoretic mobility μ.\n\nwhere\n\nDynamic electrophoretic mobility is similar to electrophoretic mobility that appears in electrophoresis theory. They are identical at low frequencies and/or for sufficiently small particles.\n\nThere are several theories of the dynamic electrophoretic mobility. Their overview is given in the Ref.5. Two of them are the most important.\n\nThe first one corresponds to the Smoluchowski limit. It yields following simple expression for CVI for sufficiently small particles with negligible CVI frequency dependence:\n\nwhere:\n\nThis remarkably simple equation has same wide range of applicability as Smoluchowski equation for electrophoresis. It is independent on shape of the particles, their concentration.\n\nValidity of this equation is restricted with the following two requirements.\nFirst, it is valid only for a thin double layer, when the Debye length is much smaller than particle's radius a:\n\nSecondly, it neglects the contribution of the surface conductivity. This assumes a small Dukhin number:\n\nRestriction of the thin double layer limits applicability of this Smoluchowski type theory only to aqueous systems with sufficiently large particles and not very low ionic strength. This theory does not work well for nano-colloids, including proteins and polymers at low ionic strength. It is not valid for low- or non-polar fluids.\n\nThere is another theory that is applicable for the other extreme case of a thick double layer, when \n\nThis theory takes into consideration the double layer overlap that inevitably occurs for concentrated systems with thick double layer. This allows introduction of so-called \"quasi-homogeneous\" approach, when overlapped diffuse layers of particles cover the complete interparticle space. The theory becomes much simplified in this extreme case, as shown by Shilov and others. Their derivation predicts that surface charge density σ is a better parameter than ζ-potential for characterizing electroacoustic phenomena in such systems. An expression for CVI simplified for small particles follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "1800265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1800265", "title": "Emergy", "text": "Emergy\n\nEmergy is the amount of energy that was consumed in direct and indirect transformations to make a product or service. Emergy is a measure of quality differences between different forms of energy. Emergy is an expression of all the energy used in the work processes that generate a product or service in units of one type of energy. Emergy is measured in units of \"emjoule\"s, a unit referring to the available energy consumed in transformations. Emergy accounts for different forms of energy and resources (e.g. sunlight, water, fossil fuels, minerals, etc.) Each form is generated by transformation processes in nature and each has a different ability to support work in natural and in human systems. The recognition of these quality differences is a key concept.\n\nThe theoretical and conceptual basis for the emergy methodology is grounded in thermodynamics, general system theory and systems ecology. Evolution of the theory by Howard T. Odum over the first thirty years is reviewed in \"Environmental Accounting\" and in the volume edited by C. A. S. Hall titled \"Maximum Power\".\n\nBeginning in the 1950s, Odum analyzed energy flow in ecosystems (\"e.g.\" Silver Springs, Florida; Enewetak atoll in the south Pacific; Galveston Bay, Texas and Puerto Rican rainforests, amongst others) where energies in various forms at various scales were observed. His analysis of energy flow in ecosystems, and the differences in the potential energy of sunlight, fresh water currents, wind and ocean currents led him to make the suggestion that when two or more different energy sources drive a system, they cannot be added without first converting them to a common measure that accounts for their differences in energy quality. This led him to introduce the concept of \"energy of one kind\" as a common denominator with the name \"energy cost\". He then expanded the analysis to model food production in the 1960s, and in the 1970s to fossil fuels.\n\nOdum's first formal statement of what would later be termed emergy was in 1973:\nEnergy is measured by calories, btu's, kilowatthours, and other intraconvertable units, but energy has a scale of quality which is not indicated by these measures. The ability to do work for man depends on the energy quality and quantity and this is measurable by the amount of energy of a lower quality grade required to develop the higher grade. The scale of energy goes from dilute sunlight up to plant matter, to coal, from coal to oil, to electricity and up to the high quality efforts of computer and human information processing.\n\nIn 1975, he introduced a table of \"Energy Quality Factors\", kilocalories of sunlight energy required to make a kilocalorie of a higher quality energy, the first mention of the energy hierarchy principle which states that \"energy quality is measured by the energy used in the transformations\" from one type of energy to the next.\n\nThese energy quality factors, were placed on a fossil-fuel basis and called \"Fossil Fuel Work Equivalents\" (FFWE), and the quality of energies were measured based on a fossil fuel standard with rough equivalents of 1 kilocalorie of fossil fuel equal to 2000 kilocalories of sunlight. \"Energy quality ratios\" were computed by evaluating the quantity of energy in a transformation process to make a new form and were then used to convert different forms of energy to a common form, in this case fossil fuel equivalents. FFWE's were replaced with coal equivalents (CE) and by 1977, the system of evaluating quality was placed on a solar basis and termed solar equivalents (SE).\n\nThe term \"embodied energy\" was used for a time in the early 1980s to refer to energy quality differences in terms of their costs of generation, and a ratio called a \"quality factor\" for the calories (or joules) of one kind of energy required to make those of another. However, since the term embodied energy was used by other groups who were evaluating the fossil fuel energy required to generate products and were not including all energies or using the concept to imply quality, embodied energy was dropped in favor of \"embodied solar calories\", and the quality factors became known as \"transformation ratios\".\n\nUse of the term \"embodied energy\" for this concept was modified in 1986 when David Scienceman, a visiting scholar at the University of Florida from Australia, suggested the term \"emergy\" and \"emjoule\" or \"emcalorie\" as the unit of measure to distinguish emergy units from units of available energy. The term transformation ratio was shortened to transformity in about the same time. It is important to note that throughout this twenty years the baseline or the basis for evaluating forms of energy and resources shifted from organic matter, to fossil fuels and finally to solar energy.\n\nAfter 1986, the emergy methodology continued to develop as the community of scientists expanded and as new applied research into combined systems of humans and nature presented new conceptual and theoretical questions. The maturing of the emergy methodology resulted in more rigorous definitions of terms and nomenclature and refinement of the methods of calculating transformities. The International Society for the Advancement of Emergy Research and a biennial International Conference at the University of Florida support this research.\n\nEmergy— amount of energy of one form that is used in transformations directly and indirectly to make a product or service. The unit of emergy is the emjoule or emergy joule. Using emergy, sunlight, fuel, electricity, and human service can be put on a common basis by expressing each of them in the emjoules of solar energy that is required to produce them. If solar emergy is the baseline, then the results are solar emjoules (abbreviated seJ). Although other baselines have been used, such as coal emjoules or electrical emjoules, in most cases emergy data are given in solar emjoules.\n\nUnit Emergy Values (UEVs) — the emergy required to generate one unit of output. Types of UEVs:\n\nEmergy accounting converts the thermodynamic basis of all forms of energy, resources and human services into equivalents of a single form of energy, usually solar. To evaluate a system, a system diagram organizes the evaluation and account for energy inputs and outflows. A table of the flows of resources, labor and energy is constructed from the diagram and all flows are evaluated. The final step involves interpreting the results.\n\nIn some cases, an evaluation is done to determine the fit of a development proposal within its environment. It also allows comparison of alternatives. Another purpose is to seek the best use of resources to maximize economic vitality.\n\nSystem diagrams show the inputs that are evaluated and summed to obtain the emergy of a flow. A diagram of a city and its regional support area is shown in Figure 1.\n\nA table (see example below) of resource flows, labor and energy is constructed from the diagram. Raw data on inflows that cross the boundary are converted into emergy units, and then summed to obtain total emergy supporting the system. Energy flows per unit time (usually per year) are presented in the table as separate line items.\n\nAll tables are followed by footnotes that show citations for data and calculations.\n\nThe table allows a unit emergy value to be calculated. The final, output row (row “O” in the example table above) is evaluated first in units of energy or mass. Then the input emergy is summed and the unit emergy value is calculated by dividing the emergy by the units of the output.\n\nFigure 2 shows non-renewable environmental contributions (N) as an emergy storage of materials, renewable environmental inputs (R), and inputs from the economy as purchased (F) goods and services. Purchased inputs are needed for the process to take place and include human service and purchased non-renewable energy and material brought in from elsewhere (fuels, minerals, electricity, machinery, fertilizer, etc.). Several ratios, or indices are given in Figure 2 that assess the global performance of a process.\n\nOther ratios are useful depending on the type and scale of the system under evaluation.\n\nThe recognition of the relevance of energy to the growth and dynamics of complex systems has resulted in increased emphasis on environmental evaluation methods that can account for and interpret the effects of matter and energy flows at all scales in systems of humanity and nature. The following table lists some general areas in which the emergy methodology has been employed.\n\nThe concept of emergy has been controversial within academe including ecology, thermodynamics and economy. Emergy theory has been criticized for allegedly offering an energy theory of value to replace other theories of value. The stated goal of emergy evaluations is to provide an \"ecocentric\" valuation of systems, processes. Thus it does not purport to replace economic values but to provide additional information, from a different point of view.\n\nThe idea that a calorie of sunlight is not equivalent to a calorie of fossil fuel or electricity strikes many as absurd, based on the 1st Law definition of energy units as measures of heat (i.e. Joule's mechanical equivalent of heat). Others have rejected the concept as impractical since from their perspective it is impossible to objectively quantify the amount of sunlight that is required to produce a quantity of oil. In combining systems of humanity and nature and evaluating environmental input to economies, mainstream economists criticize the emergy methodology for disregarding market values.\n\n"}
{"id": "31450053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31450053", "title": "Energy accidents", "text": "Energy accidents\n\nEnergy resources bring with them great social and economic promise, providing financial growth for communities and energy services for local economies. However, the infrastructure which delivers energy services can break down in an energy accident, sometimes causing much damage, and energy fatalities can occur, and with many systems often deaths will happen even when the systems are working as intended.\n\nHistorically, coal mining has been the most dangerous energy activity and the list of historical coal mining disasters is a long one. Underground mining hazards include suffocation, gas poisoning, roof collapse and gas explosions. Open cut mining hazards are principally mine wall failures and vehicle collisions. In the US alone, more than 100,000 coal miners have been killed in accidents over the past century, with more than 3,200 dying in 1907 alone.\n\nAccording to Benjamin K. Sovacool, 279 \"major\" energy accidents occurred from 1907 to 2007 and they caused 182,156 deaths with $41 billion in property damages, with these figures not including deaths from smaller accidents.\n\nHowever, by far the greatest energy fatalities that result from energy generation by humanity, is the creation of air pollution. The most lethal of which, particulate matter, which is primarily generated from the burning of fossil fuels and biomass is (counting outdoor air pollution effects only) estimated to cause 2.1 million deaths annually.\n\nAccording to Benjamin K. Sovacool, while responsible for less than 1 percent of the total number of energy accidents, hydroelectric facilities claimed 94 percent of reported immediate fatalities. Results on immediate fatalities are dominated by one disaster in which Typhoon Nina in 1975 washed out the Shimantan Dam (Henan Province, China) and 171,000 people perished. While the other major accident that involved greater than 1000 immediate deaths followed the rupture of the NNPC petroleum pipeline in 1998 and the resulting explosion. The other singular accident described by Sovacool is the \"predicted\" latent death toll of greater than 1000, as a result of the 1986 steam explosion at the Chernobyl nuclear reactor in the Ukraine. With approximately 4000 deaths in total, to eventually result in the decades ahead due to the radio-isotope pollution released.\n\nIn the oil and gas industry, the need for improved safety culture and training within companies is evidenced by the finding that workers new to a company are more likely to be involved in fatalities.\n\nCoal mining accidents resulted in 5,938 immediate deaths in 2005, and 4746 immediate deaths in 2006 in China alone according to the World Wildlife Fund. Coal mining is the most dangerous occupation in China, the death rate for every 100 tons of coal mined is 100 times that of the death rate in the US and 30 times that achieved in South Africa. Moreover, 600,000 Chinese coal miners, as of 2004, were suffering from Coalworker's pneumoconiosis (known as \"black lung\") a disease of the lungs caused by long-continued inhalation of coal dust. And the figure increases by 70,000 miners every year in China.\n\nHistorically, coal mining has been a very dangerous activity and the list of historical coal mining disasters is a long one. In the US alone, more than 100,000 coal miners were killed in accidents over the past century, with more than 3,200 dying in 1907 alone. In the decades following this peak, an annual death toll of 1,500 miner fatalities occurred every year in the US until approximately the 1970s. Coal mining fatalities in the US between 1990 and 2012 have continued to decline, with fewer than 100 each year. (See more Coal mining disasters in the United States)\n\nIn the United States, in the 2000s, after three decades of regulation on the Environmental impact of the coal industry, including regulations in the 1970s and 1990s from the Clean Air Act, an act created to cut down on pollution related deaths from fossil fuel usage, US coal fired power plants were estimated, in the 2000s, to continue to cause between 10,000 and 30,000 latent, or air pollution related deaths per year, due to the emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and directly emitted particulate matter that result when coal is burnt.\n\nAccording to the World Health Organization in 2012, urban outdoor air pollution, from the burning of fossil fuels and biomass is estimated to cause 3 million deaths worldwide per year and indoor air pollution from biomass and fossil fuel burning is estimated to cause approximately 4.3 million premature deaths. In 2013 a team of researchers estimated the number of premature deaths caused by particulate matter in outdoor air pollution as 2.1 million, occurring annually.\n\nBenjamin Sovacool says that while hydroelectric plants were responsible for the most fatalities, nuclear power plants rank first in terms of their economic cost, accounting for 41 percent of all property damage. Oil and hydroelectric follow at around 25 percent each, followed by natural gas at 9 percent and coal at 2 percent. Excluding Chernobyl and the Shimantan Dam, the three other most expensive accidents involved the Exxon Valdez oil spill (Alaska), The Prestige oil spill (Spain), and the Three Mile Island nuclear accident (Pennsylvania). However analysis presented in the international Journal, \"Human and Ecological Risk Assessment\" found that coal, oil, Liquid petroleum gas and hydro accidents have cost more than nuclear power accidents.\n\nModern-day U.S. regulatory agencies frequently implement regulations on conventional pollution if one life or more is predicted saved per $6 million to $8 million of economic costs incurred.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1610231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1610231", "title": "Energy density", "text": "Energy density\n\nEnergy density is the amount of energy stored in a given system or region of space per unit volume. Colloquially it may also be used for energy per unit mass, though the accurate term for this is specific energy. Often only the \"useful\" or extractable energy is measured, which is to say that inaccessible energy (such as rest mass energy) is ignored. In cosmological and other general relativistic contexts, however, the energy densities considered are those that correspond to the elements of the stress–energy tensor and therefore do include mass energy as well as energy densities associated with the pressures described in the next paragraph.\n\nEnergy per unit volume has the same physical units as pressure, and in many circumstances is a synonym: for example, the energy density of a magnetic field may be expressed as (and behaves as) a physical pressure, and the energy required to compress a compressed gas a little more may be determined by multiplying the difference between the gas pressure and the external pressure by the change in volume. In short, pressure is a measure of the enthalpy per unit volume of a system. A pressure gradient has the potential to perform work on the surroundings by converting enthalpy to work until equilibrium is reached.\n\nThere are many different types of energy stored in materials, and it takes a particular type of reaction to release each type of energy. In order of the typical magnitude of the energy released, these types of reactions are: nuclear, chemical, electrochemical, and electrical.\n\nNuclear reactions are used by stars and nuclear power plants, both of which derive energy from the binding energy of nuclei. Chemical reactions are used by animals to derive energy from food, and by automobiles to derive energy from gasoline. Liquid hydrocarbons (fuels such as gasoline, diesel and kerozene) are today the most dense way known to economically store and transport chemical energy at a very large scale (1 kg of diesel fuel burns with the oxygen contained in ~15 kg of air). Electrochemical reactions are used by most mobile devices such as laptop computers and mobile phones to release the energy from batteries.\n\nThe following is a list of the thermal energy densities (that is to say: the amount of heat energy that can be extracted) of commonly used or well-known energy storage materials; it doesn't include uncommon or experimental materials. Note that this list does not consider the mass of reactants commonly available such as the oxygen required for combustion or the energy efficiency in use. An extended version of this table is found at Energy density#Extended Reference Table. Major reference = .\n\nThe following unit conversions may be helpful when considering the data in the table: 3.6 MJ = 1 kWh ≈ 1.34 HPh.\n\nIn energy storage applications the energy density relates the mass of an energy store to the volume of the storage facility, e.g. the fuel tank. The higher the energy density of the fuel, the more energy may be stored or transported for the same amount of volume. The energy density of a fuel per unit mass is called the specific energy of that fuel. In general an engine using that fuel will generate less kinetic energy due to inefficiencies and thermodynamic considerations—hence the specific fuel consumption of an engine will always be greater than its rate of production of the kinetic energy of motion.\n\nThe greatest energy source by far is mass itself. This energy, \"E = mc\", where \"m = ρV\", \"ρ\" is the mass per unit volume, \"V\" is the volume of the mass itself and \"c\" is the speed of light. This energy, however, can be released only by the processes of nuclear fission (0.1%), nuclear fusion (1%), or the annihilation of some or all of the matter in the volume \"V\" by matter-antimatter collisions (100%). Nuclear reactions cannot be realized by chemical reactions such as combustion. Although greater matter densities can be achieved, the density of a neutron star would approximate the most dense system capable of matter-antimatter annihilation possible. A black hole, although denser than a neutron star, does not have an equivalent anti-particle form, but would offer the same 100% conversion rate of mass to energy in the form of Hawking radiation. In the case of relatively small black holes (smaller than astronomical objects) the power output would be tremendous.\n\nThe highest density sources of energy aside from antimatter are fusion and fission. Fusion includes energy from the sun which will be available for billions of years (in the form of sunlight) but so far (2018), sustained fusion power production continues to be elusive. \n\nPower from fission of uranium and thorium in nuclear power plants will be available for many decades or even centuries because of the plentiful supply of the elements on earth, though the full potential of this source can only be realised through breeder reactors, which are, apart from the BN-600 reactor, not yet used commercially. Coal, gas, and petroleum are the current primary energy sources in the U.S. but have a much lower energy density. Burning local biomass fuels supplies household energy needs (cooking fires, oil lamps, etc.) worldwide. \n\nThe density of thermal energy contained in the core of a light water reactor (PWR or BWR) of typically 1 GWe (1 000 MW electrical corresponding to ~3 000 MW thermal) is in the range of 10 to 100 MW of thermal energy per cubic meter of cooling water depending on the location considered in the system (the core itself (~30 m), the reactor pressure vessel (~50 m), or the whole primary circuit (~300 m)). This represents a considerable density of energy which requires under all circumstances a continuous water flow at high velocity in order to be able to remove the heat from the core, even after an emergency shutdown of the reactor. The incapacity to cool the cores of three boiling water reactors (BWR) at Fukushima in 2011 after the tsunami and the resulting loss of the external electrical power and of the cold source was the cause of the meltdown of the three cores in only a few hours. Meanwhile, the three reactors were correctly shut down just after the Tōhoku earthquake. This extremely high power density distinguishes nuclear power plants (NPP's) from any thermal power plants (burning coal, fuel or gas) or any chemical plants and explains the large redundancy required to permanently control the neutron reactivity and to remove the residual heat from the core of NPP's.\n\nEnergy density differs from energy conversion efficiency (net output per input) or embodied energy (the energy output costs to provide, as harvesting, refining, distributing, and dealing with pollution all use energy). Large scale, intensive energy use impacts and is impacted by climate, waste storage, and environmental consequences.\n\nNo single energy storage method boasts the best in specific power, specific energy, and energy density. Peukert's Law describes how the amount of useful energy that can be obtained (for a lead-acid cell) depends on how quickly we pull it out. To maximize both specific energy and energy density, one can compute the specific energy density of a substance by multiplying the two values together, where the higher the number, the better the substance is at storing energy efficiently.\n\nAlternative options are discussed for energy storage to increase energy density and decrease charging time.\n\nGravimetric and volumetric energy density of some fuels and storage technologies (modified from the Gasoline article):\n\nThis table lists energy densities of systems that require external components, such as oxidisers or a heat sink or source. These figures do not take into account the mass and volume of the required components as they are assumed to be freely available and present in the atmosphere. Such systems cannot be compared with self-contained systems. These values may not be computed at the same reference conditions.\n\nDivide joule/m by 10 to get MJ/L. Divide MJ/L by 3.6 to get kWh/L.\n\nElectric and magnetic fields store energy. In a vacuum, the (volumetric) energy density is given by\n\nwhere E is the electric field and B is the magnetic field. The solution will be (in SI units) in Joules per cubic metre. In the context of magnetohydrodynamics, the physics of conductive fluids, the magnetic energy density behaves like an additional pressure that adds to the gas pressure of a plasma.\n\nIn normal (linear and nondispersive) substances, the energy density (in SI units) is\n\nwhere D is the electric displacement field and H is the magnetizing field.\n\nIn the case of absence of magnetic fields, by exploting Fröhlich's relationships it is also possible to extend these equations to anisotropy and nonlinearity dielectrics, as well as to calculate the correlated Helmholtz free energy and entropy densities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44689684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44689684", "title": "Energy informatics", "text": "Energy informatics\n\nEnergy Informatics is founded on flow networks that are the major suppliers and consumers of energy. Their efficiency can be improved by collecting and analyzing information.\nEnergy informatics is a research field covering the use of information and communication technology to address energy challenges. Methods used for \"smart\" implementations often combine sensors with artificial intelligence and machine learning.\n\nThe field among other consider application areas within:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28672294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28672294", "title": "Energy management", "text": "Energy management\n\nEnergy management includes planning and operation of energy production and energy consumption units. Objectives are resource conservation, climate protection and cost savings, while the users have permanent access to the energy they need. It is connected closely to environmental management, production management, logistics and other established business functions. The VDI-Guideline 4602 released a definition which includes the economic dimension: “Energy management is the proactive, organized and systematic coordination of procurement, conversion, distribution and use of energy to meet the requirements, taking into account environmental and economic objectives”.\n\nOne of initial steps for an effective energy cost control program is the base line energy assessment, which examines the pattern of existing energy usage by the government or any sub-entity of the government or private organization. This program will set the reference point for improvements in energy efficiency. Energy efficiency can improve the existing energy usage and benchmarking of every individual section such as area, sub-area and the industry etc .\n\nIt is important to integrate the energy management in the organizational structure, so that the energy management can be implemented. Responsibilities and the interaction of the decision makers should be regularized. The delegation of functions and competencies extend from the top management to the executive worker. Furthermore, a comprehensive coordination can ensure the fulfillment of the tasks.\n\nIt is advisable to establish a separate organizational unit “energy management” in large or energy-intensive companies. This unit supports the senior management and keeps track. It depends on the basic form of the organizational structure, where this unit is connected. In case of a functional organization the unit is located directly between the first (CEO) and the second hierarchical level (corporate functions such as production, procurement, marketing). In a divisional organization, there should be a central and several sector-specific energy management units. So the diverse needs of the individual sectors and the coordination between the branches and the head office can be fulfilled. In a matrix organization the energy management can be included as a matrix function and thus approach most functions directly.\n\nFacility management is an important part of energy management, because a huge proportion (average 25 per cent) of complete operating costs are energy costs. According to the International Facility Management Association (IFMA), facility management is \"a profession that encompasses multiple disciplines to ensure functionality of the built environment by integrating people, place, processes and technology.\"\n\nThe central task of energy management is to reduce costs for the provision of energy in buildings and facilities without compromising work processes. Especially the availability and service life of the equipment and the ease of use should remain the same. The German Facility Management Association (GEFMA e.V.) has published guidelines (e.g. GEFMA 124-1 and 124-2), which contain methods and ways of dealing with the integration of energy management in the context of a successful facility management. In this topic the facility manager has to deal with economic, ecological, risk-based and quality-based targets. He tries to minimize the total cost of the energy-related processes (supply, distribution and use).\n\nThe most important key figure in this context is kilowatt-hours per square meter per year (kWh/m²a). Based on this key figure properties can be classified according to their energy consumption.\n\n\nIn comparison, the Passive house (Passivhaus in German) ultra-low-energy standard, currently undergoing adoption in some other European countries, has a maximum space heating requirement of 15 kWh/m²a. A Passive House is a very well-insulated and virtually air-tight building. It does not require a conventional heating system. It is heated by solar gain and internal gains from people. Energy losses are minimized.\n\nThere are also buildings that produce more energy (for example by solar water heating or photovoltaic systems) over the course of a year than it imports from external sources. These buildings are called energy-plus-houses.\n\nIn addition, the work regulations manage competencies, roles and responsibilities. Because the systems also include risk factors (e.g., oil tanks, gas lines), you must ensure that all tasks are clearly described and distributed. A clear regulation can help to avoid liability risks.\n\nLogistics is the management of the flow of resources between the point of origin and the point of destination in order to meet some requirements, for example of customers or corporations. Especially the core logistics task, transportation of the goods, can save costs and protect the environment through efficient energy management. The relevant factors are the choice of means of transportation, duration and length of transportation and cooperation with logistics service providers.\n\nThe logistics causes more than 14% percent of CO2 emissions worldwide. For this reason the term Green Logistics is becoming increasingly important.\n\nPossible courses of action in terms of green logistics are:\n\n\nBesides transportation of goods, the transport of persons should be an important part of the logistic strategy of organizations. In case of business trips it is important to attract attention to the choice and the proportionality of the means of transport. It should be balanced whether a physical presence is mandatory or a telephone or video conference is just as useful. Home Office is another possibility in which the company can protect the environment indirectly.\n\nProcurement is the acquisition of goods or services. Energy prices fluctuate constantly, which can significantly affect the energy bill of organizations. Therefore poor energy procurement decisions can be expensive. Organizations can control and reduce energy costs by taking a proactive and efficient approach to buying energy. Even a change of the energy source can be a profitable and eco-friendly alternative.\n\nProduction is the act of creating output, a good or service which has value and contributes to the utility of individuals. This central process may differ depending on the industry. Industrial companies have facilities that require a lot of energy. Service companies, in turn, do not need many materials, their energy-related focus is mainly facility management or Green IT. Therefore the energy-related focus has to be identified first, then evaluated and optimize.\n\nUsually, production is the area with the largest energy consumption within an organization. Therefore also the production planning and control becomes very important. It deals with the operational, temporal, quantitative and spatial planning, control and management of all processes that are necessary in the production of goods and commodities. The \"production planner\" should plan the production processes so that they operate in an energy efficient way. For example, strong power consumer can be moved into the night time. Peaks should be avoided for the benefit of a unified load profile.\n\nThe impending changes in the structure of energy production require an increasing demand for storage capacity. The Production planning and control has to deal with the problem of limited storability of energy. In principle there is the possibility to store energy electrically, mechanically or chemically. Another trend-setting technology is lithium-based electrochemical storage, which can be used in electric vehicles or as an option to control the power grid. The German Federal Ministry of Economics and Technology realized the significance of this topic and established an initiative with the aim to promote technological breakthroughs and support the rapid introduction of new energy storage.\n\nMaintenance is the combination of all technical and administrative actions, including supervision actions, intended to retain an item in, or restore it to, a state in which it can perform a required function. Detailed maintenance is essential to support the energy management. Hereby power losses and cost increases can be avoided.\n\nThrough the energy efficiency it management is remain the key for the any industrial user across globe , to achieve the energy management goal for the federal government or industry the efficiency of water and energy resources play a vital role\n\nExamples of how it is possible to save energy and costs with the help of maintenance:\n\n\nA long-term energy strategy should be part of the overall strategy of a company. This strategy may include the objective of increasing the use of renewable energies. Furthermore, criteria for decisions on energy investments, such as yield expectations, are determined. By formulating an energy strategy companies have the opportunity to avoid risks and to assure a competitive advance against their business rivals.\n\nAccording to Kals there are the following energy strategies:\n\n\nIn reality, you usually find hybrid forms of different strategies.\n\nMany companies are trying to promote its image and time protect the climate through a proactive and public energy strategy. General Motors (GM) strategy is based on continuous improvement. Furthermore they have six principles: e.g. restoring and preserving the environment, reducing waste and pollutants, educating the public about environmental conservation, collaboration for the development of environmental laws and regulations.\n\nNokia created its first climate strategy in 2006. The strategy tries to evaluate the energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions of products and operations and sets reduction targets accordingly. Furthermore, their environmental efforts is based on four key issues: substance management, energy efficiency, recycling, promoting environmental sustainability.\n\nThe energy strategy of Volkswagen (VW) is based on environmentally friendly products and a resource-efficient production according to the \"Group Strategy 2018\". Almost all locations of the Group are certified to the international standard ISO 14001 for environmental management systems.\n\nWhen looking at the energy strategies of companies it is important to you have the topic greenwashing in mind. This is a form of propaganda in which green strategies are used to promote the opinion that an organization's aims are environmentally friendly.\n\nEven many countries formulate energy strategies. The Swiss Federal Council decided in May 2011 to resign nuclear energy medium-dated. The nuclear power plants will be shut down at the end of life and will not be replaced. In Compensation they put the focus on energy efficiency, renewable energies, fossil energy sources and the development of water power.\n\nThe European Union has clear instructions for its members. The \"20-20-20-targets\" include, that the Member States have to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% below 1990 levels, increase energy efficiency by 20% and achieve a 20% share of renewable energy in total energy consumption by 2020.\n\nThe basis of every energy strategy is the corporate culture and the related ethical standards applying in the company. Ethics, in the sense of business ethics, examines ethical principles and moral or ethical issues that arise in a business environment. Ethical standards can appear in company guidelines, energy and environmental policies or other documents.\n\nThe most relevant ethical ideas for the energy management are:\n\n\n\nManagement of energy in a particular context:\n"}
{"id": "22807593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22807593", "title": "Energy management software", "text": "Energy management software\n\nEnergy Management Software (EMS) is a general term and category referring to a variety of energy-related software applications which may provide utility bill tracking, real-time metering, building HVAC and lighting control systems, building simulation and modeling, carbon and sustainability reporting, IT equipment management, demand response, and/or energy audits. Managing energy can require a system of systems approach.\n\nEnergy management software often provides tools for reducing energy costs and consumption for buildings or communities. EMS collects energy data and uses it for three main purposes: Reporting, Monitoring and Engagement. Reporting may include verification of energy data, benchmarking, and setting high-level energy use reduction targets. Monitoring may include trend analysis and tracking energy consumption to identify cost-saving opportunities. Engagement can mean real-time responses (automated or manual), or the initiation of a dialogue between occupants and building managers to promote energy conservation. One engagement method that has recently gained popularity is the real-time energy consumption display available in web applications or an onsite energy dashboard/display.\n\nEnergy Management Software collects historic and/or real-time interval data, with intervals varying from quarterly billing statements to minute-by-minute smart meter readings. The data are collected from interval meters, Building Automation Systems (BAS), directly from utilities, directly from sensors on electrical circuits, or other sources. Past bills can be used to provide a comparison between pre- and post-EMS energy consumption.\n\nElectricity and Natural Gas are the most common utilities measured, though systems may monitor steam, petroleum or other energy uses, water use, and even locally generated energy. Renewable energy sources have contributed to the spurred growth in EMS data collection markets.\n\nReporting tools are targeted at owners and executives who want to automate energy and emissions auditing. Cost and consumption data from a number of buildings can be aggregated or compared with the software, saving time relative to manual reporting. EMS offers more detailed energy information than utility billing can provide; another advantage is that outside factors affecting energy use, such as weather or building occupancy, can be accounted for as part of the reporting process. This information can be used to prioritize energy savings initiatives and balance energy savings against energy-related capital expenditures.\n\nBill verification can be used to compare metered consumption against billed consumption. Bill analysis can also demonstrate the impact of different energy costs, for example by comparing electrical demand charges to consumption costs.\n\nGreenhouse gas (GHG) accounting can calculate direct or indirect GHG emissions, which may be used for internal reporting or enterprise carbon accounting.\n\nMonitoring tools track and display real-time and historical data. Often, EMS includes various benchmarking tools, such as energy consumption per square foot, weather normalization or more advanced analysis using energy modeling algorithms to identify anomalous consumption. Seeing exactly when energy is used, combined with anomaly recognition, can allow Facility or Energy Managers to identify savings opportunities.\n\nInitiatives such as demand shaving, replacement of malfunctioning equipment, retrofits of inefficient equipment, and removal of unnecessary loads can be discovered and coordinated using the EMS. For example, an unexpected energy spike at a specific time each day may indicate an improperly set or malfunctioning timer. These tools can also be used for Energy Monitoring and Targeting. EMS uses models to correct for variable factors such as weather when performing historical comparisons to verify the effect of conservation and efficiency initiatives.\n\nEMS may offer alerts, via text or email messages, when consumption values exceed pre-defined thresholds based on consumption or cost. These thresholds may be set at absolute levels, or use an energy model to determine when consumption is abnormally high or low. More recently, smartphones and tablets are becoming mainstream platforms for EMS.\n\nEngagement can refer to automated or manual responses to collected and analyzed energy data. Building control systems can respond as readily to energy fluctuation as a heating system can respond to temperature variation. Demand spikes can trigger equipment power-down processes, with or without human intervention.\n\nAnother objective of Engagement is to connect occupants’ daily choices with building energy consumption. By displaying real-time consumption information, occupants see the immediate impact of their actions. The software can be used to promote energy conservation initiatives, offer advice to the occupants, or provide a forum for feedback on sustainability initiatives.\n\nPeople-driven energy conservation programs, such as those sponsored by Energy Education, can be highly effective in reducing energy use and cost. \n\nLetting occupants know their real-time consumption alone can be responsible for a 7% reduction in energy consumption.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26356935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26356935", "title": "Energy operator", "text": "Energy operator\n\nIn quantum mechanics, energy is defined in terms of the energy operator, acting on the wave function of the system as a consequence of time translation symmetry.\n\nIt is given by:\n\nIt acts on the wave function (the probability amplitude for different configurations of the system)\n\nThe energy operator corresponds to the full energy of a system. The Schrödinger equation describes the space- and time-dependence of the slow changing (non-relativistic) wave function of a quantum system. The solution of this equation for a bound system is discrete (a set of permitted states, each characterized by an energy level) which results in the concept of quanta.\n\nUsing the energy operator to the Schrödinger equation:\n\ncan be obtained:\n\nwhere \"i\" is the imaginary unit, \"ħ\" is the reduced Planck constant, and formula_5 is the Hamiltonian operator.\n\nIn a stationary state additionally occurs the time-independent Schrödinger equation:\nwhere \"E\" is an eigenvalue of energy.\n\nThe relativistic mass-energy relation:\n\nwhere again \"E\" = total energy, \"p\" = total 3-momentum of the particle, \"m\" = invariant mass, and \"c\" = speed of light, can similarly yield the Klein–Gordon equation:\n\nthat is:\n\nThe energy operator is easily derived from using the free particle wave function (plane wave solution to Schrödinger's equation). Starting in one dimension the wave function is\n\nThe time derivative of \"Ψ\" is\n\nBy the De Broglie relation:\n\nwe have\n\nRe-arranging the equation leads to\n\nwhere the energy factor \"E\" is a scalar value, the energy the particle has and the value that is measured. The partial derivative is a linear operator so this expression \"is\" the operator for energy:\n\nIt can be concluded that the scalar \"E\" is the eigenvalue of the operator, while formula_16 is the operator. Summarizing these results:\n\nFor a 3-d plane wave\n\nthe derivation is exactly identical, as no change is made to the term including time and therefore the time derivative. Since the operator is linear, they are valid for any linear combination of plane waves, and so they can act on any wave function without affecting the properties of the wave function or operators. Hence this must be true for any wave function. It turns out to work even in relativistic quantum mechanics, such as the Klein–Gordon equation above.\n\n"}
{"id": "43699304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43699304", "title": "Energy rate density", "text": "Energy rate density\n\nEnergy rate density is the amount of free energy per unit time per unit mass (in CGS metric units erg/s/g; in MKS units joule/s/kg). It is terminologically (but not always numerically) equivalent to power density when measured in SI units of W/kg. Regardless of the units used, energy rate density describes the flow of energy through any system of given mass, and has been proposed as a measure of system complexity. The more complex the system, the more energy flows per second through each gram. \n\nEnergy rate density is actually a general term that is equivalent to more specialized terms used by many different disciplinary scientists. For example, in astronomy it is called the luminosity-to-mass ratio (the inverse of the mass-luminosity ratio), in physics the power density, in geology the specific radiant flux (where “specific” denotes per unit mass), in biology the specific metabolic rate, and in engineering the power-to-weight ratio. Interdisciplinary researchers prefer to use the general term, energy rate density, not only to stress the intuitive notion of energy flow (in contrast to more colloquial connotations of the word \"power\"), but also to unify its potential application among all the natural sciences, as in the cosmology of cosmic evolution. When the energy rate density for systems including our galaxy, sun, earth, plants, animals, society are plotted according to when, in historical time, they first emerged, a clear increase in energy rate density over time is observed. \n\nThis term has in recent years gained many diverse applications in various disciplines, including history, cosmology, economics, philosophy, and behavioral biology. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4329772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4329772", "title": "Exertion", "text": "Exertion\n\nExertion is the physical or perceived use of energy. Exertion traditionally connotes a strenuous or costly \"effort,\"resulting in generation of force, initiation of motion, or in the performance of work. It often relates to muscularactivity and can be quantified, empirically and by measurable metabolic response.\n\nIn physics, \"exertion\" is the expenditure of energy against, or inductive of, inertia as described by Isaac Newton's third law of motion. In physics, force exerted equivocates work done. The ability to do work can be either positive or negative depending on the direction of exertion relative to gravity. For example, a force exerted upwards, like lifting an object, creates positive work done on that object.\n\nExertion often results in force generated, a contributing dynamic of general motion. In mechanics it describes the use of force against a body in the direction of its motion (see vector).\n\nExertion, physiologically, can be described by the initiation of exercise, or, intensive and exhaustive physical activity that causes cardiovascular stress or a sympathetic nervous response. This can be continuous or intermittent exertion.\n\nExertion requires, of the body, modified oxygen uptake, increased heart rate, and autonomic monitoring of blood lactate concentrations. Mediators of physical exertion include cardio-respiratory and musculoskeletal strength, as well as metabolic capability. This often correlates to an output of force followed by a refractory period of recovery. Exertion is limited by cumulative load and repetitive motions.\n\nMuscular energy reserves, or stores for biomechanical exertion, stem from metabolic, immediate production of ATP and increased O2 consumption. Muscular exertion generated depends on the muscle length and the velocity at which it is able to shorten, or contract.\n\nPerceived exertion can be explained as subjective, perceived experience that mediates response to somatic sensations and mechanisms. A rating of perceived exertion, as measured by the \"RPE-scale\", or Borg scale, is a quantitative measure of physical exertion.\n\nOften in health, exertion of oneself resulting in cardiovascular stress showed reduced physiological responses, like cortisol levels and mood, to stressors. Therefore, biological exertion is effective in mediating psychological exertion, responsive to environmental stress.\n\nOverexertion causes more than 3.5 million injuries a year. An overexertion injury can include sprains or strains, the stretching and tear of ligaments, tendons, or muscles caused by a load that exceeds the human ability to perform the work. Overexertion, besides causing acute injury, implies physical exertion beyond the person's capacity which leads to symptoms such as dizziness, irregular breathing and heart rate, and fatigue. Preventative measures can be taken based on biomechanical knowledge to limit possible overexertion injuries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53806811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53806811", "title": "Final Straw: Food, Earth, Happiness", "text": "Final Straw: Food, Earth, Happiness\n\nFinal Straw: Food, Earth, Happiness is a documentary/art film released in June 2015 that takes audiences through farms and urban landscapes in Japan, South Korea, and the United States, interviewing leading practitioners in the Natural Farming movement. The film began when an environmental artist (Patrick M. Lydon) and an environmental book editor (Suhee Kang), had a chance meeting in Seoul, South Korea, and began conducting short interviews together with leaders in the ecology and social justice movements. Upon meeting Korean farmer Seong Hyun Choi however, the two were so impressed by his ecological mindset and way of working, that they set out to produce a feature film about the movement. Lydon and Kang ended up quitting their jobs, giving away most of their possessions, and becoming voluntarily homeless for four years in order to afford producing the film.\n\nThe film is split into three sections 1) Modern Life, 2) Foundations and Mindset of Natural Farming, and 3) Natural Farming in Practice and Life. According to the filmmakers, as they began to understand more about how natural farming itself was not rooted in methods, but in a way of thinking, they chose to explore the life philosophies and ways of thinking of natural farming practitioners in a more free-flowing and artistic way, rather than an instructive one; the result is an unconventional documentary that features slow paced musical interludes alongside interviews. Reviewers have called both \"meditative, and mindful,\" and \"an inspiring call to action.\" Author and musician Alicia Bay Laurel called the film \"both art and documentary\".\n\nLydon and Kang spent what they call a \"meager\" life savings to make the film, along with the volunteer efforts of farmers, translators, writers, musicians they had met during their journey. Although the film was filmed, written, and edited entirely by the two directors, they readily admit that the process of making the film was co-operative effort, with more than 200 volunteers directly involved in the process in some way. The soundtrack was recorded with professional musicians from each of the three countries where filming took place, all of whom donated their time to contribute to the film project. With the continued help of international volunteers, the film is available in four languages (English, Korean, Japanese, Vietnamese), and three more (Chinese, Portuguese, French) are in progress.\n\nFrustrated by the lack of distribution and film festival options for low- and no-budget films, the filmmakers made the decision to manage distribution and touring in the same way they went about filming, through co-operative effort. With the help of volunteers, independent theater owners, and community organizers, they launched an extensive tour throughout Japan and South Korea from 2015-2016, eventually screening the film at over 130 venues.\n\nRather than simply screening the film, the filmmakers decided to transition their existing media production organization \"SocieCity,\" into a vehicle for art and community engagement. They made a point of hosting interactive events along with their screenings and in several cases, stayed in communities for up to three months at a time to build natural gardens and host a project they call REALtimeFOOD, a grown-to-order restaurant which connects the ideas from the film with real-world practices in farming, food, and crafts. In most cases, these efforts were funded by grants from local philanthropic organizations and/or supported by the communities themselves.\n\nInterested in the unconventional way the film was being made and toured, multiple magazines and newspapers in Japan and Korea followed the directors during several parts of their journey, notably ESSEN, Bar and Dining, and Road magazines, and Shikoku Shinbun and Huffington Post newspapers.\n\nDuring the tour, the film was eventually picked up by festivals including Tassie Eco Film Festival and Belleville Doc Fest. \n\n"}
{"id": "1686779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1686779", "title": "Fusion energy gain factor", "text": "Fusion energy gain factor\n\nThe fusion energy gain factor, usually expressed with the symbol Q, is the ratio of fusion power produced in a nuclear fusion reactor to the power required to maintain the plasma in steady state. The condition of \"Q\" = 1, when the power being released by the fusion reactions is equal to the required heating power, is referred to as breakeven.\n\nThe power given off by the fusion reactions may be captured within the fuel, leading to \"self-heating\". Most fusion reactions release at least some of their energy in a form that cannot be captured within the plasma, so a system at \"Q\" = 1 will cool without external heating. With typical fuels, self-heating in fusion reactors is not expected to match the external sources until at least \"Q\" = 5. If \"Q\" increases past this point, increasing self-heating eventually removes the need for external heating. At this point the reaction becomes self-sustaining, a condition called ignition. Ignition corresponds to infinite \"Q\", and is generally regarded as highly desirable for a practical reactor design.\n\nOver time, several related terms have entered the fusion lexicon. As a reactor does not cover its own heating losses until about \"Q\" = 5, the term engineering breakeven is sometimes used to describe a reactor that produces enough electricity to provide that heating. Above engineering breakeven a machine would produce more electricity than it uses, and could sell that excess. A machine that can sell enough electricity to cover its operating costs, estimated to require at least \"Q\" = 20, is sometimes known as economic breakeven.\n\n, the record for \"Q\" is held by the JET tokamak in the UK, at \"Q\" = (16 MW)/(24 MW) ≈ 0.67, first attained in 1997. ITER was originally designed to reach ignition, but is currently designed to reach \"Q\" = 10, producing 500 MW of fusion power from 50 MW of injected thermal power.\n\n\"Q\" is simply the comparison of the power being released by the fusion reactions in a reactor, \"P\", to the constant heating power being supplied, \"P\". However, there are several definitions of breakeven that consider additional power losses.\n\nIn 1955, John Lawson was the first to explore the energy balance mechanisms in detail, initially in classified works but published openly in a now-famous 1957 paper. In this paper he considered and refined work by earlier researchers, notably Hans Thirring, Peter Thonemann, and a review article by Richard Post. Expanding on all of these, Lawson's paper made detailed predictions for the amount of power that would be lost through various mechanisms, and compared that to the energy needed to sustain the reaction. This balance is today known as the Lawson criterion.\n\nIn a successful fusion reactor design, the fusion reactions generate an amount of power designated \"P\". Some amount of this energy, \"P\", is lost through a variety of mechanisms, mostly convection of the fuel to the walls of the reactor chamber and various forms of radiation that cannot be captured to generate power. In order to keep the reaction going, the system has to provide heating to make up for these losses, where \"P\" = \"P\" to maintain thermal equilibrium.\n\nThe most basic definition of breakeven is when \"Q\" = 1, that is, \"P\" = \"P\".\n\nSome works refer to this definition as scientific breakeven, to contrast it with similar terms. However, this usage is rare outside certain areas, specifically the inertial confinement fusion field, where the term is much more widely used.\n\nSince the 1950s, most commercial fusion reactor designs have been based on a mix of deuterium and tritium as their primary fuel; others fuels have been studied for a variety of reasons but are much harder to ignite. As tritium is radioactive, highly bioactive and highly mobile, it represents a significant safety concern and adds to the cost of designing and operating such a reactor.\n\nIn order to lower costs, many experimental machines are designed to run on test fuels of hydrogen or deuterium alone, leaving out the tritium. In this case, the term extrapolated breakeven is used to define the expected performance of the machine running on D-T fuel based on the performance when running on hydrogen or deuterium alone.\n\nThe records for extrapolated breakeven are slightly higher than the records for scientific breakeven. Both JET and JT-60 have reached values around 1.25 (see below for details) while running on D-D fuel. When running on D-T, only possible in JET, the maximum performance is about half the extrapolated value.\n\nAnother related term, engineering breakeven, considers the need to extract the energy from the reactor, turn that into electrical energy, and feed that back into the heating system. This closed loop is known as \"recirculation\". In this case, the basic definition changes by adding additional terms to the \"P\" side to consider the efficiencies of these processes.\n\nMost fusion reactions release energy in a variety of forms, mostly neutrons and a variety of charged particles like alpha particles. Neutrons are electrically neutral and will travel out of any magnetic confinement fusion (MFE) design, and in spite of the very high densities found in inertial confinement fusion (ICF) designs, they tend to easily escape the fuel mass in these designs as well. This means that only the charged particles from the reactions can be captured within the fuel mass and give rise to self-heating. If the fraction of the energy being released in the charged particles is \"f\", then the power in these particles is \"P\" = \"f\"\"P\". If this self-heating process is perfect, that is, all of \"P\" is captured in the fuel, that means the power available for generating electricity is the power that is not released in that form, or (1 − \"f\")\"P\".\n\nIn the case of neutrons carrying most of the practical energy, as is the case in the D-T fuel studied in most designs, this neutron energy is normally captured in a \"blanket\" of lithium that produces more tritium that is used to fuel the reactor. Due to various exothermic and endothermic reactions, the blanket may have a power gain factor a few percent higher or lower than 100%, but that will be neglected here. The blanket is then cooled and the cooling fluid used in a heat exchanger driving conventional steam turbines. These have an efficiency η which is around 35 to 40%.\n\nConsider a system that uses external heaters to heat the fusion fuel, then extracts the power from those reactions to generate electrical power. Some fraction of that power, \"f\", is needed to recirculate back into the heaters to close the loop. This is not the same as the \"P\" because the self-heating processes are providing some of the required energy. While the system as a whole requires additional power for building climate control, lighting, and the confinement system, these are generally much smaller than the plasma heating system requirements.\nConsidering all of these factors, the heating power can thus be related to the fusion power by the following equation:\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere formula_2 is the efficiency that power supplied to the heating systems is turned into heat in the fuel, as opposed to lost in the equipment itself, and formula_3 is the efficiency achieved when turning the heat into electrical power, for instance, through the Rankine cycle.\n\nThe fusion energy gain factor is then defined as:\n\nformula_4\n\nAs the temperature of the plasma increases, the rate of fusion reactions grows rapidly, and with it, the rate of self heating. In contrast, the non-capturable energy losses like x-rays do not grow at the same rate. Thus, in overall terms, the self-heating process becomes more efficient as the temperature increases, and less energy is needed from external sources to keep it hot.\n\nEventually \"P\" reaches zero, that is, all of the energy needed to keep the plasma at the operational temperature is being supplied by self-heating, and the amount of external energy that needs to be added drops to zero. This point is known as ignition.\n\nIgnition, by definition, corresponds to an infinite \"Q\", but it does not mean that \"f\" drops to zero as the other power sinks in the system, like the magnets and cooling systems, still need to be powered. Generally, however, these are much smaller than the energy in the heaters, and require a much smaller \"f\". More importantly, this number is more likely to be near constant, meaning that further improvements in plasma performance will result in more energy that can be directly used for commercial generation, as opposed to recirculation.\n\nThe final definition of breakeven is commercial breakeven, which occurs when the economic value of any net energy left over after recirculation is enough to finance the construction of the reactor. This value depends both on the reactor and the spot price of electrical power.\n\nCommercial breakeven relies on factors outside the technology of the reactor itself, and it is possible that even a reactor with a fully ignited plasma will not generate enough energy to pay for itself. Whether any of the mainline concepts like ITER can reach this goal is being debated in the field.\n\nMost fusion reactor designs being studied are based on the D-T reaction, as this is by far the easiest to ignite, and is energy dense. However, this reaction also gives off most of its energy in the form of a single highly energetic neutron, and only 20% of the energy in the form of an alpha. Thus, for the D-T reaction, \"f\" = 0.2. This means that self-heating does not become equal to the external heating until at least \"Q\" = 5. \n\nEfficiency values depend on design details but may be in the range of η = 0.7 (70%) and η = 0.4 (40%). The purpose of a fusion reactor is to produce power, not to recirculate it, so a practical reactor must have \"f\" = 0.2 approximately. Lower would be better but will be hard to achieve. Using these values we find for a practical reactor \"Q\" = 22.\n\nMany early fusion devices operated for microseconds, using some sort of pulsed power source to feed their magnetic confinement system and used the confinement as the heating source. Lawson defined breakeven in this context as the total energy released by the entire reaction cycle compared to the total energy supplied to the machine during the same cycle.\n\nOver time, as performance increased by orders of magnitude, the reaction times have extended from microseconds to seconds, and in ITER, on the order of minutes. In this case definition of \"the entire reaction cycle\" becomes blurred. In the case of an ignited plasma, for instance, P may be quite high while the system is being set up, and then drop to zero when it is fully developed, so one may be tempted to pick an instant in time when it is operating at its best to determine \"Q\". A better solution in these cases is to use the original Lawson definition averaged over the reaction to produce a similar value as the original definition.\n\nHowever, there is a complication. During the heating phase when the system is being brought up to operational conditions, some of the energy released by the fusion reactions will be used to heat the surrounding fuel, and thus not be released. This is no longer true when the plasma reaches its operational temperature and enters thermal equilibrium. Thus, if one averages over the entire cycle, this energy will be included as part of the heating term, that is, some of the energy that was captured for heating would otherwise have been released in P and is therefore not indicative of an operational \"Q\".\n\nOperators of the JET reactor argued that this input should be removed from the total:\n\nformula_5\n\nwhere:\n\nformula_6\n\nThat is, P is the amount of energy needed to raise the internal energy of the plasma. It is this definition that was used when reporting JET's record 0.67 value.\n\nSome debate over this definition continues. In 1998, the operators of the JT-60 claimed to have reached \"Q\" = 1.25 running on D-D fuel, thus reaching extrapolated breakeven. However, this measurement was based on the JET definition of Q*. Using this definition, JET had also reached extrapolated breakeven some time earlier. If one considers the energy balance in these conditions, and the analysis of previous machines, it is argued the original definition should be used, and thus both machines remain well below break-even of any sort.\n\nAlthough most fusion experiments use some form of magnetic confinement, another major branch is inertial confinement fusion (ICF) that mechanically presses together the fuel mass (the \"target\") to increase its density. This greatly increases the rate of fusion events and lowers the need to confine the fuel for long periods. This compression is accomplished by heating a lightweight capsule holding the fuel so rapidly that it explodes outwards, driving the fuel mass on the inside inward in accordance with Newton's third law. There are a variety of proposed \"drivers\" to cause the implosion process, but to date most experiments have used lasers. \n\nUsing the traditional definition of \"Q\", \"P\" / \"P\", ICF devices have extremely low \"Q\". This is because the laser is extremely inefficient; whereas formula_2 for the heaters used in magnetic systems might be on the order of 70%, lasers are on the order of 1.5%. For this reason, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL), the leader in ICF research, has proposed another modification of \"Q\" that defines \"P\" as the energy delivered by the driver, as opposed to the energy put into the driver. This definition produces much higher \"Q\" values, and changes the definition of breakeven to be \"P\" / \"P\" = 1. On occasion, they referred to this definition as \"scientific breakeven\". This term was not universally used, other groups adopted the redefinition of \"Q\" but continued to refer to \"P\" = \"P\" simply as breakeven. \n\nOn 7 October 2013, the BBC announced that LLNL had achieved scientific breakeven in the National Ignition Facility (NIF) on 29 September. In this experiment, \"P\" was approximately 14 kJ, while the laser output was 1.8 MJ. By their previous definition, this would be a \"Q\" of 0.0077. However, for this press release, they re-defined \"Q\" once again, this time equating \"P\" to be only the amount energy delivered to \"the hottest portion of the fuel\", calculating that only 10 kJ of the original laser energy reached the part of the fuel that was undergoing fusion reactions. This release has been heavily criticized in the field.\n\n"}
{"id": "1471037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1471037", "title": "Graphical timeline of the Big Bang", "text": "Graphical timeline of the Big Bang\n\nThis timeline of the Big Bang shows a sequence of events as currently theorized by scientists. \n\nIt is a logarithmic scale that shows formula_1 \"second\" instead of \"second\". For example, one microsecond is formula_2. To convert −30 read on the scale to second calculate formula_3 second = one millisecond. On a logarithmic time scale a step lasts ten times longer than the previous step.\n\n"}
{"id": "6732384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6732384", "title": "Graphical timeline of the Stelliferous Era", "text": "Graphical timeline of the Stelliferous Era\n\nThis is the timeline of the stelliferous era but also partly charts the primordial era, and charts more of the degenerate era of the heat death scenario.\n\nThe scale is formula_1. Example one million years is formula_2.\n\n"}
{"id": "3588836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3588836", "title": "Hardness", "text": "Hardness\n\nHardness is a measure of the resistance to localized plastic deformation induced by either mechanical indentation or abrasion. Some materials (e.g. metals) are harder than others (e.g. plastics, wood). Macroscopic hardness is generally characterized by strong intermolecular bonds, but the behavior of solid materials under force is complex; therefore, there are different measurements of hardness: \"scratch hardness\", \"indentation hardness\", and \"rebound hardness\".\n\nHardness is dependent on ductility, elastic stiffness, plasticity, strain, strength, toughness, viscoelasticity, and viscosity.\n\nCommon examples of hard matter are ceramics, concrete, certain metals, and superhard materials, which can be contrasted with soft matter.\n\nThere are three main types of hardness measurements: \"scratch\", \"indentation\", and \"rebound\". Within each of these classes of measurement there are individual measurement scales. For practical reasons conversion tables are used to convert between one scale and another.\n\nScratch hardness is the measure of how resistant a sample is to fracture or permanent plastic deformation due to friction from a sharp object. The principle is that an object made of a harder material will scratch an object made of a softer material. When testing coatings, scratch hardness refers to the force necessary to cut through the film to the substrate. The most common test is Mohs scale, which is used in mineralogy. One tool to make this measurement is the sclerometer.\n\nAnother tool used to make these tests is the pocket hardness tester. This tool consists of a scale arm with graduated markings attached to a four-wheeled carriage. A scratch tool with a sharp rim is mounted at a predetermined angle to the testing surface. In order to use it a weight of known mass is added to the scale arm at one of the graduated markings, the tool is then drawn across the test surface. The use of the weight and markings allows a known pressure to be applied without the need for complicated machinery.\n\nIndentation hardness measures the resistance of a sample to material deformation due to a constant compression load from a sharp object. Tests for indentation hardness are primarily used in engineering and metallurgy fields. The tests work on the basic premise of measuring the critical dimensions of an indentation left by a specifically dimensioned and loaded indenter.\n\nCommon indentation hardness scales are Rockwell, Vickers, Shore, and Brinell, amongst others.\n\nRebound hardness, also known as \"dynamic hardness\", measures the height of the \"bounce\" of a diamond-tipped hammer dropped from a fixed height onto a material. This type of hardness is related to elasticity. The device used to take this measurement is known as a scleroscope.\n\nTwo scales that measures rebound hardness are the Leeb rebound hardness test and Bennett hardness scale.\n\nThere are five hardening processes: Hall-Petch strengthening, work hardening, solid solution strengthening, precipitation hardening, and martensitic transformation.\n\nIn solid mechanics, solids generally have three responses to force, depending on the amount of force and the type of material:\n\nStrength is a measure of the extent of a material's elastic range, or elastic and plastic ranges together. This is quantified as compressive strength, shear strength, tensile strength depending on the direction of the forces involved. Ultimate strength is an engineering measure of the maximum load a part of a specific material and geometry can withstand.\n\nBrittleness, in technical usage, is the tendency of a material to fracture with very little or no detectable plastic deformation beforehand. Thus in technical terms, a material can be both brittle and strong. In everyday usage \"brittleness\" usually refers to the tendency to fracture under a small amount of force, which exhibits both brittleness and a lack of strength (in the technical sense). For perfectly brittle materials, yield strength and ultimate strength are the same, because they do not experience detectable plastic deformation. The opposite of brittleness is ductility.\n\nThe toughness of a material is the maximum amount of energy it can absorb before fracturing, which is different from the amount of force that can be applied. Toughness tends to be small for brittle materials, because elastic and plastic deformations allow materials to absorb large amounts of energy.\n\nHardness increases with decreasing particle size. This is known as the Hall-Petch relationship. However, below a critical grain-size, hardness decreases with decreasing grain size. This is known as the inverse Hall-Petch effect.\n\nHardness of a material to deformation is dependent on its microdurability or small-scale shear modulus in any direction, not to any rigidity or stiffness properties such as its bulk modulus or Young's modulus. Stiffness is often confused for hardness. Some materials are stiffer than diamond (e.g. osmium) but are not harder, and are prone to spalling and flaking in squamose or acicular habits.\n\nThe key to understanding the mechanism behind hardness is understanding the metallic microstructure, or the structure and arrangement of the atoms at the atomic level. In fact, most important metallic properties critical to the manufacturing of today’s goods are determined by the microstructure of a material. At the atomic level, the atoms in a metal are arranged in an orderly three-dimensional array called a crystal lattice. In reality, however, a given specimen of a metal likely never contains a consistent single crystal lattice. A given sample of metal will contain many grains, with each grain having a fairly consistent array pattern. At an even smaller scale, each grain contains irregularities.\n\nThere are two types of irregularities at the grain level of the microstructure that are responsible for the hardness of the material. These irregularities are point defects and line defects. A point defect is an irregularity located at a single lattice site inside of the overall three-dimensional lattice of the grain. There are three main point defects. If there is an atom missing from the array, a vacancy defect is formed. If there is a different type of atom at the lattice site that should normally be occupied by a metal atom, a substitutional defect is formed. If there exists an atom in a site where there should normally not be, an interstitial defect is formed. This is possible because space exists between atoms in a crystal lattice. While point defects are irregularities at a single site in the crystal lattice, line defects are irregularities on a plane of atoms. Dislocations are a type of line defect involving the misalignment of these planes. In the case of an edge dislocation, a half plane of atoms is wedged between two planes of atoms. In the case of a screw dislocation two planes of atoms are offset with a helical array running between them.\n\nIn glasses, hardness seems to depend linearly on the number of topological constraints acting between the atoms of the network. Hence, the rigidity theory has allowed predicting hardness values with respect to composition.\n\nDislocations provide a mechanism for planes of atoms to slip and thus a method for plastic or permanent deformation. Planes of atoms can flip from one side of the dislocation to the other effectively allowing the dislocation to traverse through the material and the material to deform permanently. The movement allowed by these dislocations causes a decrease in the material's hardness.\n\nThe way to inhibit the movement of planes of atoms, and thus make them harder, involves the interaction of dislocations with each other and interstitial atoms. When a dislocation intersects with a second dislocation, it can no longer traverse through the crystal lattice. The intersection of dislocations creates an anchor point and does not allow the planes of atoms to continue to slip over one another A dislocation can also be anchored by the interaction with interstitial atoms. If a dislocation comes in contact with two or more interstitial atoms, the slip of the planes will again be disrupted. The interstitial atoms create anchor points, or pinning points, in the same manner as intersecting dislocations.\n\nBy varying the presence of interstitial atoms and the density of dislocations, a particular metal's hardness can be controlled. Although seemingly counter-intuitive, as the density of dislocations increases, there are more intersections created and consequently more anchor points. Similarly, as more interstitial atoms are added, more pinning points that impede the movements of dislocations are formed. As a result, the more anchor points added, the harder the material will become.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41627505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41627505", "title": "Imago Universi", "text": "Imago Universi\n\nAndreas Cellarius, German mathematician and cartographer (1596–1665), conceived an Atlas of the Universe, published in 1660, under the title of \"Harmonia Macrocosmica\". Numerous illustrations of the solar system appear in this atlas by different authors known at that time. Referring to Ptolemy, Cellarius called the representation of this Ptolemaic conception of heaven as \"Imago universi secundum Ptolaeum\"\n\n\"Imago\" is a word in Latin which means\" 'image\"' or even \"representation\". Therefore, the title expresses the \"Picture of the Universe according to Ptolemy.\" The Latin expression was used in the Middle Ages to express the representation and size of the known world at that time.\n\n\"Imago Universi\" is also the title, in Latin, of a cosmographic treatise, written in 2013 by the Spanish scientist Gabriel Barceló.\n\nAfter analyzing the history of cosmology, the treatise delves into the prevailing scientific lack of explanation of the rotation of the heavenly bodies in the laws of dynamic behaviour of the sidereal system. The author proposes the application of the Theory of Dynamic Interactions (TID) to astrophysics, in particular, the dynamics of stellar systems and galaxies. This theory allows new comprehension of the dynamics of nature and understands the dynamic equilibrium of the universe, always subjected to rotational accelerations, but repetitive and persistent. The author also highlights that the orbiting always coincides with the intrinsic rotation of celestial bodies. Paradox incorporating the book, noting that this had not been found to date.\n\n\n1. Einstein, Albert: The Origins of the General Theory of Relativity, lecture given at the George A. Foundation Gibson, University of Glasgow, 20 June 1933. Published by Jackson, Wylie and co, Glasgow, 1933.\n\n"}
{"id": "37493759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37493759", "title": "Infrasonic passive differential spectroscopy", "text": "Infrasonic passive differential spectroscopy\n\nInfrasonic Passive Seismic Spectroscopy (IPSS) is a Passive Seismic Low Frequency technique used for mapping potential oil and gas hydrocarbon accumulations.\n\nIt is part of the geophysical techniques also known under the generic naming passive seismic which includes also the Passive Seismic Tomography and Micro Seismic Monitoring for petroleum, gas and geothermal applications. In a larger scale, Passive Seismic includes the Global Seismic Network earthquakes monitoring (GSN).\n\nRegarding petroleum and geothermal exploration (within a small scale), effect of fluid distribution on P- wave propagation in partially saturated rocks is the main responsible for the low frequency reservoir-related wavefield absorption.\nThe high level of attenuation, within the infrasonic bandwidth (below 10 Hz) of the seismic field observed in natural oil-saturated porous media during the last years (successfully explained by mesoscopic homogeneous models) is the main responsible of the passive seismic wave field shifting within a low frequency range.\nPressure differences between regions with different fluid/solid properties induce frequency-dependency of the attenuation (Qp and Qs reservoir factors) and velocity dispersion (Vp, Vs) of the low frequency wave field.\n\nInfrasonic Passive Seismic Spectroscopy techniques quantifies then the absorption and the wave field dispersion within the low frequency bandwidth giving the most predominant areas linked with possible oil-saturated and porous media.\n\nThe low frequency seismic field is not usually reachable by the active seismic surveys being either the explosive waves mainly in the high frequency and the vibroseis currently built not to reach such a low frequencies.\n\nSummary of the theoretical background of the passive seismic.\n\nQuintal B.. Journal of Applied Geophysics 82, pp. 119–128, 2012.\nLambert M.-A., Saenger E.H., Quintal B., Schmalholz S.M.. Geophysics 78, pp. T41-T52, 2013.\n\nArtman, B., I. Podladtchikov, and B. Witten, 2010, Source location using time-reverse imaging. Geophysical Prospecting, 58, 861–873.\n\nBiot M. A. 1956a. Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, 28, 168–178.\n\nBiot M.A. 1956b. Journal of the Acoustical Society ofAmerica, 28, 179–191.\n\nBiot M.A. 1962. Journal of Applied Physics 33, 1482–1498.\n\nCarcione, J. M., H. B. Helle, and N. H. Pham (2003),: Comparison with poroelastic numerical experiments. Geophysics, 68, 1389– 1398.\n\nDutta, N. C., and H. Ode, 1979a,: Geophysics, 44, 1777–1788.\n\nPride S.R. and Berryman J.G. 2003. Physical Review E 68, 036604.\n\nRubino, J. G., C. L. Ravazzoli, and J. E. Santos, 2009,: Geophysics, 74, no. 1, N1–N13.\n\nRiahi, N., B. Birkelo, and E. H. Saenger, 2011,: 73rd Annual Conference and Exhibition, EAGE, Extended Abstracts, P198.\n\nAkrawi, K., Campagna, F., Russo, L., Yousif, M. E., Abdelhafeez, M. H.,: Abstract: 10th Middle East Geosciences Conference and Exhibition, EAGE, Article: #90141©2012 GEO-2012,\n\nArtman, B., M. Duclos, B. Birkelo, F. Huguet, J. F. Dutzer, and R. Habiger, 2011, r: 73rd Annual Conference and Exhibition, EAGE, Extended Abstracts, P331.\n\nLambert, M.-A., S. M. Schmalholz, E. H. Saenger, and B. Steiner, 2009,: Geophysical Prospecting, 57, 393–411.\n\nSteiner, B., E. H. Saenger, and S. M. Schmalholz, 2008,: Application to hydrocarbon reservoir localization: Geophysical Research Letters, 35, L03307.\n\nToms, J., 2008. Effect of Fluid Distribution on Compressional Wave Propagation in Partially Saturated Rocks. PhD Thesis.\n\nWhite J.E., Mikhaylova N.G. and Lyakhovitskiy F.M. 1976. Izvestija Academy of Sciences USSR, Physics Solid Earth 11, 654–659.\n"}
{"id": "40111102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40111102", "title": "Intelligent Energy", "text": "Intelligent Energy\n\nIntelligent Energy is a fuel cell engineering company focused on the development and commercialisation of its PEM fuel cell technologies for a range of markets including automotive, stationary power and UAVs. We are headquartered in the UK, with offices and representation in the US, Japan, India, and China.\n\nThe origins of Intelligent Energy began at Loughborough University in the UK during the late 1980s, when the University became one of Europe’s first research and development centres for proton exchange membrane (PEM) fuel cell technology. In 1995, the UK’s first kW-level PEM fuel cell stack was produced by the R&D team. In June of that year, Advanced Power Sources (APS) Ltd was founded as a spin-out from Loughborough University by Paul Adcock, Phil Mitchell, Jon Moore and Anthony Newbold, and was the first company in the UK formed specifically to address the development and commercialisation of PEM fuel cells.\n\nFounded by Harry Bradbury, Intelligent Energy was established in 2001, acquiring Advanced Power Sources Ltd, together with its personnel and fuel cell related intellectual property that originated from research conducted by both APS and Loughborough University into PEM fuel cell technology. This triggered investment and enabled the company to grow its business activities.\nIn March 2005, it launched the ENV, the world’s first purpose-built fuel cell motorbike which gained the company recognition as a Technology Pioneer by the World Economic Forum in 2006. The ENV incorporated the company’s air-cooled fuel cell technology hybridised with a battery pack to provide 6 kW peak load to the motor to improve performance during spikes in power demand i.e. acceleration.\n\nIn 2007, a partnership was announced with Suzuki Motor Corporation to develop hydrogen fuel cells for a range of vehicles. In 2008, Intelligent Energy established the company, IE-CHP in a joint venture with SSE plc, to develop fuel cells and other technologies for CHP (Combined Heat and Power) applications. In the same year, Intelligent Energy also produced the power system for the first fuel cell powered manned flight in conjunction with Boeing.\nIn 2010, its fuel-cell taxi received The Engineer Technology and Innovation Award.\n\nIn March 2011, the Suzuki Burgman fuel cell scooter, equipped with Intelligent Energy’s fuel cell system, became the first fuel cell vehicle to achieve European Whole Vehicle Type Approval.\n\nIn 2012, SMILE FC System Corporation, a joint venture between Intelligent Energy and Suzuki Motor Corporation, was established to develop and manufacture air-cooled fuel cell systems for the automotive and a range of industry sectors.\nDuring the same year, a fleet of fuel cell taxis incorporating Intelligent Energy’s technology was used during the 2012 London Olympics. Part of the European Union-funded HyTEC (Hydrogen Technologies in European Cities) project launched in 2011, the taxis were used to transport VIP guests of the Mayor of London around the city.\nIn 2013, SMILE FC Corporation announced that it had established a ready-to-scale production line for its fuel cell systems, utilising Intelligent Energy’s semi-automated production technology. IE-CHP also received CE certification for its first-generation product, a 10 kWe/12 kWth combined heat and power (CHP) fuel cell. The certification allows the product to be sold in the European Economic Area, confirming that the product satisfies all the EU regulatory and conformity assessment procedures covering the design, manufacture, and testing of the system.\n\nIntelligent Energy was acquired by Meditor Energy, part of the Meditor Group, in October 2017.\n\nIntelligent Energy's fuel-cell technology is divided into two platforms: air-cooled (AC) and evaporatively-cooled (EC). The air-cooled fuel cell systems use low-power fans to provide cooling and the oxidant supply for operation. Heat from the fuel cell stack is conducted to cooling plates and removed through airflow channels, a simplified and cost-effective system for the power range from a few watts to several kilowatts. They are used in a wide range of UAV, stationary power and automotive applications for two-wheel and small car range extender applications.\n\nEvaporatively-cooled (EC) fuel cell systems provide power generation from a few kilowatts up to 200 kW. Efficient thermal management of the EC fuel cell stack reduces system complexity, mass and cost. These systems are designed for high-volume, low-cost manufacturing, and use modular architecture that can be quickly modified to suit the application.\n\nThe firm's fuel cell stacks have been developed for small and large cars, scooters and motorbikes. \nIn 2010, the company was involved in the development of the report entitled “A portfolio of power-trains for Europe: a fact-based analysis. The role of Battery Electric Vehicles, Plug-In Hybrids and Fuel Cell Electric Vehicles”, produced by McKinsey & Company with input from car manufacturers, oil and gas suppliers, utilities and industrial gas companies, wind turbine and electrolyser companies as well as governmental and non-governmental organisations. The report concluded, amongst other findings, that fuel cell vehicles are technology ready, and cost competitive, and that decarbonisation targets for Europe are unlikely to be met without the introduction of fuel cell powertrains.\n\nThe firm provides fuel cells to power UAVs and aerial drones. Its UAV Fuel Cell Modules run on hydrogen and ambient air to produce DC power in a lightweight package providing extended flight times when compared to battery systems.\n\nThe company’s fuel cell systems are used to provide diesel replacement and backup power initially for telecom towers but also for other sectors. The company has field proven its fuel cell products in the Indian telecommunications market with a tower uptime of close to 100%.\n\nThe company is a founding member of UKH Mobility, a government and industry group aiming to accelerate the commercial roll out of hydrogen vehicles in 2014/15;\nIt is also a member of the Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA), the US-based trade association for the fuel cell and hydrogen energy industry, dedicated to the commercialisation of fuel cells and hydrogen energy technologies.\n\n"}
{"id": "19673093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19673093", "title": "Matter", "text": "Matter\n\nIn the classical physics and in the chemistry of things of everyday life, matter is any substance that has mass and takes up space by having volume. All everyday objects that we can touch are ultimately composed of atoms, which are made up of interacting subatomic particles, and in everyday as well as scientific usage, \"matter\" generally includes atoms and anything made up of them, and any particles (or combination of particles) that act as if they have both rest mass and volume. However it does not include massless particles such as photons, or other energy phenomena or waves such as light or sound. Matter exists in various \"states\" (also known as \"phases\"). These include classical everyday phases such as solid, liquid, and gas – for example water exists as ice, liquid water, and gaseous steam – but other states are possible, including plasma, Bose–Einstein condensates, fermionic condensates, and quark–gluon plasma.\n\nUsually atoms can be imagined as a nucleus of protons and neutrons, and a surrounding \"cloud\" of orbiting electrons which \"take up space\". However this is only somewhat correct, because subatomic particles and their properties are governed by their quantum nature, which means they do not act as everyday objects appear to act – they can act like waves as well as particles and they do not have well-defined sizes or positions. In the Standard Model of particle physics, matter is not a fundamental concept because the elementary constituents of atoms are quantum entities which do not have an inherent \"size\" or \"volume\" in any everyday sense of the word. Due to the exclusion principle and other fundamental interactions, some \"point particles\" known as fermions (quarks, leptons), and many composites and atoms, are effectively forced to keep a distance from other particles under everyday conditions; this creates the property of matter which appears to us as matter taking up space.\n\nFor much of the history of the natural sciences people have contemplated the exact nature of matter. The idea that matter was built of discrete building blocks, the so-called \"particulate theory of matter\", was first put forward by the Greek philosophers Leucippus (~490 BC) and Democritus (~470–380 BC).\n\nMatter should not be confused with mass, as the two are not the same in modern physics. Matter is a general term describing any 'physical substance'. By contrast, mass is not a substance but rather a quantitative \"property\" of matter and other substances or systems; various types of mass are defined within physics – including but not limited to rest mass, inertial mass, relativistic mass, mass–energy. \n\nWhile there are different views on what should be considered matter, the mass of a substance has exact scientific definitions. Another difference is that matter has an \"opposite\" called antimatter, but mass has no opposite—there is no such thing as \"anti-mass\" or negative mass, so far as is known, although scientists do discuss the concept. Antimatter has the same (i.e. positive) mass property as its normal matter counterpart.\n\nDifferent fields of science use the term matter in different, and sometimes incompatible, ways. Some of these ways are based on loose historical meanings, from a time when there was no reason to distinguish mass from simply a quantity of matter. As such, there is no single universally agreed scientific meaning of the word \"matter\". Scientifically, the term \"mass\" is well-defined, but \"matter\" can be defined in several ways. Sometimes in the field of physics \"matter\" is simply equated with particles that exhibit rest mass (i.e., that cannot travel at the speed of light), such as quarks and leptons. However, in both physics and chemistry, matter exhibits both wave-like and particle-like properties, the so-called wave–particle duality.\n\nA definition of \"matter\" based on its physical and chemical structure is: \"matter is made up of atoms\". Such \"atomic matter\" is also sometimes termed \"ordinary matter\". As an example, deoxyribonucleic acid molecules (DNA) are matter under this definition because they are made of atoms. This definition can be extended to include charged atoms and molecules, so as to include plasmas (gases of ions) and electrolytes (ionic solutions), which are not obviously included in the atoms definition. Alternatively, one can adopt the \"protons, neutrons, and electrons\" definition.\n\nA definition of \"matter\" more fine-scale than the atoms and molecules definition is: \"matter is made up of what atoms and molecules are made of\", meaning anything made of positively charged protons, neutral neutrons, and negatively charged electrons. This definition goes beyond atoms and molecules, however, to include substances made from these building blocks that are \"not\" simply atoms or molecules, for example electron beams in an old cathode ray tube television, or white dwarf matter—typically, carbon and oxygen nuclei in a sea of degenerate electrons. At a microscopic level, the constituent \"particles\" of matter such as protons, neutrons, and electrons obey the laws of quantum mechanics and exhibit wave–particle duality. At an even deeper level, protons and neutrons are made up of quarks and the force fields (gluons) that bind them together, leading to the next definition.\n\nAs seen in the above discussion, many early definitions of what can be called \"ordinary matter\" were based upon its structure or \"building blocks\". On the scale of elementary particles, a definition that follows this tradition can be stated as: \n\"ordinary matter is everything that is composed of quarks and leptons\", or \"ordinary matter is everything that is composed of any elementary fermions except antiquarks and antileptons\". The connection between these formulations follows.\n\nLeptons (the most famous being the electron), and quarks (of which baryons, such as protons and neutrons, are made) combine to form atoms, which in turn form molecules. Because atoms and molecules are said to be matter, it is natural to phrase the definition as: \"ordinary matter is anything that is made of the same things that atoms and molecules are made of\". (However, notice that one also can make from these building blocks matter that is \"not\" atoms or molecules.) Then, because electrons are leptons, and protons, and neutrons are made of quarks, this definition in turn leads to the definition of matter as being \"quarks and leptons\", which are two of the four types of elementary fermions (the other two being antiquarks and antileptons, which can be considered antimatter as described later). Carithers and Grannis state: \"Ordinary matter is composed entirely of first-generation particles, namely the [up] and [down] quarks, plus the electron and its neutrino.\" (Higher generations particles quickly decay into first-generation particles, and thus are not commonly encountered.)\n\nThis definition of ordinary matter is more subtle than it first appears. All the particles that make up ordinary matter (leptons and quarks) are elementary fermions, while all the force carriers are elementary bosons. The W and Z bosons that mediate the weak force are not made of quarks or leptons, and so are not ordinary matter, even if they have mass. In other words, mass is not something that is exclusive to ordinary matter.\n\nThe quark–lepton definition of ordinary matter, however, identifies not only the elementary building blocks of matter, but also includes composites made from the constituents (atoms and molecules, for example). Such composites contain an interaction energy that holds the constituents together, and may constitute the bulk of the mass of the composite. As an example, to a great extent, the mass of an atom is simply the sum of the masses of its constituent protons, neutrons and electrons. However, digging deeper, the protons and neutrons are made up of quarks bound together by gluon fields (see dynamics of quantum chromodynamics) and these gluons fields contribute significantly to the mass of hadrons. In other words, most of what composes the \"mass\" of ordinary matter is due to the binding energy of quarks within protons and neutrons. For example, the sum of the mass of the three quarks in a nucleon is approximately , which is low compared to the mass of a nucleon (approximately ). The bottom line is that most of the mass of everyday objects comes from the interaction energy of its elementary components.\n\nThe Standard Model groups matter particles into three generations, where each generation consists of two quarks and two leptons. The first generation is the \"up\" and \"down\" quarks, the \"electron\" and the \"electron neutrino\"; the second includes the \"charm\" and \"strange\" quarks, the \"muon\" and the \"muon neutrino\"; the third generation consists of the \"top\" and \"bottom\" quarks and the \"tau\" and \"tau neutrino\". The most natural explanation for this would be that quarks and leptons of higher generations are excited states of the first generations. If this turns out to be the case, it would imply that quarks and leptons are composite particles, rather than elementary particles.\n\nThis quark–lepton definition of matter also leads to what can be described as \"conservation of (net) matter\" laws—discussed later below. Alternatively, one could return to the mass–volume–space concept of matter, leading to the next definition, in which antimatter becomes included as a subclass of matter.\n\nA common or traditional definition of matter is \"anything that has mass and volume (occupies space)\". For example, a car would be said to be made of matter, as it has mass and volume (occupies space).\n\nThe observation that matter occupies space goes back to antiquity. However, an explanation for why matter occupies space is recent, and is argued to be a result of the phenomenon described in the Pauli exclusion principle, which applies to fermions. Two particular examples where the exclusion principle clearly relates matter to the occupation of space are white dwarf stars and neutron stars, discussed further below.\n\nThus, matter can be defined as everything composed of elementary fermions. Although we don't encounter them in everyday life, antiquarks (such as the antiproton) and antileptons (such as the positron) are the antiparticles of the quark and the lepton, are elementary fermions as well, and have essentially the same properties as quarks and leptons, including the applicability of the Pauli exclusion principle which can be said to prevent two particles from being in the same place at the same time (in the same state), i.e. makes each particle \"take up space\". This particular definition leads to matter being defined to include anything made of these antimatter particles as well as the ordinary quark and lepton, and thus also anything made of mesons, which are unstable particles made up of a quark and an antiquark.\n\nIn the context of relativity, mass is not an additive quantity, in the sense that one can not add the rest masses of particles in a system to get the total rest mass of the system. Thus, in relativity usually a more general view is that it is not the sum of rest masses, but the energy–momentum tensor that quantifies the amount of matter. This tensor gives the rest mass for the entire system. \"Matter\" therefore is sometimes considered as anything that contributes to the energy–momentum of a system, that is, anything that is not purely gravity. This view is commonly held in fields that deal with general relativity such as cosmology. In this view, light and other massless particles and fields are all part of \"matter\".\n\nIn particle physics, fermions are particles that obey Fermi–Dirac statistics. Fermions can be elementary, like the electron—or composite, like the proton and neutron. In the Standard Model, there are two types of elementary fermions: quarks and leptons, which are discussed next.\n\nQuarks are particles of spin-, implying that they are fermions. They carry an electric charge of − e (down-type quarks) or + e (up-type quarks). For comparison, an electron has a charge of −1 e. They also carry colour charge, which is the equivalent of the electric charge for the strong interaction. Quarks also undergo radioactive decay, meaning that they are subject to the weak interaction. Quarks are massive particles, and therefore are also subject to gravity.\n\nBaryons are strongly interacting fermions, and so are subject to Fermi–Dirac statistics. Amongst the baryons are the protons and neutrons, which occur in atomic nuclei, but many other unstable baryons exist as well. The term baryon usually refers to triquarks—particles made of three quarks. Also, \"exotic\" baryons made of four quarks and one antiquark are known as pentaquarks, but their existence is not generally accepted.\n\nBaryonic matter is the part of the universe that is made of baryons (including all atoms). This part of the universe does not include dark energy, dark matter, black holes or various forms of degenerate matter, such as compose white dwarf stars and neutron stars. Microwave light seen by Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe (WMAP), suggests that only about 4.6% of that part of the universe within range of the best telescopes (that is, matter that may be visible because light could reach us from it), is made of baryonic matter. About 26.8% is dark matter, and about 68.3% is dark energy.\n\nAs a matter of fact, the great majority of ordinary matter in the universe is unseen, since visible stars and gas inside galaxies and clusters account for less than 10 per cent of the ordinary matter contribution to the mass–energy density of the universe.\n\nHadronic matter can refer to 'ordinary' baryonic matter, made from hadrons (Baryons and mesons), or quark matter (a generalisation of atomic nuclei), ie. the 'low' temperature QCD matter. It includes degenerate matter and the result of high energy heavy nuclei collisions. Distinct from dark matter.\n\nIn physics, \"degenerate matter\" refers to the ground state of a gas of fermions at a temperature near absolute zero. The Pauli exclusion principle requires that only two fermions can occupy a quantum state, one spin-up and the other spin-down. Hence, at zero temperature, the fermions fill up sufficient levels to accommodate all the available fermions—and in the case of many fermions, the maximum kinetic energy (called the \"Fermi energy\") and the pressure of the gas becomes very large, and depends on the number of fermions rather than the temperature, unlike normal states of matter.\n\nDegenerate matter is thought to occur during the evolution of heavy stars. The demonstration by Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar that white dwarf stars have a maximum allowed mass because of the exclusion principle caused a revolution in the theory of star evolution.\n\nDegenerate matter includes the part of the universe that is made up of neutron stars and white dwarfs.\n\n\"Strange matter\" is a particular form of quark matter, usually thought of as a \"liquid\" of up, down, and strange quarks. It is contrasted with nuclear matter, which is a liquid of neutrons and protons (which themselves are built out of up and down quarks), and with non-strange quark matter, which is a quark liquid that contains only up and down quarks. At high enough density, strange matter is expected to be color superconducting. Strange matter is hypothesized to occur in the core of neutron stars, or, more speculatively, as isolated droplets that may vary in size from femtometers (strangelets) to kilometers (quark stars).\n\nIn particle physics and astrophysics, the term is used in two ways, one broader and the other more specific.\n\nLeptons are particles of spin-, meaning that they are fermions. They carry an electric charge of −1 e (charged leptons) or 0 e (neutrinos). Unlike quarks, leptons do not carry colour charge, meaning that they do not experience the strong interaction. Leptons also undergo radioactive decay, meaning that they are subject to the weak interaction. Leptons are massive particles, therefore are subject to gravity.\n\nIn bulk, matter can exist in several different forms, or states of aggregation, known as \"phases\", depending on ambient pressure, temperature and volume. A phase is a form of matter that has a relatively uniform chemical composition and physical properties (such as density, specific heat, refractive index, and so forth). These phases include the three familiar ones (solids, liquids, and gases), as well as more exotic states of matter (such as plasmas, superfluids, supersolids, Bose–Einstein condensates, ...). A \"fluid\" may be a liquid, gas or plasma. There are also paramagnetic and ferromagnetic phases of magnetic materials. As conditions change, matter may change from one phase into another. These phenomena are called phase transitions, and are studied in the field of thermodynamics. In nanomaterials, the vastly increased ratio of surface area to volume results in matter that can exhibit properties entirely different from those of bulk material, and not well described by any bulk phase (see nanomaterials for more details).\n\nPhases are sometimes called \"states of matter\", but this term can lead to confusion with thermodynamic states. For example, two gases maintained at different pressures are in different \"thermodynamic states\" (different pressures), but in the same \"phase\" (both are gases).\n\nIn particle physics and quantum chemistry, \"antimatter\" is matter that is composed of the antiparticles of those that constitute ordinary matter. If a particle and its antiparticle come into contact with each other, the two annihilate; that is, they may both be converted into other particles with equal energy in accordance with Einstein's equation . These new particles may be high-energy photons (gamma rays) or other particle–antiparticle pairs. The resulting particles are endowed with an amount of kinetic energy equal to the difference between the rest mass of the products of the annihilation and the rest mass of the original particle–antiparticle pair, which is often quite large. Depending on which definition of \"matter\" is adopted, antimatter can be said to be a particular subclass of matter, or the opposite of matter.\n\nAntimatter is not found naturally on Earth, except very briefly and in vanishingly small quantities (as the result of radioactive decay, lightning or cosmic rays). This is because antimatter that came to exist on Earth outside the confines of a suitable physics laboratory would almost instantly meet the ordinary matter that Earth is made of, and be annihilated. Antiparticles and some stable antimatter (such as antihydrogen) can be made in tiny amounts, but not in enough quantity to do more than test a few of its theoretical properties.\n\nThere is considerable speculation both in science and science fiction as to why the observable universe is apparently almost entirely matter (in the sense of quarks and leptons but not antiquarks or antileptons), and whether other places are almost entirely antimatter (antiquarks and antileptons) instead. In the early universe, it is thought that matter and antimatter were equally represented, and the disappearance of antimatter requires an asymmetry in physical laws called CP (charge-parity) symmetry violation, which can be obtained from the Standard Model, but at this time the apparent asymmetry of matter and antimatter in the visible universe is one of the great unsolved problems in physics. Possible processes by which it came about are explored in more detail under baryogenesis.\n\nFormally, antimatter particles can be defined by their negative baryon number or lepton number, while \"normal\" (non-antimatter) matter particles have positive baryon or lepton number. These two classes of particles are the antiparticle partners of one another.\n\nIn October 2017, scientists reported further evidence that matter and antimatter, equally produced at the Big Bang, are identical, should completely annihilate each other and, as a result, the universe should not exist. This implies that there must be something, as yet unknown to scientists, that either stopped the complete mutual destruction of matter and antimatter in the early forming universe, or that gave rise to an imbalance between the two forms.\n\nTwo quantities that can define an amount of matter in the quark–lepton sense (and antimatter in an antiquark–antilepton sense), baryon number and lepton number, are conserved in the Standard Model. A baryon such as the proton or neutron has a baryon number of one, and a quark, because there are three in a baryon, is given a baryon number of 1/3. So the net amount of matter, as measured by the number of quarks (minus the number of antiquarks, which each have a baryon number of −1/3), which is proportional to baryon number, and number of leptons (minus antileptons), which is called the lepton number, is practically impossible to change in any process. Even in a nuclear bomb, none of the baryons (protons and neutrons of which the atomic nuclei are composed) are destroyed—there are as many baryons after as before the reaction, so none of these matter particles are actually destroyed and none are even converted to non-matter particles (like photons of light or radiation). Instead, nuclear (and perhaps chromodynamic) binding energy is released, as these baryons become bound into mid-size nuclei having less energy (and, equivalently, less mass) per nucleon compared to the original small (hydrogen) and large (plutonium etc.) nuclei. Even in electron–positron annihilation, there is no net matter being destroyed, because there was zero net matter (zero total lepton number and baryon number) to begin with before the annihilation—one lepton minus one antilepton equals zero net lepton number—and this net amount matter does not change as it simply remains zero after the annihilation. So the only way to really \"destroy\" or \"convert\" ordinary matter is to pair it with the same amount of antimatter so that their \"matterness\" cancels out—but in practice there is almost no antimatter generally available in the universe (see baryon asymmetry and leptogenesis) with which to do so.\n\nOrdinary matter, in the quarks and leptons definition, constitutes about 4% of the energy of the observable universe. The remaining energy is theorized to be due to exotic forms, of which 23% is dark matter and 73% is dark energy.\n\nIn astrophysics and cosmology, \"dark matter\" is matter of unknown composition that does not emit or reflect enough electromagnetic radiation to be observed directly, but whose presence can be inferred from gravitational effects on visible matter. Observational evidence of the early universe and the Big Bang theory require that this matter have energy and mass, but is not composed ordinary baryons (protons and neutrons). The commonly accepted view is that most of the dark matter is non-baryonic in nature. As such, it is composed of particles as yet unobserved in the laboratory. Perhaps they are supersymmetric particles, which are not Standard Model particles, but relics formed at very high energies in the early phase of the universe and still floating about.\n\nIn cosmology, \"dark energy\" is the name given to source of the repelling influence that is accelerating the rate of expansion of the universe. Its precise nature is currently a mystery, although its effects can reasonably be modeled by assigning matter-like properties such as energy density and pressure to the vacuum itself.\nExotic matter is a concept of particle physics, which may include dark matter and dark energy but goes further to include any hypothetical material that violates one or more of the properties of known forms of matter. Some such materials might possess hypothetical properties like negative mass.\n\nThe pre-Socratics were among the first recorded speculators about the underlying nature of the visible world. Thales (c. 624 BC–c. 546 BC) regarded water as the fundamental material of the world. Anaximander (c. 610 BC–c. 546 BC) posited that the basic material was wholly characterless or limitless: the Infinite (\"apeiron\"). Anaximenes (flourished 585 BC, d. 528 BC) posited that the basic stuff was \"pneuma\" or air. Heraclitus (c. 535–c. 475 BC) seems to say the basic element is fire, though perhaps he means that all is change. Empedocles (c. 490–430 BC) spoke of four elements of which everything was made: earth, water, air, and fire. Meanwhile, Parmenides argued that change does not exist, and Democritus argued that everything is composed of minuscule, inert bodies of all shapes called atoms, a philosophy called atomism. All of these notions had deep philosophical problems.\n\nAristotle (384 BC – 322 BC) was the first to put the conception on a sound philosophical basis, which he did in his natural philosophy, especially in \"Physics\" book I. He adopted as reasonable suppositions the four Empedoclean elements, but added a fifth, aether. Nevertheless, these elements are not basic in Aristotle's mind. Rather they, like everything else in the visible world, are composed of the basic \"principles\" matter and form.\n\nThe word Aristotle uses for matter, ὕλη (\"hyle\" or \"hule\"), can be literally translated as wood or timber, that is, \"raw material\" for building. Indeed, Aristotle's conception of matter is intrinsically linked to something being made or composed. In other words, in contrast to the early modern conception of matter as simply occupying space, matter for Aristotle is definitionally linked to process or change: matter is what underlies a change of substance. For example, a horse eats grass: the horse changes the grass into itself; the grass as such does not persist in the horse, but some aspect of it—its matter—does. The matter is not specifically described (e.g., as atoms), but consists of whatever persists in the change of substance from grass to horse. Matter in this understanding does not exist independently (i.e., as a substance), but exists interdependently (i.e., as a \"principle\") with form and only insofar as it underlies change. It can be helpful to conceive of the relationship of matter and form as very similar to that between parts and whole. For Aristotle, matter as such can only \"receive\" actuality from form; it has no activity or actuality in itself, similar to the way that parts as such only have their existence \"in\" a whole (otherwise they would be independent wholes).\n\nRené Descartes (1596–1650) originated the modern conception of matter. He was primarily a geometer. Instead of, like Aristotle, deducing the existence of matter from the physical reality of change, Descartes arbitrarily postulated matter to be an abstract, mathematical substance that occupies space:\nFor Descartes, matter has only the property of extension, so its only activity aside from locomotion is to exclude other bodies: this is the mechanical philosophy. Descartes makes an absolute distinction between mind, which he defines as unextended, thinking substance, and matter, which he defines as unthinking, extended substance. They are independent things. In contrast, Aristotle defines matter and the formal/forming principle as complementary \"principles\" that together compose one independent thing (substance). In short, Aristotle defines matter (roughly speaking) as what things are actually made of (with a \"potential\" independent existence), but Descartes elevates matter to an actual independent thing in itself.\n\nThe continuity and difference between Descartes' and Aristotle's conceptions is noteworthy. In both conceptions, matter is passive or inert. In the respective conceptions matter has different relationships to intelligence. For Aristotle, matter and intelligence (form) exist together in an interdependent relationship, whereas for Descartes, matter and intelligence (mind) are definitionally opposed, independent substances.\n\nDescartes' justification for restricting the inherent qualities of matter to extension is its permanence, but his real criterion is not permanence (which equally applied to color and resistance), but his desire to use geometry to explain all material properties. Like Descartes, Hobbes, Boyle, and Locke argued that the inherent properties of bodies were limited to extension, and that so-called secondary qualities, like color, were only products of human perception.\n\nIsaac Newton (1643–1727) inherited Descartes' mechanical conception of matter. In the third of his \"Rules of Reasoning in Philosophy\", Newton lists the universal qualities of matter as \"extension, hardness, impenetrability, mobility, and inertia\". Similarly in \"Optics\" he conjectures that God created matter as \"solid, massy, hard, impenetrable, movable particles\", which were \"...even so very hard as never to wear or break in pieces\". The \"primary\" properties of matter were amenable to mathematical description, unlike \"secondary\" qualities such as color or taste. Like Descartes, Newton rejected the essential nature of secondary qualities.\n\nNewton developed Descartes' notion of matter by restoring to matter intrinsic properties in addition to extension (at least on a limited basis), such as mass. Newton's use of gravitational force, which worked \"at a distance\", effectively repudiated Descartes' mechanics, in which interactions happened exclusively by contact.\n\nThough Newton's gravity would seem to be a \"power\" of bodies, Newton himself did not admit it to be an \"essential\" property of matter. Carrying the logic forward more consistently, Joseph Priestley (1733–1804) argued that corporeal properties transcend contact mechanics: chemical properties require the \"capacity\" for attraction. He argued matter has other inherent powers besides the so-called primary qualities of Descartes, et al.\n\nSince Priestley's time, there has been a massive expansion in knowledge of the constituents of the material world (viz., molecules, atoms, subatomic particles), but there has been no further development in the \"definition\" of matter. Rather the question has been set aside. Noam Chomsky (born 1928) summarizes the situation that has prevailed since that time:\nSo matter is whatever physics studies and the object of study of physics is matter: there is no independent general definition of matter, apart from its fitting into the methodology of measurement and controlled experimentation. In sum, the boundaries between what constitutes matter and everything else remains as vague as the demarcation problem of delimiting science from everything else.\n\nIn the 19th century, following the development of the periodic table, and of atomic theory, atoms were seen as being the fundamental constituents of matter; atoms formed molecules and compounds.\n\nThe common definition in terms of occupying space and having mass is in contrast with most physical and chemical definitions of matter, which rely instead upon its structure and upon attributes not necessarily related to volume and mass. At the turn of the nineteenth century, the knowledge of matter began a rapid evolution.\n\nAspects of the Newtonian view still held sway. James Clerk Maxwell discussed matter in his work \"Matter and Motion\". He carefully separates \"matter\" from space and time, and defines it in terms of the object referred to in Newton's first law of motion.\n\nHowever, the Newtonian picture was not the whole story. In the 19th century, the term \"matter\" was actively discussed by a host of scientists and philosophers, and a brief outline can be found in Levere. A textbook discussion from 1870 suggests matter is what is made up of atoms:Three divisions of matter are recognized in science: masses, molecules and atoms. A Mass of matter is any portion of matter appreciable by the senses. A Molecule is the smallest particle of matter into which a body can be divided without losing its identity. An Atom is a still smaller particle produced by division of a molecule. \n\nRather than simply having the attributes of mass and occupying space, matter was held to have chemical and electrical properties. In 1909 the famous physicist J. J. Thomson (1856–1940) wrote about the \"constitution of matter\" and was concerned with the possible connection between matter and electrical charge.\n\nThere is an entire literature concerning the \"structure of matter\", ranging from the \"electrical structure\" in the early 20th century, to the more recent \"quark structure of matter\", introduced today with the remark: \"Understanding the quark structure of matter has been one of the most important advances in contemporary physics.\" In this connection, physicists speak of \"matter fields\", and speak of particles as \"quantum excitations of a mode of the matter field\". And here is a quote from de Sabbata and Gasperini: \"With the word \"matter\" we denote, in this context, the sources of the interactions, that is spinor fields (like quarks and leptons), which are believed to be the fundamental components of matter, or scalar fields, like the Higgs particles, which are used to introduced mass in a gauge theory (and that, however, could be composed of more fundamental fermion fields).\"\n\nIn the late 19th century with the discovery of the electron, and in the early 20th century, with the discovery of the atomic nucleus, and the birth of particle physics, matter was seen as made up of electrons, protons and neutrons interacting to form atoms. Today, we know that even protons and neutrons are not indivisible, they can be divided into quarks, while electrons are part of a particle family called leptons. Both quarks and leptons are elementary particles, and are currently seen as being the fundamental constituents of matter.\n\nThese quarks and leptons interact through four fundamental forces: gravity, electromagnetism, weak interactions, and strong interactions. The Standard Model of particle physics is currently the best explanation for all of physics, but despite decades of efforts, gravity cannot yet be accounted for at the quantum level; it is only described by classical physics (see quantum gravity and graviton). Interactions between quarks and leptons are the result of an exchange of force-carrying particles (such as photons) between quarks and leptons. The force-carrying particles are not themselves building blocks. As one consequence, mass and energy (which cannot be created or destroyed) cannot always be related to matter (which can be created out of non-matter particles such as photons, or even out of pure energy, such as kinetic energy). Force carriers are usually not considered matter: the carriers of the electric force (photons) possess energy (see Planck relation) and the carriers of the weak force (W and Z bosons) are massive, but neither are considered matter either. However, while these particles are not considered matter, they do contribute to the total mass of atoms, subatomic particles, and all systems that contain them.\n\nThe modern conception of matter has been refined many times in history, in light of the improvement in knowledge of just \"what\" the basic building blocks are, and in how they interact.\nThe term \"matter\" is used throughout physics in a bewildering variety of contexts: for example, one refers to \"condensed matter physics\", \"elementary matter\", \"partonic\" matter, \"dark\" matter, \"anti\"-matter, \"strange\" matter, and \"nuclear\" matter. In discussions of matter and antimatter, normal matter has been referred to by Alfvén as \"koinomatter\" (Gk. \"common matter\"). It is fair to say that in physics, there is no broad consensus as to a general definition of matter, and the term \"matter\" usually is used in conjunction with a specifying modifier.\n\nThe history of the concept of matter is a history of the fundamental \"length scales\" used to define matter. Different building blocks apply depending upon whether one defines matter on an atomic or elementary particle level. One may use a definition that matter is atoms, or that matter is hadrons, or that matter is leptons and quarks depending upon the scale at which one wishes to define matter.\n\nThese quarks and leptons interact through four fundamental forces: gravity, electromagnetism, weak interactions, and strong interactions. The Standard Model of particle physics is currently the best explanation for all of physics, but despite decades of efforts, gravity cannot yet be accounted for at the quantum level; it is only described by classical physics (see quantum gravity and graviton).\n\nAntimatter\n\nCosmology\nDark matter\n\nPhilosophy\nOther\n\nMy Pals Are Here! Science P3&4 Cycless-Chapter 3(Matter)\n\n"}
{"id": "229104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229104", "title": "Matter wave", "text": "Matter wave\n\nMatter waves are a central part of the theory of quantum mechanics, being an example of wave–particle duality. All matter can exhibit wave-like behavior. For example, a beam of electrons can be diffracted just like a beam of light or a water wave. The concept that matter behaves like a wave was proposed by Louis de Broglie () in 1924. It is also referred to as the \"de Broglie hypothesis\". Matter waves are referred to as \"de Broglie waves\".\n\nThe \"de Broglie wavelength\" is the wavelength, , associated with a massive particle and is related to its momentum, , through the Planck constant, :\n\nWave-like behavior of matter was first experimentally demonstrated by George Paget Thomson's thin metal diffraction experiment, and independently in the Davisson–Germer experiment both using electrons, and it has also been confirmed for other elementary particles, neutral atoms and even molecules. Recently, it was also found that investigating the elementary process of diffusion gives the theoretical evidence of the relation of matter wave, regardless of the photon energy. It is thus revealed that the relation of matter wave is now not a hypothesis but an actual equation relevant to a characteristic of micro particle. The wave-like behavior of matter is crucial to the modern theory of atomic structure and particle physics.\n\nAt the end of the 19th century, light was thought to consist of waves of electromagnetic fields which propagated according to Maxwell's equations, while matter was thought to consist of localized particles (See history of wave and particle viewpoints). In 1900, this division was exposed to doubt, when, investigating the theory of black body thermal radiation, Max Planck proposed that light is emitted in discrete quanta of energy. It was thoroughly challenged in 1905. Extending Planck's investigation in several ways, including its connection with the photoelectric effect, Albert Einstein proposed that light is also propagated and absorbed in quanta. Light quanta are now called photons. These quanta would have an energy given by the Planck–Einstein relation:\nand a momentum\nwhere (lowercase Greek letter nu) and (lowercase Greek letter lambda) denote the frequency and wavelength of the light, the speed of light, and the Planck constant. In the modern convention, frequency is symbolized by \"f\" as is done in the rest of this article. Einstein’s postulate was confirmed experimentally by Robert Millikan and Arthur Compton over the next two decades.\n\nDe Broglie, in his 1924 PhD thesis, proposed that just as light has both wave-like and particle-like properties, electrons also have wave-like properties. By rearranging the momentum equation stated in the above section, we find a relationship between the wavelength, associated with an electron and its momentum, , through the Planck constant, :\n\nThe relationship is now known to hold for all types of matter: all matter exhibits properties of both particles and waves.\n\nIn 1926, Erwin Schrödinger published an equation describing how a matter wave should evolve—the matter wave analogue of Maxwell’s equations—and used it to derive the energy spectrum of hydrogen.\n\nMatter waves were first experimentally confirmed to occur in George Paget Thomson's cathode ray diffraction experiment and the Davisson-Germer experiment for electrons, and the de Broglie hypothesis has been confirmed for other elementary particles. Furthermore, neutral atoms and even molecules have been shown to be wave-like.\n\nIn 1927 at Bell Labs, Clinton Davisson and Lester Germer fired slow-moving electrons at a crystalline nickel target. The angular dependence of the diffracted electron intensity was measured, and was determined to have the same diffraction pattern as those predicted by Bragg for x-rays. At the same time George Paget Thomson at the University of Aberdeen was independently firing electrons at very thin metal foils to demonstrate the same effect. Before the acceptance of the de Broglie hypothesis, diffraction was a property that was thought to be exhibited only by waves. Therefore, the presence of any diffraction effects by matter demonstrated the wave-like nature of matter. When the de Broglie wavelength was inserted into the Bragg condition, the observed diffraction pattern was predicted, thereby experimentally confirming the de Broglie hypothesis for electrons.\n\nThis was a pivotal result in the development of quantum mechanics. Just as the photoelectric effect demonstrated the particle nature of light, the Davisson–Germer experiment showed the wave-nature of matter, and completed the theory of wave–particle duality. For physicists this idea was important because it meant that not only could any particle exhibit wave characteristics, but that one could use wave equations to describe phenomena in matter if one used the de Broglie wavelength.\n\nExperiments with Fresnel diffraction and an atomic mirror for specular reflection of neutral atoms confirm the application of the de Broglie hypothesis to atoms, i.e. the existence of atomic waves which undergo diffraction, interference and allow quantum reflection by the tails of the attractive potential. Advances in laser cooling have allowed cooling of neutral atoms down to nanokelvin temperatures. At these temperatures, the thermal de Broglie wavelengths come into the micrometre range. Using Bragg diffraction of atoms and a Ramsey interferometry technique, the de Broglie wavelength of cold sodium atoms was explicitly measured and found to be consistent with the temperature measured by a different method.\n\nThis effect has been used to demonstrate atomic holography, and it may allow the construction of an atom probe imaging system with nanometer resolution. The description of these phenomena is based on the wave properties of neutral atoms, confirming the de Broglie hypothesis.\n\nThe effect has also been used to explain the spatial version of the quantum Zeno effect, in which an otherwise unstable object may be stabilised by rapidly repeated observations.\n\nRecent experiments even confirm the relations for molecules and even macromolecules that otherwise might be supposed too large to undergo quantum mechanical effects. In 1999, a research team in Vienna demonstrated diffraction for molecules as large as fullerenes. The researchers calculated a De Broglie wavelength of the most probable C velocity as 2.5 pm.\nMore recent experiments prove the quantum nature of molecules made of 810 atoms and with a mass of 10,123 amu.\n\nStill one step further than Louis De Broglie go theories which in quantum mechanics eliminate the concept of a pointlike classical particle and explain the observed facts by means of wavepackets of matter waves alone.\n\nThe de Broglie equations relate the wavelength to the momentum , and frequency to the total energy of a particle:\n\nformula_5\n\nwhere \"h\" is the Planck constant. The equations can also be written as\n\nformula_6\n\nor \n\nformula_7\n\nwhere is the reduced Planck constant, is the wave vector, is the phase constant, and is the angular frequency.\nIn each pair, the second equation is also referred to as the Planck–Einstein relation, since it was also proposed by Planck and Einstein.\n\nUsing two formulas from special relativity, one for the relativistic momentum and one for the relativistic mass energy\n\nallows the equations to be written as\n\nwhere formula_11 denotes the particle's rest mass, formula_12 its velocity, formula_13 the Lorentz factor, and formula_14 the speed of light in a vacuum. See below for details of the derivation of the de Broglie relations. Group velocity (equal to the particle's speed) should not be confused with phase velocity (equal to the product of the particle's frequency and its wavelength). In the case of a non-dispersive medium, they happen to be equal, but otherwise they are not.\n\nAlbert Einstein first explained the wave–particle duality of light in 1905. Louis de Broglie hypothesized that any particle should also exhibit such a duality. The velocity of a particle, he concluded, should always equal the group velocity of the corresponding wave. The magnitude of the group velocity is equal to the particle's speed.\n\nBoth in relativistic and non-relativistic quantum physics, we can identify the group velocity of a particle's wave function with the particle velocity. Quantum mechanics has very accurately demonstrated this hypothesis, and the relation has been shown explicitly for particles as large as molecules.\n\nDe Broglie deduced that if the duality equations already known for light were the same for any particle, then his hypothesis would hold. This means that\n\nwhere is the total energy of the particle, is its momentum, is the reduced Planck constant. For a free non-relativistic particle it follows that\n\nwhere is the mass of the particle and its velocity.\n\nAlso in special relativity we find that\n\nwhere is the rest mass of the particle and is the speed of light in a vacuum. But (see below), using that the phase velocity is , therefore\n\nwhere is the velocity of the particle regardless of wave behavior.\n\nIn quantum mechanics, particles also behave as waves with complex phases. The phase velocity is equal to the product of the frequency multiplied by the wavelength.\n\nBy the de Broglie hypothesis, we see that\n\nUsing relativistic relations for energy and momentum, we have\n\nwhere \"E\" is the total energy of the particle (i.e. rest energy plus kinetic energy in the kinematic sense), \"p\" the momentum, formula_13 the Lorentz factor, \"c\" the speed of light, and β the speed as a fraction of \"c\". The variable \"v\" can either be taken to be the speed of the particle or the group velocity of the corresponding matter wave. Since the particle speed formula_22 for any particle that has mass (according to special relativity), the phase velocity of matter waves always exceeds \"c\", i.e.\n\nand as we can see, it approaches \"c\" when the particle speed is in the relativistic range. The superluminal phase velocity does not violate special relativity, because phase propagation carries no energy. See the article on \"Dispersion (optics)\" for details.\n\nUsing four-vectors, the De Broglie relations form a single equation:\n\nformula_24\n\nwhich is frame-independent.\n\nLikewise, the relation between group/particle velocity and phase velocity is given in frame-independent form by:\n\nformula_25\n\nwhere\n\nThe physical reality underlying de Broglie waves is a subject of ongoing debate. Some theories treat either the particle or the wave aspect as its fundamental nature, seeking to explain the other as an emergent property. Some, such as the hidden variable theory, treat the wave and the particle as distinct entities. Yet others propose some intermediate entity that is neither quite wave nor quite particle but only appears as such when we measure one or the other property. The Copenhagen interpretation states that the nature of the underlying reality is unknowable and beyond the bounds of scientific inquiry.\n\nSchrödinger's quantum mechanical waves are conceptually different from ordinary physical waves such as water or sound. Ordinary physical waves are characterized by undulating real-number 'displacements' of dimensioned physical variables at each point of ordinary physical space at each instant of time. Schrödinger's \"waves\" are characterized by the undulating value of a dimensionless complex number at each point of an abstract multi-dimensional space, for example of configuration space.\n\nAt the Fifth Solvay Conference in 1927, Max Born and Werner Heisenberg reported as follows:\n\nAt the same conference, Erwin Schrödinger reported likewise.\n\nIn 1955, Heisenberg reiterated this:\n\nIt is mentioned above that the \"displaced quantity\" of the Schrödinger wave has values that are dimensionless complex numbers. One may ask what is the physical meaning of those numbers. According to Heisenberg, rather than being of some ordinary physical quantity such as, for example, Maxwell's electric field intensity, or mass density, the Schrödinger-wave packet's \"displaced quantity\" is probability amplitude. He wrote that instead of using the term 'wave packet', it is preferable to speak of a probability packet. The probability amplitude supports calculation of probability of location or momentum of discrete particles. Heisenberg recites Duane's account of particle diffraction by probabilistic quantal translation momentum transfer, which allows, for example in Young's two-slit experiment, each diffracted particle probabilistically to pass discretely through a particular slit. Thus one does not need necessarily think of the matter wave, as it were, as 'composed of smeared matter'.\n\nThese ideas may be expressed in ordinary language as follows. In the account of ordinary physical waves, a 'point' refers to a position in ordinary physical space at an instant of time, at which there is specified a 'displacement' of some physical quantity. But in the account of quantum mechanics, a 'point' refers to a configuration of the system at an instant of time, every particle of the system being in a sense present in every 'point' of configuration space, each particle at such a 'point' being located possibly at a different position in ordinary physical space. There is no explicit definite indication that, at an instant, this particle is 'here' and that particle is 'there' in some separate 'location' in configuration space. This conceptual difference entails that, in contrast to de Broglie's pre-quantum mechanical wave description, the quantum mechanical probability packet description does not directly and explicitly express the Aristotelian idea, referred to by Newton, that causal efficacy propagates through ordinary space by contact, nor the Einsteinian idea that such propagation is no faster than light. In contrast, these ideas are so expressed in the classical wave account, through the Green's function, though it is inadequate for the observed quantal phenomena. The physical reasoning for this was first recognized by Einstein.\n\nDe Broglie's thesis started from the hypothesis, \"that to each portion of energy with a proper mass one may associate a periodic phenomenon of the frequency , such that one finds: . The frequency is to be measured, of course, in the rest frame of the energy packet. This hypothesis is the basis of our theory.\"\n\nDe Broglie followed his initial hypothesis of a periodic phenomenon, with frequency  , associated with the energy packet. He used the special theory of relativity to find, in the frame of the observer of the electron energy packet that is moving with velocity formula_12, that its frequency was apparently reduced to\n\nThen\n\nusing the same notation as above. The quantity formula_32 is the velocity of what de Broglie called the \"phase y wave\". Its wavelength is formula_33 and frequency formula_34. De Broglie reasoned that his hypothetical intrinsic particle periodic phenomenon is in phase with that phase wave. This was his basic matter wave conception. He noted, as above, that formula_35, and the phase wave does not transfer energy.\n\nWhile the concept of waves being associated with matter is correct, de Broglie did not leap directly to the final understanding of quantum mechanics with no missteps. There are conceptual problems with the approach that de Broglie took in his thesis that he was not able to resolve, despite trying a number of different fundamental hypotheses in different papers published while working on, and shortly after publishing, his thesis.\nThese difficulties were resolved by Erwin Schrödinger, who developed the wave mechanics approach, starting from a somewhat different basic hypothesis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3595285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3595285", "title": "Maximum power principle", "text": "Maximum power principle\n\nThe maximum power principle or Lotka's principle has been proposed as the fourth principle of energetics in open system thermodynamics, where an example of an open system is a biological cell. According to Howard T. Odum, \"The maximum power principle can be stated: During self-organization, system designs develop and prevail that maximize power intake, energy transformation, and those uses that reinforce production and efficiency.\"\n\nChen (2006) has located the origin of the statement of maximum power as a formal principle in a tentative proposal by Alfred J. Lotka (1922a, b). Lotka's statement sought to explain the Darwinian notion of evolution with reference to a physical principle. Lotka's work was subsequently developed by the systems ecologist Howard T. Odum in collaboration with the Chemical Engineer Richard C. Pinkerton, and later advanced by the Engineer Myron Tribus.\n\nWhile Lotka's work may have been a first attempt to formalise evolutionary thought in mathematical terms, it followed similar observations made by Leibniz and Volterra and Ludwig Boltzmann, for example, throughout the sometimes controversial history of natural philosophy. In contemporary literature it is most commonly associated with the work of Howard T. Odum.\n\nThe significance of Odum's approach was given greater support during the 1970s, amid times of oil crisis, where, as Gilliland (1978, pp. 100) observed, there was an emerging need for a new method of analysing the importance and value of energy resources to economic and environmental production. A field known as energy analysis, itself associated with net energy and EROEI, arose to fulfill this analytic need. However, in energy analysis intractable theoretical and practical difficulties arose when using the energy unit to understand, a) the conversion among concentrated fuel types (or energy types), b) the contribution of labour, and c) the contribution of the environment.\n\nLotka said (1922b: 151): \nGilliland noted that these difficulties in analysis in turn required some new theory to adequately explain the interactions and transactions of these different energies (different concentrations of fuels, labour and environmental forces). Gilliland (Gilliland 1978, p. 101) suggested that Odum's statement of the maximum power principle (H.T.Odum 1978, pp. 54–87) was, perhaps, an adequate expression of the requisite theory:\nThis theory Odum called maximum power theory. In order to formulate maximum power theory Gilliland observed that Odum had added another law (the maximum power principle) to the already well established laws of thermodynamics. In 1978 Gilliland wrote that Odum's new law had not yet been validated (Gilliland 1978, p. 101). Gilliland stated that in maximum power theory the second law efficiency of thermodynamics required an additional physical concept: \"the concept of second law efficiency under maximum power\" (Gilliland 1978, p. 101):\nIn this way the concept of maximum power was being used as a principle to quantitatively describe the selective law of biological evolution. Perhaps H.T.Odum's most concise statement of this view was (1970, p. 62):\n\nThe Odum–Pinkerton approach to Lotka's proposal was to apply Ohm's law – and the associated maximum power theorem (a result in electrical power systems) – to ecological systems. Odum and Pinkerton defined \"power\" in electronic terms as the rate of work, where Work is understood as a \"useful energy transformation\". The concept of maximum power can therefore be defined as the \"maximum rate of useful energy transformation\". Hence the underlying philosophy aims to unify the theories and associated laws of electronic and thermodynamic systems with biological systems. This approach presupposed an analogical view which sees the world as an ecological-electronic-economic engine.\n\nOdum et al. viewed the maximum power theorem as a principle of power-efficiency reciprocity selection with wider application than just electronics. For example, Odum saw it in open systems operating on solar energy, like both photovoltaics and photosynthesis (1963, p. 438). Like the maximum power theorem, Odum's statement of the maximum power principle relies on the notion of 'matching', such that high-quality energy maximizes power by matching and amplifying energy (1994, pp. 262, 541): \"in surviving designs a matching of high-quality energy with larger amounts of low-quality energy is likely to occur\" (1994, p. 260). As with electronic circuits, the resultant rate of energy transformation will be at a maximum at an intermediate power efficiency. In 2006, T.T. Cai, C.L. Montague and J.S. Davis said that, \"The maximum power principle is a potential guide to understanding the patterns and processes of ecosystem development and sustainability. The principle predicts the selective persistence of ecosystem designs that capture a previously untapped energy source.\" (2006, p. 317). In several texts H.T. Odum gave the Atwood machine as a practical example of the 'principle' of maximum power.\n\nThe mathematical definition given by H.T. Odum is formally analogous to the definition provided on the maximum power theorem article. (For a brief explanation of Odum's approach to the relationship between ecology and electronics see Ecological Analog of Ohm's Law)\n\nWhether or not the principle of maximum power efficiency can be considered the fourth law of thermodynamics and the fourth principle of energetics is moot. Nevertheless, H.T. Odum also proposed a corollary of maximum power as the organisational principle of evolution, describing the evolution of microbiological systems, economic systems, planetary systems, and astrophysical systems. He called this corollary the maximum empower principle. This was suggested because, as S.E. Jorgensen, M.T. Brown, H.T. Odum (2004) note,\n\nC. Giannantoni may have confused matters when he wrote \"The \"Maximum Em-Power Principle\" (Lotka–Odum) is generally considered the \"Fourth Thermodynamic Principle\" (mainly) because of its practical validity for a very wide class of physical and biological systems\" (C. Giannantoni 2002, § 13, p. 155). Nevertheless, Giannantoni has proposed the Maximum Em-Power Principle as the fourth principle of thermodynamics (Giannantoni 2006).\n\nThe preceding discussion is incomplete. The \"maximum power\" was discovered several times independently, in physics and engineering, see: Novikov (1957), El-Wakil (1962), and Curzon and Ahlborn (1975). The incorrectness of this analysis and design evolution conclusions was demonstrated by Gyftopoulos (2002).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36688650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36688650", "title": "Moisture expansion", "text": "Moisture expansion\n\nMoisture expansion is the tendency of matter to change in volume in response to a change in moisture content. The macroscopic effect is similar to that of thermal expansion but the microscopic causes are very different. Moisture expansion is caused by hygroscopy.\n"}
{"id": "558685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=558685", "title": "Natural environment", "text": "Natural environment\n"}
{"id": "14389994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14389994", "title": "Natural landscape", "text": "Natural landscape\n\nA natural landscape is the original landscape that exists before it is acted upon by human culture. The natural landscape and the cultural landscape are separate parts of the landscape. However, in the twenty-first century landscapes that are totally untouched by human activity no longer exist, so that reference is sometimes now made to degrees of naturalness within a landscape.\n\nIn \"Silent Spring\" (1962) Rachel Carson describes a roadside verge as it used to look: \"Along the roads, laurel, viburnum and alder, great ferns and wildflowers delighted the traveler’s eye through much of the year\" and then how it looks now following the use of herbicides: \"The roadsides, once so attractive, were now lined with browned and withered vegetation as though swept by fire\". Even though the landscape before it is sprayed is biologically degraded, and may well contains alien species, the concept of what might constitute a natural landscape can still be deduced from the context.\n\nThe phrase \"natural landscape\" was first used in connection with landscape painting, and landscape gardening, to contrast a formal style with a more natural one, closer to nature. Alexander von Humboldt (1769 – 1859) was to further conceptualize this into the idea of a natural landscape \"separate\" from the cultural landscape. Then in 1908 geographer Otto Schlüter developed the terms original landscape (\"Urlandschaft\") and its opposite cultural landscape (\"Kulturlandschaft\") in an attempt to give the science of geography a subject matter that was different from the other sciences. An early use of the actual phrase \"natural landscape\" by a geographer can be found in Carl O. Sauer's paper \"The Morphology of Landscape\" (1925).\n\nThe concept of a natural landscape was first developed in connection with landscape painting, though the actual term itself was first used in relation to landscape gardening. In both cases it was used to contrast a formal style with a more natural one, that is closer to nature. Chunglin Kwa suggests, \"that a seventeenth-century or early-eighteenth-century person could experience natural scenery ‘just like on a painting,’ and so, with or without the use of the word itself, designate it as a landscape.\" With regard to landscape gardening John Aikin, commented in 1794: \"Whatever, therefore, there be of \"novelty\" in the singular scenery of an artificial garden, it is soon exhausted, whereas the infinite diversity of a natural landscape presents an inexhaustible flore of new forms\". Writing in 1844 the prominent American landscape gardener Andrew Jackson Downing comments: \"straight canals, round or oblong pieces of water, and all the regular forms of the geometric mode ... would evidently be in violent opposition to the whole character and expression of natural landscape\".\n\nIn his extensive travels in South America, Alexander von Humboldt became the first to conceptualize a natural landscape separate from the cultural landscape, though he does not actually use these terms. Andrew Jackson Downing was aware of, and sympathetic to, Humboldt's ideas, which therefore influenced American landscape gardening.\n\nSubsequently, the geographer Otto Schlüter, in 1908, argued that by defining geography as a \"Landschaftskunde\" (landscape science) would give geography a logical subject matter shared by no other discipline. He defined two forms of landscape: the \"Urlandschaft\" (original landscape) or landscape that existed before major human induced changes and the \"Kulturlandschaft\" (cultural landscape) a landscape created by human culture. Schlüter argued that the major task of geography was to trace the changes in these two landscapes.\n\nThe term natural landscape is sometimes used as a synonym for wilderness, but for geographers natural landscape is a scientific term which refers to the biological, geological, climatological and other aspects of a landscape, not the cultural values that are implied by the word wilderness.\n\nMatters are complicated by the fact that the words nature and natural have more than one meaning. On the one hand there is the main dictionary meaning for nature: \"The phenomena of the physical world collectively, including plants, animals, the landscape, and other features and products of the earth, as opposed to humans or human creations\". On the other hand, there is the growing awareness, especially since Charles Darwin, of humanities biological affinity with nature.\n\nThe dualism of the first definition has its roots is an \"ancient concept\", because early people viewed \"nature, or the nonhuman world […] as a divine \"Other\", godlike in its separation from humans\". In the West, Christianity's myth of the fall, that is the expulsion of humankind from the Garden of Eden, where all creation lived in harmony, into an imperfect world, has been the major influence. Cartesian dualism, from the seventeenth century on, further reinforced this dualistic thinking about nature. \nWith this dualism goes value judgement as to the superiority of the natural over the artificial. Modern science, however, is moving towards a holistic view of nature.\n\nWhat is meant by natural, within the American conservation movement, has been changing over the last century and a half.\n\nIn the mid-nineteenth century American began to realize that the land was becoming more and more domesticated and wildlife was disappearing. This led to the creation of American National Parks and other conservation sites. Initially it was believed that all that was needed to do was to separate what was seen as natural landscape and \"avoid disturbances such as logging, grazing, fire and insect outbreaks\". This, and subsequent environmental policy, until recently, was influenced by ideas of the wilderness. However, this policy was not consistently applied, and in Yellowstone Park, to take one example, the existing ecology was altered, firstly by the exclusion of Native Americans and later with the virtual extermination of the wolf population.\n\nA century later, in the mid-twentieth century, it began to be believed that the earlier policy of \"protection from disturbance was inadequate to preserve park values\", and that is that direct human intervention was necessary to restore the landscape of National Parks to its ‘’natural’’ condition. In 1963 the Leopold Report argued that \"A national park should represent a vignette of primitive America\". This policy change eventually led to the restoration of wolves in Yellowstone Park in the 1990s.\n\nHowever, recent research in various disciplines indicates that a pristine natural or \"primitive\" landscape is a myth, and it now realised that people have been changing the natural into a cultural landscape for a long while, and that there are few places untouched in some way from human influence. The earlier conservation policies were now seen as cultural interventions. The idea of what is natural and what artificial or cultural, and how to maintain the natural elements in a landscape, has been further complicated by the discovery of global warming and how it is changing natural landscapes.\n\nAlso important is a reaction recently amongst scholars against dualistic thinking about nature and culture. Maria Kaika comments: \"Nowadays, we are beginning to see nature and culture as intertwined once again – not ontologically separated anymore […].What I used to perceive as a compartmentalized world, consisting of neatly and tightly sealed, autonomous ‘space envelopes’ (the home, the city, and nature) was, in fact, a messy socio-spatial continuum”. And William Cronon argues against the idea of wilderness because it \"involves a dualistic vision in which the human is entirely outside the natural\" and affirms that \"wildness (as opposed to wilderness) can be found anywhere\" even \"in the cracks of a Manhattan sidewalk\". According to Cronon we have to \"abandon the dualism that sees the tree in the garden as artificial […] and the tree in the wilderness as natural […] Both in some ultimate sense are wild.\" Here he bends somewhat the regular dictionary meaning of wild, to emphasise that nothing natural, even in a garden, is fully under human control.\n\nThe landscape of Europe has considerably altered by people and even in an area, like the Cairngorm Mountains of Scotland, with a low population density, only \" the high summits of the Cairngorm Mountains, consist entirely of natural elements. These \"high summits\" are of course only part of the Cairngorms, and there are no longer wolves, bears, wild boar or lynx in Scotland's wilderness. The Scots pine in the form of the Caledonian forest also covered much more of the Scottish landscape than today.\n\nThe Swiss National Park, however, represent a more natural landscape. It was founded in 1914, and is one of the earliest national parks in Europe.\nVisitors are not allowed to leave the motor road, or paths through the park, make fire or camp. The only building within the park is Chamanna Cluozza, mountain hut. It is also forbidden to disturb the animals or the plants, or to take home anything found in the park. Dogs are not allowed. Due to these strict rules, the Swiss National Park is the only park in the Alps who has been categorized by the IUCN as a strict nature reserve, which is the highest protection level.\n\nNo place on the Earth is unaffected by people and their culture. People are part of biodiversity, but human activity affects biodiversity, and this alters the natural landscape. Mankind have altered landscape to such an extent that few places on earth remain pristine, but once free of human influences, the landscape can return to a natural or near natural state.\nEven the remote Yukon and Alaskan wilderness, the bi-national Kluane-Wrangell-St. Elias-Glacier Bay-Tatshenshini-Alsek park system comprising Kluane, Wrangell-St Elias, Glacier Bay and Tatshenshini-Alsek parks, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, is not free from human influence, because the Kluane National Park lies within the traditional territories of the Champagne and Aishihik First Nations and Kluane First Nation who have a long history of living in this region. Through their respective Final Agreements with the Canadian Government, they have made into law their rights to harvest in this region.\n\nCultural forces intentionally or unintentionally, have an influence upon the landscape. Cultural landscapes are places or artifacts created and maintained by people. Examples of cultural intrusions into a landscape are: fences, roads, parking lots, sand pits, buildings, hiking trails, management of plants, including the introduction of invasive species, extraction or removal of plants, management of animals, mining, hunting, natural landscaping, farming and forestry, pollution. Areas that might be confused with a natural landscape include public parks, farms, orchards, artificial lakes and reservoirs, managed forests, golf courses, nature center trails, gardens.\n\n"}
{"id": "208999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=208999", "title": "Non-renewable resource", "text": "Non-renewable resource\n\nA non-renewable resource (also called a finite resource) is a resource that does not renew itself at a sufficient rate for sustainable economic extraction in meaningful human time-frames. An example is carbon-based, organically-derived fuel. The original organic material, with the aid of heat and pressure, becomes a fuel such as oil or gas. Earth minerals and metal ores, fossil fuels (coal, petroleum, natural gas) and groundwater in certain aquifers are all considered non-renewable resources, though individual elements are almost always conserved.\n\nOn the other hand, resources such as timber (when harvested sustainably) and wind (used to power energy conversion systems) are considered renewable resources, largely because their localized replenishment can occur within time frames meaningful to humans.\n\nEarth minerals and metal ores are examples of non-renewable resources. The metals themselves are present in vast amounts in Earth's crust, and their extraction by humans only occurs where they are concentrated by natural geological processes (such as heat, pressure, organic activity, weathering and other processes) enough to become economically viable to extract. These processes generally take from tens of thousands to millions of years, through plate tectonics, tectonic subsidence and crustal recycling.\n\nThe localized deposits of metal ores near the surface which can be extracted economically by humans are non-renewable in human time-frames. There are certain rare earth minerals and elements that are more scarce and exhaustible than others. These are in high demand in manufacturing, particularly for the electronics industry.\n\nMost metal ores are considered vastly greater in supply to fossil fuels, because metal ores are formed by crustal-scale processes which make up a much larger portion of the Earth's near-surface environment, than those that form fossil fuels which are limited to areas where carbon-based life forms flourish, die, and are quickly buried.\n\nNatural resources such as coal, petroleum (crude oil) and natural gas take thousands of years to form naturally and cannot be replaced as fast as they are being consumed. Eventually it is considered that fossil-based resources will become too costly to harvest and humanity will need to shift its reliance to other sources of energy such as solar or wind power, see renewable energy.\n\nAn alternative hypothesis is that carbon based fuel is virtually inexhaustible in human terms, if one includes all sources of carbon-based energy such as methane hydrates on the sea floor, which are vastly greater than all other carbon based fossil fuel resources combined. These sources of carbon are also considered non-renewable, although their rate of formation/replenishment on the sea floor is not known. However their extraction at economically viable costs and rates has yet to be determined.\n\nAt present, the main energy source used by humans is non-renewable fossil fuels. Since the dawn of internal combustion engine technologies in the 19th century, petroleum and other fossil fuels have remained in continual demand. As a result, conventional infrastructure and transport systems, which are fitted to combustion engines, remain prominent throughout the globe. The continual use of fossil fuels at the current rate is believed to increase global warming and cause more severe climate change.\n\nIn 1987, the World Commission on Environment and Development (WCED) an organization set up by but independent from the United Nations classified fission reactors that produce more fissile nuclear fuel than they consume -i.e. breeder reactors, and when it is developed, fusion power, among conventional renewable energy sources, such as solar and falling water. The American Petroleum Institute likewise does not consider conventional nuclear fission as renewable, but that breeder reactor nuclear power fuel is considered renewable and sustainable, before explaining that radioactive waste from used spent fuel rods remains radioactive, and so has to be very carefully stored for up to a thousand years. With the careful monitoring of radioactive waste products also being required upon the use of other renewable energy sources, such as geothermal energy.\n\nThe use of nuclear technology relying on fission requires Naturally occurring radioactive material as fuel. Uranium, the most common fission fuel, and is present in the ground at relatively low concentrations and mined in 19 countries. This mined uranium is used to fuel energy-generating nuclear reactors with fissionable uranium-235 which generates heat that is ultimately used to power turbines to generate electricity.\n\nAs of 2013 only a few kilograms (picture available) of uranium have been extracted from the ocean in pilot programs and it is also believed that the uranium extracted on an industrial scale from the seawater would constantly be replenished from uranium leached from the ocean floor, maintaining the seawater concentration at a stable level. In 2014, with the advances made in the efficiency of seawater uranium extraction, a paper in the journal of \"Marine Science & Engineering\" suggests that with, light water reactors as its target, the process would be economically competitive if implemented on a large scale.\n\nNuclear power provides about 6% of the world's energy and 13–14% of the world's electricity. Nuclear energy production is associated with potentially dangerous radioactive contamination as it relies upon unstable elements. In particular, nuclear power facilities produce about 200,000 metric tons of low and intermediate level waste (LILW) and 10,000 metric tons of high level waste (HLW) (including spent fuel designated as waste) each year worldwide.\n\nIssues entirely separate from the question of the sustainability of nuclear fuel, relate to the use of nuclear fuel and the high-level radioactive waste the nuclear industry generates that if not properly contained, is highly hazardous to people and wildlife. The United Nations (UNSCEAR) estimated in 2008 that average annual human radiation exposure includes 0.01 millisievert (mSv) from the legacy of past atmospheric nuclear testing plus the Chernobyl disaster and the nuclear fuel cycle, along with 2.0 mSv from natural radioisotopes and 0.4 mSv from cosmic rays; all exposures vary by location. natural uranium in some inefficient reactor nuclear fuel cycles, becomes part of the nuclear waste \"once through\" stream, and in a similar manner to the scenario were this uranium remained naturally in the ground, this uranium emits various forms of radiation in a decay chain that has a half-life of about 4.5 billion years, the storage of this unused uranium and the accompanying fission reaction products have raised public concerns about risks of leaks and containment, however the knowledge gained from studying the Natural nuclear fission reactor in Oklo Gabon, has informed geologists on the proven processes that kept the waste from this 2 billion year old natural nuclear reactor that operated for hundreds of thousands of years, from negatively impacting the surrounding plant and animal life.\n\nNatural resources, known as renewable resources, are replaced by natural processes and forces persistent in the natural environment. There are intermittent and reoccurring renewables, and recyclable materials, which are utilized during a cycle across a certain amount of time, and can be harnessed for any number of cycles.\n\nThe production of goods and services by manufacturing products in economic systems creates many types of waste during production and after the consumer has made use of it. The material is then either incinerated, buried in a landfill or recycled for reuse. Recycling turns materials of value that would otherwise become waste into valuable resources again.\nThe natural environment, with soil, water, forests, plants and animals are all renewable resources, as long as they are adequately monitored, protected and conserved. Sustainable agriculture is the cultivation of plant and animal materials in a manner that preserves plant and animal ecosystems over the long term. The overfishing of the oceans is one example of where an industry practice or method can threaten an ecosystem, endanger species and possibly even determine whether or not a fishery is sustainable for use by humans. An unregulated industry practice or method can lead to a complete resource depletion.\nThe renewable energy from the sun, wind, wave, biomass and geothermal energies are based on renewable resources. Renewable resources such as the movement of water (hydropower, tidal power and wave power), wind and radiant energy from geothermal heat (used for geothermal power) and solar energy (used for solar power) are practically infinite and cannot be depleted, unlike their non-renewable counterparts, which are likely to run out if not used sparingly.\n\nThe potential wave energy on coastlines can provide 1/5 of world demand. Hydroelectric power can supply 1/3 of our total energy global needs. Geothermal energy can provide 1.5 more times the energy we need. There is enough wind to power the planet 30 times over, wind power could power all of humanity's needs alone. Solar currently supplies only 0.1% of our world energy needs, but there is enough out there to power humanity's needs 4,000 times over, the entire global projected energy demand by 2050.\n\nRenewable energy and energy efficiency are no longer niche sectors that are promoted only by governments and environmentalists. The increasing levels of investment and that more of the capital is from conventional financial actors, both suggest that sustainable energy has become mainstream and the future of energy production, as non-renewable resources decline. This is reinforced by climate change concerns, nuclear dangers and accumulating radioactive waste, high oil prices, peak oil and increasing government support for renewable energy. These factors are commercializing renewable energy, enlarging the market and growing demand, the adoption of new products to replace obsolete technology and the conversion of existing infrastructure to a renewable standard.\n\nIn economics, a non-renewable resource is defined as goods, where greater consumption today implies less consumption tomorrow. David Ricardo in his early works analysed the pricing of exhaustible resources, where he argued that the price of a mineral resource should increase over time. He argued that the spot price is always determined by the mine with the highest cost of extraction, and mine owners with lower extraction costs benefit from a differential rent. The first model is defined by Hotelling's rule, which is a 1931 economic model of non-renewable resource management by Harold Hotelling. It shows that efficient exploitation of a nonrenewable and nonaugmentable resource would, under otherwise stable conditions, lead to a depletion of the resource. The rule states that this would lead to a net price or \"Hotelling rent\" for it that rose annually at a rate equal to the rate of interest, reflecting the increasing scarcity of the resources.\nThe Hartwick's rule provides an important result about the sustainability of welfare in an economy that uses non-renewable source.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "251399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251399", "title": "Observable universe", "text": "Observable universe\n\nThe observable universe is a spherical region of the Universe comprising all matter that can be observed from Earth at the present time, because electromagnetic radiation from these objects has had time to reach Earth since the beginning of the cosmological expansion. There are at least 2 trillion galaxies in the observable universe. Assuming the Universe is isotropic, the distance to the edge of the observable universe is roughly the same in every direction. That is, the observable universe has a spherical volume (a ball) centered on the observer. Every location in the Universe has its own observable universe, which may or may not overlap with the one centered on Earth.\n\nThe word \"observable\" in this sense does not refer to the capability of modern technology to detect light or other information from an object, or whether there is anything to be detected. It refers to the physical limit created by the speed of light itself. Because no signals can travel faster than light, any object farther away from us than light could travel in the age of the Universe (estimated around years) simply cannot be detected, as they have not reached us yet. Sometimes astrophysicists distinguish between the \"visible\" universe, which includes only signals emitted since recombination—and the \"observable\" universe, which includes signals since the beginning of the cosmological expansion (the Big Bang in traditional physical cosmology, the end of the inflationary epoch in modern cosmology).\n\nAccording to calculations, the current \"comoving distance\"—proper distance, which takes into account that the universe has expanded since the light was emitted—to particles from which the cosmic microwave background radiation (CMBR) was emitted, which represent the radius of the visible universe, is about 14.0 billion parsecs (about 45.7 billion light-years), while the comoving distance to the edge of the observable universe is about 14.3 billion parsecs (about 46.6 billion light-years), about 2% larger. The radius of the observable universe is therefore estimated to be about 46.5 billion light-years and its diameter about 28.5 gigaparsecs (93 billion light-years, ). The total mass of ordinary matter in the universe can be calculated using the critical density and the diameter of the observable universe to be about 1.5×10 kg.\n\nSince the expansion of the universe is known to accelerate and will become exponential in the future, the light emitted from all distant objects, past some time dependent on their current redshift, will never reach the Earth. In the future all currently observable objects will slowly freeze in time while emitting progressively redder and fainter light. For instance, objects with the current redshift \"z\" from 5 to 10 will remain observable for no more than 4–6 billion years. In addition, light emitted by objects currently situated beyond a certain comoving distance (currently about 19 billion parsecs) will never reach Earth.\n\nSome parts of the universe are too far away for the light emitted since the Big Bang to have had enough time to reach Earth, and so lie outside the observable universe. In the future, light from distant galaxies will have had more time to travel, so additional regions will become observable. However, due to Hubble's law, regions sufficiently distant from the Earth are expanding away from it faster than the speed of light (special relativity prevents nearby objects in the same local region from moving faster than the speed of light with respect to each other, but there is no such constraint for distant objects when the space between them is expanding; see uses of the proper distance for a discussion) and furthermore the expansion rate appears to be accelerating due to dark energy. Assuming dark energy remains constant (an unchanging cosmological constant), so that the expansion rate of the universe continues to accelerate, there is a \"future visibility limit\" beyond which objects will \"never\" enter our observable universe at any time in the infinite future, because light emitted by objects outside that limit would never reach the Earth. (A subtlety is that, because the Hubble parameter is decreasing with time, there can be cases where a galaxy that is receding from the Earth just a bit faster than light does emit a signal that reaches the Earth eventually.) This future visibility limit is calculated at a comoving distance of 19 billion parsecs (62 billion light-years), assuming the universe will keep expanding forever, which implies the number of galaxies that we can ever theoretically observe in the infinite future (leaving aside the issue that some may be impossible to observe in practice due to redshift, as discussed in the following paragraph) is only larger than the number currently observable by a factor of 2.36.\n\nThough in principle more galaxies will become observable in the future, in practice an increasing number of galaxies will become extremely redshifted due to ongoing expansion, so much so that they will seem to disappear from view and become invisible. An additional subtlety is that a galaxy at a given comoving distance is defined to lie within the \"observable universe\" if we can receive signals emitted by the galaxy at any age in its past history (say, a signal sent from the galaxy only 500 million years after the Big Bang), but because of the universe's expansion, there may be some later age at which a signal sent from the same galaxy can \"never\" reach the Earth at any point in the infinite future (so, for example, we might never see what the galaxy looked like 10 billion years after the Big Bang), even though it remains at the same comoving distance (comoving distance is defined to be constant with time—unlike proper distance, which is used to define recession velocity due to the expansion of space), which is less than the comoving radius of the observable universe. This fact can be used to define a type of cosmic event horizon whose distance from the Earth changes over time. For example, the current distance to this horizon is about 16 billion light-years, meaning that a signal from an event happening \"at present\" can eventually reach the Earth in the future if the event is less than 16 billion light-years away, but the signal will never reach the Earth if the event is more than 16 billion light-years away.\n\nBoth popular and professional research articles in cosmology often use the term \"universe\" to mean \"observable universe\". This can be justified on the grounds that we can never know anything by direct experimentation about any part of the universe that is causally disconnected from the Earth, although many credible theories require a total universe much larger than the observable universe. No evidence exists to suggest that the boundary of the observable universe constitutes a boundary on the universe as a whole, nor do any of the mainstream cosmological models propose that the universe has any physical boundary in the first place, though some models propose it could be finite but unbounded, like a higher-dimensional analogue of the 2D surface of a sphere that is finite in area but has no edge. It is plausible that the galaxies within our observable universe represent only a minuscule fraction of the galaxies in the universe. According to the theory of cosmic inflation initially introduced by its founder, Alan Guth (and by D. Kazanas ), if it is assumed that inflation began about 10 seconds after the Big Bang, then with the plausible assumption that the size of the universe before the inflation occurred was approximately equal to the speed of light times its age, that would suggest that at present the entire universe's size is at least 3×10 times the radius of the observable universe. There are also lower estimates claiming that the entire universe is in excess of 250 times larger than the observable universe and also higher estimates implying that the universe is at least 10 times larger than the observable universe.\n\nIf the universe is finite but unbounded, it is also possible that the universe is \"smaller\" than the observable universe. In this case, what we take to be very distant galaxies may actually be duplicate images of nearby galaxies, formed by light that has circumnavigated the universe. It is difficult to test this hypothesis experimentally because different images of a galaxy would show different eras in its history, and consequently might appear quite different. Bielewicz et al. claims to establish a lower bound of 27.9 gigaparsecs (91 billion light-years) on the diameter of the last scattering surface (since this is only a lower bound, the paper leaves open the possibility that the whole universe is much larger, even infinite). This value is based on matching-circle analysis of the WMAP 7 year data. This approach has been disputed.\n\nThe comoving distance from Earth to the edge of the observable universe is about 14.26 gigaparsecs (46.5 billion light-years or ) in any direction. The observable universe is thus a sphere with a diameter of about 28.5 gigaparsecs (93 billion light-years or ). Assuming that space is roughly flat (in the sense of being a Euclidean space), this size corresponds to a comoving volume of about ( or ).\n\nThe figures quoted above are distances \"now\" (in cosmological time), not distances \"at the time the light was emitted\". For example, the cosmic microwave background radiation that we see right now was emitted at the time of photon decoupling, estimated to have occurred about years after the Big Bang, which occurred around 13.8 billion years ago. This radiation was emitted by matter that has, in the intervening time, mostly condensed into galaxies, and those galaxies are now calculated to be about 46 billion light-years from us. To estimate the distance to that matter at the time the light was emitted, we may first note that according to the Friedmann–Lemaître–Robertson–Walker metric, which is used to model the expanding universe, if at the present time we receive light with a redshift of \"z\", then the scale factor at the time the light was originally emitted is given by\n\nformula_1.\n\nWMAP nine-year results combined with other measurements give the redshift of photon decoupling as \"z\" = , which implies that the scale factor at the time of photon decoupling would be . So if the matter that originally emitted the oldest CMBR photons has a \"present\" distance of 46 billion light-years, then at the time of decoupling when the photons were originally emitted, the distance would have been only about 42 \"million\" light-years.\n\nMany secondary sources have reported a wide variety of incorrect figures for the size of the visible universe. Some of these figures are listed below, with brief descriptions of possible reasons for misconceptions about them.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSky surveys and mappings of the various wavelength bands of electromagnetic radiation (in particular 21-cm emission) have yielded much information on the content and character of the universe's structure. The organization of structure appears to follow as a hierarchical model with organization up to the scale of superclusters and filaments. Larger than this (at scales between 30 and 200 megaparsecs), there seems to be no continued structure, a phenomenon that has been referred to as the \"End of Greatness\".\n\nThe organization of structure arguably begins at the stellar level, though most cosmologists rarely address astrophysics on that scale. Stars are organized into galaxies, which in turn form galaxy groups, galaxy clusters, superclusters, sheets, walls and filaments, which are separated by immense voids, creating a vast foam-like structure sometimes called the \"cosmic web\". Prior to 1989, it was commonly assumed that virialized galaxy clusters were the largest structures in existence, and that they were distributed more or less uniformly throughout the universe in every direction. However, since the early 1980s, more and more structures have been discovered. In 1983, Adrian Webster identified the Webster LQG, a large quasar group consisting of 5 quasars. The discovery was the first identification of a large-scale structure, and has expanded the information about the known grouping of matter in the universe. In 1987, Robert Brent Tully identified the Pisces–Cetus Supercluster Complex, the galaxy filament in which the Milky Way resides. It is about 1 billion light-years across. That same year, an unusually large region with a much lower than average distribution of galaxies was discovered, the Giant Void, which measures 1.3 billion light-years across. Based on redshift survey data, in 1989 Margaret Geller and John Huchra discovered the \"Great Wall\", a sheet of galaxies more than 500 million light-years long and 200 million light-years wide, but only 15 million light-years thick. The existence of this structure escaped notice for so long because it requires locating the position of galaxies in three dimensions, which involves combining location information about the galaxies with distance information from redshifts.\nTwo years later, astronomers Roger G. Clowes and Luis E. Campusano discovered the Clowes–Campusano LQG, a large quasar group measuring two billion light-years at its widest point which was the largest known structure in the universe at the time of its announcement. In April 2003, another large-scale structure was discovered, the Sloan Great Wall. In August 2007, a possible supervoid was detected in the constellation Eridanus. It coincides with the 'CMB cold spot', a cold region in the microwave sky that is highly improbable under the currently favored cosmological model. This supervoid could cause the cold spot, but to do so it would have to be improbably big, possibly a billion light-years across, almost as big as the Giant Void mentioned above.\n\nAnother large-scale structure is the SSA22 Protocluster, a collection of galaxies and enormous gas bubbles that measures about 200 million light-years across.\n\nIn 2011, a large quasar group was discovered, U1.11, measuring about 2.5 billion light-years across. On January 11, 2013, another large quasar group, the Huge-LQG, was discovered, which was measured to be four billion light-years across, the largest known structure in the universe at that time. In November 2013, astronomers discovered the Hercules–Corona Borealis Great Wall, an even bigger structure twice as large as the former. It was defined by the mapping of gamma-ray bursts.\n\nThe \"End of Greatness\" is an observational scale discovered at roughly 100 Mpc (roughly 300 million light-years) where the lumpiness seen in the large-scale structure of the universe is homogenized and isotropized in accordance with the Cosmological Principle. At this scale, no pseudo-random fractalness is apparent.\nThe superclusters and filaments seen in smaller surveys are randomized to the extent that the smooth distribution of the universe is visually apparent. It was not until the redshift surveys of the 1990s were completed that this scale could accurately be observed.\n\nAnother indicator of large-scale structure is the 'Lyman-alpha forest'. This is a collection of absorption lines that appear in the spectra of light from quasars, which are interpreted as indicating the existence of huge thin sheets of intergalactic (mostly hydrogen) gas. These sheets appear to be associated with the formation of new galaxies.\n\nCaution is required in describing structures on a cosmic scale because things are often different from how they appear. Gravitational lensing (bending of light by gravitation) can make an image appear to originate in a different direction from its real source. This is caused when foreground objects (such as galaxies) curve surrounding spacetime (as predicted by general relativity), and deflect passing light rays. Rather usefully, strong gravitational lensing can sometimes magnify distant galaxies, making them easier to detect. Weak lensing (gravitational shear) by the intervening universe in general also subtly changes the observed large-scale structure. \n\nThe large-scale structure of the universe also looks different if one only uses redshift to measure distances to galaxies. For example, galaxies behind a galaxy cluster are attracted to it, and so fall towards it, and so are slightly blueshifted (compared to how they would be if there were no cluster) On the near side, things are slightly redshifted. Thus, the environment of the cluster looks a bit squashed if using redshifts to measure distance. An opposite effect works on the galaxies already within a cluster: the galaxies have some random motion around the cluster center, and when these random motions are converted to redshifts, the cluster appears elongated. This creates a \"finger of God\"—the illusion of a long chain of galaxies pointed at the Earth.\n\nAt the centre of the Hydra-Centaurus Supercluster, a gravitational anomaly called the Great Attractor affects the motion of galaxies over a region hundreds of millions of light-years across. These galaxies are all redshifted, in accordance with Hubble's law. This indicates that they are receding from us and from each other, but the variations in their redshift are sufficient to reveal the existence of a concentration of mass equivalent to tens of thousands of galaxies.\n\nThe Great Attractor, discovered in 1986, lies at a distance of between 150 million and 250 million light-years (250 million is the most recent estimate), in the direction of the Hydra and Centaurus constellations. In its vicinity there is a preponderance of large old galaxies, many of which are colliding with their neighbours, or radiating large amounts of radio waves.\n\nIn 1987, astronomer R. Brent Tully of the University of Hawaii's Institute of Astronomy identified what he called the Pisces–Cetus Supercluster Complex, a structure one billion light-years long and 150 million light-years across in which, he claimed, the Local Supercluster was embedded.\n\nThe mass of the observable universe is often quoted as 10 tonnes or 10 kg. In this context, mass refers to ordinary matter and includes the interstellar medium (ISM) and the intergalactic medium (IGM). However, it excludes dark matter and dark energy. This quoted value for the mass of ordinary matter in the universe can be estimated based on critical density. The calculations are for the observable universe only as the volume of the whole is unknown and may be infinite.\nCritical density is the energy density for which the universe is flat. If there is no dark energy, it is also the density for which the expansion of the universe is poised between continued expansion and collapse. From the Friedmann equations, the value for formula_2 critical density, is:\n\nwhere \"G\" is the gravitational constant and H = \"H\" is the present value of the Hubble constant. The current value for \"H\", due to the European Space Agency's Planck Telescope, is \"H\" = 67.15 kilometers per second per mega parsec. This gives a critical density of (commonly quoted as about 5 hydrogen atoms per cubic meter). This density includes four significant types of energy/mass: ordinary matter (4.8%), neutrinos (0.1%), cold dark matter (26.8%), and dark energy (68.3%). Note that although neutrinos are Standard Model particles, they are listed separately because they are difficult to detect and so different from ordinary matter. The density of ordinary matter, as measured by Planck, is 4.8% of the total critical density or . To convert this density to mass we must multiply by volume, a value based on the radius of the \"observable universe\". Since the universe has been expanding for 13.8 billion years, the comoving distance (radius) is now about 46.6 billion light-years. Thus, volume (\"πr\") equals and the mass of ordinary matter equals density () times volume () or .\n\nAssuming the mass of ordinary matter is about (refer to previous section) and assuming all atoms are hydrogen atoms (which in reality make up about 74% of all atoms in our galaxy by mass, see Abundance of the chemical elements), calculating the estimated total number of atoms in the observable universe is straightforward. Divide the mass of ordinary matter by the mass of a hydrogen atom ( divided by ). The result is approximately 10 hydrogen atoms.\n\nThe most distant astronomical object yet announced as of 2016 is a galaxy classified GN-z11. In 2009, a gamma ray burst, GRB 090423, was found to have a redshift of 8.2, which indicates that the collapsing star that caused it exploded when the universe was only 630 million years old. The burst happened approximately 13 billion years ago, so a distance of about 13 billion light-years was widely quoted in the media (or sometimes a more precise figure of 13.035 billion light-years), though this would be the \"light travel distance\" (\"see\" Distance measures (cosmology)) rather than the \"proper distance\" used in both Hubble's law and in defining the size of the observable universe (cosmologist Ned Wright argues against the common use of light travel distance in astronomical press releases on this page, and at the bottom of the page offers online calculators that can be used to calculate the current proper distance to a distant object in a flat universe based on either the redshift \"z\" or the light travel time). The proper distance for a redshift of 8.2 would be about 9.2 Gpc, or about 30 billion light-years. Another record-holder for most distant object is a galaxy observed through and located beyond Abell 2218, also with a light travel distance of approximately 13 billion light-years from Earth, with observations from the Hubble telescope indicating a redshift between 6.6 and 7.1, and observations from Keck telescopes indicating a redshift towards the upper end of this range, around 7. The galaxy's light now observable on Earth would have begun to emanate from its source about 750 million years after the Big Bang.\n\nThe limit of observability in our universe is set by a set of cosmological horizons which limit—based on various physical constraints—the extent to which we can obtain information about various events in the universe. The most famous horizon is the particle horizon which sets a limit on the precise distance that can be seen due to the finite age of the universe. Additional horizons are associated with the possible future extent of observations (larger than the particle horizon owing to the expansion of space), an \"optical horizon\" at the surface of last scattering, and associated horizons with the surface of last scattering for neutrinos and gravitational waves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1841288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1841288", "title": "Outline of energy", "text": "Outline of energy\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to energy:\n\nEnergy – in physics, this is an indirectly observed quantity often understood as the ability of a physical system to do work on other physical systems. Since work is defined as a force acting through a distance (a length of space), energy is always equivalent to the ability to exert force (a pull or a push) against an object that is moving along a definite path of certain length.\n\n\nUnits of energy\n\n\nEnergy industry\n\nSee especially and for a large number of conventional energy related topics.\n\n\nHistory of energy\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEnergy economics\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "655002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=655002", "title": "Philosophy of space and time", "text": "Philosophy of space and time\n\nPhilosophy of space and time is the branch of philosophy concerned with the issues surrounding the ontology, epistemology, and character of space and time. While such ideas have been central to philosophy from its inception, the philosophy of space and time was both an inspiration for and a central aspect of early analytic philosophy. The subject focuses on a number of basic issues, including whether time and space exist independently of the mind, whether they exist independently of one another, what accounts for time's apparently unidirectional flow, whether times other than the present moment exist, and questions about the nature of identity (particularly the nature of identity over time).\n\nThe earliest recorded Western philosophy of time was expounded by the ancient Egyptian thinker Ptahhotep (c. 2650–2600 BC) who said: \n\nThe \"Vedas\", the earliest texts on Indian philosophy and Hindu philosophy, dating back to the late 2nd millennium BC, describe ancient Hindu cosmology, in which the universe goes through repeated cycles of creation, destruction, and rebirth, with each cycle lasting 4,320,000 years. Ancient Greek philosophers, including Parmenides and Heraclitus, wrote essays on the nature of time.\n\nIncas regarded space and time as a single concept, named pacha (, ).\n\nPlato, in the \"Timaeus\", identified time with the period of motion of the heavenly bodies, and space as that in which things come to be. Aristotle, in Book IV of his \"Physics\", defined time as the number of changes with respect to before and after, and the place of an object as the innermost motionless boundary of that which surrounds it.\n\nIn Book 11 of St. Augustine's \"Confessions\", he ruminates on the nature of time, asking, \"What then is time? If no one asks me, I know: if I wish to explain it to one that asketh, I know not.\" He goes on to comment on the difficulty of thinking about time, pointing out the inaccuracy of common speech: \"For but few things are there of which we speak properly; of most things we speak improperly, still the things intended are understood.\" But Augustine presented the first philosophical argument for the reality of Creation (against Aristotle) in the context of his discussion of time, saying that knowledge of time depends on the knowledge of the movement of things, and therefore time cannot be where there are no creatures to measure its passing (Confessions Book XI ¶30; City of God Book XI ch.6).\n\nIn contrast to ancient Greek philosophers who believed that the universe had an infinite past with no beginning, medieval philosophers and theologians developed the concept of the universe having a finite past with a beginning, now known as Temporal finitism. The Christian philosopher John Philoponus presented early arguments, adopted by later Christian philosophers and theologians of the form \"argument from the impossibility of the existence of an actual infinite\", which states:\n\nIn the early 11th century, the Muslim physicist Ibn al-Haytham (Alhacen or Alhazen) discussed space perception and its epistemological implications in his \"Book of Optics\" (1021). He also rejected Aristotle's definition of \"topos\" (\"Physics\" IV) by way of geometric demonstrations and defined place as a mathematical spatial extension. His experimental proof of the intro-mission model of vision led to changes in the understanding of the visual perception of space, contrary to the previous emission theory of vision supported by Euclid and Ptolemy. In \"tying the visual perception of space to prior bodily experience, Alhacen unequivocally rejected the intuitiveness of spatial perception and, therefore, the autonomy of vision. Without tangible notions of distance and size for correlation, sight can tell us next to nothing about such things.\"\n\nA traditional realist position in ontology is that time and space have existence apart from the human mind. Idealists, by contrast, deny or doubt the existence of objects independent of the mind. Some anti-realists, whose ontological position is that objects outside the mind do exist, nevertheless doubt the independent existence of time and space.\n\nIn 1781, Immanuel Kant published the \"Critique of Pure Reason\", one of the most influential works in the history of the philosophy of space and time. He describes time as an \"a priori\" notion that, together with other \"a priori\" notions such as space, allows us to comprehend sense experience. Kant denies that neither space or time are substance, entities in themselves, or learned by experience; he holds, rather, that both are elements of a systematic framework we use to structure our experience. Spatial measurements are used to quantify how far apart objects are, and temporal measurements are used to quantitatively compare the interval between (or duration of) events. Although space and time are held to be \"transcendentally ideal\" in this sense, they are also \"empirically real\"—that is, not mere illusions.\n\nSome idealist writers, such as J. M. E. McTaggart in \"The Unreality of Time\", have argued that time is an illusion (see also The flow of time, below).\n\nThe writers discussed here are for the most part realists in this regard; for instance, Gottfried Leibniz held that his monads existed, at least independently of the mind of the observer.\n\nThe great debate between defining notions of space and time as real objects themselves (absolute), or mere orderings upon actual objects (relational), began between physicists Isaac Newton (via his spokesman, Samuel Clarke) and Gottfried Leibniz in the papers of the Leibniz–Clarke correspondence.\n\nArguing against the absolutist position, Leibniz offers a number of thought experiments with the purpose of showing that there is contradiction in assuming the existence of facts such as absolute location and velocity. These arguments trade heavily on two principles central to his philosophy: the principle of sufficient reason and the identity of indiscernibles. The principle of sufficient reason holds that for every fact, there is a reason that is sufficient to explain what and why it is the way it is and not otherwise. The identity of indiscernibles states that if there is no way of telling two entities apart, then they are one and the same thing.\n\nThe example Leibniz uses involves two proposed universes situated in absolute space. The only discernible difference between them is that the latter is positioned five feet to the left of the first. The example is only possible if such a thing as absolute space exists. Such a situation, however, is not possible, according to Leibniz, for if it were, a universe's position in absolute space would have no sufficient reason, as it might very well have been anywhere else. Therefore, it contradicts the principle of sufficient reason, and there could exist two distinct universes that were in all ways indiscernible, thus contradicting the identity of indiscernibles.\n\nStanding out in Clarke's (and Newton's) response to Leibniz's arguments is the bucket argument: Water in a bucket, hung from a rope and set to spin, will start with a flat surface. As the water begins to spin in the bucket, the surface of the water will become concave. If the bucket is stopped, the water will continue to spin, and while the spin continues, the surface will remain concave. The concave surface is apparently not the result of the interaction of the bucket and the water, since the surface is flat when the bucket first starts to spin, it becomes concave as the water starts to spin, and it remains concave as the bucket stops.\n\nIn this response, Clarke argues for the necessity of the existence of absolute space to account for phenomena like rotation and acceleration that cannot be accounted for on a purely relationalist account. Clarke argues that since the curvature of the water occurs in the rotating bucket as well as in the stationary bucket containing spinning water, it can only be explained by stating that the water is rotating in relation to the presence of some third thing—absolute space.\n\nLeibniz describes a space that exists only as a relation between objects, and which has no existence apart from the existence of those objects. Motion exists only as a relation between those objects. Newtonian space provided the absolute frame of reference within which objects can have motion. In Newton's system, the frame of reference exists independently of the objects contained within it. These objects can be described as moving in relation to space itself. For almost two centuries, the evidence of a concave water surface held authority.\n\nAnother important figure in this debate is 19th-century physicist Ernst Mach. While he did not deny the existence of phenomena like that seen in the bucket argument, he still denied the absolutist conclusion by offering a different answer as to what the bucket was rotating in relation to: the fixed stars.\n\nMach suggested that thought experiments like the bucket argument are problematic. If we were to imagine a universe that only contains a bucket, on Newton's account, this bucket could be set to spin relative to absolute space, and the water it contained would form the characteristic concave surface. But in the absence of anything else in the universe, it would be difficult to confirm that the bucket was indeed spinning. It seems equally possible that the surface of the water in the bucket would remain flat.\n\nMach argued that, in effect, the water experiment in an otherwise empty universe would remain flat. But if another object were introduced into this universe, perhaps a distant star, there would now be something relative to which the bucket could be seen as rotating. The water inside the bucket could possibly have a slight curve. To account for the curve that we observe, an increase in the number of objects in the universe also increases the curvature in the water. Mach argued that the momentum of an object, whether angular or linear, exists as a result of the sum of the effects of other objects in the universe (Mach's Principle).\n\nAlbert Einstein proposed that the laws of physics should be based on the principle of relativity. This principle holds that the rules of physics must be the same for all observers, regardless of the frame of reference that is used, and that light propagates at the same speed in all reference frames. This theory was motivated by Maxwell's equations, which show that electromagnetic waves propagate in a vacuum at the speed of light. However, Maxwell's equations give no indication of what this speed is relative to. Prior to Einstein, it was thought that this speed was relative to a fixed medium, called the luminiferous ether. In contrast, the theory of special relativity postulates that light propagates at the speed of light in all inertial frames, and examines the implications of this postulate.\n\nAll attempts to measure any speed relative to this ether failed, which can be seen as a confirmation of Einstein's postulate that light propagates at the same speed in all reference frames. Special relativity is a formalization of the principle of relativity that does not contain a privileged inertial frame of reference, such as the luminiferous ether or absolute space, from which Einstein inferred that no such frame exists.\n\nEinstein generalized relativity to frames of reference that were non-inertial. He achieved this by positing the Equivalence Principle, which states that the force felt by an observer in a given gravitational field and that felt by an observer in an accelerating frame of reference are indistinguishable. This led to the conclusion that the mass of an object warps the geometry of the space-time surrounding it, as described in Einstein's field equations.\n\nIn classical physics, an inertial reference frame is one in which an object that experiences no forces does not accelerate. In general relativity, an inertial frame of reference is one that is following a geodesic of space-time. An object that moves against a geodesic experiences a force. An object in free fall does not experience a force, because it is following a geodesic. An object standing on the earth, however, will experience a force, as it is being held against the geodesic by the surface of the planet.\n\nEinstein partially advocates Mach's principle in that distant stars explain inertia because they provide the gravitational field against which acceleration and inertia occur. But contrary to Leibniz's account, this warped space-time is as integral a part of an object as are its other defining characteristics, such as volume and mass. If one holds, contrary to idealist beliefs, that objects exist independently of the mind, it seems that relativistics commits them to also hold that space and temporality have exactly the same type of independent existence.\n\nThe position of conventionalism states that there is no fact of the matter as to the geometry of space and time, but that it is decided by convention. The first proponent of such a view, Henri Poincaré, reacting to the creation of the new non-Euclidean geometry, argued that which geometry applied to a space was decided by convention, since different geometries will describe a set of objects equally well, based on considerations from his sphere-world.\n\nThis view was developed and updated to include considerations from relativistic physics by Hans Reichenbach. Reichenbach's conventionalism, applying to space and time, focuses around the idea of coordinative definition.\n\nCoordinative definition has two major features. The first has to do with coordinating units of length with certain physical objects. This is motivated by the fact that we can never directly apprehend length. Instead we must choose some physical object, say the Standard Metre at the Bureau International des Poids et Mesures (International Bureau of Weights and Measures), or the wavelength of cadmium to stand in as our unit of length. The second feature deals with separated objects. Although we can, presumably, directly test the equality of length of two measuring rods when they are next to one another, we can not find out as much for two rods distant from one another. Even supposing that two rods, whenever brought near to one another are seen to be equal in length, we are not justified in stating that they are always equal in length. This impossibility undermines our ability to decide the equality of length of two distant objects. Sameness of length, to the contrary, must be set by definition.\n\nSuch a use of coordinative definition is in effect, on Reichenbach's conventionalism, in the General Theory of Relativity where light is assumed, i.e. not discovered, to mark out equal distances in equal times. After this setting of coordinative definition, however, the geometry of spacetime is set.\n\nAs in the absolutism/relationalism debate, contemporary philosophy is still in disagreement as to the correctness of the conventionalist doctrine.\n\nBuilding from a mix of insights from the historical debates of absolutism and conventionalism as well as reflecting on the import of the technical apparatus of the General Theory of Relativity, details as to the structure of space-time have made up a large proportion of discussion within the philosophy of space and time, as well as the philosophy of physics. The following is a short list of topics.\n\nAccording to special relativity each point in the universe can have a different set of events that compose its present instant. This has been used in the Rietdijk–Putnam argument to demonstrate that relativity predicts a block universe in which events are fixed in four dimensions.\n\nBringing to bear the lessons of the absolutism/relationalism debate with the powerful mathematical tools invented in the 19th and 20th century, Michael Friedman draws a distinction between invariance upon mathematical transformation and covariance upon transformation.\n\nInvariance, or symmetry, applies to \"objects\", i.e. the symmetry group of a space-time theory designates what features of objects are invariant, or absolute, and which are dynamical, or variable.\n\nCovariance applies to \"formulations\" of theories, i.e. the covariance group designates in which range of coordinate systems the laws of physics hold.\n\nThis distinction can be illustrated by revisiting Leibniz's thought experiment, in which the universe is shifted over five feet. In this example the position of an object is seen not to be a property of that object, i.e. location is not invariant. Similarly, the covariance group for classical mechanics will be any coordinate systems that are obtained from one another by shifts in position as well as other translations allowed by a Galilean transformation.\n\nIn the classical case, the invariance, or symmetry, group and the covariance group coincide, but they part ways in relativistic physics. The symmetry group of the general theory of relativity includes all differentiable transformations, i.e., all properties of an object are dynamical, in other words there are no absolute objects. The formulations of the general theory of relativity, unlike those of classical mechanics, do not share a standard, i.e., there is no single formulation paired with transformations. As such the covariance group of the general theory of relativity is just the covariance group of every theory.\n\nA further application of the modern mathematical methods, in league with the idea of invariance and covariance groups, is to try to interpret historical views of space and time in modern, mathematical language.\n\nIn these translations, a theory of space and time is seen as a manifold paired with vector spaces, the more vector spaces the more facts there are about objects in that theory. The historical development of spacetime theories is generally seen to start from a position where many facts about objects are incorporated in that theory, and as history progresses, more and more structure is removed.\n\nFor example, Aristotelian space and time has both absolute position and special places, such as the center of the cosmos, and the circumference. Newtonian space and time has absolute position and is Galilean invariant, but does not have special positions.\n\nWith the general theory of relativity, the traditional debate between absolutism and relationalism has been shifted to whether spacetime is a substance, since the general theory of relativity largely rules out the existence of, e.g., absolute positions. One powerful argument against spacetime substantivalism, offered by John Earman is known as the \"hole argument\".\n\nThis is a technical mathematical argument but can be paraphrased as follows:\n\nDefine a function \"d\" as the identity function over all elements over the manifold M, excepting a small neighbourhood H belonging to M. Over H \"d\" comes to differ from identity by a smooth function.\n\nWith use of this function \"d\" we can construct two mathematical models, where the second is generated by applying \"d\" to proper elements of the first, such that the two models are identical prior to the time \"t\"=0, where \"t\" is a time function created by a foliation of spacetime, but differ after \"t\"=0.\n\nThese considerations show that, since substantivalism allows the construction of holes, that the universe must, on that view, be indeterministic. Which, Earman argues, is a case against substantivalism, as the case between determinism or indeterminism should be a question of physics, not of our commitment to substantivalism.\n\nThe problem of the direction of time arises directly from two contradictory facts. Firstly, the fundamental physical laws are time-reversal invariant; if a cinematographic film were taken of any process describable by means of the aforementioned laws and then played backwards, it would still portray a physically possible process. Secondly, our experience of time, at the macroscopic level, is \"not\" time-reversal invariant. Glasses can fall and break, but shards of glass cannot reassemble and fly up onto tables. We have memories of the past, and none of the future. We feel we can't change the past but can influence the future.\n\nOne solution to this problem takes a metaphysical view, in which the direction of time follows from an asymmetry of causation. We know more about the past because the elements of the past are causes for the effect that is our perception. We feel we can't affect the past and can affect the future because we \"can't\" affect the past and \"can\" affect the future.\n\nThere are two main objections to this view. First is the problem of distinguishing the cause from the effect in a non-arbitrary way. The use of causation in constructing a temporal ordering could easily become circular. The second problem with this view is its explanatory power. While the causation account, if successful, may account for some time-asymmetric phenomena like perception and action, it does not account for many others.\n\nHowever, asymmetry of causation can be observed in a non-arbitrary way which is not metaphysical in the case of a human hand dropping a cup of water which smashes into fragments on a hard floor, spilling the liquid. In this order, the causes of the resultant pattern of cup fragments and water spill is easily attributable in terms of the trajectory of the cup, irregularities in its structure, angle of its impact on the floor, etc. However, applying the same event in reverse, it is difficult to explain why the various pieces of the cup should fly up into the human hand and reassemble precisely into the shape of a cup, or why the water should position itself entirely within the cup. The causes of the resultant structure and shape of the cup and the encapsulation of the water by the hand within the cup are not easily attributable, as neither hand nor floor can achieve such formations of the cup or water. This asymmetry is perceivable on account of two features: i) the relationship between the agent capacities of the human hand (i.e., what it is and is not capable of and what it is for) and non-animal agency (i.e., what floors are and are not capable of and what they are for) and ii) that the pieces of cup came to possess exactly the nature and number of those of a cup before assembling. In short, such asymmetry is attributable to the relationship between i) temporal direction and ii) the implications of form and functional capacity.\n\nThe application of these ideas of form and functional capacity only dictates temporal direction in relation to complex scenarios involving specific, non-metaphysical agency which is not merely dependent on human perception of time. However, this last observation in itself is not sufficient to invalidate the implications of the example for the progressive nature of time in general.\n\nThe second major family of solutions to this problem, and by far the one that has generated the most literature, finds the existence of the direction of time as relating to the nature of thermodynamics.\n\nThe answer from classical thermodynamics states that while our basic physical theory is, in fact, time-reversal symmetric, thermodynamics is not. In particular, the second law of thermodynamics states that the net entropy of a closed system never decreases, and this explains why we often see glass breaking, but not coming back together.\n\nBut in statistical mechanics things become more complicated. On one hand, statistical mechanics is far superior to classical thermodynamics, in that thermodynamic behavior, such as glass breaking, can be explained by the fundamental laws of physics paired with a statistical postulate. But statistical mechanics, unlike classical thermodynamics, is time-reversal symmetric. The second law of thermodynamics, as it arises in statistical mechanics, merely states that it is \"overwhelmingly\" likely that net entropy will increase, but it is not an absolute law.\n\nCurrent thermodynamic solutions to the problem of the direction of time aim to find some further fact, or feature of the laws of nature to account for this discrepancy.\n\nA third type of solution to the problem of the direction of time, although much less represented, argues that the laws are not time-reversal symmetric. For example, certain processes in quantum mechanics, relating to the weak nuclear force, are not time-reversible, keeping in mind that when dealing with quantum mechanics time-reversibility comprises a more complex definition. But this type of solution is insufficient because 1) the time-asymmetric phenomena in quantum mechanics are too few to account for the uniformity of macroscopic time-asymmetry and 2) it relies on the assumption that quantum mechanics is the final or correct description of physical processes.\n\nOne recent proponent of the laws solution is Tim Maudlin who argues that the fundamental laws of physics are laws of temporal evolution (see Maudlin [2007]). However, elsewhere Maudlin argues: \"[the] passage of time is an intrinsic asymmetry in the temporal structure of the world... It is the asymmetry that grounds the distinction between sequences that runs from past to future and sequences which run from future to past\" [ibid, 2010 edition, p. 108]. Thus it is arguably difficult to assess whether Maudlin is suggesting that the direction of time is a consequence of the laws or is itself primitive.\n\nThe problem of the flow of time, as it has been treated in analytic philosophy, owes its beginning to a paper written by J. M. E. McTaggart, in which he proposes two \"temporal series\". The first series, which means to account for our intuitions about temporal becoming, or the moving Now, is called the A-series. The A-series orders events according to their being in the past, present or future, \"simpliciter\" and in comparison to each other. The B-series eliminates all reference to the present, and the associated temporal modalities of past and future, and orders all events by the temporal relations \"earlier than\" and \"later than\".\n\nMcTaggart, in his paper \"The Unreality of Time\", argues that time is unreal since a) the A-series is inconsistent and b) the B-series alone cannot account for the nature of time as the A-series describes an essential feature of it.\n\nBuilding from this framework, two camps of solution have been offered. The first, the A-theorist solution, takes becoming as the central feature of time, and tries to construct the B-series from the A-series by offering an account of how B-facts come to be out of A-facts. The second camp, the B-theorist solution, takes as decisive McTaggart's arguments against the A-series and tries to construct the A-series out of the B-series, for example, by temporal indexicals.\n\nQuantum field theory models have shown that it is possible for theories in two different space-time backgrounds, like AdS/CFT or T-duality, to be equivalent.\n\nAccording to Presentism, time is an ordering of various realities. At a certain time some things exist and others do not. This is the only reality we can deal with and we cannot for example say that Homer exists because at the present time he does not. An Eternalist, on the other hand, holds that time is a dimension of reality on a par with the three spatial dimensions, and hence that all things—past, present and future—can be said to be just as real as things in the present. According to this theory, then, Homer really \"does\" exist, though we must still use special language when talking about somebody who exists at a distant time—just as we would use special language when talking about something far away (the very words \"near\", \"far\", \"above\", \"below\", and such are directly comparable to phrases such as \"in the past\", \"a minute ago\", and so on).\n\nThe positions on the persistence of objects are somewhat similar. An endurantist holds that for an object to persist through time is for it to exist completely at different times (each instance of existence we can regard as somehow separate from previous and future instances, though still numerically identical with them). A perdurantist on the other hand holds that for a thing to exist through time is for it to exist as a continuous reality, and that when we consider the thing as a whole we must consider an aggregate of all its \"temporal parts\" or instances of existing. Endurantism is seen as the conventional view and flows out of our pre-philosophical ideas (when I talk to somebody I think I am talking to that person as a complete object, and not just a part of a cross-temporal being), but perdurantists such as David Lewis have attacked this position. They argue that perdurantism is the superior view for its ability to take account of change in objects.\n\nOn the whole, Presentists are also endurantists and Eternalists are also perdurantists (and vice versa), but this is not a necessary relation and it is possible to claim, for instance, that time's passage indicates a series of ordered realities, but that objects within these realities somehow exist outside of the reality as a whole, even though the realities as wholes are not related. However, such positions are rarely adopted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2399976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2399976", "title": "Physical universe", "text": "Physical universe\n\nIn religion and esotericism, the term \"physical universe\" or \"material universe\" is used to distinguish the physical matter of the universe from a proposed spiritual or supernatural essence. \n\nIn the Book of Veles, and perhaps in traditional Slavic mythology, the physical universe is referred to as Yav. Gnosticism holds that the physical universe was created by a Demiurge. In Dharmic religions Maya is believed to be the illusion of a physical universe.\n\nPhysicalism, a type of monism, holds that only physical things exist. This is also known as metaphysical naturalism.\n\n"}
{"id": "30762208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30762208", "title": "Three-torus model of the universe", "text": "Three-torus model of the universe\n\nThe three-torus model is a cosmological model proposed in 1984 by Alexei Starobinsky and Yakov Borisovich Zel'dovich at the Landau Institute in Moscow. The theory describes the shape of the universe (topology) as a three-dimensional torus. It is also informally known as the doughnut theory.\n\nThe cosmic microwave background (CMB) was discovered by Bell Labs in 1964. Greater understanding of the universe's CMB provided greater understanding of the universe's topology. In order to understand these CMB results, NASA supported development of two exploratory satellites, the Cosmic Background Explorer (COBE) in 1989 and the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe (WMAP) in 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "13873874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13873874", "title": "Zeta potential titration", "text": "Zeta potential titration\n\nZeta potential titration is a titration of heterogeneous systems, for example colloids and emulsions. Solids in such systems have very high surface area. This type of titration is used to study the zeta potential of these surfaces under different conditions.\n\nThe iso-electric point is one such property. The iso-electric point is the pH value at which the zeta potential is approximately zero. At a pH near the iso-electric point (± 2 pH units), colloids are usually unstable; the particles tend to coagulate or flocculate. Such titrations use acids or bases as titration reagents. Tables of iso-electric points for different materials are available. The attached figure illustrates results of such titrations for concentrated dispersions of alumina (4% v/v) and rutile (7% v/v). It is seen that iso-electric point of alumina is around pH 9.3, whereas for rutile it is around pH 4. Alumina is unstable in the pH range from 7 to 11. Rutile is unstable in the pH range from 2 to 6.\n\nAnother purpose of this titration is determination of the optimum dose of surfactant for achieving stabilization or flocculation of a heterogeneous system. Examples can be found in the book by Dukhin and Goetz.\n\nIn a zeta-potential titration, the Zeta potential is the indicator. Measurement of the zeta potential can be performed using microelectrophoresis, or electrophoretic light scattering, or electroacoustic phenomena. The last method makes possible to perform titrations in concentrated systems, with no dilution. The book by Dukhin and Goetz provides a detailed description of such titrations.\n\n"}
