{"id": "8097941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8097941", "title": "Artificial cranial deformation", "text": "Artificial cranial deformation\n\nArtificial cranial deformation or modification, head flattening, or head binding is a form of body alteration in which the skull of a human being is deformed intentionally. It is done by distorting the normal growth of a child's skull by applying force. Flat shapes, elongated ones (produced by binding between two pieces of wood), rounded ones (binding in cloth), and conical ones are among those chosen. Typically, it is carried out on an infant, as the skull is most pliable at this time. In a typical case, headbinding begins approximately a month after birth and continues for about six months.\n\nIntentional cranial deformation predates written history; it was practised commonly in a number of cultures that are widely separated geographically and chronologically, and still occurs today in a few places, including Vanuatu.\n\nThe earliest suggested examples were once thought to include the Proto-Neolithic \"Homo sapiens\" component (ninth millennium BC) from Shanidar Cave in Iraq, and Neolithic peoples in Southwest Asia.\n\nThe earliest written record of cranial deformation—by Hippocrates, of the Macrocephali or Long-heads, who were named for their practice of cranial modification—dates to 400 BC.\n\nIn the Old World, Huns also are known to have practised similar cranial deformation, as were the people known as the Alans. In Late Antiquity (AD 300–600), the East Germanic tribes who were ruled by the Huns, the Gepids, Ostrogoths, Heruli, Rugii, and Burgundians adopted this custom. In western Germanic tribes, artificial skull deformations rarely have been found.\n\nThe practice of cranial deformation was brought to Bactria and Sogdiana by the tribes who created the Kushan Empire. Men with such skulls are depicted in various surviving sculptures and friezes of that time, such as the Kushan prince of Khalchayan.\n\nIn the Americas, the Maya, Inca, and certain tribes of North American natives performed the custom. In North America the practice was known, especially among the Chinookan tribes of the Northwest and the Choctaw of the Southeast. The Native American group known as the Flathead Indians, in fact, did not practise head flattening, but were named as such in contrast to other Salishan people who used skull modification to make the head appear rounder. Other tribes, including both Southeastern tribes like the Choctaw and Northwestern tribes like the Chehalis and Nooksack Indians, practiced head flattening by strapping the infant's head to a cradleboard.\n\nThe practice of cranial deformation was also practiced by the Lucayan people of the Bahamas, and it was also known among the Aboriginal Australians.\n\nIn Africa, the Mangbetu stood out to European explorers because of their elongated heads. Traditionally, babies' heads were wrapped tightly with cloth in order to give them this distinctive appearance. The practice began dying out in the 1950s.\n\nFriedrich Ratzel reported in 1896 that deformation of the skull, both by flattening it behind and elongating it toward the vertex, was found in isolated instances in Tahiti, Samoa, Hawaii, and the Paumotu group, and that it occurred most frequently on Mallicollo in the New Hebrides (today Malakula, Vanuatu), where the skull was squeezed extraordinarily flat.\nIn the region of Toulouse (France), these cranial deformations persisted sporadically up until the early twentieth century; however, rather than being intentionally produced as with some earlier European cultures, Toulousian Deformation seemed to have been the unwanted result of an ancient medical practice among the French peasantry known as \"bandeau\", in which a baby's head was tightly wrapped and padded in order to protect it from impact and accident shortly after birth. In fact, many of the early modern observers of the deformation were recorded as pitying these peasant children, whom they believed to have been lowered in intelligence due to the persistence of old European customs. The custom of binding babies' heads in Europe in the twentieth century, though dying out at the time, was still extant in France, and also found in pockets in western Russia, the Caucasus, and in Scandinavia. The reasons for the shaping of the head varied over time and for different reasons, from aesthetic to pseudoscientific ideas about the brain's ability to hold certain types of thought depending on its shape.\n\nDeformation usually begins just after birth for the next couple of years until the desired shape has been reached or the child rejects the apparatus.\n\nThere is no broadly established classification system of cranial deformations, and many scientists have developed their own classification systems without agreeing on a single system for all forms observed. An example of an individual system is that of E.V. Zhirov, who described three main types of artificial cranial deformation—round, fronto-occipital, and sagittal—for occurrences in Europe and Asia, in the 1940s.\n\nOne modern theory is cranial deformation was likely performed to signify group affiliation, or to demonstrate social status. Such motivations may have played a key role in Maya society, aimed at creating a skull shape that is aesthetically more pleasing or associated with desirable attributes. For example, in the Nahai-speaking area of Tomman Island and the south south-western Malakulan (Australasia), a person with an elongated head is thought to be more intelligent, of higher status, and closer to the world of the spirits.\n\nHistorically, there have been a number of various theories regarding the motivations for these practices.\n\nIt has also been considered possible that the practice of cranial deformation originates from an attempt to emulate those groups of the population in which elongated head shape was a natural condition. For example, Rivero and Tschudi describe a mummy containing a foetus with an elongated skull, describing it thus:\n\nP.F. Bellamy makes a similar observation about the two elongated skulls of infants, which were discovered and brought to England by a \"Captain Blankley\" and handed over to the Museum of the Devon and Cornwall Natural History Society in 1838. According to Bellamy, these skulls belonged to two infants, female and male, \"one of which was not more than a few months old, and the other could not be much more than one year.\" He writes,\n\nThere is no statistically significant difference in cranial capacity between artificially deformed skulls and normal skulls in Peruvian samples.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "588564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=588564", "title": "Authorial intent", "text": "Authorial intent\n\nIn literary theory and aesthetics, authorial intent refers to an author's intent as it is encoded in his or her work. Authorial intentionalism is the view, according to which an author's intentions should constrain the ways in which it is properly interpreted.\n\nNew Criticism, as espoused by Cleanth Brooks, W. K. Wimsatt, T. S. Eliot, and others, argued that authorial intent is irrelevant to understanding a work of literature. Wimsatt and Monroe Beardsley argue in their essay \"The Intentional Fallacy\" that \"the design or intention of the author is neither available nor desirable as a standard for judging the success of a work of literary art\". The author, they argue, cannot be reconstructed from a writing—the text is the primary source of meaning, and any details of the author's desires or life are secondary. Wimsatt and Beardsley argue that even details about the work's composition or the author's intended meaning and purpose that might be found in other documents such as journals or letters are \"private or idiosyncratic; not a part of the work as a linguistic fact\" and are thus secondary to the trained reader's rigorous engagement with the text itself.\n\nWimsatt and Beardsley divide the evidence used in making interpretations of poetry (although their analysis can be applied equally well to any type of art) into three categories:\n\n\n\nThus, a text's internal evidence—the words themselves and their meanings—is open for literary analysis. External evidence—anything not contained within the text itself, such as statements made by the poet about the poem that is being interpreted—does not belong to literary criticism. Preoccupation with the authorial intent \"leads away from the poem.\" According to Wimsatt and Beardsley, a poem does not belong to its author but rather \"is detached from the author at birth and goes about the world beyond his power to intend about it or control it. The poem belongs to the public.\"\n\nIn psychoanalytic criticism, the author's biography and unconscious state were seen as part of the text, and therefore the author's intent could be revived from a literary text—although the intent might be an unconscious one.\n\nThe Cambridge School of contextualist hermeneutics, a position most elaborated by Quentin Skinner, in the first instances distinguishes linguistic meaning from speech-acts: that is to say, things which the performance of an utterance \"does\". Consider the following. Typically, the ceremony of marriage concludes upon the exchange of the utterance \"I do\". In such a case, to utter \"I do\" is not merely to report an internal disposition, but to perform an action, namely, to \"get\" married. The intended force of \"I do\" in such a circumstance is only ever retrievable through understanding something about the complex social activity of marriage. Indeed, to understand a speech-act is to understand what conventions are regulating its significance. Since actions are always publicly legible—they are done by the speech itself—this presupposes no knowledge about the author's mental states. The task is always thus: with as much contextual information as possible, can we establish which conventions a text was interacting with, and by inference to the best explanation, what the author's intent was.\n\nIn post-structuralism, there are a variety of approaches to authorial intent. For some of the theorists deriving from Jacques Lacan, and in particular theories variously called \"écriture féminine\", gender and sex predetermine the ways that texts will emerge, and the language of textuality itself will present an argument that is potentially counter to the author's conscious intent.\n\nFor Marxist literary theorists, the author's intent is always a code for a particular set of ideologies in the author's own day. For Marxists (especially those of the Soviet realism type), authorial intent is manifest in the text and must be placed in a context of liberation and the materialist dialectic. However, Marxist-derived theorists have seen authorial intent in a much more nuanced way. Raymond Williams, for example, posits literary productions always within a context of emerging, resistant, and synthetic ideological positions. The author's intent is recoverable from the text, but there are always encoded within it several separate positions. The author might be arguing consciously for empire, but hidden within that argument will be a response to a counterargument and a presentation of an emerging synthesis. Some members of the reception theory group (Hans Robert Jauss, in particular) have approximated the Marxist view by arguing that the forces of cultural reception reveal the ideological positions of both author and readership.\n\nReader response critics view the authorial intent variously. In general, they have argued that the author's intent itself is immaterial and cannot be fully recovered. However, the author's intent will shape the text and limit the possible interpretations of a work. The reader's \"impression\" of the author's intent is a working force in interpretation, but the author's actual intent is not.\n\nWeak intentionalism combines intentionalism with insights from reader response. Mark Bevir in \"The Logic of the History of Ideas\" sees meanings as necessarily intentional but suggests that the relevant intentions can be those of readers as well as those of authors. Weak intentionalists privilege intentionality to emphasize that texts do not have meanings in themselves. They believe that meanings are always meanings for people—albeit the relevant people, whether authors or readers.\n\nAuthorial intention is of great practical concern to some textual critics. These are known as intentionalists and are identified with the Bowers-Tanselle school of thought. Their editions have as one of their most important goals the recovery of the author's intentions (generally final intentions). When preparing a work for the press, an editor working along the principles outlined by Fredson Bowers and G. Thomas Tanselle will attempt to construct a text that is close to the author's final intentions. For transcription and typesetting, authorial intentionality can be considered paramount.\n\nAn intentionalist editor would constantly investigate the documents for traces of authorial intention. On one hand, it can be argued that the author always intends whatever the author writes and that at different points in time the same author might have very different intentions. On the other hand, an author may in some cases write something he or she did not intend. For example, an intentionalist would consider for emendation the following cases:\n\n\nIn cases such as these where the author is living, they would be questioned by the editor who would then adhere to the intention expressed. In cases where the author is deceased, an intentionalist would attempt to approach authorial intention. The strongest voices countering an emphasis on authorial intent in scholarly editing have been D. F. McKenzie and Jerome McGann, proponents of a model that accounts for the \"social text,\" tracing material transformations and embodiments of works while not privileging one version over another.\n\n"}
{"id": "27112415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27112415", "title": "Beaman Monster", "text": "Beaman Monster\n\nIn Missouri folklore, the Beaman Monster is an entity named after the town of Beaman. Legends about the monster vary; some describe the creature as the spawn of a 12-foot-tall gorilla said to have escaped from a circus train, whereas others describe the monster as \"shaped like a wolf or coyote\". Tales regarding the Beaman Monster have been told for generations in the Sedalia area.\n"}
{"id": "550777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=550777", "title": "Bundling (tradition)", "text": "Bundling (tradition)\n\nBundling, or tarrying, is the traditional practice of wrapping two people in a bed together, usually as a part of courting behavior. The tradition is thought to have originated either in the Netherlands or in the British Isles and later became common in colonial United States, especially in Pennsylvania Dutch Country. Some Nebraska Amish may still practice it. When used for courtship, the aim is to allow intimacy without sexual intercourse.\n\nIt is possible the precedent for bundling came from the biblical story of Ruth and Boaz, in which Ruth, a young widow, and Boaz, an older wealthy landowner, spend a night together in a grain storage room while not touching; the pair later get married.\n\nTraditionally, participants were adolescents, with a boy staying at the residence of the girl. They were given separate blankets by the girl's parents and expected to talk to one another through the night. Occasionally a \"bundling board\" or bundling sack was placed between the boy and girl to discourage sexual conduct.\n\nIn Colonial United States, Jonathan Edwards and other preachers condemned bundling; yet the practice continued into the period of the early Republic, when if beds were scarce, travelers occasionally were permitted to bundle with locals. This seemingly strange practice allowed extra money to be made by renting out half a bed. Some hotels rented rooms for the night, shared by many occupants, and sharing a bed entailed an additional fee.\n\nIt is possible that, as late as the mid-19th century, bundling was still practiced in New York state and perhaps in New England, though its popularity was waning. The court case of \"Graham v. Smith\", 1 Edm.Sel.Cas. 267 (N.Y. 1846), for example, initially argued before Judge Edmunds in the Orange Circuit Court of New York, concerned the seduction of a 19-year-old woman; testimony in the case established that bundling was a common practice in certain rural social circles at the time. By the 20th century, bundling seems to have disappeared almost everywhere, except for the more conservative Old Order Amish affiliations, where it is still in use in the 21st century, regardless of location.\n\nThe writer Washington Irving, in chapter 7 of \"Knickerbocker's History of New York\" as well as other of his works, refers to bundling as a Yankee practice.\nThis amazing increase may, indeed, be partly ascribed to a singular custom prevalent among them, commonly known by the name of bundling—a superstitious rite observed by the young people of both sexes, with which they usually terminated their festivities, and which was kept up with religious strictness by the more bigoted part of the community.\nGabriel Edward Martin, Heath Ledger's character in the 2000 film \"The Patriot\", is bundled when he spends an overnight visit at the home of Anne Patricia Howard (Lisa Brenner), the girl that he is courting.\n\nAnna Gunn's character in the HBO series \"Deadwood\" mentions removing a bundling board from their bed in Season 2, Episode 2.\n\nIn the TV series \"Salem\" during Season 1, Episode 7, \"Our Own Private America\", adolescent teens are seen bundling. The girl breaks the sack.\n\nIn the TV serie A Discovery of Witches during Season 1, episode 5, Matthew de Clairmont and Diana Bishop discuss the \"bundling\" custom.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6826486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6826486", "title": "Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs", "text": "Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs\n\nThe Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs (ECA) of the United States Department of State fosters mutual understanding between the people of the United States and the people of other countries around the world. It is responsible for the United States Cultural Exchange Programs.\n\nThe current Assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Affairs is Marie Royce.\n\nIn 1940, Nelson Rockefeller began the exchange of persons program with Latin America, as the Coordinator of Commercial and Cultural Affairs for the American Republics. This program sent 130 journalists from Latin America to the United States. In 1942, The United States Office of War Information (OWI) was created out of the United States Government's need for a centralized location for information. OWI was disbanded under the Truman administration, though a small element of the original structure was maintained within the State Department as the Office of International Information and Cultural Affairs (OIC), which was renamed the Office of International Information and Educational Exchange.\n\nIn 1948, the Smith-Mundt Act sought to \"promote a better understanding of the United States in other countries, and to increase mutual understanding.\" The educational and cultural exchange aspects of the State Department were removed from the Bureau of Public Affairs and entered the newly created Bureau of Educational and Cultural Relations (CU) in 1959.\n\nIn 1961, Congress passed the Fulbright-Hays Act to establish a program to “strengthen the ties which unite us with other nations by demonstrating the educational and cultural interests, developments, and achievements of the people of the United States and other nations”. In 1978, the United States International Communication Agency (USICA) absorbed the bureau with the understanding that USICA was in charge of United States public diplomacy. Ronald Reagan renamed USICA to the United States Information Agency in 1982, and in 1999, USIA was absorbed by the State Department.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "197055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197055", "title": "Catharsis", "text": "Catharsis\n\nCatharsis (from Greek meaning \"purification\" or \"cleansing\") is the purification and purgation of emotions—particularly pity and fear—through art or any extreme change in emotion that results in renewal and restoration. It is a metaphor originally used by Aristotle in the \"Poetics,\" comparing the effects of tragedy on the mind of a spectator to the effect of a cathartic on the body.\n\nCatharsis is a term in dramatic art that describes the effect of tragedy (or comedy and quite possibly other artistic forms) principally on the audience (although some have speculated on characters in the drama as well). Nowhere does Aristotle explain the meaning of \"catharsis\" as he is using that term in the definition of tragedy in the \"Poetics\" (1449b21-28). G. F. Else argues that traditional, widely held interpretations of catharsis as \"purification\" or \"purgation\" have no basis in the text of the \"Poetics\", but are derived from the use of catharsis in other Aristotelian and non-Aristotelian contexts. For this reason, a number of diverse interpretations of the meaning of this term have arisen. The term is often discussed along with Aristotle's concept of anagnorisis.\n\nD. W. Lucas, in an authoritative edition of the \"Poetics\", comprehensively covers the various nuances inherent in the meaning of the term in an Appendix devoted to \"Pity, Fear, and Katharsis\". Lucas recognizes the possibility of catharsis bearing some aspect of the meaning of \"purification, purgation, and 'intellectual clarification'\" although his discussion of these terms is not always, or perhaps often, in the precise form with which other influential scholars have treated them. Lucas himself does not accept any one of these interpretations as his own but adopts a rather different one based on \"the Greek doctrine of Humours\" which has not received wide subsequent acceptance. Purgation and purification, used in previous centuries, as the common interpretations of catharsis are still in wide use today. More recently, in the twentieth century, the interpretation of catharsis as \"intellectual clarification\" has arisen as a rival to the older views in describing the effect of catharsis on members of the audience.\n\nIn his works prior to the \"Poetics,\" Aristotle had used the term \"catharsis\" purely in its medical sense (usually referring to the evacuation of the \"katamenia\"—the menstrual fluid or other reproductive material). Here, however, he employs it as a medical metaphor.\nF. L. Lucas maintains, therefore, that \"purification\" and \"cleansing\" are not proper translations for \"catharsis\"; that it should rather be rendered as \"purgation\". \"It is the human soul that is purged of its excessive passions.\" Gerald F. Else made the following argument against the \"purgation\" theory: \"It presupposes that we come to the tragic drama (unconsciously, if you will) as patients to be cured, relieved, restored to psychic health. But there is not a word to support this in the \"Poetics\", not a hint that the end of drama is to cure or alleviate pathological states. On the contrary it is evident in every line of the work that Aristotle is presupposing 'normal' auditors, normal states of mind and feeling, normal emotional and aesthetic experience.\"\n\nLessing sidesteps the medical attribution. He translates \"catharsis\" as a purification, an experience that brings pity and fear into their proper balance: \"In real life\", he explained, \"men are sometimes too much addicted to pity or fear, sometimes too little; tragedy brings them back to a virtuous and happy mean.\"\nTragedy is then a corrective; through watching tragedy, the audience learns how to feel these emotions at proper levels.\n\nIn the twentieth century a paradigm shift took place in the interpretation of catharsis with a number of scholars contributing to the argument in support of the intellectual clarification concept. The clarification theory of catharsis would be fully consistent, as other interpretations are not, with Aristotle's argument in chapter 4 of the \"Poetics\" (1448b4-17) that the essential pleasure of mimesis is the intellectual pleasure of \"learning and inference\".\n\nIt is generally understood that Aristotle's theory of mimesis and catharsis are responses to Plato's negative view of artistic mimesis on an audience. Plato argued that the most common forms of artistic mimesis were designed to evoke from an audience powerful emotions such as pity, fear, and ridicule which override the rational control that defines the highest level of our humanity and lead us to wallow unacceptably in the overindulgence of emotion and passion. Aristotle's concept of catharsis, in all of the major senses attributed to it, contradicts Plato's view by providing a mechanism that generates the rational control of irrational emotions. All of the commonly held interpretations of catharsis, purgation, purification, and clarification are considered by most scholars to represent a homeopathic process in which pity and fear accomplish the catharsis of emotions like themselves. For an alternate view of catharsis as an allopathic process in which pity and fear produce a catharsis of emotions unlike pity and fear, see E. Belfiore, \"Tragic Pleasures: Aristotle on Plot and Emotion.\" Princeton, 1992, 260 ff.\n\nThe following analysis by E. R. Dodds, directed at the character of Oedipus in the paradigmatic Aristotelian tragedy, \"Oedipus Rex,\" incorporates all three of the aforementioned interpretations of catharsis: purgation, purification, intellectual clarification:\n\nThere have been, for political or aesthetic reasons, deliberate attempts made to subvert the effect of catharsis in theatre.\nFor example, Bertolt Brecht viewed catharsis as a pap (pabulum) for the bourgeois theatre audience, and designed dramas which left significant emotions unresolved, intending to force social action upon the audience. Brecht then identified the concept of catharsis with the notion of identification of the spectator, meaning a complete adhesion of the viewer to the dramatic actions and characters. Brecht reasoned that the absence of a cathartic resolution would require the audience to take political action in the real world, in order to fill the emotional gap they had experienced vicariously. This technique can be seen as early as his agit-prop play \"The Measures Taken,\" and is mostly the source of his invention of an \"epic theatre\", based on a distancing effect (Verfremdungseffekt) between the viewer and the representation or portrayal of characters. \n\nCatharsis before the sixth-century rise of tragedy is, for the Western World, essentially a historical footnote to the Aristotelian conception. The practice of purification had not yet appeared in Homer, as later Greek commentators noted: the \"Aithiopis\", an epic set in the Trojan War cycle, narrates the purification of Achilles after his murder of Thersites. Catharsis describes the result of measures taken to cleanse away blood-guilt—\"blood is purified through blood\", a process in the development of Hellenistic culture in which the oracle of Delphi took a prominent role. The classic example—Orestes—belongs to tragedy, but the procedure given by Aeschylus is ancient: the blood of a sacrificed piglet is allowed to wash over the blood-polluted man, and running water washes away the blood. The identical ritual is represented, Burkert informs us, on a \"krater\" found at Canicattini, wherein it is shown being employed to cure the daughters of Proetus from their madness, caused by some ritual transgression. To the question of whether the ritual obtains atonement for the subject, or just healing, Burkert answers: \"To raise the question is to see the irrelevance of this distinction\".\n\nIn psychology, the term was first employed by Sigmund Freud's colleague Josef Breuer (1842–1925), who developed a cathartic method of treatment using hypnosis for persons suffering from intensive hysteria. While under hypnosis, Breuer's patients were able to recall traumatic experiences, and through the process of expressing the original emotions that had been repressed and forgotten, they were relieved of their hysteric symptoms. Catharsis was also central to Freud's concept of psychoanalysis, but he replaced hypnosis with free association.\n\nThe term \"catharsis\" has also been adopted by modern psychotherapy, particularly Freudian psychoanalysis, to describe the act of expressing, or more accurately, \"experiencing\" the deep emotions often associated with events in the individual's past which had originally been repressed or ignored, and had never been adequately addressed or experienced.\n\nThere has been much debate about the use of catharsis in the reduction of anger. Some scholars believe that \"blowing off steam\" may reduce physiological stress in the short term, but this reduction may act as a reward mechanism, reinforcing the behavior and promoting future outbursts. However, other studies have suggested that using violent media may decrease hostility under periods of stress. Legal scholars have linked \"catharsis\" to \"closure\" (an individual's desire for a firm answer to a question and an aversion toward ambiguity) and \"satisfaction\" which can be applied to affective strategies as diverse as retribution, on one hand, and forgiveness on the other. There's no \"one size fits all\" definition of \"catharsis\", therefore this does not allow a clear definition of its use in therapeutic terms.\n\nEmotional situations can elicit physiological, behavioral, cognitive, expressive, and subjective changes in individuals. Affected individuals often use social sharing as a cathartic release of emotions. Bernard Rimé studies the patterns of social sharing after emotional experiences. His works suggest that individuals seek social outlets in an attempt to modify the situation and restore personal homeostatic balance.\n\nRimé found that 80–95% of emotional episodes are shared. The affected individuals talk about the emotional experience recurrently to people around them throughout the following hours, days, or weeks. These results indicate that this response is irrespective of emotional valence, gender, education, and culture. His studies also found that social sharing of emotion increases as the intensity of the emotion increases.\n\nÉmile Durkheim proposed emotional stages of social sharing:\n\nAffect scientists have found differences in motives for social sharing of positive and negative emotions.\n\n(1) Positive emotion\n\nA study by Langston found that individuals share positive events to capitalize on the positive emotions they elicit. Reminiscing the positive experience augments positive affects like temporary mood and longer-term well-being. A study by Gable et al. confirmed Langston's \"capitalization\" theory by demonstrating that relationship quality is enhanced when partners are responsive to positive recollections. The responsiveness increased levels of intimacy and satisfaction within the relationship. In general, the motives behind social sharing of positive events are to recall the positive emotions, inform others, and gain attention from others. All three motives are representatives of capitalization.\n\n(2) Negative emotion\n\nRimé studies suggest that the motives behind social sharing of negative emotions are to vent, understand, bond, and gain social support. Negatively affected individuals often seek life meaning and emotional support to combat feelings of loneliness after a tragic event.\n\nIf emotions are shared socially and elicits emotion in the listener then the listener will likely share what they heard with other people. Rimé calls this process \"secondary social sharing\". If this repeats, it is then called \"tertiary social sharing\".\n\nCollective emotional events share similar responses. When communities are affected by an emotional event, members repetitively share emotional experiences. After the 2001 New York and the 2004 Madrid terrorist attacks, more than 80% of respondents shared their emotional experience with others. According to Rimé, every sharing round elicits emotional reactivation in the sender and the receiver. This then reactivates the need to share in both. Social sharing throughout the community leads to high amounts of emotional recollection and \"emotional overheating\".\n\nPennebaker and Harber defined three stages of collective responses to emotional events.\n\nIn the first stage, a state of \"emergency\" takes place in the first month after the emotional event. In this stage, there is an abundance of thoughts, talks, media coverage, and social integration based on the event.\n\nIn the second stage, the \"plateau\" occurs in the second month. Abundant thoughts remain, but the amount of talks, media coverage, and social integration decreases.\n\nIn the third stage, the \"extinction\" occurs after the second month. There is a return to normalcy.\n\nThis cathartic release of emotions is often believed to be therapeutic for affected individuals. Many therapeutic mechanisms have been seen to aid in emotional recovery. One example is \"interpersonal emotion regulation\", in which listeners help to modify the affected individual's affective state by using certain strategies. Expressive writing is another common mechanism for catharsis. Joanne Frattaroli published a meta-analysis suggesting that written disclosure of information, thoughts, and feelings enhances mental health.\n\nHowever, other studies question the benefits of social catharsis. Finkenauer and colleagues found that non-shared memories were no more emotionally triggering than shared ones. Other studies have also failed to prove that social catharsis leads to any degree of emotional recovery. Zech and Rimé asked participants to recall and share a negative experience with an experimenter. When compared with the control group that only discussed unemotional topics, there was no correlation between emotional sharing and emotional recovery.\n\nSome studies even found adverse effects of social catharsis. Contrary to the Frattaroli study, Sbarra and colleagues found expressive writing to greatly impede emotional recovery following a marital separation. Similar findings have been published regarding trauma recovery. A group intervention technique is often used on disaster victims to prevent trauma-related disorders. However, meta-analysis showed negative effects of this cathartic \"therapy\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18479096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18479096", "title": "Clore Leadership Programme", "text": "Clore Leadership Programme\n\nThe Clore Leadership Programme is the first initiative of its kind in the UK aimed at developing and strengthening leadership across the cultural and creative sectors. The Programme was initiated in 2003 by the Clore Duffield Foundation and is sustained by a partnership between private philanthropy and public funding. The organisation invests in individuals, drawing on their creative potential to raising the game in the arts and creative sectors.\n\nThe Programme awards its flagship Clore Fellowships annually to exceptional individuals drawn from across the UK and beyond, and runs a choice of programmes tailored to the leadership needs of arts professionals at different stages of their career. The participants are drawn from a range of specialisms including the visual and performing arts, film and digital media, libraries, museums, archives and heritage, and cultural policy. In the last 10 years, over 250 fellowships have been awarded and nearly 1000 leaders have attended the Short Courses, enabling the participants to form a well-networked and connected arts leadership sector. Graduates of the scheme dot the salient points of the cultural landscape.\n\nThe Programme has inspired other initiatives in the UK and beyond, in particular the Clore Social Leadership Programme.\n\nInitiated by the Clore Duffield Foundation, and sustained by the Foundation's generous support, the Programme is the UK's first cross-disciplinary leadership programme for the cultural and creative sector. It was established as an independent organisation in 2004, after Dame Vivien Duffield had instigated research into the need for leadership training in the cultural programme. That research discovered that leadership development was often a question of accident rather than design, and that – without getting in the way of serendipity – it was time to put some of the design in place.\n\nInspired by the vision of its Founding Director Chris Smith, the Programme focused initially on the Fellowship Programme, aimed at shaping creative leaders through in-depth learning, and tailored as far as possible to the needs, aspirations and circumstances of between 20 and 30 individuals a year. The structure of the Fellowship programme is based on recommendations which were made to the Clore Duffield Foundation by John Holden and Robert Hewison, (see their report, and the Executive Summary). The course is unique outside the US, and includes workshops and residential courses, an extended placement, individually-selected training, mentoring and coaching, as well as opportunities for research and the development of skills.\n\nSince it was first established, the Clore Leadership Programme has been a pioneer in leadership development, a source of expert advice and an inspirational example for other initiatives in the UK and beyond, including the Clore Social Leadership Programme.\n\nDevelopments in the Programme since 2004 have included:\n\n• Intensive fortnight-long residential Short Courses\n\n• A Board Development programme, to strengthen governance in the cultural sector\n\n• The extension of the Fellowships to a small number of international participants\n\n• One- and two-day follow-up courses (Clore Plus)\n\n• An association with the University of Hong Kong to create Asia’s first Advanced Cultural Leadership Programme \n• One-week courses for Emerging Leaders\n\n• The creation of consortia of large-scale national cultural organisations, to support the Fellowship programme\n\n• The introduction of leadership development days, run in partnership with other organisations\n\nThe founding Director of the Clore Leadership Programme was Chris Smith, who from 1997–2001 had been Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport. In July 2008 he stepped down and was succeeded as Director by Sue Hoyle. The current Chair is Sandy Nairne, former Director of the National Portrait Gallery.\n\nFrom freelancers, entrepreneurs to heads of established institutions, the Clore Leadership Programme nurtures dynamic and diverse leaders. Each year, the Programme awards fellowships and designs programmes tailored to the varied leadership needs of arts professionals at different stages of their career. These include awarding the Clore Fellowship (annually), and running four residential Short Courses (each runs for a fortnight), an Emerging Leaders’ Course (a week’s residential programme) and a number of Clore Plus days (follow-up courses for those who have been through the various programmes at Clore). The Programme also works in partnership with others to deliver leadership development days.\n\nThe flagship Clore Fellowship is offered to arts and creative industries’ practitioners drawn primarily from the UK. The Fellowship spans a year of intense activity, and includes residential courses, group workshops, projects, and a customised programme of personal and professional development. Each Fellow embarks on a programme of tuition, research, training and secondment, tailored to their specific cultural sector, interests and aspirations. One of the main features that distinguishes Clore from other leadership programmes is the cross-cultural element. People doing the programme are drawn from the arts and culture sector in its widest sense, and Fellows are seconded to other cultural organisations rather than other libraries or organizations similar to their own.\n\nThe Clore Leadership Programme offers a number of International Fellowships to exceptional individuals from prioritised countries outside the UK. These include Chevening Scholarships on the Clore Leadership Programme funded by the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office in countries such as India, China, Jordan and Egypt, and the Hong Kong Scholarships on the Clore Leadership Programme funded by the Home Affairs Bureau of the Government of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.\n\nThe Clore Duffield Foundation supports the core costs of the Fellowship programme. Individual fellowships are supported by a range of public funders, philanthropic foundations, Consortia partners and international partners, and are awarded to 25 and individual participants every year. The Programme also occasionally accepts self-funded Fellowships.\n\nShort Courses offer numerous opportunities every year for ambitious and creative individuals to undergo a two-week intensive residential training course structured to deliver essential knowledge and skills required by cultural leaders today. The Short Course Programme is supported by Arts Council England, through a three-year commissioned grant to develop resilient leadership.\n\nThe Emerging Leaders Programme is a 5-day residential course aimed at people in the early stages of their career. This Programme is funded by Arts Council England through a commissioned grant to develop resilient leadership.\n\nThe work of the Clore Leadership Programme would not have been possible without the extensive support it receives from its funding partners drawn from the public, private and cultural sectors. The principal funders of the Programme are the Clore Duffield Foundation and Arts Council England. The Programme is also supported by an mix of International Funders, Consortia Partners and Funders from UK and Ireland. Aside from these bodies, the Clore Leadership Programme has been given in-kind support by a range of partners drawn from the cultural and educational sectors, including international government bodies such as the European Commission.\n\nFunders are governmental and cultural bodies that generously contribute to the International Fellowships. These include the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Chevening Scholarships), the Hong Kong Arts Development Council and the National Art Gallery, Singapore.\n\nConsortia Partners consist of 17 major cultural institutions that support the leadership development of exceptional individuals from within their organisations. These include Heritage, Museums, Archives, Performing Arts and Theatre sectors, and National Archives Institutions.\n\nEnglish Heritage, Heritage Lottery Fund and National Trust\n\nBritish Museum, Imperial War Museum and Victoria & Albert Museum\n\nNational Archives, National Archives of Scotland and Public Record Office of Northern Ireland\n\nSouthbank Centre, National Theatre and Royal Opera House\n\nAmbassador Theatre Group, Cameron Mackintosh Ltd. and Royal Shakespeare Company\n\nNational Archives, British Library and London Metropolitan Archives\n\nThe funders from the UK and Ireland are the principal funders – the Clore Duffield Foundation and Arts Council England – and all other funders in the region that aren't Consortium partners or International Funders. These include Arts Council of Wales, Arts Council Ireland, Creative Scotland, Arts and Humanities Research Council, Paul Hamlyn Foundation, Wellcome Trust, Gatsby Charitable Foundation, Linbury Trust.\n\nThe Clore Leadership Programme receives in-kind support from a range of partners drawn from the cultural, educational and public sectors, who provide discounted training, workshops, hosting visits, and even honorary Fellowships. This eclectic support group includes the Royal Society for the Arts, Ashridge Business School, [Common Purpose], Cranfield University School of Management, the European Commission, University of Hong Kong, Henley Business School, Windsor Leadership Trust and Wolff Olins.\n\nIn previous years, the Clore Leadership Programme has been funded by the following: Advantage West Midlands, Arts Council of Northern Ireland, Balli Group plc, British Council, Catherine Cookson Charitable Trust, Creative and Cultural Skills, Creative Partnerships, Culture East Midlands, Culture North West, Cultural Leadership Programme, Dancers’ Career Development, Department for Culture, Media and Sport, East of England Development Agency, East of England Regional Assembly, East Midlands Development Agency, England’s Northwest (NWDA), Garfield Weston Foundation, Getty Foundation, Hong Kong Academy of the Performing Arts, King’s Fund, The Laser Foundation, Living East, London Development Agency, Goethe Institute (Max Mueller Bhavan), The Mercers’ Company, MLA, National Assembly of Wales, Nesta, Northern Rock Foundation, Paul Lee, Renaissance North West, Screen East, SEEDA, Sing Up, Skillset, Tate, UK Film Council, Yorkshire Culture, Yorkshire Forward, Youth Music. Self funded Fellowships: Mark Dusseault and Ferenc Csák.\n\nThe Clore Fellows and course participants have gone from strength to strength, steering new projects, establishing innovative arts organisations, enabling higher growth and assuming key leadership positions in the arts sectors all over the world. The results have been extraordinarily successful — Clore graduates are now in top jobs at the likes of the Royal Academy and the Arts Council. Innumerable cultural leaders from the UK and abroad have walked through its doors and on to better jobs, including Gavin Reid, previously a trumpet player, who since undertaking the programme is now Director of the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra. The programme is rooted in the belief that organisations which deliberately foster leadership and support their future leaders, do better.\n\nOther luminaries include Axel Rüger, formerly Curator of Dutch Paintings for the National Gallery, who has made the leap to Director of the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam while Moira Sinclair, previously Director of Vital Arts, an arts and health initiative, is now Executive Director, Arts Council London. It is predicted that their expertise will play a major role in helping the arts weather the stormy years ahead.\n\nThe Clore Leadership Programme draws on the creative potential of leaders to raise the game in the arts and creative sectors. The idea behind initiating the Programme was to transform the cultural sector as a whole through the actions of emerging leaders and the work they do, both individually and collaboratively. As Nick Merriman, Director, Manchester Museum, University of Manchester, said: “It (Clore Leadership Programme) has helped everyone take investment in leadership much more seriously and to think realistically about succession planning.” Alongside leadership development, the Programme has also had a positive impact on the sustainability of the entire sector and is seen to have been a key player in “a silent revolution in the arts in Britain, where they are now incomparably better managed than they’ve ever been before.” “Thirty years ago, when faced with severe cuts, the sector almost collapsed. This is not the case now and that reflects the quality of the leadership we have. Clore has been a key part of that,\" said Mark Taylor, Director of the Museums Association.\n\nThe Clore Leadership Programme has not only succeeded in creating a cadre of creative and cultural leaders, but has stimulated investment in leadership on the part of governments, agencies, foundations and charities. The Programme has inspired other initiatives in the UK and beyond, including the Clore Social Leadership Programme for leaders from the social sector, Asia’s first Advanced Cultural Leadership Programme in Hong Kong, and a capacity-building course for arts managers in South Asia (ARThink South Asia Fellowship) created by a graduate of the Clore Programme.\n\n2014: Survey on Leadership Development: Commissioned by Clore Leadership Programme and Arts Council England; produced by Trends Business Research (TBR). A full copy of the report is here.\n\n2002: Task Force Report: An investment in the rising generation of cultural leaders is necessary and timely. Commissioned by Clore Duffield Foundation. Produced by John Holden and Robert Hewison\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33946289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33946289", "title": "Clothing insulation", "text": "Clothing insulation\n\nClothing insulation is the thermal insulation provided by clothing.\n\n__toc__\nEven if the main role of clothing is to protect from the cold, protective clothing also exists to protect from heat, such as for metallurgical workers or firemen. As regards thermal comfort, only the first case is considered.\n\nThere are three kinds of heat transfer: conduction (exchange of heat through contact), convection (movement of fluids), and radiation.\n\nAir has a low thermal conductivity but is very mobile. There are thus two elements that are important in protecting from the cold:\n\n\nAnother important factor is humidity. Water is a better conductor of heat than air, thus if clothes are damp — because of sweat, rain, or immersion — water replaces some or all of the air between the fibres of the clothing, causing thermal loss through conduction and/or evaporation.\n\nThermal insulation is thus optimal with three layers of clothing:\n\nThe three layers of air between the skin and the exterior layer also play an insulating role. If the clothing is squeezed tight (as by the straps of a backpack), insulation will be poorer in those places.\n\nClothing insulation may be expressed in clo units. The clo has the same dimensions as the R value used to describe insulation used in residential and commercial construction. The clo value is also similar in magnitude to the R value:\nThis is the amount of insulation that allows a person at rest to maintain thermal equilibrium in an environment at 21°C (70°F) in a normally ventilated room (0.1 m/s air movement).\n\nThere are a number of ways to determine clothing insulation provided by clothes, but the most accurate according to ASHRAE Fundamentals are measurements on heated manikins and on active subjects. Equations may then be used to calculate the thermal insulation.\nBecause clothing insulation cannot be measured for most routine engineering applications, tables of measured values for various clothing ensembles can be used.\nAccording to ASHRAE-55 2010 standard, there are three methods for estimating clothing insulation using the tables provided.\n\nAnother unit which is used is the \"tog\":\nThe word \"togs\" is a British slang term for clothes.\n\nOther factors that influence the clothing insulation are posture and activity. Sitting or lying change the thermal insulation due to the compression of air layers in the clothing, but at the same time - depending on the materials that are made of - chairs and bedding can provide considerable insulation. While it is possible to determine the increase of insulation provided by chairs, sleeping or resting situations are more difficult to evaluate unless the individual is completely immobile.\nBody motion decreases the insulation of a clothing ensemble by pumping air through clothing openings and/or causing air motion within the clothing. This effect varies considerably depending on the nature of the motion and of the clothing. Accurate estimates of clothing insulation for an active person are therefore not available, unless measurements are made for the specific condition (e.g., with a walking manikin).\nA rough estimate of the clothing insulation for an active person is:\n\nI = I ×(0.6+0.4/M) 1.2 met < M < 2.0 met\n\nwhere M is the metabolic rate in met units and I is the insulation without activity. For metabolic rates less than or equal to 1.2 met, no adjustment is recommended.\n\nClothing insulation is correlated with outdoor air temperature, indoor operative temperatures, relative humidity and also by the presence of a dress code in the environment in question.\nRecent studies have developed dynamic predictive clothing insulation models that allow more precise thermal comfort calculation, energy simulation, HVAC sizing and building operation than previous practice. As a matter of fact, usually simplifications are used (0.5 clo in the summer, 1.0 in the winter). This may lead to systems that are incorrectly sized and/or operated. A model that is able to predict how building occupants change their clothing would greatly improve HVAC system operation.\n\nAs mentioned, clothing adaptation has an important role in achieving thermal comfort and is probably the most effective adjustment that occupants can make to adapt themselves in a thermal environment. Moreover, clothing variability may also depend on factors unrelated to thermal conditions, such as for a dress code or social influences, style preferences that may differ due to gender or work position. According to ASHRAE-55 standard, only if individuals are freely making adjustments in clothing to suit their thermal preferences, it is acceptable to use a single representative average value for everyone.\n\nSome basic insulation values can be considered as examples of typical conditions\n\nThe ambient temperature at which someone's body will be at thermal equilibrium depends on the rate of heat generation per unit area \"P\" and the thermal insulance of the clothing \"R\". The empirical formula is:\n\nor, if \"R\" is taken to be the number of clos and \"P\" the number of watts per square metre,\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5899", "title": "Continuity (fiction)", "text": "Continuity (fiction)\n\nIn fiction, continuity is consistency of the characteristics of people, plot, objects, and places seen by the reader or viewer over some period of time. It is relevant to several media.\n\nContinuity is particularly a concern in the production of film and television due to the difficulty of rectifying an error in continuity after shooting has wrapped up. It also applies to other art forms, including novels, comics, and video games, though usually on a smaller scale. It also applies to fiction used by persons, corporations, and governments in the public eye.\n\nMost productions have a script supervisor on hand whose job is to pay attention to and attempt to maintain continuity across the chaotic and typically non-linear production shoot. This takes the form of a large amount of paperwork, photographs, and attention to and memory of large quantities of detail, some of which is sometimes assembled into the story bible for the production. It usually regards factors both within the scene and often even technical details including meticulous records of camera positioning and equipment settings. The use of a Polaroid camera was standard but has since been replaced by digital cameras. All of this is done so that, ideally, all related shots can match, despite perhaps parts being shot thousands of miles and several months apart. It is an inconspicuous job because if done perfectly, no one will ever notice.\nIn comic books, continuity has also come to mean a set of contiguous events, sometimes said to be \"set in the same universe.\"\n\nMost continuity errors are subtle and minor, such as changes in the level of drink in a character's glass or the length of a cigarette, and can be permitted with relative indifference even to the final cut. Others can be more noticeable, such as sudden drastic changes in appearance of a character. Such errors in continuity can ruin the illusion of realism and affect suspension of disbelief.\n\nIn cinema, special attention must be paid to continuity because films are rarely shot in the order in which they are presented. The shooting schedule is often dictated by location permit issues. For example, a character may return to Times Square in New York City several times throughout a movie, but as it is extraordinarily expensive to close off Times Square, those scenes will likely be filmed all at once to reduce permit costs. Weather, the ambience of natural light, cast and crew availability, or any number of other circumstances can also influence a shooting schedule.\n\nFilm production companies use various techniques to prevent continuity errors. First would be to film all the shots for a particular scene together, and all shots of consecutive scenes together (if the scenes take place together, with no break between them in the film's timeline). This allows actors to remain in costume, in character, and in the same location (and with the same weather, if shooting on location).\n\nThe second major technique is for costume designers, production designers, prop masters, and make-up artists to take instant photographs of actors and sets at the beginning and end of each day's shooting (once made possible by Polaroid cameras, now done with digital cameras and cell phones as well). This allows the various workers to check each day's clothing, set, props, and make-up against a previous day's.\n\nThe third is to avoid shooting on location entirely, but instead film everything on a studio set. This allows weather and lighting to be controlled (as the shooting is indoors), and for all clothing and sets to be stored in one place to be hauled out the next day from a secure location.\n\nEditing errors can occur when a character in a scene references a scene or incident that has not occurred yet, or of which they should not yet be aware.\n\nAn example of an editing error can be seen in the film \"It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World\" (1963), where a scene of people climbing a slope at the start is seen from below and then replayed from above.\n\nVisual errors are instant \"discontinuities\" occurring in visual media such as film and television. Items of clothing change colors, shadows get longer or shorter, items within a scene change place or disappear, etc.\n\nOne of the earliest examples of a \"visual error\" appears in Charlie Chaplin's 1914 movie \"The Property Man\". Here, in a supposedly smooth step from one room to another, the Tramp loses his hat in one room, but it is instantly back on his head as he enters the next room. Rather \"loose\" plots and a lack of continuity editing made most early films rife with such errors.\n\nAnother example occurs in the 1998 film \"Waking Ned\", when two of the film's characters, Jackie and Michael, are walking through a storm towards Ned's house. The umbrella they are under is black during their conversation as they walk towards the house (filmed from slightly above and to the front), yet after cutting to a lower shot (filmed from behind Jackie), Michael walks onscreen from the right holding an umbrella that is not black but beige, with a brown band at the rim.\n\nYet another glaring example of poor continuity occurs in the Disney film \"Pete’s Dragon\" (filmed in 1976). During the song \"Brazzle Dazzle Day\" when Lampie (Mickey Rooney), Pete (Sean Marshall), and Nora (Helen Reddy) climb the stairs to the top of the lighthouse, Pete's shirt beneath his overalls is orange. But after descending to the bottom again and coming out of the lighthouse door, his shirt is now grey.\n\nThough visual continuity errors are logically confined to visual media, parallel mistakes can occur in text. In \"The Miller's Tale\" in Chaucer's \"The Canterbury Tales\", a door is ripped off its hinges only to be slowly closed again in the next scene.\n\nA plot error, or a plot hole as it's commonly known, reflects a failure in the consistency of the created fictional world. A character might state he was an only child, yet later mention a sibling. In the TV show \"Cheers\", Frasier Crane's wife Lilith mentions Frasier's parents are both dead. When the character was spun off into \"Frasier\", his father became a central character with, in a case of retroactive continuity, the explanation that Frasier was embarrassed about his father's lowbrow attitudes and thus claimed his death. This is a frequent occurrence in sitcoms, where networks may agree to continue a show, but only if a certain character is emphasized, leading other minor characters to written out of the show with no further mention of the character's existence, while the emphasized character (usually a breakout character, as in the case of Frasier Crane) develops a more complete back story that ignores previous, more simplified back stories.\n\nA Homeric nod (sometimes heard as 'Even Homer nods') is a continuity error. It has its origins in Homeric epic.\n\nThe proverbial phrase for it was coined by the Roman poet Horace in his \"Ars poetica\":\n\n\"... et idem\" \"indignor quandoque bonus dormitat Homerus\"\n\n... and yet I also become annoyed whenever the great Homer nods off.\n\nThere are numerous continuity errors in Homer that resemble \"nods\", as for example:\n\n\nIn modern Homeric scholarship many of Homer's \"nods\" are explicable as the consequences of the poem being retold and improvised by generations of oral poets. So in the second case cited above, it is likely that two different versions are being conflated: one version with an embassy of three people, another with just two people.\n\nAlexander Pope was inclined to give Homeric nods the benefit of the doubt:\n\nThose oft are Stratagems which Errors seem,Nor is it Homer Nods, but We that Dream. - \"Essay on Criticism\" \n\nIn his online column, \"Best of The Web Today\", James Taranto of \"The Wall Street Journal\" often used the phrase \"Homer Nods\" as the title of a retraction or correction.\n\nThe practice of accelerating the age of a television character (usually a child or teenager) in conflict with the timeline of a series and/or the real-world progression of time is popularly known as Soap Opera Rapid Aging Syndrome, or SORAS. Children unseen on screen for a time might reappear portrayed by an actor several years older than the original. Usually coinciding with a recast, this rapid aging is typically done to open up the character to a wider range of storylines, and to attract younger viewers. A recent example of this occurring is in the BBC's \"Merlin\" series, in which Mordred is initially played by a young child in Season 4, yet suddenly grows up into his late teens in time for the start of Season 5, with the rest of the characters aging by only three years.\n\nThe reverse can also happen. On \"Lost (TV Series)\", the character of 10-year-old Walt Lloyd was played by 12-year-old Malcolm David Kelley. The first few seasons took place over the course of just a few months, but by that point Lloyd looked much older than 10. In his remaining few appearances, special effects were used to make him look younger, or the scene took place years later.\n\nSometimes a work of fiction may deliberately employ continuity errors, usually for comedy. For example, the Marx Brothers' classic film \"Duck Soup\", at the climax of the film, the camera shows a shot of Groucho Marx speaking a line, followed by a shot of something else happening, followed by another shot of Groucho. Each time, Groucho's hat changes, usually to something more outrageous than before (a Napoleonic hat, a Prussian hat, etc.).\n\nWhen continuity mistakes have been made, explanations are often proposed by either writers or fans to smooth over discrepancies. Fans sometimes make up explanations for such errors that may or may not be integrated into canon; this has come to be colloquially known as \"fanwanking\" (a term originally coined by the author Craig Hinton to describe excessive use of continuity). Often when fans do not agree with one of the events in a story (such as the death of a favorite character), they will choose to ignore the event in question so that their enjoyment of the franchise is not diminished. When the holder of the intellectual property discards all existing continuity and starts from scratch it is known as rebooting. Fans call a less extreme literary technique that erases one episode the reset button. See also fanon.\n\nDiscrepancies in past continuity are sometimes made deliberately; this is known as retconning. Retcons are also sometimes used to either correct or cover up a perceived error. These changes may be made either by the same writer who made it, or more commonly by an author that has taken over the creative lead of a corporate owned show or publication. Not to be confused with the continuance of a reality (continuality).\n\nTelevision programs like \"24\", in which actors have to appear as if it is the same day for 24 consecutive episodes, have raised public recognition of continuity. However, traditional films have frequently had much of the same sort of the issues to deal with; film shoots may last several months and as scenes are frequently shot out of story sequence, footage shot weeks apart may be edited together as part of the same day's action in the completed film. In some ways, \"24\" presents a simpler situation, as costumes and hairstyles generally should \"not\" change very frequently; in many feature films a range of different hairstyles and costumes must be created, changed, and then recreated exactly, as various scenes are shot.\n\n"}
{"id": "33169034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33169034", "title": "Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage", "text": "Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage\n\nThe Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage is a UNESCO treaty adopted by the UNESCO General Conference on 17 October 2003. The convention entered into force in 2006, after thirtieth instruments of ratification by UNESCO Member States. As of September 2018, 178 states have ratified, approved or accepted the convention.\n\nThe Convention contains following provisions:\n\nI. General Provisions\n\nII. Organs of the Convention\n\nIII. Safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage at the national level\n\nIV. Safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage at the international level\n\nV. International cooperation and assistance\n\nVI. Intangible Cultural Heritage Fund\n\nVII. Reports\n\nVIII. Transitional clause\n\nIX. Final clauses\n\nUnlike other UNESCO conventions, this convention begins with stating its purposes, which are;\nIntangible cultural heritage refers to \"traditions or living expressions inherited from our ancestors and passed on to our descendants, such as oral traditions, performing arts, social practices, rituals, festive events, knowledge and practices concerning nature and the universe or the knowledge and skills to produce traditional crafts\". The Convention defines it as follows:\n\nThe Convention works on both national and international levels.\nAt the national level, State Parties are supposed to ‘take necessary measures to ensure the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage present in its territory.” These measures include identification of the intangible cultural heritage that exists in its territory, adoption of appropriate policies, promotion of education and so on. Besides, in taking these measures, each state parties must “endeavor to ensure the widest possible participation of communities, groups, and, where appropriate, individuals that create, maintain and transmit such heritage, and to involve them actively in its management”.\n\nAt the international level, this Convention promotes international cooperation, which includes “the exchange of information and experience, joint initiatives, and the establishment of a mechanism of assistance” to other State Parties.\n\nLists\n\nThe Committee to the Convention publishes and keeps up to date two lists of intangible cultural heritage, which are\n\nIntangible Cultural Heritage Fund\n\nThe Convention establishes Intangible Cultural Heritage Fund, the use of which is decided by the Committee. The fund mainly consists of the contributions by State Parties and funds by the General Conference of UNESCO.\n\nOne of the first international occasions that mentioned the preservation of 'intangible heritage' was the World Conference on Cultural Policies in Mexico City in 1982. This Conference defined cultural heritage as including “both tangible and intangible works through which the creativity of people finds expression,” and asked UNESCO and Member States to take measures for protecting this kind of heritage.\n\nIn 1989, UNESCO adopted the Recommendation on the Safeguarding of Traditional Culture and Folklore as the first legal instrument towards the safeguarding of intangible cultural heritage. This Recommendation reflected the ideas of the earlier Conference in Mexico City. UNESCO conducted some promotional programs for raising awareness of this Recommendation, but was not very successful. However, in the late 90's, there was a conference held for the assessment of this Recommendation, which pointed out some problems to be considered in drafting the Convention. In this sense, this Recommendation served as an important step.\n\nIn 1997, UNESCO launched the program of Proclamation of the Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity, intending to raise awareness of the importance of intangible heritage. This program proclaimed a total of 90 masterpieces between 2001 and 2005, and caused the movement toward the Convention.\n\nAccording to the request of Member States, a preliminary study, undertaken by Director-General, on how could the safeguarding of intangible cultural heritage be conducted, recommended to create a new document that set an international standard.\n\nIn 2001, the General Conference adopted another instrument, Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity, which also includes articles dealing with the preservation of ’heritage in all forms’. This declaration and its Action Plan presented basic idea of the coming convention and helped to develop it.\n\nAs a result of many meetings for two years, the draft Convention was brought into the General Conference and adopted in 2003.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "505730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=505730", "title": "Cultural assimilation", "text": "Cultural assimilation\n\nCultural assimilation is the process in which a minority group or culture comes to resemble those of a dominant group. The term is used to refer to both individuals and groups; the latter case can refer to a range of social groups, including ethnic minorities, immigrants, indigenous peoples, and other marginalized groups such as sexual minorities who adapt to being culturally dominated by another societal group.\n\nCultural assimilation may involve either a quick or a gradual change depending on circumstances of the group. Full assimilation occurs when members of a society become indistinguishable from those of the dominant group. \n\nWhether it is desirable for a given group to assimilate is often disputed by both members of the group and those of the dominant society. Cultural assimilation does not guarantee social alikeness.\n\nthough as this article states, geographical and other natural barriers between cultures even if started by the same dominant culture will be culturally different.\n\nA place, state, or ethnicity can spontaneously adopt a different culture because of its political relevance or its perceived cultural superiority. An example is the Latin language and Roman culture being gradually adopted by most of the people subjugated by Ancient Rome.\n\nCultural assimilation can happen either spontaneously or forcibly (\"see forced assimilation\"). A culture can spontaneously adopt a different culture. Also, older, richer, or otherwise more dominant cultures can forcibly absorb subordinate cultures.\n\nThe term assimilation is often used with regard to not only indigenous groups but also immigrants settled in a new land. A new culture and new attitudes toward the origin culture are obtained through contact and communication. Assimilation assumes that a relatively-tenuous culture gets to be united to one unified culture. That process happens by contact and accommodation between each culture. The current definition of assimilation is usually used to refer to immigrants, but in multiculturalism, cultural assimilation can happen all over the world and within varying social contexts and is not limited to specific areas. For example, a shared language gives people the chance to study and work internationally, without being limited to the same cultural group. People from different countries contribute to diversity and form the \"global culture\" which means the culture combined by the elements from different countries. That \"global culture\" can be seen as a part of assimilation, which causes cultures from different areas to affect one another.\n\nImmigrant assimilation is a complex process in which immigrants not only fully integrate themselves into a new country but also lose aspects, perhaps even all of their heritage. Social scientists rely on four primary benchmarks to assess immigrant assimilation: socioeconomic status, geographic distribution, second language attainment, and intermarriage. William A.V. Clark defines immigrant assimilation as \"a way of understanding the social dynamics of American society and that it is the process that occurs spontaneously and often unintended in the course of interaction between majority and minority groups.\"\n\nBetween 1880 and 1920, the United States took in roughly 24 million immigrants. This increase in immigration can be attributed to many historical changes. The beginning of the 21st century has also marked a massive era of immigration, and sociologists are once again trying to make sense of the impacts that immigration has on society and on the on immigrants themselves.\n\nAssimilation had various meanings in American sociology. Henry Pratt Fairchild associates American assimilation with Americanization or the \"melting pot\" theory. Some scholars also believed that assimilation and acculturation were synonymous. According to a common point of view, assimilation is a \"process of interpretation and fusion\" from another group or person. That may include memories, behaviors and sentiments. By sharing their experiences and histories, they blend into the common cultural life.\n\nThe long history of immigration in the established gateways means that the place of immigrants in terms of class, racial, and ethnic hierarchies in the traditional gateways are more structured or established, but on the other hand, the new gateways do not have much immigration history and so the place of immigrants in terms of class, racial, and ethnic hierarchies is less defined, and immigrants may have more influence to define their position. Secondly, the size of new gateways may influence immigrant assimilation. Having a smaller gateway may influence the level of racial segregation among immigrants and native-born people. Thirdly, the difference in institutional arrangements may influence immigrant assimilation. Traditional gateways, unlike new gateways, have many institutions set up to help immigrants such as legal aid, bureaus, social organizations. Finally, Waters and Jimenez have only speculated that those differences may influence immigrant assimilation and the way researchers that should assess immigrant assimilation.\n\nCulture-specific:\n\n"}
{"id": "38778093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38778093", "title": "Cultural identity theory", "text": "Cultural identity theory\n\nCultural identity refers to a person's sense of belonging to a particular culture or group. This process involves learning about and accepting traditions, heritage, language, religion, ancestry, aesthetics, thinking patterns, and social structures of a culture. Normally, people internalize the beliefs, values, norms, and social practices of their culture and identify themselves with that culture. The culture becomes a part of their self-concept (Lustig, 2013). However, some studies have noted that existing cultural identity theory may not account for the fact that different individuals and groups may not react to or interpret events, happenings, attitudes, etc. in the same ways as other individuals or groups.\n\nMyron Lustig notes that cultural identities are central to a person’s sense of self. That is because cultural identities “are central, dynamic, and multifaceted components of one’s self concept” (Lustig, 133). Lustig also points out that cultural identities are dynamic, and they exist within a changing social context. As a result, a person’s identity changes as do one’s ongoing experiences in life (Lustig, 135). Other researchers describe cultural identity as referring to the content of values as guiding principles, to meaningful symbols, and to life styles that individuals share with others, though not necessarily within recognizable groups (Boski et al., 2004). In addition, Boski et al. point out that most books and studies have ignored cultural identity as a theoretical construct in the field of cross-cultural psychology. Instead, books and journals report works on the theme of social identity. Social identity is described as a sense of “We-ness,” or attachment to a group that one is a member of, and by comparison to others. The sense of “We-ness” remains culturally empty, however. Even with natural groups, it is portrayed in trait-attributes, “which is not different from those used to characterize individuals” (Boski et al., 2004). There is, however, research evidence about the social (ethnic) vs. cultural distinction (Sanchez-Burks et al., 2000). This study found that the task-oriented cultural style was generally more favored than the task-plus interpersonal alternative, particularly among Anglo-American participants, for whom ethnicity did not matter. Mexican and Latino participants, however, showed some degree of favoritism toward ethnically similar participants (Sanchez-Burks et all, 2000).\n\nIt seems that there are different viewpoints regarding cultural and social identities. Cultural identity is defined as the identity of a group or culture or of an individual as far as one is influenced by one’s belonging to a group or culture. Further, Cultural identity is similar to, and overlaps with, identity politics. New forms of identification have been suggested to break down the understanding of the individual as a whole subject into a collection of various cultural identifiers. Such identifiers can result from various conditions including: location, gender, race, history, nationality, language, sexuality, religious beliefs, ethnicity, aesthetics, and even food. In places like the U.S. and Canada, where the people are ethnically diverse, social unity is primarily based on common social values and beliefs. However, some critics of cultural identity declare that cultural identity based upon difference is a divisive force in society. In addition, cultural identity may be defined by the social network of people imitating and following the social norms as presented by the media. Therefore, instead of learning behavior and knowledge from cultural or religious groups, people may be learning social norms from the media to build on their cultural identity. Language may also be an important factor in culture identity. The communication that comes with sharing a language promotes connections and roots to ancestors and cultural histories.\n\nBoski, P., Strus, K. & Tiaga. E. (2004). Cultural identity, existential anxiety, and traditionalism. E-books. Retrieved Feb. 28, 2013 from https://web.archive.org/web/20080115124948/http://ebooks.iaccp.org/ongoing_themes/chapters/boski/boski.php?file=boski&output=screen Lustig, M.W. (2013). Intercultural Competence Interpersonal Communication Across Cultures, 7th ed. New York: Pearson.\n\nSanchez-Burks, J., Nisbett, R.E., & Ybarra, O. (2000). Cultural styles, relational schemas, and prejudice against out-groups. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, (79(2), 174-189.\n\nTheories of Identity. (2012). Retrieved Feb. 28, 2012 from http://my.ilstu.edu/~jrbaldw/372/Identity_Theories.htm\n"}
{"id": "35012838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35012838", "title": "Cultural mulatto", "text": "Cultural mulatto\n\nThe cultural mulatto is a concept introduced by Trey Ellis in his 1989 essay, \"The New Black Aesthetic\". While the term \"mulatto\" typically refers to a person of mixed black and white ancestry, a cultural mulatto is defined by Ellis as a black person who is highly educated and usually a part of the middle or upper-middle class, and therefore assimilates easily into traditionally white environments. \n\nEllis writes, \"Just as a genetic mulatto is a black person of mixed parents who can often get along fine with his white grandparents, a cultural mulatto, educated by a multi-racial mix of cultures, can also navigate easily in the white world\" (235). Cultural mulattoes are skillful code-switchers and they may be equally comfortable around blacks as around whites. Members of the New Black Aesthetic are typically cultural mulattoes. Their ability for easy interaction with both blacks and whites is what ultimately allows cultural mulattoes opportunities for class and status upward mobility.\n\nExamples of cultural mulattoes offered by Ellis include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9216811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9216811", "title": "Cultural retention", "text": "Cultural retention\n\nCultural retention is the act of retaining the culture of a specific ethnic group of people, especially when there is reason to believe that the culture, through inaction, may be lost. Many African-American, European and Asian organizations have cultural retention programs in place.\n\n"}
{"id": "48811073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48811073", "title": "Cybernetic Culture Research Unit", "text": "Cybernetic Culture Research Unit\n\nThe Cybernetic Culture Research Unit (Ccru) was a student-run interdisciplinary collective founded in 1995 out of the University of Warwick's philosophy department. It was associated with the work of Sadie Plant and Nick Land.\n\nThe collective's research was closely tied to the work of philosophers Sadie Plant (around whom it was founded), Nick Land, and their colleagues throughout the 1990s, and in particular the emerging cyberfeminist thinking that would lead to the \"Virtual Futures\" conferences at Warwick in the middle of the decade. Ultimately, Plant would abandon her academic post and affiliation with the Ccru in 1997, during which time it came under the direction of Land. Under his leadership, the collective became increasingly experimental and unorthodox in its work, with its output (which included writing, performance events, and collaborative art) crossing post-structuralism, cybernetics, science-fiction, rave culture, and occult studies. In 2015, a collection of Ccru pieces entitled \"Ccru: Writings 1997-2003\" was published.\n\nAlthough it only existed in an official capacity for little over two years—following the departure of Plant, the University of Warwick would deny any relationship to the renegade collective—the Ccru's cultural impact has been significant. Those who were affiliated with the Ccru during and after its time as part of the University of Warwick Philosophy department include philosophers Iain Hamilton Grant, Ray Brassier and Reza Negarestani; cultural theorists Mark Fisher and Kodwo Eshun; publisher and philosopher Robin Mackay; digital media theorists Luciana Parisi and Matthew Fuller; electronic music artist and Hyperdub label head Steve Goodman, aka Kode9; writer and theorist Anna Greenspan; novelist Hari Kunzru; and artists Jake and Dinos Chapman, among others. Land and the Ccru collaborated frequently with the experimental art collective 0[rphan<nowiki>]</nowiki>d[rift><nowiki>]</nowiki> (Maggie Roberts and Ranu Mukherjee), notably on \"Syzygy\", a month-long multidisciplinary residency at Beaconsfield Contemporary Art gallery in South London, 1999, and on 0[rphan]d[rift>]'s \"Cyberpositive\" (London: Cabinet, 1995), a schizoid work of cut-and-paste cyberphilosophy.\n\nThe role played by Land, Plant, and the Ccru in the development of what has come to be known as accelerationism is profound, and its legacy is apparent in contemporary debates concerning the viability of the theory in its various guises. It is important to note that accelerationism as it was deployed by the Ccru should be distinguished from the term more frequently associated with Nick Srnicek and Alex Williams’ ‘Manifesto for an Accelerationist Politics’. Land himself makes this distinction clear in his commentary on the manifesto.\n\n"}
{"id": "16475671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16475671", "title": "Dii Consentes", "text": "Dii Consentes\n\nThe Dii Consentes, also as Di or Dei Consentes (once Dii Complices), was a list of twelve major deities, six gods and six goddesses, in the pantheon of Ancient Rome. Their gilt statues stood in the Forum, later apparently in the Porticus Deorum Consentium.\n\nThe gods were listed by the poet Ennius in the late 3rd century BC in a paraphrase of an unknown Greek poet:\n\nLivy arranges them in six male-female pairs: Jupiter-Juno, Neptune-Minerva, Mars-Venus, Apollo-Diana, Vulcan-Vesta and Mercury-Ceres. Three of the Dii Consentes formed the Capitoline Triad: Jupiter, Juno, and Minerva.\n\nThe grouping of twelve deities has origins older than the Greek or Roman sources. The Greek grouping may have Anatolian, more precisely Lycian origins. A group of twelve Hittite gods is known both from cuneiform texts and from artistic representation. The Hittite Twelve are all male, with no individualizing features. They have a possible reflex in a Lycian group of twelve gods in the Roman Empire period. By 400 BC, a precinct dedicated to twelve gods existed at the marketplace in Xanthos in Lycia.\n\nHerodotus also refers to a group of twelve gods in Egypt, but this finds no confirmation in Egyptian sources. The Greek cult of the Twelve Olympians can be traced to 6th century BC Athens and probably has no precedent in the Mycenaean period. The altar to the Twelve Olympians at Athens is usually dated to the archonship of the younger Pesistratos, in 522/521 BC. By the 5th century BC there are well-attested cults of the Twelve Olympians in Olympia and at the Hieron on the Bosphorus.\n\nThe references to twelve Etruscan deities are due to later Roman authors, writing long after the influence of the Greek pantheon had become dominant, and must be regarded with skepticism. Arnobius states that the Etruscans had a set of six male and six female deities which they called \"consentes\" and \"complices\" because they rose and set together, implying an astronomical significance, and that these twelve acted as councillors of Jupiter. Scholarly evaluation of this account is dependent on the hypothesis that the Etruscans originally immigrated to Italy from Anatolia. In this case, the Etruscan Twelve might have been cognate to the Hittite Twelve. It is, however, just as possible that the Etruscan Twelve were simply an adaptation of the Greek Twelve just like the Roman Twelve.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4861797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4861797", "title": "Dramatistic pentad", "text": "Dramatistic pentad\n\nThe dramatistic pentad forms the core structure of dramatism, a method for examining motivations that the renowned literary critic Kenneth Burke developed. Dramatism recommends the use of a metalinguistic approach to stories about human action that investigates the roles and uses of five rhetorical elements common to all narratives, each of which is related to a question. These five rhetorical elements form the \"dramatistic pentad.\" Burke argues that an evaluation of the relative emphasis that is given to each of the five elements by a human drama enables a determination of the motive for the behaviour of its characters. A character's stress on one element over the others suggests their world view.\n\nBurke introduced the pentad in his 1945 book \"A Grammar of Motives\". Burke based his pentad on the scholastic hexameter which defines \"questions to be answered in the treatment of a topic: Who, what, where, by what means, why, how, when\". Burke created the pentad by combining several of the categories in the scholastic hexameter. The result was a pentad that has the five categories of: act, scene, agent, agency, and purpose. Burke states, \"The 'who' is obviously covered by agent. Scene covers the 'where' and the 'when'. The 'why' is purpose. 'How' and 'by what means' fall under agency. All that is left to take care of is act in our terms and 'what' in the scholastic formula\".\n\nThe pentad also closely follows the journalistic 'Five Ws': who, what, when, where, why. 'Who' maps to agent. 'What' maps to action. 'When' and 'Where' map to scene. 'Why' maps to purpose. There is no direct mapping from the Five Ws to the pentads category of agency but Geoff Hart states \"Some authorities add a sixth question, “how”, to this list, but “how to” information generally fits under what, where, or when, depending on the nature of the information.\" \n\nThe dramatistic pentad comprises the five rhetorical elements: Act, Scene, Agent, Agency, and Purpose. The “world views” listed below reflect the prominent schools of thought during Burke’s time, “without dismissing any of them,\" to read them \"at once sympathetically and critically in relation to each other,\" and \"in a wider context than any of them recognizes.\"\n\nAct, which is associated with dramatic action verbs and answers the question \"what?\", is related to the world view of realism; What happened? What is the action? What is going on? What action; what thoughts? Burke defines the act as that which “names what took place, in thought or deed.” Since an act is likely composed of many separate actions, Burke states that “any verb, no matter how specific or general, that has connotations of consciousness or purpose falls under this category.”\n\nScene, which is associated with the setting of an act and answers the questions \"when?\" and \"where?\", is related to the world view of materialism and minimal or non-existent free will. Burke defines the scene as “the background of an act, the situation in which it occurred.” \n\nAgent, which answers the question \"by whom?\", reflects the world view of philosophical idealism. Burke defines the agent as “what person or kind of person performed the act.” \n\nAgency (means), which is associated with the person or the organization that committed the deed and answers the question \"how?\", implies a pragmatic point of view. Burke defines agency as “what instrument or instruments he used.”\n\nPurpose, which is associated with meaning and answers the question \"why?\", indicates that the agent seeks unity through identification with an ultimate meaning of life. Reflects the world view of mysticism. Purpose is inextricably linked to the analysis of “Motive” which, derived from the title of A Grammar of Motives, is the main subject of its analysis. Since Purpose is both the subject of analysis and an element of the dramatistic pentad, it is not a common element to be included in a ratio.\n\nIn A Grammar of Motives, Burke provides a system of analysis for the Scene-Act ratio and the Scene-Agent ratio, though his analysis of ratios in the analysis of rhetoric is not limited to these. He states that, “The principles of dramatic consistency would lead one to expect such cases of overlap among the terms; but while being aware of them we should firmly fix in our minds such cases as afford a clear differentiation. Our terms leaning themselves towards merger and division, we are here trying to divide two of them while recognizing their possibilities of merger.” Thus any two dramatistic elements can be analyzed in relation to each other, creating a ratio, and can produce individual, yet separate meanings which are equally valid. However, the rhetor’s selection of elements to compose a ratio should be scrutinized, as it can deflect attention away from or direct attention towards aspects of the rhetor’s desire.\n\nThis is what Burke calls the “Ubiquity of the Ratios,” claiming that the composition of ratios “are at the very centre of motivational assumptions,” For example, “The maxim ‘terrain determines tactics’ is a strict localization of the scene-act ratio, with ‘terrain’ as the casuistic equivalent for ‘scene’ in a military calculus of motives, and ‘tactics’ as the corresponding ‘act.’\" The analysis of a situation as a multi-faceted occurrence is central to Burke’s concept of ratios. \nLikewise, the substitution of a dramatistic element with another can change an interpretation of the motive, allowing the analyst to modify the ratio in order to highlight the importance of a specific factor. For example, “the resistance of the Russian armies to the Nazi invasion could be explained ‘scenically’ in terms of the Soviet political and economic structure; or one could use the act-agent ratio, attributing the power and tenacity to ‘Russian’ traits of character. However, in deriving the act from the scene, one would have to credit socialism as a major scenic factor, whereas a derivation of the act from agents would allow for a much more felicitous explanation from the standpoint of capitalist apologists.”\n\nThe rhetor-agent also has a significant amount of power in crafting the perception of these ratios to their effect, “If an agent acts in keeping with his nature as an agent (act-agent ratio), he may change the nature of the scene accordingly (scene-act ratio) and thereby establish a state of unity between himself and his world (scene-agent ratio).\"\n\nThe scene, or the setting, will contain the act, or the what/actions. The way in which the agent interacts with the scene draws out specific analyses usually related to the atmosphere of the setting. While Burke states that, “It is a principle of drama that the nature of acts and agents should be consistent with the nature of the scene,” some “comic and grotesque works may deliberately set these elements at odds with one another, audiences make allowances for such liberty, which reaffirms the same principle of consistency in its very violation.” This reflects the division of most plays into very literal “acts,” as the agents who construct the scene are very literally “acters” whose work is played against the backdrop of the scene.The actions that a person performs are interpreted through the setting or happenings.\n\nA relationship between the agent (person) and the scene (place or setting). A scene can pose restrictions on the agent; in a narrative, the person and place should have some connection.\n\nWhile requiring the scene to contain them, the agent does not contain the act. Burke states that, “the agent is an author of his acts,” which can “make him or remake him in accordance with their nature.” This is one of the main principles that separates act and agent, producing a linked cycle which constructs the presentation of the agent’s identity.\n\nIn A Grammar of Motives, Burke mentions that attitude is “a state of mind,” remaining exterior from the pentad, as it is often “a preparation for an act, which would make it kind of symbolic act, or incipient act. But in its character as a state of mind that may or may not lead to an act, it is clearly classified under the head of agent.”. Burke also refers to attitude as a variation of agency. Prior to 1969 the term attitude is placed under agency, act or agent and is not considered a sixth element. In 1969, Burke places attitude as a new sixth element, yet he does not refer to the pentad as a hexad. Attitude is defined as \"the preparation for an act, which would make it a kind of symbolic act, or incipient act.\" The attitude, like the agency, would answer the “how?”. There is still some uncertainty over whether attitude is an additional element, and thus makes the dramatistic pentad a hexad, or if it is still a sub-element of the original pentad. While Burke has never directly stated that the pentad is a hexad, he has admitted that the addition of attitude to the pentad is similar to gaining “another soul” or an “extra existence.” Scholars have read this as Burke’s desire not to “dispose of” ambiguity, but rather to “study and clarify the resources of ambiguity.” As a result, many diagrams of the pentad depict attitude as a derivative of agent.\n"}
{"id": "5069546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5069546", "title": "El Centro Cultural de Mexico", "text": "El Centro Cultural de Mexico\n\nEl Centro Cultural de Mexico is an alternative space in Santa Ana, Orange County, California, where the community can find cultural, educational, and artistic activities that strengthen their identities, develop their talents and develop a sense of leadership in their community.\n\nBy engaging Orange County residents and communities through community outreach efforts, it supports inter and intra-cultural interaction and dialogue among Orange County’s residents by creating a variety of programs which enables all people to explore their own heritage and culture. Through educational programming, which includes workshops in dance, music, art, and literacy, it promotes understanding and appreciation of the contributions of the many cultures in our region by sharing knowledge of Mexico’s rich cultural, and educational, and social legacy.\n\nIt seeks to be at the forefront of creating a strong ideological and cultural bridge to support bringing together a variety of cultural projects from Mexico and other parts of Central and South America.\n\nThe main goals of El Centro Cultural de Mexico are education, the promotion of cultural expression, community outreach, and transnational collaborations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30498454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30498454", "title": "Elegant decay", "text": "Elegant decay\n\nElegant decay is the cultural agreement that some places, and structures, become gradually more elegant, notable, or beautiful as they decay, or fall into ruin, due to their historical, architectural, or cultural significance. Although such reverence is subjective, it is true that certain cities, regions or even countries are more susceptible to the general concept due to past opulence, or their lengthy or enduring history or culture.\n\nContrary to the general interpretation that places or structures are more noteworthy in their newness, or older structures hold more value and interest after being historically restored to their original state, the concept of elegant decay is that in the slow degradation of the structures an inherent elegance, or beauty, emerges due to past historic importance. In recent times, this concept has been exploited by those seeking to stimulate tourism.\n\nWith its rich history, and centuries of past prestige and prominence, Western Europe has many places where elegant decay is notable and celebrated. One of the most salient is Italy, due to its lengthy historic prominence in prehistoric, ancient, medieval, and modern times. The most celebrated of Italian cities in elegant decay is arguably Venice, largely due to the whole city slowly crumbling and sinking into its lagoon.\n\nAlthough Western Europe holds many instances of elegant decay today, the New World also has places of crumbled reverence as well. Most notable in the United States may be the city and region around New Orleans, Louisiana, with its historic fusion of cultures and important contributions to American expansion. In the concept of elegant decay, there sometimes appears to be an element of impending doom to such places and structures, as Venice slowly sinks, and New Orleans is under constant threat from hurricanes.\n\nElegant decay is different in concept and plan than ruin value, in which structures are planned to look beautiful as ruins from the early planning stages. The concept of elegant decay is related to the concept of patina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27419471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27419471", "title": "European Culture and Economy", "text": "European Culture and Economy\n\nEuropean Culture and Economy, shortened as ECUE, is an interdisciplinary postgraduate program that is distinct from European Studies. Both focus on European politics and developments. After receiving the academic degree Master of Arts, graduates of ECUE may engage in various business fields, however, especially EU-related professions are targeted.\n\nThe Ruhr University Bochum in Germany is currently the only university to offer European Culture and Economy as a path of study. It is a small branch, approximately 30 students are accepted each year. It was first introduced in the winter term of 1999/2000 and has since become an established Mastersprogramme. Initially, ECUE was a way of giving arts scholars a fundamental understanding of economics, politics and intercultural competences. In its early stages, the program was supported financially by the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) as well as German Rectors' Conference (HRK). In 2007, its level of quality was confirmed by ACQUIN, a German Quality Assurance Institute. Students of ECUE are intended to qualify as \"specialized generalist\" and be prepared for careers in international companies and institutions. The expected duration of study is four terms.\n\nThe curriculum puts an emphasis on examining the European area from an economic, cultural, political and sociological perspective. During Colloquia and an obligatory excursion (to Brussels), the interrelations of the disciplines are linked and investigated. Additionally, the students' intercultural competences and research methods are trained.\n\nSeminars of the following disciplines are included in the program:\n\nThe interdisciplinary and intercultural approach teaches students to analyze European topics from a cultural, economical and political angle. Next to interdisciplinary, ECUE stresses international relations. Many of the available places are assigned to foreign students. So far, students of 30 different nations (Africa, U.S.A., Asia, many European countries) were able to successfully complete the program.\n\nTo be granted admission to the program, a very good to excellent Bachelor's degree is required. Furthermore, students must possess a good proficiency in the teaching languages, English and German.\nFurther, a term abroad or an internship are possible ways to organize the program.\n\nAdditional sources (in German)\n\nTranslated versions:\n"}
{"id": "11657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11657", "title": "Fashion", "text": "Fashion\n\nFashion is a popular style, especially in clothing, footwear, lifestyle, accessories, makeup, hairstyle and body. Fashion is a distinctive and often constant trend in the style in which people present themselves. A fashion can become the prevailing style in behaviour or manifest the newest creations of designers, technologists, engineers, and design managers.\n\nBecause the more technical term \"costume\" is regularly linked to the term \"fashion\", the use of the former has been relegated to special senses like fancy-dress or masquerade wear, while the word \"fashion\" often refers to clothing, including the study of clothing. Although aspects of fashion can be feminine or masculine, some trends are androgynous.\n\nHigh-flying trendsetters in fashion can aspire to the label \"haute couture\". But if one disapproves of a fashion, one can attempt to dismiss it as a mere fad.\n\nEarly Western travelers, traveling whether to India, Persia, Turkey or China, would frequently remark on the absence of change in fashion in those countries. The Japanese \"shōgun\"s secretary bragged (not completely accurately) to a Spanish visitor in 1609 that Japanese clothing had not changed in over a thousand years. However, there is considerable evidence in Ming China of rapidly changing fashions in Chinese clothing. Changes in costume often took place at times of economic or social change, as occurred in ancient Rome and the medieval Caliphate, followed by a long period without major changes. In 8th-century Moorish Spain, the musician Ziryab introduced to Córdoba sophisticated clothing-styles based on seasonal and daily fashions from his native Baghdad, modified by his own inspiration. Similar changes in fashion occurred in the 11th century in the Middle East following the arrival of the Turks, who introduced clothing styles from Central Asia and the Far East.\n\nThe beginning in Europe of continual and increasingly rapid change in clothing styles can be fairly reliably dated. Historians, including James Laver and Fernand Braudel, date the start of Western fashion in clothing to the middle of the 14th century, though they tend to rely heavily on contemporary imagery and illuminated manuscripts were not common before the fourteenth century. The most dramatic early change in fashion was a sudden drastic shortening and tightening of the male over-garment from calf-length to barely covering the buttocks, sometimes accompanied with stuffing in the chest to make it look bigger. This created the distinctive Western outline of a tailored top worn over leggings or trousers and one of the popular historical fashion was Often referred to as the \"Plume Boom,\" the popularity of wearing real feathers in hats reached its peak in the early 20th century. According to The Smithsonian, women adorned their hats with feathers, wings, and even full taxidermied birds. This caused a huge decline in the bird population, and even led to the exinction of some. Often referred to as the \"Plume Boom,\" the popularity of wearing real feathers in hats reached its peak in the early 20th century. According to The Smithsonian, women adorned their hats with feathers, wings, and even full taxidermied birds. This caused a huge decline in the bird population, and even led to the exinction of some. \n\nThe pace of change accelerated considerably in the following century, and women and men's fashion, especially in the dressing and adorning of the hair, became equally complex. Art historians are therefore able to use fashion with confidence and precision to date images, often to within five years, particularly in the case of images from the 15th century. Initially, changes in fashion led to a fragmentation across the upper classes of Europe of what had previously been a very similar style of dressing and the subsequent development of distinctive national styles. These national styles remained very different until a counter-movement in the 17th to 18th centuries imposed similar styles once again, mostly originating from Ancien Régime France. Though the rich usually led fashion, the increasing affluence of early modern Europe led to the bourgeoisie and even peasants following trends at a distance, but still uncomfortably close for the elites – a factor that Fernand Braudel regards as one of the main motors of changing fashion.\n\nIn the 16th century, national differences were at their most pronounced. Ten 16th century portraits of German or Italian gentlemen may show ten entirely different hats. Albrecht Dürer illustrated the differences in his actual (or composite) contrast of Nuremberg and Venetian fashions at the close of the 15th century (\"illustration, right\"). The \"Spanish style\" of the late 16th century began the move back to synchronicity among upper-class Europeans, and after a struggle in the mid-17th century, French styles decisively took over leadership, a process completed in the 18th century.\n\nThough different textile colors and patterns changed from year to year, the cut of a gentleman's coat and the length of his waistcoat, or the pattern to which a lady's dress was cut, changed more slowly. Men's fashions were largely derived from military models, and changes in a European male silhouette were galvanized in theaters of European war where gentleman officers had opportunities to make notes of foreign styles such as the \"Steinkirk\" cravat or necktie.\n\nThough there had been distribution of dressed dolls from France since the 16th century and Abraham Bosse had produced engravings of fashion in the 1620s, the pace of change picked up in the 1780s with increased publication of French engravings illustrating the latest Paris styles. By 1800, all Western Europeans were dressing alike (or thought they were); local variation became first a sign of provincial culture and later a badge of the conservative peasant.\n\nAlthough tailors and dressmakers were no doubt responsible for many innovations, and the textile industry certainly led many trends, the history of fashion design is normally understood to date from 1858 when the English-born Charles Frederick Worth opened the first true \"haute couture\" house in Paris. The Haute house was the name established by government for the fashion houses that met the standards of industry. These fashion houses have to adhere to standards such as keeping at least twenty employees engaged in making the clothes, showing two collections per year at fashion shows, and presenting a certain number of patterns to costumers and also old fashion is becoming trendy nowadays but with a trendy taste . Since then, the idea of the fashion designer as a celebrity in his or her own right has become increasingly dominant.\n\nThe idea of unisex dressing originated in the 1960s when designers such as Pierre Cardin and Rudi Gernreich created garments, such as stretch jersey tunics or leggings, meant to be worn by both males and females. The impact of unisex expands more broadly to encompass various themes in fashion including androgyny, mass-market retail, and conceptual clothing. The fashion trends of the 1970s, such as sheepskin jackets, flight jackets, duffel coats, and unstructured clothing influenced men to attend social gatherings without a tuxedo jacket and to accessorize in new ways. Some men's styles blended the sensuality and expressiveness despite the conservative trend, the growing gay-rights movement and an emphasis on youth allowed for a new freedom to experiment with style, fabrics such as wool crepe, which had previously been associated with women's attire was used by designers when creating male clothing.\n\nThe four major current fashion capitals are acknowledged to be Paris, Milan, New York City, and London, which are all headquarters to the greatest fashion companies and are renowned for their major influence on global fashion. Fashion weeks are held in these cities, where designers exhibit their new clothing collections to audiences. A succession of major designers such as Coco Chanel and Yves Saint-Laurent have kept Paris as the center most watched by the rest of the world, although \"haute couture\" is now subsidized by the sale of ready-to-wear collections and perfume using the same branding.\n\nModern Westerners have a wide number of choices available in the selection of their clothes. What a person chooses to wear can reflect his or her personality or interests. When people who have high cultural status start to wear new or different clothes, a fashion trend may start. People who like or respect these people become influenced by their personal style and begin wearing similarly styled clothes. Fashions may vary considerably within a society according to age, social class, generation, occupation, and geography and may also vary over time. If an older person dresses according to the fashion young people use, he or she may look ridiculous in the eyes of both young and older people. The terms \"fashionista\" and \"fashion victim\" refer to someone who slavishly follows current fashions.\n\nOne can regard the system of sporting various fashions as a fashion language incorporating various fashion statements using a grammar of fashion. (Compare some of the work of Roland Barthes.)\n\nIn recent years, Asian fashion has become increasingly significant in local and global markets. Countries such as China, Japan, India, and Pakistan have traditionally had large textile industries, which have often been drawn upon by Western designers, but now Asian clothing styles are also gaining influence based on their own ideas.\n\nThe notion of global fashion industry is a product of the modern age. Prior to the mid-19th century, most clothing was custom-made. It was handmade for individuals, either as home production or on order from dressmakers and tailors. By the beginning of the 20th century—with the rise of new technologies such as the sewing machine, the rise of global capitalism and the development of the factory system of production, and the proliferation of retail outlets such as department stores—clothing had increasingly come to be mass-produced in standard sizes and sold at fixed prices.\n\nAlthough the fashion industry developed first in Europe and America, , it is an international and highly globalized industry, with clothing often designed in one country, manufactured in another, and sold worldwide. For example, an American fashion company might source fabric in China and have the clothes manufactured in Vietnam, finished in Italy, and shipped to a warehouse in the United States for distribution to retail outlets internationally. The fashion industry has long been one of the largest employers in the United States, and it remains so in the 21st century. However, U.S. employment declined considerably as production increasingly moved overseas, especially to China. Because data on the fashion industry typically are reported for national economies and expressed in terms of the industry's many separate sectors, aggregate figures for world production of textiles and clothing are difficult to obtain. However, by any measure, the clothing industry accounts for a significant share of world economic output.\nThe fashion industry consists of four levels:\n\n\nThese levels consist of many separate but interdependent sectors. These sectors are Textile Design and Production, Fashion Design and Manufacturing, Fashion Retailing, Marketing and Merchandising, Fashion Shows, and Media and Marketing. Each sector is devoted to the goal of satisfying consumer demand for apparel under conditions that enable participants in the industry to operate at a profit.\n\nFashion trends are influenced by several factors including cinema, celebrities, climate, creative explorations, political, economical, social and technological. Examining these factors is called a PEST analysis. Fashion forecasters can use this information to help determine growth or decline of a particular trend. Fashion trends change daily, it can not stay unchanged\n\nNot only did political events make a huge impact on fashion trends but also the political figure played a critical role in forecasting the fashion trend. For example, First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy was a fashionable icon of the early 1960s who led formal dressing trend. By wearing a Chanel suit, a structural Givenchy shift dress or a soft color Cassini coat with huge buttons, it created her elegant look and led a delicate trend.\n\nFurthermore, political revolution also made much impact on the fashion trend. For example, during the 1960s the economy had become wealthier, divorce rate was increasing and government approved the birth control pill. This revolution inspired younger generation to rebellion. In 1964, the leg-baring miniskirt has become a major fashion trend of the 1960s. Given that fashion designers began to experiment with the shapes of garment, loose sleeveless, micro-minis, flared skirts, and trumpet sleeves. In this case, mini-skirt trend became an icon of the 1960s.\n\nMoreover, political movement built an impressive relationship with fashion trend. For instance, during Vietnam war, the youth of America made a movement that affected the whole country. In the 1960s, the fashion trend was full of fluorescent colors, prints patterns, bell-bottom jeans, fringed vests, and skirt became a protest outfit of the 1960s. This trend was called Hippie and it is still affecting current fashion trend.\n\nTechnology plays a large role in most aspects of today's society. Technological influences are growing more apparent in the fashion industry. Advances and new developments are shaping and creating current and future trends.\n\nDevelopments such as wearable technology have become an important trend in fashion and will continue with advances such as clothing constructed with solar panels that charge devices and smart fabrics that enhance wearer comfort by changing color or texture based on environmental changes.\n\nThe fashion industry is seeing how 3D printing technology has influenced designers such as Iris Van Herpen and Kimberly Ovitz. These designers have been heavily experimenting and developing 3D printed couture pieces. As the technology grows, the 3D printers will become more accessible to designers and eventually consumers, which could potentially shape the fashion industry entirely.\n\nInternet technology such as online retailers and social media platforms have given way for trends to be identified, marketed and sold immediately. Styles and trends are easily conveyed online to attract the trendsetters. Posts on Instagram or Facebook can easily increase awareness about new trends in fashion, which subsequently may create high demand for specific items or brands, new \"buy now button\" technology can link these styles with direct sales.\n\nMachine vision technology has been developed to track how fashions spread through society. The industry can now see the direct correlation on how fashion shows influence street-chic outfits. The effects can now be quantified and provide valuable feedback to fashion houses, designers and consumers regarding trends.\n\nMilitary technology has played an important role in the fashion industry. The camouflage pattern in clothing was developed to help military personnel be less visible to enemy forces. A trend emerged in the 1960s and camouflage fabric was introduced to street wear. The camouflage fabric trend disappeared and resurfaced several times since then. Camouflage started to appear in high fashion by the 1990s. Designers such as Valentino, Dior and Dolce & Gabbana combined camouflage into their runway and ready-to-wear collections.\n\nClothing is much more than fashion, it is a style of life an expression of ones self. Social media is one of the biggest platforms to exhibit and connect fashion trends with millions of people all at once worldwide. Fashion trend goes beyond the aesthetic values, it emerges as an expressive tool for designers to deliver their message about the society. With the influence of social media, celebrities and bloggers, their voice are easily being heard and have impact on fashion and trend at any time.\nFashion and music are inseparable. Prabal Gurung highlighted the importance of music to his shows, saying \"each season we want to tell a story for 10 minutes…. the perfect harmony between cloths and music allows this\". Music is a representation of fashion that expresses the abstract design concept into relatable harmony for viewers.\n\nFashion relates to social and cultural context of an environment. According to Matika, \"Elements of popular culture become fused when a person's trend is associated with a preference for a genre of music…like music, news or literature, fashion has been fused into everyday lives.\" Fashion is not only seen as pure aesthetic values; fashion is also a medium for performers to create an overall atmosphere and express their opinions altogether through music video. The latest music video ‘Formation’ by Beyoncé, according to Carlos, \"The pop star pays homage to her Creole root... tracing the roots of the Louisiana cultural nerve center from the post-abolition era to present day, Beyoncé catalogs the evolution of the city's vibrant style and its tumultuous history all at once. Atop a New Orleans police car in a red-and-white Gucci high-collar dress and combat boots, she sits among the ruins of Hurricane Katrina, immediately implanting herself in the biggest national debate on police brutality and race relations in modern day.\"\n\nRunway show is a reflection of fashion trend and a designer's thought. For designer like Vivienne Westwood, runway show is a platform for her voice on politics and current events. For her AW15 menswear show, according to Water, \"where models with severely bruised faces channeled eco-warriors on a mission to save the planet.\" Another recent example is a staged feminist protest march for Chanel's SS15 show, rioting models chanting words of empowerment with signs like \"Feminist but feminine\" and \"Ladies first.\" According to Water, \"The show tapped into Chanel's long history of championing female independence: founder Coco Chanel was a trailblazer for liberating the female body in the post-WWI era, introducing silhouettes that countered the restrictive corsets then in favour.\"\n\nAs we undergo a global economic downturn, the \"Spend now, think later\" belief is getting less relevant in our society. Today's consumer tends to be more mindful about consumption, looking for just enough and better, more durable options. People have also become more conscious of the impact their everyday consumption has on the environment and society. They're looking for ways to mediate their material desires with an aim to do more good in the world. A linear economy is slowly shifting to a circular one.\n\nIn today's linear economical system, manufacturers extract resources from the earth to make products that will soon be discarded in landfills, on the other hand, under the circular model, the production of goods operates like systems in nature, where the waste and demise of a substance becomes the food and source of growth for something new. Companies such as MUD Jeans, which is based in the Netherlands employs a leasing scheme for jeans. This Dutch company \"represents a new consuming philosophy that is about using instead of owning,\" according to MUD's website. The concept also protects the company from volatile cotton prices. Consumers pay €7.50 a month for a pair of jeans; after a year, they can return the jeans to Mud, trade them for a new pair and start another year-long lease, or keep them. MUD is responsible for any repairs during the lease period. Another ethical fashion company, Patagonia set up the first multi-seller branded store on EBay in order to facilitate secondhand sales; consumers who take the Common Threads pledge can sell in this store and have their gear listed on Patagonia.com's \"Used Gear\" section.\n\nConsumption as a share of gross domestic product in China has fallen for six decades, from 76 percent in 1952 to 28 percent in 2011. China plans to reduce tariffs on a number of consumer goods and expand its 72-hour transit visa plan to more cities in an effort to stimulate domestic consumption.\n\nThe announcement of import tax reductions follows changes in June 2015, when the government cut the tariffs on clothing, cosmetics and various other goods by half. Among the changes — easier tax refunds for overseas shoppers and accelerated openings of more duty-free shops in cities covered by the 72-hour visa scheme. The 72-hour visa was introduced in Beijing and Shanghai in January 2013 and has been extended to 18 Chinese cities.\n\nAccording to reports at the same time, Chinese consumer spending in other countries such as Japan has slowed even though the yen has dropped. There is clearly a trend in the next 5 years that the domestic fashion market will show an increase.\n\nConsumers all have different needs and demands that have to be suited. A person's needs change frequently. An important factor to take into consideration when thinking of consumers' needs is the key demographics of the customer. Gender, age, income, and even profession can help a company better understand the needs of their customers.\n\nFor example, a woman who is pregnant could be looking for diapers, baby strollers, and maternity clothes. Her needs would differ greatly from a woman with children that just went off to college or a teen entering high school.\n\nOften consumers need to be told what they want. Fashion companies have to do their research to ensure they know their customers' needs before developing solutions. Steve Jobs said, \"You’ve got to start with the customer experience and work backwards to the technology. You cannot start with the technology and try to figure out where you are going to sell it\".\n\nThe best way to understand the consumers' needs and therefore predict fashion trends is through market research. There are two research methods: primary and secondary. Secondary methods are taking other information that has already been collected, for example using a book or an article for research. Primary research is collecting data through surveys, interviews, observation, and/or focus groups.\n\nBenefits of primary research is specific information about a fashion brand's consumer is explored. Surveys are helpful tools; questions can be open-ended or closed-ended. A negative factor surveys and interviews present is that the answers can be biased, due to wording in the survey or on face-to-face interactions. Focus groups, about 8 to 12 people, can be beneficial because several points can be addressed in depth. However, there are drawbacks to this tactic, too. With such a small sample size, it is hard to know if the greater public would react the same way as the focus group. Observation can really help a company gain insight on what a consumer truly wants. There is less of a bias because consumers are just performing their daily tasks, not necessarily realizing they are being observed. For example, observing the public by taking street style photos of people, the consumer did not get dressed in the morning knowing that would have their photo taken necessarily. They just wear what they would normally wear. Through observation patterns can be seen, helping trend forecasters know what their target market needs and wants.\n\nKnowing the needs of the consumers will increase a fashion companies' sales and profits. Through research and studying the consumers' lives the needs of the customer can be obtained and help fashion brands know what trends the consumers are ready for.\n\nFashion breathes on media and medium .\nThe media plays a significant role when it comes to fashion. For instance, an important part of fashion is fashion journalism. Editorial critique, guidelines, and commentary can be found on television and in magazines, newspapers, fashion websites, social networks, and fashion blogs. In recent years, fashion blogging and YouTube videos have become a major outlet for spreading trends and fashion tips, creating an online culture of sharing one's style on a website or Instagram account. Through these media outlets readers and viewers all over the world can learn about fashion, making it very accessible.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, fashion magazines began to include photographs of various fashion designs and became even more influential than in the past. In cities throughout the world these magazines were greatly sought after and had a profound effect on public taste in clothing. Talented illustrators drew exquisite fashion plates for the publications which covered the most recent developments in fashion and beauty. Perhaps the most famous of these magazines was \"La Gazette du Bon Ton\", which was founded in 1912 by Lucien Vogel and regularly published until 1925 (with the exception of the war years).\n\"Vogue\", founded in the United States in 1892, has been the longest-lasting and most successful of the hundreds of fashion magazines that have come and gone. Increasing affluence after World War II and, most importantly, the advent of cheap color printing in the 1960s, led to a huge boost in its sales and heavy coverage of fashion in mainstream women's magazines, followed by men's magazines in the 1990s. One such example of \"Vogue\"'s popularity is the younger version, \"Teen Vogue\", which covers clothing and trends that are targeted more toward the \"fashionista on a budget\". Haute couture designers followed the trend by starting ready-to-wear and perfume lines which are heavily advertised in the magazines and now dwarf their original couture businesses. A recent development within fashion print media is the rise of text-based and critical magazines which aim to prove that fashion is not superficial, by creating a dialogue between fashion academia and the industry. Examples of this trend are: \"Fashion Theory\" (1997) and \"Vestoj\" (2009). Television coverage began in the 1950s with small fashion features. In the 1960s and 1970s, fashion segments on various entertainment shows became more frequent, and by the 1980s, dedicated fashion shows such as \"Fashion Television\" started to appear. \"FashionTV\" was the pioneer in this undertaking and has since grown to become the leader in both Fashion Television and new media channels. The Fashion Industry is beginning to promote their styles through Bloggers on social media's. Vogue specified Chiara Ferragni as \"blogger of the moment\" due to the rises of followers through her Fashion Blog, that became popular.\n\nA few days after the 2010 Fall Fashion Week in New York City came to a close, \"The New Islander\"'s Fashion Editor, Genevieve Tax, criticized the fashion industry for running on a seasonal schedule of its own, largely at the expense of real-world consumers. \"Because designers release their fall collections in the spring and their spring collections in the fall, fashion magazines such as \"Vogue\" always and only look forward to the upcoming season, promoting parkas come September while issuing reviews on shorts in January\", she writes. \"Savvy shoppers, consequently, have been conditioned to be extremely, perhaps impractically, farsighted with their buying.\"\n\nThe fashion industry has been the subject of numerous films and television shows, including the reality show \"Project Runway\" and the drama series \"Ugly Betty\". Specific fashion brands have been featured in film, not only as product placement opportunities, but as bespoke items that have subsequently led to trends in fashion.\n\nVideos in general have been very useful in promoting the fashion industry. This is evident not only from television shows directly spotlighting the fashion industry, but also movies, events and music videos which showcase fashion statements as well as promote specific brands through product placements.\n\nFashion public relations involves being in touch with a company's audiences and creating strong relationships with them, reaching out to media and initiating messages that project positive images of the company. Social media plays an important role in modern-day fashion public relations; enabling practitioners to reach a wide range of consumers through various platforms.\n\nBuilding brand awareness and credibility is a key implication of good public relations. In some cases, great hype is built about new designers' collections before they are released into the market, due to the immense exposure generated by practitioners. Social media, such as blogs, micro blogs, podcasts, photo and video sharing sites have all become increasingly important to fashion public relations. The interactive nature of these platforms allows practitioners to engage and communicate with publics in real time, and tailor their clients' brand or campaign messages to the target audience. With blogging platforms such as Instagram, Tumblr, Wordpress, and other sharing sites, bloggers have emerged as expert fashion commentators, shaping brands and having a great impact on what is ‘on trend’. Women in the fashion public relations industry such as Sweaty Betty PR founder Roxy Jacenko and Oscar de la Renta's PR girl Erika Bearman, have acquired copious followers on their social media sites, by providing a brand identity and a behind the scenes look into the companies they work for.\n\nSocial media is changing the way practitioners deliver messages, as they are concerned with the media, and also customer relationship building. PR practitioners must provide effective communication among all platforms, in order to engage fashion publics in an industry socially connected via online shopping. Consumers have the ability to share their purchases on their personal social media pages (such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, etc.), and if practitioners deliver the brand message effectively and meet the needs of its publics, word-of-mouth publicity will be generated and potentially provide a wide reach for the designer and their products.\n\nAnthropology, the study of culture and human societies, studies fashion by asking why certain styles are deemed socially appropriate and others are not. A certain way is chosen and that becomes the fashion as defined by a certain people as a whole, so if a particular style has a meaning in an already occurring set of beliefs that style will become fashion. According to Ted Polhemus and Lynn Procter, fashion can be described as adornment, of which there are two types: fashion and anti-fashion. Through the capitalization and commoditisation of clothing, accessories, and shoes, etc., what once constituted anti-fashion becomes part of fashion as the lines between fashion and anti-fashion are blurred.\n\nThe definition of fashion and anti-fashion is as follows: Anti-fashion is fixed and changes little over time. Anti-fashion is different depending on the cultural or social group one is associated with or where one lives, but within that group or locality the style changes little. Fashion is the exact opposite of anti-fashion. Fashion changes very quickly and is not affiliated with one group or area of the world but is spread out throughout the world wherever people can communicate easily with each other. For example, Queen Elizabeth II's 1953 coronation gown is an example of anti-fashion because it is traditional and does not change over any period whereas a gown from fashion designer Dior's collection of 1953 is fashion because the style will change every season as Dior comes up with a new gown to replace the old one. In the Dior gown the length, cut, fabric, and embroidery of the gown change from season to season. Anti-fashion is concerned with maintaining the status quo while fashion is concerned with social mobility. Time is expressed in terms of continuity in anti-fashion and as change in fashion. Fashion has changing modes of adornment while anti-fashion has fixed modes of adornment. Indigenous and peasant modes of adornment are an example of anti-fashion. Change in fashion is part of the larger system and is structured to be a deliberate change in style.\n\nToday, people in rich countries are linked to people in poor countries through the commoditization and consumption of what is called fashion. People work long hours in one area of the globe to produce things that people in another part of the globe are anxious to consume. An example of this is the chain of production and consumption of Nike shoes, which are produced in Taiwan and then purchased in North America. At the production end, there is nation-building a hard working ideology that leads people to produce and entices people to consume with a vast amount of goods for the offering. Commodities are no longer just utilitarian but are fashionable, be they running shoes or sweat suits.\n\nThe change from anti-fashion to fashion because of the influence of western consumer-driven civilization can be seen in eastern Indonesia. The ikat textiles of the Ngada area of eastern Indonesia are changing because of modernization and development. Traditionally, in the Ngada area there was no idea similar to that of the Western idea of fashion, but anti-fashion in the form of traditional textiles and ways to adorn oneself were widely popular. Textiles in Indonesia have played many roles for the local people. Textiles defined a person's rank and status; certain textiles indicated being part of the ruling class. People expressed their ethnic identity and social hierarchy through textiles. Because some Indonesians bartered ikat textiles for food, the textiles constituted economic goods, and as some textile design motifs had spiritual religious meanings, textiles were also a way to communicate religious messages.\n\nIn eastern Indonesia, both the production and use of traditional textiles have been transformed as the production, use and value associated with textiles have changed due to modernization. In the past, women produced the textiles either for home consumption or to trade with others. Today, this has changed as most textiles are not being produced at home. Western goods are considered modern and are valued more than traditional goods, including the sarong, which retain a lingering association with colonialism. Now, sarongs are used only for rituals and ceremonial occasions, whereas western clothes are worn to church or government offices. Civil servants working in urban areas are more likely than peasants to make the distinction between western and traditional clothes. Following Indonesia's independence from the Dutch, people increasingly started buying factory made shirts and sarongs. In textile-producing areas the growing of cotton and production of naturally colored thread became obsolete. Traditional motifs on textiles are no longer considered the property of a certain social class or age group. Wives of government officials are promoting the use of traditional textiles in the form of western garments such as skirts, vests and blouses. This trend is also being followed by the general populace, and whoever can afford to hire a tailor is doing so to stitch traditional ikat textiles into western clothes. Thus, traditional textiles are now fashion goods and are no longer confined to the black, white and brown colour palette but come in array of colours. Traditional textiles are also being used in interior decorations and to make handbags, wallets and other accessories, which are considered fashionable by civil servants and their families. There is also a booming tourist trade in the eastern Indonesian city of Kupang where international as well as domestic tourists are eager to purchase traditionally printed western goods.\n\nThe use of traditional textiles for fashion is becoming big business in eastern Indonesia, but these traditional textiles are losing their ethnic identity markers and are being used as an item of fashion.\n\nIn the fashion industry, intellectual property is not enforced as it is within the film industry and music industry. Robert Glariston, an intellectual property expert, mentioned in a fashion seminar held in LA that \"Copyright law regarding clothing is a current hot-button issue in the industry. We often have to draw the line between designers being inspired by a design and those outright stealing it in different places.\" To take inspiration from others' designs contributes to the fashion industry's ability to establish clothing trends. For the past few years, WGSN has been a dominant source of fashion news and forecasts in encouraging fashion brands worldwide to be inspired by one another. Enticing consumers to buy clothing by establishing new trends is, some have argued, a key component of the industry's success. Intellectual property rules that interfere with this process of trend-making would, in this view, be counter-productive. On the other hand, it is often argued that the blatant theft of new ideas, unique designs, and design details by larger companies is what often contributes to the failure of many smaller or independent design companies.\n\nSince fakes are distinguishable by their poorer quality, there is still a demand for luxury goods, and as only a trademark or logo can be copyrighted, many fashion brands make this one of the most visible aspects of the garment or accessory. In handbags, especially, the designer's brand may be woven into the fabric (or the lining fabric) from which the bag is made, making the brand an intrinsic element of the bag.\n\nIn 2005, the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) held a conference calling for stricter intellectual property enforcement within the fashion industry to better protect small and medium businesses and promote competitiveness within the textile and clothing industries.\n\nThere has been great debate about politics' place in fashion and traditionally, the fashion industry has maintained a rather apolitical stance. Considering the U.S.'s political climate in the surrounding months of the 2016 presidential election, during 2017 fashion weeks in London, Milan, New York, Paris and São Paulo amongst others, many designers took the opportunity to take political stances leveraging their platforms and influence to reach the masses.\n\nAiming to “amplify a greater message of unity, inclusion, diversity, and feminism in a fashion space”, Mara Hoffman invited the founders of the \"Women's March on Washington\" to open her show which featured modern silhouettes of utilitarian wear, described by critics as “Made for a modern warrior” and “Clothing for those who still have work to do”. Prabal Gurung debuted his collection of T-shirts featuring slogans such as “The Future is Female”, “We Will Not Be Silenced”, and “Nevertheless She Persisted”, with proceeds going to the ACLU, Planned Parenthood, and Gurung's own charity, “Shikshya Foundation Nepal”. Similarly, \"The Business of Fashion\" launched the \"#TiedTogether\" movement on Social Media, encouraging member of the industry from editors to models, to wear a white bandana advocating for “unity, solidarity, and inclusiveness during fashion week”.\n\nFashion may be used to promote a cause, such as to promote healthy behavior, to raise money for a cancer cure, or to raise money for local charities such as the Juvenile Protective Association or a children's hospice.\n\nOne fashion cause is trashion, which is using trash to make clothes, jewelery, and other fashion items in order to promote awareness of pollution. There are a number of modern trashion artists such as Marina DeBris, Ann Wizer, and Nancy Judd.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11725949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11725949", "title": "Feminization (sociology)", "text": "Feminization (sociology)\n\nIn sociology, feminization is the shift in gender roles and sex roles in a society, group, or organization towards a focus upon the feminine. It can also mean the incorporation of women into a group or a profession that was once dominated by men. \n\n\nDefining the term \"feminization\" can be complicated due to its meaning being unstable, as it can be portrayed as either a social process or as a critique of a process. Feminization has two basic meanings. The first concerns a person who was not initially feminine but becomes feminine later in their life through the perceptions of both the individual and those around them. According to gender theorist Judith Butler, a person's gender is not solely an act of will or self-description, as it is also shaped by the people who describe, categorize, and treat the person according to their own perceptions of their gender. The second meaning of the term feminization describes when a person who originally had feminine qualities begins to incorporate more feminine attributes into their personality in some way, shape, or form. The term has often been used to describe females, however over time it shifted to where the term can be used to describe the process of someone or something becoming more feminine by adopting feminine qualities.\n\nWomen are more likely than men to live below the poverty line, a phenomenon known as the feminization of poverty. The 2015 poverty rates for men and women in the U.S. were 10% and 15% respectively. Women are less likely to pursue advanced degrees and tend to have low paying jobs. It has been argued that even with the same level of education and occupational role, women earn much less than men, although other sources have disputed the idea of a wage gap in American society.\n\nFeminization of the labor force in present day associations is inescapable in that females make up half of the labor force and the revelation of them as a potential profitable asset. Post war there has been almost a movement of women flowing into the workforce in the North America and Europe economies with women making considerable advances in balancing the workforce when comparing women and men's job status and pay rates. \n\nFeminists of the modern day living wage movement began in Baltimore, Maryland in the early 1990's right in the very heart and depths of the struggling urban poor. Around this same time, Baltimore churches became involved in providing the poor with needed social services. Even though national prosperity and rising stock markets seemed to be showing growth, more and more full-time workers were relying on soup kitchens, low-income housing assistance, and thrift store purchases for clothing. Their jobs did not pay enough to keep families above the poverty line. Whole communities became known as the \"working poverty.\"\n"}
{"id": "44171749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44171749", "title": "Helga (Call)", "text": "Helga (Call)\n\nCalling „Helga!“ is a running gag at German concerts and festivals.\n\nA person may call for a \"Helga\", others answer and come to a chorus like group effect. „Helga ist tot!“ (Helga is dead) denies the helgaing request. Further allegations se gravestones, memorials or graffiti. The background is unknown, some reports point to a rather rainy Hurricane Festival in Scheeßel, where a high pressure cyclone called Helga was called for but didn't arrive in time. The call was namegiver for an annual prize for German festivals. and is being used by a service company.\n"}
{"id": "19848341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19848341", "title": "Heroes of the Environment", "text": "Heroes of the Environment\n\nHeroes of the Environment was a list of a year's most notable environmentalists chosen and compiled by \"Time\" magazine.\n\nThe award was established in 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30876641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30876641", "title": "Human skull symbolism", "text": "Human skull symbolism\n\nSkull symbolism is the attachment of symbolic meaning to the human skull. The most common symbolic use of the skull is as a representation of death and mortality.\n\nHumans can often recognize the buried fragments of an only partially revealed cranium even when other bones may look like shards of stone. The human brain has a specific region for recognizing faces, and is so attuned to finding them that it can see faces in a few dots and lines or punctuation marks; the human brain cannot separate the image of the human skull from the familiar human face. Because of this, both the death and the now past life of the skull are symbolized.\n\nMoreover, a human skull with its large eye sockets displays a degree of neoteny, which humans often find visually appealing—yet a skull is also obviously dead. As such, human skulls often have a greater visual appeal than the other bones of the human skeleton, and can fascinate even as they repel. Our present society predominantly associates skulls with death and evil. However, to some ancient societies it is believed to have had the opposite association, where objects like crystal skulls represent \"life\": the honoring of humanity in the flesh and the embodiment of consciousness.\n\nUnicode reserves character U+1F480 (💀) for a human skull pictogram.\n\nThe skull that is often engraved or carved on the head of early New England tombstones might be merely a symbol of mortality, but the skull is also often backed by an angelic pair of wings, lofting mortality beyond its own death.\n\nOne of the best-known examples of skull symbolism occurs in Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\", where the title character recognizes the skull of an old friend: \"Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio; a fellow of infinite jest. . .\" Hamlet is inspired to utter a bitter soliloquy of despair and rough ironic humor.\n\nCompare Hamlet's words \"Here hung those lips that I have kissed I know not how oft\" to Talmudic sources: \"...Rabi Ishmael [the High Priest]... put [the severed head of a martyr] in his lap... and cried: oh sacred mouth!...who buried you in ashes...!\". The skull was a symbol of melancholy for Shakespeare's contemporaries.\n\nIn Elizabethan England, The Death's-Head Skull, usually a depiction without the lower jawbone, was emblematic of bawds, rakes, Sexual Adventurers and prostitutes; The term Deaths-Head was actually parlance for these rakes, and most of them wore half-skull rings to advertise their station, either professionally or otherwise. The original Rings were wide silver objects, with a half-skull decoration not much wider than the rest of the band; This allowed it to be rotated around the finger to hide the skull in polite company, and to reposition it in the presence of likely conquests.\n\nSkulls and skeletons are the main symbol of the Mexican holiday, Day of the Dead.\n\nVenetian painters of the 16th century elaborated moral allegories for their patrons, and \"memento mori\" was a common theme. The theme carried by an inscription on a rustic tomb, \"Et in Arcadia ego\"—\"I too [am] in Arcadia\", if it is Death that is speaking—is made famous by two paintings by Nicholas Poussin, but the motto made its pictorial debut in Guercino's version, 1618-22 (in the Galleria Barberini, Rome): in it, two awestruck young shepherds come upon an inscribed plinth, in which the inscription gains force from the prominent presence of a wormy skull in the foreground.\n\nNext to Mary Magdalene's dressing-mirror, in a convention of Baroque painting , the Skull has quite different connotations and reminds the viewer that the Magdalene has become a symbol for repentance. In C. Allan Gilbert's much-reproduced lithograph of a lovely Gibson Girl seated at her fashionable toilette, an observer can witness its transformation into an alternate image. A ghostly echo of the worldly Magdalene's repentance motif lurks behind this turn-of-the 20th century icon.\n\nThe skull becomes an icon itself when its painted representation becomes a substitute for the real thing. Simon Schama chronicled the ambivalence of the Dutch to their own worldly success during the Dutch Golden Age of the first half of the 17th century in \"The Embarrassment of Riches.\" The possibly frivolous and merely decorative nature of the still life genre was avoided by Pieter Claesz in his \"Vanitas\" (illustration, below right): Skull, opened case-watch, overturned emptied wineglasses, snuffed candle, book: \"Lo, the wine of life runs out, the spirit is snuffed, oh Man, for all your learning, time yet runs on: Vanity!\" The visual cues of the hurry and violence of life are contrasted with eternity in this somber, still and utterly silent painting.\nWhen the skull appears in Nazi SS insignia, the death's-head (\"Totenkopf\") represents loyalty unto death. However, when tattooed on the forearm its apotropaic power helps an outlaw biker cheat death. The skull and crossbones signify \"Poison\" when they appear on a glass bottle containing a white powder, or any container in general. But it is not the same emblem when it flies high above the deck as the Jolly Roger: there the pirate death's-head epitomizes the pirates' ruthlessness and despair; their usage of death imagery might be paralleled with their occupation challenging the natural order of things. \"Pirates also affirmed their unity symbolically\", Marcus Rediker asserts, remarking the skeleton or skull symbol with bleeding heart and hourglass on the black pirate ensign, and asserting \"it triad of interlocking symbols— death, violence, limited time—simultaneously pointed to meaningful parts of the seaman's experience, and eloquently bespoke the pirates' own consciousness of themselves as preyed upon in turn. Pirates seized the symbol of mortality from ship captains who used the skull 'as a marginal sign in their logs to indicate the record of a death'\"\n\nWhen a skull was worn as a trophy on the belt of the Lombard king Alboin, it was a constant grim triumph over his old enemy, and he drank from it. In the same way a skull is a warning when it decorates the palisade of a city, or deteriorates on a pike at a Traitor's Gate. The Skull Tower, with the embedded skulls of Serbian rebels, was built in 1809 on the highway near Niš, Serbia, as a stark political warning from the Ottoman government. In this case the skulls \"are\" the statement: that the current owner had the power to kill the former. \"Drinking out of a skull the blood of slain (sacrificial) enemies is mentioned by Ammianus and Livy, and Solinus describes the Irish custom of bathing the face in the blood of the slain and drinking it.\" The rafters of a traditional Jívaro medicine house in Peru, or in New Guinea. The temple of Kali is veneered with skulls, but the goddess Kali offers life through the welter of blood. The late medieval and Early Renaissance Northern and Italian painters place the skull where it lies at the foot of the Cross at Golgotha (Aramaic for \"the place of the skull\"). But for them it has become quite specifically the skull of Adam.\n\nThe Serpent crawling through the eyes of a skull is a familiar image that survives in contemporary Goth subculture. The serpent is a chthonic god of knowledge and of immortality, because he sloughs off his skin. The serpent guards the Tree in the Greek Garden of the Hesperides and, later, a Tree in the Garden of Eden. The serpent in the skull is always making its way through the socket that was the eye: knowledge persists beyond death, the emblem says, and the serpent has the secret.\nThe skull speaks. It says \"Et in Arcadia ego\" or simply \"Vanitas.\" In a first-century mosaic tabletop from a Pompeiian triclinium (now in Naples), the skull is crowned with a carpenter's square and plumb-bob, which dangles before its empty eyesockets (Death as the great leveller), while below is an image of the ephemeral and changeable nature of life: a butterfly atop a wheel—a table for a philosopher's \"symposium\".\n\nSimilarly, a skull might be seen crowned by a chaplet of dried roses, a \"Carpe diem\", though rarely as bedecked as Mexican printmaker José Guadalupe Posada's Catrina.\nIn Mesoamerican architecture, stacks of skulls (real or sculpted) represented the result of human sacrifices.\nThe skull speaks in the catacombs of the Capuchin brothers beneath the church of Santa Maria della Concezione in Rome, where disassembled bones and teeth and skulls of the departed Capuchins have been rearranged to form a rich Baroque architecture of the human condition, in a series of anterooms and subterranean chapels with the inscription, set in bones:\n\nAn old Yoruba folktale tells of a man who encountered a skull mounted on a post by the wayside. To his astonishment, the skull spoke. The man asked the skull why it was mounted there. The skull said that it was mounted there for talking. The man then went to the king, and told the king of the marvel he had found, a talking skull. The king and the man returned to the place where the skull was mounted; the skull remained silent. The king then commanded that the man be beheaded, and ordered that his head be mounted in place of the skull.\n\nIn Vajrayana Buddhist iconography, skull symbolism is often used in depictions of wrathful deities and of dakinis.\n\nAlexander McQueen is credited with popularizing a fashion trend with stylized skulls, starting with skull-decorated bags and scarves. The trend is extant by the early 2010s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44025330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44025330", "title": "Im schwarzen Walfisch zu Askalon", "text": "Im schwarzen Walfisch zu Askalon\n\n\"Im schwarzen Walfisch zu Askalon\" (\"In Ashkelon's Black Whale\") is a popular academic commercium song. It was known as a beer-drinking song in many German speaking ancient universities. Joseph Victor von Scheffel provided the lyrics under the title Altassyrisch (Old Assyrian) 1854, the melody is from 1783 or earlier.\n\nThe lyrics reflect an endorsement of the bacchanalian mayhem of student life, similar as in Gaudeamus igitur. The song describes an old Assyrian drinking binge of a man in an inn with some references to the Classics. The desks are made of marble and the large invoice is being provided in cuneiform on bricks. However the carouser has to admit that he left his money already in Nineveh. A Nubian house servant kicks him out then and the song closes with the notion, that (compare John 4:44) a prophet has no honor in his own country, if he doesn't pay cash for his consumption. Charles Godfrey Leland has translated the poems among other works of Scheffel. Each stanza begins with the naming verse \"Im Schwarzen Walfisch zu Askalon\", but varies the outcome. The \"Im\" is rather prolonged with the melody and increases the impact. Some of the stanzas:\n<br>\nIm schwarzen Wallfisch zu Ascalon\n<br>\nDa trank ein Mann drei Tag',\n<br>\nBis dass er steif wie ein Besenstiel\n<br>\nAm Marmortische lag.\n<br>\n\n'In the Black Whale at Ascalon\n<br>\nA man drank day by day,\n<br>\nTill, stiff as any broom-handle,\n<br>\nUpon the floor he lay.\n<br>\n\nIn the Black Whale at Ascalon\n<br>\nThe waiters brought the bill,\n<br>\nIn arrow-heads on six broad tiles\n<br>\nTo him who thus did swill.\n<br>\n\nIn the Black Whale at Ascalon\n<br>\nNo prophet hath renown;\n<br>\nAnd he who there would drink in peace\n<br>\nMust pay the money down.\n<br>\nIn typical manner of Scheffel, it contains an anachronistic mixture of various times and eras, parodistic notions on current science, as e.g. Historical criticism and interpretations of the Book of Jonah as a mere shipwrecking narrative. According to Scheffel, the guest didn't try to get back in the inn as „Aussi bini, aussi bleibi, wai Ascalun, ihr grobi Kaibi“ (I been out, I stay so, you rude Aschkelon calves). There are various additional verses, including political parodist ones and verses mocking different sorts of fraternities.\nThe song has been used as name for traditional inns and restaurants, e.g. in Heidelberg and Bad Säckingen. In Bad Säckingen the name was used on several (consecutive) inns and was namegiver for the still existing club \"Walfisch Gesellschaft Säckingen\" (Walfischia), honoring Scheffel.\n\nThere is one version just and only one for mathematics, called 'International'.\n\nIn ancient times, upon the door <br>\nOf Plato, there was writt'n: <br>\n“To each non-mathematicus <br>\nThe entrance is forbidd'n.<br>\n\nThe same stanza is available in further 13 languages, including Greek (Μελαίνῃ τῇ ἐν Φαλαίνᾳ - Melaínē (black) tē (the) en (in) Phalaína (whale)) and Volapük, which are sung one after the other.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33596709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33596709", "title": "Individualistic culture", "text": "Individualistic culture\n\nIndividualistic culture is a society which is characterized by individualism, which is the prioritization or emphasis, of the individual over the entire group. Individualistic cultures are oriented around the self, being independent instead of identifying with a group mentality. They see each other as only loosely linked, and value personal goals over group interests. Individualistic cultures tend to have a more diverse population and are characterized with emphasis on personal achievements, and a rational assessment of both the beneficial and detrimental aspects of relationships with others. Individualistic cultures have such unique aspects of communication as being a low power-distance culture and having a low-context communication style. Highly individualistic cultures include the U.S., Australia, Great Britain, Canada, the Netherlands, and New Zealand.\n\nPower distance is defined to be the degree to which unequal distribution of power is accepted in a culture. Low power distance cultures challenge authority, encourage a reduction of power differences between management and employees, and encourage the use of power legitimately. Low power distance is more likely to occur in an individualistic culture, because in a collectivist culture, people protect the well being of the group and established order so they would be less likely to challenge authority or people in power. Even though individualistic cultures are more likely to be low power distance, these cultures don't expect to completely eliminate power difference. People within this low power distance culture, however, are more likely to respond to such imbalances in power with more negative emotional responses than in the alternative, high power distance cultures. Low power distance cultures include Austria, Israel, Denmark, New Zealand, the Republic of Ireland, and Sweden. The U.S. ranks 38th on the scale.\n\nIndividualistic cultures are also more likely to have a low-context communication style. This means that communication is precise, direct, and specific. Unlike in high-context communication, reading between the lines is not necessary in low-context communication. This explicit communication is used in order to prevent any form of misunderstanding between cultures. The ability to articulate the thoughts and opinions one holds as well as to express them eloquently are encouraged, as is persuasive speaking. Low-context communication is all content and no relationship dimension.\n\nIndividualistic cultures tend to prioritize the individual person over the group, and this can be seen in how the display rules vary from a collectivist culture compared to an individualistic culture. Display rules are the rules that exist in different cultures that determine how emotion should be displayed publicly. In an individualistic culture, self-expression is highly valued, making the display rules less strict and allowing people to display intense emotion such as: happiness, anger, love, etc. While in a collectivist culture, moderation and self-control is highly valued for the well being of the group, and collectivist cultures therefore tend to restrain from showing emotion in public.\n\nConflict strategies are methods used to resolve different problems. There are different approaches to resolving conflict, and depending the culture a person is brought up in, the more likely it is for them to use a certain approach. Since individualistic culture sets greater value to personal achievement, contrary to collectivist cultures who value harmony, it is more likely for a person from an individualistic culture to use competition as their method of resolving conflict. When using competition as an approach to resolving conflict, a person is more confrontational and seeks to achieve his or her own goals with no regard of the goals of others. Using this approach a person seeks domination, which means to get others to do what the person wants instead of what they initially wanted. On the contrary, a collectivist culture would more likely use a less confrontational approach such as accommodation to end the conflict with compromise so that each party is benefited.\n\n"}
{"id": "19745446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19745446", "title": "Intergenerationality", "text": "Intergenerationality\n\nIntergenerationality is interaction between members of different generations. Sociologists study many intergenerational issues, including equity, conflict, and mobility: \n\nAn intergenerational conflict is either a conflict situation between teenagers and adults or a more abstract conflict between two generations, which often involves all inclusiveprejudices against another generation.\n\nIntergenerational conflict also describes cultural, social, or economic discrepancies between generations, which may be caused by shifts in values or conflicts of interest between younger and older generations. An example are changes to an inter-generational contract that may be necessary to reflect a change in demographics. It is associated with the term \"generation gap\".\n\nAn inter-generational contract is a dependency between different generations based on the assumption that future generations, in honoring the \"contract\", will provide a service to a generation that has previously done the same service to an older generation.\n\nThe most common use of the term is in statutory pension insurance provisions and refers to the consensus to provide pension for the retired generations through payments made by the working generations.\n\nIntergenerational cycles of violence occur when violence is passed from father or mother to son or daughter, parent to child, or sibling to sibling. It often refers to violent behavior learned as a child and then repeated as an adult, therefore continuing on in a perceived cycle.\n\nIntergenerational equity, in the sociological and psychological context, is the concept or idea of fairness or justice in relationships between children, youth, adults and seniors, particularly in terms of treatment and interactions. It has been studied in environmental and sociological settings. In the context of institutional investment management, intergenerational equity is the principle that an endowed institution's spending rate must not exceed its after-inflation rate of compound return, so that investment gains are spent equally on current and future constituents of the endowed assets. This concept was originally set out in 1974 by economist James Tobin, who wrote that, \"The trustees of endowed institutions are the guardians of the future against the claims of the present. Their task in managing the endowment is to preserve equity among generations.\"\n\nConversations about intergenerational equity occur across several fields. They include transition economics, social policy, and government budget-making. Intergenerational equity is also explored in environmental concerns, including sustainable development, global warming and climate change. \n\nConversations about intergenerational equity are also relevant to social justice arenas as well, where issues such as health care are equal in importance to youth rights and youth voice are pressing and urgent. There is a strong interest within the legal community towards the application of intergenerational equity in law.\n\nAn intergenerational policy is a public policy that incorporates an intergenerational approach to addressing an issue or has an impact across the generations. Approaching policy from an intergenerational perspective is based on an understanding of the interdependence and reciprocity that characterizes the relationship between the generations. \n\nAn intergenerational approach to public policy recognizes that generations share basic needs including adequate income, access to quality health care and social services, educational and employment opportunities, and a safe place to live. Further, policies that are supportive of any age group must build on the common concerns of all generations.\n\nIntergenerational ministry is a model of Christian ministry which emphasizes relationships between age groups and encourages mixed-age activities.\n\nInter-generational ministry stands in contrast with other modes of ministry more traditionally seen in local churches, such as Sunday schools and youth ministries.\n\nIn Sunday school, children, youths, and sometimes adults, are instructed by teachers who are, typically, adults. Classes are usually divided by age groups, as in secular schools. In youth ministries, teens or young adults (especially college age) gather in groups presided over by a \"youth minister\". These groups, which are often part of parachurch organizations, focus on peer fellowship and instruction of their members.\n\nThese modes of ministry segregate members by age, and presuppose a hierarchical ministry in which more experienced, more educated, and generally older members minister didactically to their charges. Inter-generational activities, by contrast, emphasize a mixture of ages, and de-emphasize formal teacher-pupil relationships.\n\nInter-generational ministry is one of a number of movements which have arisen in response over concerns that young adults very commonly cease participation in church, and often do not return. Proponents of the inter-generational ministry movement hold that the hierarchical and didactic roles found in traditional church ministries deprive teens and young adults of a sense of purpose and involvement, since their role in these ministries is passive and subordinate, and since they are often kept separate from adult activities. Therefore, they propose that younger members should take active roles in the ministry of the local church, and that church activities should involve and encourage participation from members across a wide range of ages.\n\nA second thread in the inter-generational ministry movement is that of family involvement. Concerns over divorce, abuse and other family disruptions led to criticism of how traditional church activities typically segregate family members according to age, thus de-emphasizing family relationships. Inter-generational activities were seen as a means to involve families as units, thus reinforcing family bonds.\n\nStudies show that children attending Sunday Schools and youth programs are less likely to continue church involvement, compared to those who attended worship with parents, and are integrated into a community (e.g., Mark de Vries \"Family-Based Youth Ministry\", 2004). Those children who continue church involvement as adults often have a ‘nominal faith’ (e.g. George Barna \"Transforming children into Spiritual Champions\", 2003).\n\nProponents of this mode of ministry claim it is a Biblical model - particularly when the ministry is located within the family in accordance with the 'relational' Hebrew model described in Deuteronomy 6.\n\n"}
{"id": "29704582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29704582", "title": "International tourism advertising", "text": "International tourism advertising\n\nInternational tourism advertising is tourism-related marketing on the part of a private or public entity directed towards audiences abroad, and might target potential travelers and non-travelers alike. Wholly private firms such as travel agencies, hotel chains, cruise agencies, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) often run their own advertising campaigns to market their existence, mission, or services and/or goods offered to the consumer, and these advertisements seldom carry intentional political messages.\n\nOn the other hand, advertising distributed by governments themselves, such as through tourism ministries or government-owned private sector enterprises, is sometimes intended to convey more than simply the value of the product, service, or experience; governments can use tourism ads as a channel for communicating directly to the public of other countries because tourism is a common and internationally encouraged industry and the advertising of it is subject to minimal content regulation.\n\nAs the global travel market continues to expand with yearly increasing flights among international destinations, advertising efforts on the part of the major actors in this market are also increasing. Advertising campaigns to promote travel to destinations abroad are particularly prevalent in western countries where the general public's expenditures on tourism tend to be consistently high, even in light of the economic recession. \n\nMany advertisers, which include both private entities and foreign governments themselves, share the intended goal of increasing their own revenue by popularizing their service (e.g., airline or hotel chain) or destination to boost receipts from travelers; however, some travel campaigns have additional or alternative purposes, such as promoting good public sentiments or improving existing ones towards them among the target audience. Sometimes, states may use the branding of a product or service, itself, as a means of conveying a specific message without explicitly stating the message; this tactic is often used to soften the implied message itself, thus allowing the brander to sidestep or minimize controversy and/or opposition.\n\nTourism advertising can take many forms, utilize a wide array of advertising tactics, and be driven by a scope of private or public intents. \"Destination advertising\" is designed to make a location itself seem more appealing, while \"travel services advertising\" seeks to gain an audience's buy-in for the tourism-related service or product. Below are some instances of international tourism advertising overlapping with states' political, economic, and/or social interests.\n\nA great degree of ads promoting foreign countries are produced and distributed by the tourism ministries of those countries, so these ads often serve as vehicles for political statements and/or depictions of the destination country's desired foreign public perception(s). Following are only a few of the many examples of government-produced tourism destination advertising that also serve political or social functions.\n\nThe Bahamas are commonly considered to be a focal point of leisure and recreational travel in the Caribbean and the island nation advertises itself as such. Television ads and website produced by the government of the Bahamas specifically foster the image of the islands providing a care-free, exciting, culturally rich, and even romantic experience for travelers; a recent slogan for the marketing campaign was \"It's better in the Bahamas\" to reinforce the contrast between the desired perception as a low-stress getaway and the hectic nature of whatever living environment tourists would be leaving behind. The Bahamas have, however, actually traditionally seen high violent crime rates, so the tourism marketing attempts to focus the audience's attention on the azure water and beaches and draw it away from any negative elements of life there. Managing perceptions is a common part of advertising of many consumer products and services, focusing the audience's mind solely on the desirable aspects of whatever is being sold and away from any possible drawbacks or consequences.\n\nThe common impression of India in the West has long been either negative—including perceptions of widespread poverty, lack of sophisticated hygiene, and violent ethnic and religious clashes—or ambivalent, so the Indian government's Ministry of Tourism began a marketing campaign, \"Incredible !ndia,\" to emphasize the country's rich culture, historic sites, tourist attractions, and general sense of excitement and dynamism to western audiences. Tourism is an extremely lucrative and growing global industry so it is no surprise that India, a developing nation, is striving to capitalize on that market to boost its economy. In addition, India is also looking to strengthen its international security and diplomatic ties while broadening and deepening its trade relationships, especially with the U.S., so it is in India's interest to promote a positive light for itself among the American and western voting populations in order to garner future international support and aid.\n\nAfter the 2006 release of the Sacha Baron Cohen comedy \"\", which depicts a politically incorrect and socially oblivious fictional Kazakhi reporter who travels throughout the United States interviewing and meeting Americans from various walks of life, the government of Kazakhstan was highly offended by the depiction of its less than two-decade-old country and and its creator as being defamatory and slanderous. The issue of preserving Kazakhstan's public image in light of the movie was of such high importance that Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev had it listed as a main issue when he traveled to the U.S. in September 2006 to meet with then-President George W. Bush. Coupled with Nazarbeyev's visit, according to Kazakhstan embassy spokesman Roman Vassilenko, the Kazakh government staged a large-scale public relations \"blitz,\" including \"running four-page ads in The New York Times and U.S. News and World Report and commercials on CNN and the local ABC affiliate in Washington, D.C.\", as well as launching TV ads to promote tourism to Kazakhstan. These travel ads specifically featured cultural and historical features of the country as well as views of its developed infrastructure, specifically to counter the type of impression given by the Borat character to the West that Kazakhstan is socially and physically underdeveloped.\n\nRecently in 2010 the Tourism Board of Mexico, a public office that aggregates the resources and interests of the federal, state, and municipal governments, launched a tourism advertising campaign in the United States and Canada—Mexico's two North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) partners—geared towards renovating common public political and social perceptions of Mexico, including impressions of poverty, government and law enforcement corruption, petty and organized crime and drug trading, and illegal immigration into the U.S.; the new campaign's purpose is expressly demonstrated by its marketing slogan, \"Mexico, the place you thought you knew.\" The print and television ads feature views of Mexico's beaches, natural wonders, cultural festivities, and historical artifacts like Mayan pyramids and Spanish churches in order to provide a counterbalance to the less preferable popular preconceptions. The Tourism Board's stated goal of the advertising surge is to \"generat[e] more than three [positive] impressions per person\" among the North American audience. The eventual goal is likely to increase tourism revenue for the country, but, for now, the Tourism Board is focusing on managing perceptions among the general populations of Mexico's two major neighboring trade partners.\n\nMany countries use slogans in their international tourism advertising. Destination slogans aim to promote a positive identity for the country. Academic studies of these slogans have identified several common themes such as the physical beauty of the location or the positive experiences travellers can expect to have there.\n\nAdditionally, a wide range of foreign airlines and travel-related services which also advertise separately from the destinations, themselves, are owned by their respective governments, such as the Emirates airline (Dubai), Qatar Airways (Qatar), China Airlines (Taiwan/Republic of China), and Air China (People's Republic of China).\n\nChina Airlines is the official flag carrier airline of Taiwan. The Taiwanese government refers to its state as the Republic of China and considers itself to be the legitimate, non-Communist leadership-in-exile of all of China since the Communist overthrow in the mid-1950s. The name of the airline carries the message of the long-lasting and ongoing cultural and political conflict between Communist \"mainland\" China (PRC) and Taiwan, that the Republic of China is the \"true\" China and that the state commonly referred to as \"China\" is illegitimate and usurped control of the country from the rightful leadership. Similarly, the PRC counters this message by having named one of its largest international carriers \"Air China\" to reinforce the PRC's claim to be the legitimate of the \"two Chinas.\" The implicit conflict between the two states is likely lost on the majority of the general public outside the immediate region, such as the United States and Europe, but the strategic use of using advertising and targeting the international community through tourism is apparent on both sides.\n\nThrough advertising for the Emirates airline, one of the major themes that Dubai promotes is its evolving status as a geographic and economic player in the Middle East. Emirates advertising describes Dubai as \"the perfect hub for an expanding global network\" and illustrates this claim in the airline's \"Centre of the World\" television ad. On the other hand, Dubai subtly promotes an official stance of multinationalism and a stated intent to cater to the comfort of travelers from abroad in the Emirates' \"Multinational Cabin Crew\" television ad. These positions, among others, are portrayed via visually and audibly appealing commercials which are designed to relate to the target audience(s) and make the ads' messages maximally amenable to global viewers. Emirates additionally adds to its effort to appeal to the West through its sponsorship of the Arsenal Football Club, including constructing the team's new venue, Emirates Stadium, which opened in July 2006 and prominently displays the Emirates branding on the exterior; in this way, any depictions of the stadium will result in de facto advertising and reinforce the public recognition of the Emirates company as one that is associated with western sports and culture. In May 2013 three Arsenal players, Kieran Gibbs, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain and Carl Jenkinson took an A380 flight simulator challenge. Swapping their usual airline passenger seats and stepping into the cockpit, the players attempted to land an A380 in Dubai.\n\nEmirates, along with the aviation services company Dnata, is owned by the parent company The Emirates Group which, in turn, is wholly owned by the Government of Dubai. The chairman and CEO of The Emirates Group, HH Sheikh Ahmed Bin Saeed Al Maktoum, is the younger brother of the former ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Rashid Bin Saeed Al Maktoum, and uncle of the current ruler, HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum. In 1985, Sheikh Ahmed was appointed President of the Dubai Department of Civil Aviation (DCA), the governing body for airline regulation and airport control and operation. The DCA was restructured and expanded in 2007, thus creating the Dubai Civil Aviation Authority (DCAA) which has since been the airline regulatory authority in the Emirate and the Dubai Airports company which owns and operates Dubai’s airports, Dubai International and the currently under-construction Dubai World Central – Al Maktoum International. Dubai International (IATA: DXB) is a primary international hub in the Middle East, offering flights to every continent except Antarctica. As of November 2010, DXB is the 6th busiest airport in the world for cargo traffic, and the 14th highest passenger throughput of all international airports.\n\nSheikh Ahmed currently simultaneously holds the positions of Chairman and CEO of Emirates Airline & Group, which includes the Emirates airline and Dnata air services company, Chairman of the Dubai Airports company, and President of the Dubai Civil Aviation Authority. Because Dubai's government leadership is directly involved and intertwined with private-sector enterprises, including the Emirates airline and many other facets of the tourism industry, the government there necessarily has a vested interest in the public perception of Dubai.\n\n"}
{"id": "5149842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5149842", "title": "Kalpa (Vedanga)", "text": "Kalpa (Vedanga)\n\nKalpa () means \"proper, fit\" and is one of the six disciplines of the Vedānga, or ancillary science connected with the Vedas – the scriptures of Hinduism. This field of study focused on procedures and ceremonies associated with Vedic ritual practice.\n\nThe major texts of Kalpa Vedanga are called \"Kalpa Sutras\" in Hinduism. The scope of these texts includes Vedic rituals, rites of passage rituals associated with major life events such as birth, wedding and death in family, as well as personal conduct and proper duties in the life of an individual. Most Kalpasutras texts have experienced interpolation, changes and consequent corruption over their history, and Apasthamba Kalpasutra ancillary to the Yajurveda may be the best preserved text in this genre.\n\nKalpa Sutras are also found in other Indian traditions such as Jainism.\n\nKalpa is a Sanskrit word that means \"proper, fit, competent, sacred precept\", and also refers to one of the six Vedanga fields of study. In Vedanga context, the German Indologist Max Muller translates it as \"the Ceremonial\".\n\nThe word is widely used in other contexts, such as \"cosmic time\" (one day for Brahma, 4.32 billion human years), as well as for precepts or procedures that are \"proper, fit\" in medicine or another profession.\n\nThe Kalpa field of study traces it roots to the Brahmana layer of texts in the Vedas, however its texts are more focussed, clear, short and practical for ceremonies. Kalpa Sutras are related to the \"Karma kanda\" or rituals parts of the Veda, in contrast to the Upanishads which are the \"Jnana kanda\" or the knowledge part.\n\nThis field of study emerged to serve the need of priests as they officiated over domestic ceremonies such as weddings and baby naming rites of passage, so that the rituals were efficient, standardized and appeared consistent across different events. They also helped the audience and the individuals integrate within customs and cultural practices, state Winternitz and Sarma, from \"the moment when he is received in his mother's womb to the hour of his death\", and beyond during his cremation.\n\nThe rituals related ancient texts are of two kinds: (1) the \"Śrautasūtras\", which are based on the \"śruti\", and (2) the \"Smārtasūtras\", or rules based on the \"smriti\" or tradition. The first versions of the Kalpa Sutras text were probably composed by the 6th-century BCE, and they were attributed to famous Vedic sages out of respect for them in the Hindu traditions or to gain authority. These texts are written aphoristic sutras style, and therefore are taxonomies or terse guidebooks rather than detailed manuals or handbooks for any ceremony.\n\nScholars such as Monier-Williams classified only \"Shrautasutras\" as part of Kalpa Vedanga, stating that the \"Smartasutras\" did not relate to Srauta or Vedic ceremonies, but instead focused on domestic events such as rites of passage when a baby is born and to \"Samayachara\" or \"conventional everyday practices\" that are part of every human being's life. However, other scholars include both.\n\nThe Śrautasūtras (Shrauta-sutra) form a part of the corpus of Sanskrit sūtra literature. Their topics include instructions relating to the use of the śruti corpus in ritual ('kalpa') and the correct performance of these rituals. Some early Śrautasūtras were composed in the late Brahmana period (such as the Baudhyanana and Vadhula Sūtras), but the bulk of the Śrautasūtras are roughly contemporary to the Gṛhya corpus of domestic sūtras, their language being late Vedic Sanskrit, dating to the middle of the first millennium BCE (generally predating Pāṇini).\n\nThe (or \"Shulva-sutras\") deal with the mathematical methodology to construct altar geometries for the Vedic rituals. The Sanskrit word \"Shulba\" means cord, and these texts are \"rules of the cord\". They provide, states Kim Plofker, what in modern mathematical terminology would be called \"area preserving transformations of plane figures\", tersely describing geometric formulae and constants. Five \"Shulba Sutras\" texts have survived through history, of which the oldest surviving is likely the Baudhayana Shulba Sutra (800-500 BCE), while the one by Katyayana may be chronologically the youngest (~300 BCE).\n\nThe Gṛhyasūtras \"domestic sūtras\" are a category of Sanskrit texts prescribing Vedic rituals, mainly relating to rites of passage such as rituals of wedding, birth celebration, namegiving and coming of age (puberty). Their language is late Vedic Sanskrit, and they date to around roughly 500 BCE, contemporary with the Śrautasūtras. They are named after Vedic shakhas.\n\nThe Dharmasūtras are texts dealing with custom, rituals, duties and law. They include the four surviving written works of the ancient Indian tradition on the subject of dharma, or the rules of behavior recognized by a community. Unlike the later dharmaśāstras, the dharmasūtras are composed in prose. The oldest dharmasūtra is generally believed to have been that of Apastamba, followed by the dharmasūtras of Gautama, Baudhayana, and an early version of Vashistha. It is difficult to determine exact dates for these texts, but the dates between 500–300 BCE have been suggested for the oldest dharmasūtras.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40559516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40559516", "title": "List of storytelling events", "text": "List of storytelling events\n\nThis list accompanies the article Storytelling festival.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54840463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54840463", "title": "Literary space", "text": "Literary space\n\nLiterary space – a model of the world presented in a literary work.\n\nSpace in the 20th century was regarded as a part of various literary spheres, such as the narrative situation. It changed only in the last decade of the period. Since then literary space has been treated as an independent and unique entity, semantic centre of the work, while such notions as the time of action or characters became its particularizations. \n\nThe first person to approach the issue of literary space from the semiotic point of view was Yuri Lotman. According to Lotman, artistic space is only a model of real space, not its copy. He argued that the information provided by the text about space is incomplete and, consequently, space also is not complete. Being discontinued (what is not mentioned in the text does not exist), space cannot be reconstructed by the implied reader (Lotman 1977, <nowiki>\"Przestrzeń artystyczna w prozie Gogola\"</nowiki>, p.213).\n\nWhat is more, Lotman broached in his literary studies the question of the relationship between space in the text and space of the real world. He claimed both space organisations are governed by cultural stereotypes and conventions, which serve as kind of a <nowiki>'mediator' between them. However, while additional senses are imposed on textual space by cultural codes, extratextual space uses the reworked ones. Through textual hints (described customs, clothing, etc.) literary space can refer to more general knowledge of the implied reader of the empirical reality. The aim of this measure is to make possible the association of the fictional world with the experiential one not calling it as if \"</nowiki>by name”.\n\nUtilizing extratextual patterns, the author of a literary work creates their own vision of the world and they do it through the use of description. Limited just like description, such an authorial model does not exist beyond the textual frames and is composed of relations resulting from senses imposed on space. Those, in turn, may suggest non-spatial meanings (e.g. \"up\" is better, \"down\" is worse as in the case of a social hierarchy of H.G. Wells' \"The Time Machine\" and the Morlocks and the Eloi):\"Literary space represents an author's model of the world, expressed in the language of spatial representation. In a literary work, space models different relations of the world-picture: temporary, social, ethical and others. […] in the literary models of the world―space sometimes metaphorically adopts meanings of relations in the modelled world-structure, that are themselves not spatial at all.\"\n\n considered the presented reality to be the most fundamental code modelling space, understood as the principles organising the thematic-compositional plane of a single literary work. This reality is the construction of words, the result of all the linguistic as well as stylistic choices which are made by the implied author, and as such, does not exist beyond the text. It is vital not only to imagine space but also to follow the narration, the description, and the course of action, since all those may shape the fictitious reality by imposing the additional meanings on it.\n\nLiterary/cultural conventions constitute the second space-modelling code. This system is more abstract one than the previous one. It does not refer to how an individual work shapes space but how it is conventionally done by a given epoch, genre, etc. So, for instance, one of the main features of Gothic novels are elements of the supernatural and the sublime, therefore, texts are full of ghosts, vampires and so on.\n\nLanguage is the last of codes shaping space. Every language models space in a different manner. The language of geography, for example, differentiates cardinal and intercardinal directions, among others, west or north-east, while geometry uses relative directions, for instance, left/right/backward(s)/forward(s). In short, it can be said that language organises space in a way, defines it, and provides terms for various types of spatial arrangements.\n\nFinally, Sławiński put an emphasis on description, scenery and superimposed senses, three interrelated planes influencing space (Sławiński 2000, p. 205)\n\nThe descriptive plane is the aspect of narration and consists of words. It is especially crucial to space when it is introduced to the implied reader. The spatial relationship would be impossible to define without description. It describes space directly or implies it, developing together with characters' movements. This 'development' makes the description a dynamic notion in a sense that it creates meanings. Certain elements of the description relate to each other not only on the grammatical but also semantic level. For example, there are relations between words and phrases. Added-on meanings imposed on particular fragments of a text are, for instance, the consequence of such relations.\n\nContrary to description, scenery is considered to be a static entity as it results from description. Description producing scenery may consist of a single block of text or scenery can be the effect of numerous descriptive references in such a text put together.\n\nSuperimposed senses are the last plane. They are a structure caring added-on meanings. They are not conditioned in any way and are type of a subcode which shapes non-spatial relationships and values (Sławiński 2000, p. 212).\n\nAccording to space can be divided into three types, namely, extratextual, intertextual and intratextual. The first is where works of art are stored. It is physical, 3-dimensional and, therefore, can be \"experienced\" by readers (e.g. libraries). The second type is space only in a metaphorical sense, a set of conventions, of common fields of references for a certain piece of writing. It may refer either to other texts or literary traditions (just like J.R.R. Tolkien's \"The Hobbit\" by the appearance of dwarves alludes to, for instance, fairy tales), or both, and as such, intertextual space is an abstract notion. The last space differentiated by Porębski is, intratextual space, is what can be called 'an intentional space' since it is implied and, provoked by the text itself, exists only in the implied reader's imagination.\n\nPorębski derived three subspaces from the intratextual space: physical, symbolical and mathematical ones.The physical space is considered to be an intricate structure, not ordered. What is more, it is 3-dimensional to characters and infinite (lines of length, etc. can be prolonged as much as one wishes them to). The symbolical type of space is the way in which culture arranges it. It is the most primary type of spatial organisation, and it is so crucial due to its metaphysical and eschatological dimension but only when some additional meanings are endows otherwise semantically neutral space. The mathematical type of space can be divided further into topological and geometrical spaces. The former shows how space is perceived in both cultural and mythological way, having much in common with a symbolical space, the latter uses map features, e.g. distances, symmetries, proportions, etc.\n"}
{"id": "59787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59787", "title": "Loanword", "text": "Loanword\n\nA loanword (also loan word or loan-word) is a word adopted from one language (the donor language) and incorporated into another language without translation. This is in contrast to cognates, which are words in two or more languages that are similar because they share an etymological origin, and calques, which involve translation.\n\nA loanword is distinguished from a calque (loan translation), which is a word or phrase whose meaning or idiom is adopted from another language by translation into existing words or word-forming roots of the recipient language.\n\nExamples of loanwords in the English language include \"café\" (from French \"café\", which literally means \"coffee\"), bazaar (from Persian \"bāzār\", which means \"market\"), and kindergarten (from German \"Kindergarten\", which literally means \"children's garden\").\n\nIn a bit of heterological irony, the word \"calque\" is a loanword from the French noun, derived from the verb \"calquer\" (to trace, to copy); the word \"loanword\" is a calque of the German word \"Lehnwort\"; and the phrase \"loan translation\" is a calque of the German \"Lehnübersetzung\".\n\nLoans of multi-word phrases, such as the English use of the French term \"déjà vu\", are known as adoptions, adaptations, or lexical borrowings.\n\nStrictly speaking, the term \"loanword\" conflicts with the ordinary meaning of \"loan\" in that something is taken from the donor language without it being something that is possible to return.\n\nMost of the technical vocabulary of classical music (such as concerto, allegro, tempo, aria, opera, and soprano) is borrowed from Italian, and that of ballet from French.\n\nThe studies by Werner Betz (1949, 1939), Einar Haugen (1950, also 1956), and Uriel Weinreich (1953) are regarded as the classical theoretical works on loan influence. The basic theoretical statements all take Betz’s nomenclature as their starting point. Duckworth (1977) enlarges Betz’s scheme by the type “partial substitution” and supplements the system with English terms. A schematic illustration of these classifications is given below.\n\nThe expression \"foreign word\" used in the illustration below is, however, an incorrect translation of the German term \"Fremdwort\", which refers to loanwords whose pronunciation, spelling, and possible inflection or gender have not yet been so much adapted to the new language that they cease to feel foreign. Such a separation of loanwords into two distinct categories is not used by linguists in English in talking about any language. In addition, basing such a separation mainly on spelling as described in the illustration is (or, in fact, was) not usually done except by German linguists and only when talking about German and sometimes other languages that tend to adapt foreign spellings, which is rare in English unless the word has been in wide use for a very long time.\n\nAccording to the linguist Suzanne Kemmer, the expression \"foreign word\" can be defined as follows in English: \"[W]hen most speakers do not know the word and if they hear it think it is from another language, the word can be called a foreign word. There are many foreign words and phrases used in English such as bon vivant (French), mutatis mutandis (Latin), and Schadenfreude (German).\" This is however not how the term is (incorrectly) used in this illustration:\n\nOn the basis of an importation-substitution distinction, Haugen (1950: 214f.) distinguishes three basic groups of borrowings: “(1) \"Loanwords\" show morphemic importation without substitution... (2) \"Loanblends\" show morphemic substitution as well as importation... (3) \"Loanshifts\" show morphemic substitution without importation”. Haugen later refined (1956) his model in a review of Gneuss’s (1955) book on Old English loan coinages, whose classification, in turn, is the one by Betz (1949) again.\n\nWeinreich (1953: 47ff.) differentiates between two mechanisms of lexical interference, namely those initiated by simple words and those initiated by compound words and phrases. Weinreich (1953: 47) defines \"simple words\" “from the point of view of the bilinguals who perform the transfer, rather than that of the descriptive linguist. Accordingly, the category ‘simple’ words also includes compounds that are transferred in unanalysed form”. After this general classification, Weinreich then resorts to Betz’s (1949) terminology.\n\nThere is a distinction between \"popular\" and \"learned\" loanwords. Popular loanwords are transmitted orally. Learned loanwords are first used in written language, often for scholarly, scientific, or literary purposes.\n\nThe English language has often borrowed words from other cultures or languages:\n\nSome English loanwords remain relatively faithful to the donor language's phonology even though a particular phoneme might not exist or have contrastive status in English. For example, the Hawaiian word \"aā\" is used by geologists to specify lava that is relatively thick, chunky, and rough. The Hawaiian spelling indicates the two glottal stops in the word, but the English pronunciation, , contains at most one. In addition, the English spelling usually removes the ʻokina and macron diacritics.\n\nThe majority of English affixes, such as \"un-\", \"-ing\", and \"-ly\", were present in older forms in Old English. However, a few English affixes are borrowed. For example, the English verbal suffix \"-ize\" (American English) or \"ise\" (British English) comes from Greek -ιζειν (\"-izein\") via Latin \"-izare\".\n\nDuring more than 600 years of the Ottoman Empire, the literary and administrative language of the empire was Turkish, with many Persian, and Arabic loanwords, called Ottoman Turkish, considerably differing from the everyday spoken Turkish of the time. Many such words were exported to other languages of the empire, such as Albanian, Bosnian, Bulgarian, Croatian, Greek, Hungarian, Ladino, Macedonian, Montenegrin and Serbian. After the empire fell after World War I and the Republic of Turkey was founded, the Turkish language underwent an extensive language reform led by the newly founded Turkish Language Association, during which many adopted words were replaced with new formations derived from Turkic roots. That was part of the ongoing cultural reform of the time, in turn a part in the broader framework of Atatürk's Reforms, which also included the introduction of the new Turkish alphabet.\n\nTurkish also has taken many words from French, such as \"pantolon\" for \"trousers\" (from French \"pantalon\") and \"komik\" for \"funny\" (from French \"comique\"), most of them pronounced very similarly. Word usage in modern Turkey has acquired a political tinge: right-wing publications tend to use more Arabic or Persian originated words, left-wing ones use more adopted from European languages, while centrist ones use more native Turkish root words.\n\nAlmost 350 years of Dutch presence in what is now Indonesia have left significant linguistic traces. Though very few Indonesians have a fluent knowledge of Dutch, the Indonesian language inherited many words from Dutch, both in words for everyday life and as well in scientific or technological terminology. One scholar argues that 20% of Indonesian words can be traced back to Dutch words.\n\nA large percentage of the lexicon of Romance languages, themselves descended from Vulgar Latin, consists of loanwords (later learned or scholarly borrowings) from Latin. These words can be distinguished by lack of typical sound changes and other transformations found in descended words, or by meanings taken directly from Classical or Ecclesiastical Latin that did not evolve or change over time as expected; in addition, there are also semi-learned terms which were adapted partially to the Romance language's character. Latin borrowings can be known by several names in Romance languages: in Spanish, for example, they are usually referred to as \"cultismos\", and in Italian as \"latinismi\". \n\nLatin is usually the most common source of loanwords in these languages, such as in Italian, Spanish, French, etc., and in some cases the total number of loans may even outnumber inherited terms (although the learned borrowings are less often used in common speech, with the most common vocabulary being of inherited, orally transmitted origin from Vulgar Latin). This has led to many cases of etymological doublets in these languages.\n\nFor most Romance languages, these loans were initiated by scholars, clergy, or other learned people and occurred in Medieval times, peaking in the late Middle Ages and early Renaissance era- in Italian, the 14th century had the highest number of loans. In the case of Romanian, the language underwent a \"re-Latinization\" process later than the others (see Romanian lexis, ), in the 18th and 19th centuries, partially using French and Italian words (many of these themselves being earlier borrowings from Latin) as intermediaries, in an effort to modernize the language, often adding concepts that did not exist until then, or replacing words of other origins. These common borrowings and features also essentially serve to raise mutual intelligibility of the Romance languages, particularly in academic/scholarly, literary, technical, and scientific domains. Many of these same words are also found in English (through its numerous borrowings from Latin and French) and other European languages.\n\nIn addition to Latin loanwords, many words of Ancient Greek origin were also borrowed into Romance languages, often in part through scholarly Latin intermediates, and these also often pertained to academic, scientific, literary, and technical topics. Furthermore, to a lesser extent, Romance languages borrowed from a variety of other languages; in particular English has become an important source in more recent times. Study of the origin of these words and their function and context within the language can illuminate some important aspects and characteristics of the language, and can reveal insights on the general phenomenon of lexical borrowing in linguistics as a method of enriching a language.\n\nAccording to Hans Henrich Hock and Brian Joseph, \"languages and dialects ... do not exist in a vacuum\": there is always linguistic contact between groups. The contact influences what loanwords are integrated into the lexicon and which certain words are chosen over others.\n\nIn some cases, the original meaning shifts considerably through unexpected logical leaps. The English word \"Viking\" became Japanese バイキング \"baikingu\" meaning 'buffet', because Imperial Viking was the first restaurant in Japan to offer buffet-style meals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13502171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13502171", "title": "Local history", "text": "Local history\n\nLocal history is the study of history in a geographically local context and it often concentrates on the local community. It incorporates cultural and social aspects of history. Local history is not merely national history writ small but a study of past events in a given geographical but one that is based on a wide variety of documentary evidence and placed in a comparative context that is both regional and national. Historic plaques are one form of documentation of significant occurrences in the past and oral histories are another. \n\nLocal history is often documented by local historical societies or groups that form to preserve a local historic building or other historic site. Many works of local history are compiled by amateur historians working independently or archivists employed by various organizations. An important aspect of local history is the publication and cataloguing of documents preserved in local or national records which relate to particular areas.\n\nIn a number of countries a broader concept of local lore is known, which is a comprehensive study of everything pertaining to a certain locality: history, ethnography, geography, natural history, etc. \n\nLocal history tends to be less documented than other types, with fewer books and artifacts than that of a country or continent. Many local histories are recorded as oral tales or stories and so are more vulnerable than more well known issues. Artifacts of local history are often collected in local history museums, which may be housed in a historic house or other building. Individual historic sites are inherently local, although they may have national or world history importance as well. Many however have little overall historical impact but add depth to the local area.\n\nIn Australia, local history is focussed on specific cities and suburbs or country towns and regions. In cities, local history might concentrate on a CBD and its bordering suburbs, on a specific suburb or municipality, or on an agglomeration of suburbs and municipalities (because local government boundaries have changed over time). Outside the larger cities, local history often examines regional towns and surrounding areas.\n\nRecords are typically stored at state libraries, municipal libraries, historical societies and public record offices. For example, the State Library of Victoria holds extensive local history records for Melbourne and other places in Victoria. Many other Melbourne libraries have local history collections, along with the Public Record Office Victoria and the Royal Historical Society of Victoria. In New South Wales, the Royal Australian Historical Society has studied local history as part of its remit since its founding in 1901. It holds local history records along with the State Library of NSW and other state and local libraries and archives.\n\nHistorians have examined the ways local history has been written in Australia since the nineteenth century. Early on, the emphasis was on pioneer and settler history. The creative ways that local history contributed to making community has also been argued. Subsequently, local history, urban history, public history and heritage were closely connected in Australia.\n\nThe British Association for Local History in the United Kingdom encourages and assists in the study of local history as an academic discipline and as a leisure activity by both individuals and groups. Most historic counties in England have record societies and archaeological and historical societies which coordinate the work of historians and other researchers concerned with that area.\n\nLocal history in the UK took a long time to be accepted as an academic discipline. In the 18th and 19th centuries, it was widely regarded as an antiquarian pursuit, suitable for country parsons. The Victoria History of the Counties of England project begun in 1899 in honour of Queen Victoria with the aim of creating an encyclopaedic history of each of the historic counties of England. The project is coordinated by the Institute of Historical Research at the University of London. The first academic post related to local history was at Reading University which appointed a research fellow in local history in 1908. There was a department of local history (but without a professor) at Leicester University from 1947. H. P. R. Finberg was the first Professor of English Local History. He was appointed by Leicester in 1964. Local history continues to be neglected as an academic subject within universities. Academic local historians are often found within a more general department of history or in continuing education.\n\nLocal history is rarely taught as a separate subject in British schools. In 1908, a Board of Education circular had urged that schools should pay attention \"to the history of the town and district\" in which they were situated. In 1952, the Ministry of Education suggested schools should use local material to illustrate national themes. Within the current National Curriculum, pupils at level 4 are expected to \"show their knowledge and understanding of local, national and international history\".\n\nThe Alan Ball Local History Awards were established in the 1980s to recognize outstanding contributions in local history publishing in the UK (both in print and in new media), and to encourage the publishing of such works by public libraries and local authorities.\n\nLocal history can become a crucial component to policy-making and serve as a marketable resource and this is demonstrated in the case of Northern Ireland. Aside from its contribution to local development, local history is being used as a non-contentious meeting ground in addressing conflicting traditions by reinforcing shared past rather than adversarial political history.\n\nIn the United States, local history is usually concentrated on any history of the place and people from a particular village or township. Several villages and townships would comprise one county or county history. Library records are often divided by State, then county, then township/local history. The American Local History Network (ALHN) in the United States provides a focus for accessing independent genealogical and historical resources.\n\nIn the United States, 79,000 historic sites are identified as listings on its National Register of Historic Places. State and local municipalities often have additional landmark designations to cover sites of more purely local interest.\n\nIn addition, many regional and state historical societies maintain regional history and actively seek out missing historical collections.\n\nA new form of local history is the movement of \"If This House Could Talk\" projects in various urban neighborhoods in the United States. These small scale locally generated history events encourage an interest in history and provide for open ended participation by the general public. However, there is often no vetting or third party review of the factual evidence that is presented, and therefore such presentations may require oversight by professional third party history organizations if they are to be transcribed into ongoing collections of local history.\n\nIn several Slavic countries there is a related study which may be translated from the local languages as \"country lore\" or \"local lore\". In addition to history, it also incorporates other local studies, such as local geography, nature, and ethnography.\n\nIn the USSR, Russia and Russian-speaking post-Soviet states local lore is known as \"krayevedenie\" (). It is taught in primary schools. There are also local lore museums known as \"krayevedcheskie muzei\". In modern Russia the concept of \"regional studies\" ( Регионоведение) is also considered.\n\nIn Ukraine, the study of local history and regional ethnography is known as \"krayeznavstvo\" (. The National Union of Local Lore Researchers of Ukraine is a professional society for researchers of ethnology and local studies in Ukraine. It was founded in 1925 and has 3,000 members in 17 chapters. The society has published its journal \"Краєзнавство\" since 1927.\n\nIn Poland, the corresponding concept is called \"\", the term known since 1902. In modern Poland various organized \"krajoznawstwo\" activities are carried out by Polskie Towarzystwo Turystyczno-Krajoznawcze, ineptly translated as \"Polish Tourist and Sightseeing Society\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4197576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4197576", "title": "Mos Teutonicus", "text": "Mos Teutonicus\n\nMos Teutonicus (Latin: \"the Germanic custom\") was a postmortem funerary custom used in Europe in the Middle Ages as a means of transporting, and solemnly disposing of, the bodies of high status individuals. The process involved the removal of the flesh from the body, so that the bones of the deceased could be transported hygienically from distant lands back home.\n\nDuring the Second Crusade for the Holy Land it was not thought fit for aristocrats who fell in battle, or died of natural causes, to be buried away from their homeland in Muslim territory. The transportation of the whole body back from foreign parts over long distances was impractical and unhygienic due to decomposition, which was often accelerated by the climate.\n\nGerman aristocrats were particularly concerned that burial should not take place in the Holy Land, but rather on home soil. The Florentine chronicler Boncompagno was the first to connect the procedure specifically with German aristocrats, and coins the phrase \"mos Teutonicus\", meaning ‘the Germanic custom.’\n\nEnglish and French aristocrats generally preferred embalming to \"mos Teutonicus\", involving the burial of the entrails and heart in a separate location from the corpse. One of the advantages of \"mos Teutonicus\" was that it was relatively economical in comparison with embalming, and was more hygienic.\n\nCorpse preservation was very popular in mediaeval society. The decaying body was seen as a representative of something sinful and evil. Embalming and \"mos Teutonicus\", along with tomb effigies, were a way of giving the corpse an illusion of stasis and removed the uneasy image of putrification and decay.\n\nIn 1270, the body of King Louis IX, who died in Tunis, which was Muslim territory, was subject to the process of \"mos Teutonicus\" for its transportation back to France.\n\nThe process of \"mos Teutonicus\" began with the cadaver being dismembered to facilitate the next stage in the process, in which the body parts were boiled in water or wine for several hours. The boiling had the effect of separating the flesh from the bone. Any residual was scraped from the bones, leaving a completely clean skeleton. Both the flesh and internal organs could be buried immediately, or preserved with salt in the same manner as animal meat. The bones, and any preserved flesh, would then be transported back to the deceased's home for ceremonial interment.\n\nMediaeval society generally regarded entrails as ignoble and there was no great solemnity attached to their disposal, especially among German aristocrats.\n\nAlthough the Church had a high regard for the practice, Pope Boniface VIII was known to have an especial repugnance of \"mos Teutonicus\" because of his ideal of bodily integrity. In his bull of 1300, \"De Sepulturis\", Boniface forbade the practice. The papal bull issued which banned this practice was often misinterpreted as prohibition against human dissection. This probably hindered the research of some anatomists as they feared repercussions and punishment as a result of medical autopsies but \"De Sepulturis\" only prohibited the act of \"mos Teutonicus,\" not dissection in general.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "340370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340370", "title": "Ninety-Two Resolutions", "text": "Ninety-Two Resolutions\n\nThe Ninety-Two Resolutions were drafted by Louis-Joseph Papineau and other members of the \"Parti patriote\" of Lower Canada in 1834. The resolutions were a long series of demands for political reforms in the British-governed colony.\n\nPapineau had been elected speaker of the legislative assembly of Lower Canada in 1815. His party constantly opposed the unelected colonial government, and in 1828 he helped draft an early form of the resolutions, essentially a list of grievances against the colonial administration. To ensure that the views of the Legislative Assembly be understood by the British House of Commons, the \"Parti patriote\" had sent its own delegation to London in order to submit a memoir and a petition signed by 87,000 people.\n\nOn February 28, 1834, Papineau presented the Ninety-Two Resolutions to the Legislative Assembly which were approved and sent to London. The resolutions included, among other things, demands for an elected Legislative Council and an Executive Council responsible before the house of representatives. Under the Constitutional Act of 1791, the government of Lower Canada was given an elected legislative assembly, but members of the upper houses were appointed by the Governor of the colony. \n\nIn the resolutions, the elected representatives once again reiterated their loyalty to the British Crown, but expressed frustration that the government of London had been unwilling to correct the injustices caused by the past governments of the colony.\n\nPapineau's resolutions were ignored for almost three years; meanwhile, the Legislative Assembly did all it could to oppose the un-elected upper houses while avoiding outright rebellion. British Colonial Secretary Lord Russell eventually responded to them by issuing ten resolutions of his own (the Russell Resolutions). All of the Legislative Assembly's demands were rejected. \n\nThe ten resolutions reached Canada in 1837, and many of Papineau's reformists began to agitate for a rebellion. See the Lower Canada Rebellion.\n\n"}
{"id": "1087196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1087196", "title": "Placentophagy", "text": "Placentophagy\n\nPlacentophagy (from 'placenta' + Greek \"φαγειν\", to eat; also referred to as placentophagia) is the act of mammals eating the placenta of their young after childbirth.\n\nThere is also a school of thought that holds that placentophagy naturally occurred to hide any trace of childbirth from predators in the wild. Many placental mammals participate in placentophagy, including herbivores; exceptions include mainly humans, Pinnipedia, Cetacea, and camels. Placentophagy has been observed in Insectivora, Rodentia, Chiroptera, Lagomorpha, Carnivora, Perissodactyla, Artiodactyla (with the camel as a noted exception), and Primates. Marsupials, which are an order of metatherian (pouched) mammals, resorb rather than deliver the placenta, and therefore cannot engage in placentophagia; they do, however, vigorously lick birth fluids as they are excreted.\n\nSome research has shown that ingestion of the placenta can increase the pain threshold in pregnant rats. Rats that consumed the placenta experienced a modest amount of elevation of naturally occurring opioid-mediated analgesia. Endogenous opioids, such as endorphin and dynorphin, are natural chemicals, related to the opium molecule, that are produced in the central nervous system. Production of these endogenous opioids is increased during the birthing process. They have the ability to raise the threshold of pain tolerance in the mother. When coupled with ingested placenta or amniotic fluid, the opioid effect on pain threshold is dramatically increased. Rats that were given meat instead of the placenta showed no increase in the pain threshold. There are no studies that show any benefits of placenta ingestions in humans. There have been no scientific studies which show that placentophagy enhances analgesia in humans or that it has any other benefits.\n\nAlthough the placenta is revered in many cultures, there is scarce evidence that any customarily eat the placenta after the newborn's birth. The medical use of eating a small section of the placenta accompanied by some honey to successfully control post-partum hemorrhage, however, has been accounted for in midwifery practices, and has worked even after typical administration of herbs or pitocin only temporarily stopped bleeding. \n\nThose who advocate placentophagy in humans believe that eating the placenta prevents postpartum depression and other pregnancy complications. Obstetrician and spokesperson for the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists Maggie Blott disputes the post-natal depression theory, stating there is no medical reason to eat the placenta: \"Animals eat their placenta to get nutrition - but when people are already well-nourished, there is no benefit, there is no reason to do it.\" While no scientific study has proven any benefits, a survey was conducted by American Medical anthropologists at the University of South Florida and University of Nevada, Las Vegas. Among the respondents, about 3/4 claimed to have positive experiences from eating their own placenta, citing \"improved mood\", \"increased energy\", and \"improved lactation\".\nHuman placenta has also been an ingredient in some traditional Chinese medicines, including using dried human placenta, known as \"Ziheche\" (), to treat wasting diseases, infertility, impotence and other conditions.\nMost recently, the CDC published a report of a newborn infected with Group B Streptococcus (GBS) bacteria likely after the mother ingested placenta capsules. Consequently, the CDC said that placenta capsule ingestion should be avoided and to educate mothers interested in placenta encapsulation about the potential risks. A recent publication advised that physicians should discourage placentophagy because it is potentially harmful with no documented benefit.\n\nBritish celebrity chef Hugh Fearnly-Whittingstall, known for his series of River Cottage programmes, notoriously cooked and ate a woman's placenta on one of his programmes.\n\n"}
{"id": "46655162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46655162", "title": "Rapa das Bestas of Sabucedo", "text": "Rapa das Bestas of Sabucedo\n\n\"A rapa das bestas\" is the name given to the annual \"curro\" (roundup) of wild horses celebrated the first friday, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday of July in Sabucedo, Pontevedra, Spain.\n\nAcross more than 200 km² of hillside currently more than six-hundred horses roam freely in fourteen droves, referred to in Galician as \"bestas\" (mares) and \"garañones\" (stallions). The festival involves bringing the horses down from the hillside, gathering them into an enclosure, cutting their manes and tails, and tagging them, nowadays with a microchip. The \"curro\" in Sabucedo is the most renowned of all and is set apart from the rest by unique characteristics, the most important of which is that neither ropes, sticks, nor other such instruments are used to subdue the animals.\nThe \"aloitadores\", those responsible for restraining the horses whilst the \"rapa\" takes place, use only their body strength and raw skill to complete the job. Another interesting feature of the \"rapa\" is the \"Bajada\"– the process of rounding up the horses and leading them into Sabucedo – a part of the celebration joined by hundreds of local residents and visitors from further afield. Another element of the tradition is the celebration of a poignant mass, held very early on the Saturday morning, before going up the hill. During the mass, the congregation pray to San Lorenzo, the patron saint of Sabucedo, to keep those participating from any harm.\n\nAccording to the scholar Manuel Cabada, the \"rapa\" is a rite of passage from childhood to adolescence for those who seize a foal for the first time, guided and assisted by the older generation. \nThe town of A Estrada is twinned with Almonte, located in the province of Huelva, due to a similar celebration that takes place called \"Saca de las Yeguas\".\n\nRecords show that the tradition of the \"bajada\", the subsequent \"rapa\" and the marking of the young foals dates back to the beginning of the 18th century. Nevertheless, it is believed that the tradition is actually much older as scholars such as Manuel Cabada have mentioned in their writings. In fact it could even be Pre-Roman, given that various petroglyphs have been found in the area in which men are depicted on horseback. In 1963, the festival was declared of National Touristic Interest, and in 2007 was awarded the status of International Touristic Interest, one of only four in Galicia to hold this prestigious title.\n\n"}
{"id": "1172310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1172310", "title": "Ritualism in the Church of England", "text": "Ritualism in the Church of England\n\nRitualism, in the history of Christianity, refers to an emphasis on the rituals and liturgical ceremony of the church, in particular of Holy Communion.\n\nIn the Anglican church in the 19th century, the role of ritual became a contentious matter. The debate over ritual was also associated with struggles between High Church and Low Church movements.\nIn Anglicanism, the term \"ritualist\" is controversial (i.e. rejected by some of those to whom it is applied). It was often used to describe the second generation of the Oxford Movement/Anglo-Catholic/High Church revival of the 19th century which sought to reintroduce into the Church of England a range of Catholic liturgical practices. The term is also used to describe those who follow in their tradition.\n\nArguments about ritualism in the Church of England were often shaped by opposing (and often unannounced) attitudes towards the concept of \"sola scriptura\" and the nature of the authority of the Bible for Christians.\n\nThose who support the ritualist outlook in the Church of England have often argued that the adoption of key elements of Roman Catholic ritual:\n\nThose who oppose ritualism in the Church of England have generally argued that it:\n\nThe development of ritualism in the Church of England was mainly associated with what is commonly called \"second generation\" Anglo-Catholicism, i.e. the Oxford Movement as it developed after 1845 when John Henry Newman left the Church of England to become a Roman Catholic. Some scholars argued that it was almost inevitable that some of the leaders of Anglo-Catholicism turned their attentions to questions of liturgy and ritual and started to champion the use of practices and forms of worship more commonly associated with Roman Catholicism. There was only limited enthusiasm amongst ritualists to introduce the widespread use of Latin in the liturgy.\nThe leaders of the first generation of the Anglo-Catholic revival or Oxford Movement (e.g. Newman, Edward Bouverie Pusey, and John Keble) had been primarily concerned with theological and ecclesiological questions and had little concern with questions of ritual. They championed the view that the fundamental identity of the Church of England was Catholic rather than Protestant. They had argued that Anglicans were bound by obedience to the use of the \"Book of Common Prayer\". \"Tract 3\" of the \"Tracts for the Times\" series had strenuously argued against any revision of the \"Book of Common Prayer\", viewing its use as a matter of absolute obligation. Even \"Tract 90\", which analysed the 39 Articles, was more concerned with the theological dimension of the issue. It gave little attention to the question of altering current liturgical practice in the Church of England.\n\nThe ecclesiological questions gave rise to an interest in giving liturgical expression to the theological conviction that the Church of England had sustained a fundamentally Catholic character after the English Reformation. In some circles, the shift of focus to the question of liturgy proved as provocative as had been the theological assertions of the first generation of Anglo-Catholicism.\n\nThe clearest illustration of the shift that took place within Anglo-Catholicism from theological to liturgical questions is to be found in Pusey's attitude towards ritualism. Pusey, the only pre-eminent first-generation leader of Anglo-Catholicism to survive into the second generation, had no sympathy with the preoccupation with ritual. However, when priests started to be prosecuted and imprisoned as a result of the Public Worship Regulation Act 1874, Pusey was quick to show his support for those who were prosecuted.\n\nFrom the 1850s to the 1890s, several liturgical practices espoused by many ritualists led to some occasional and intense local controversies – some leading to prosecutions (most notably as a result of the Public Worship Regulation Act 1874). Those considered most important by adherents of the Catholic movement were known as the \"six points\":\n\nOther contentious practices included:\n\nIn regard to the \"North Side\" celebration. At the time of the Reformation, altars were fixed against the east end of the church, and the priests would celebrate the Mass standing at the front of the altar. Beginning with the rubrics of the Second Prayer Book of Edward VI published in 1552, and through the 1662 Book of Common Prayer (which prevailed for almost 300 years), the priest is directed to stand \"at the north syde of the Table.\" This was variously interpreted over the years to mean the north side of the front of a fixed communion table, the north end of a fixed table (i.e., facing south), the north side of a free-standing table (presumably facing those intending to receive the Elements who would be sitting in the quire stalls opposite), or at the north end of a free-standing table lengthwise in the chancel, facing a congregation seated in the nave. If the last option then it would copy the practice of the Early Church when the celebrant stood before a small stone or marble table, usually rectangular, facing the nave.\n\nThe ritualist movement (see Cambridge Camden Society) also played a substantial role in promoting:\nThe prosecution and conviction of Arthur Tooth in 1876, Sidney Faithorn Green in 1879 and Richard William Enraght in 1880 are good illustrative examples of the kind of issues that could be involved in controversies caused by these liturgical practices. The prosecutions (which were often instigated by the Church Association) gave considerable impetus to the foundation and work of the English Church Union. The Society of the Holy Cross (SSC) played a crucial role in championing and developing the use of elements of proscribed Catholic ritual in Anglicanism.\n\nFor many who opposed ritualism, the key concern was to defend what they saw as the fundamentally Protestant identity of the Church of England. Nor was this just a matter of an ecclesiological argument: for many, there was a sense that Catholic worship is somehow \"un-English\". Catholicism was deeply associated in many minds with cultural identities which, historically, many English people had commonly treated with suspicion, especially the Spanish, the French, and the Irish.\n\nFor an ideological defence of this position, it was argued that English identity was closely tied in with England's history as a Protestant country that, after the Reformation, had played a key role in opposing Catholic powers in Continental Europe (especially Spain and then France). In the minds of such people, Protestantism was inextricably identified with anti-despotic values and Catholicism with autocracy that, in the religious arena, hid behind the \"disguise\" of such things as complicated rituals whose meaning deliberately lacked transparency. The opposition to ritualism therefore had a deeply cultural and symbolic significance that extended far beyond purely theological concerns.\n\nRitualists themselves were often at pains to try and present the \"Englishness\" of the ritual they championed by (mostly) keeping English as the language of the liturgy and reconstructing Anglo-Catholicism as a recovery of pre-Reformation Catholic forms that were specifically English: a revival of interest in the Sarum Rite (the pre-Reformation Catholic liturgy of Salisbury) was sparked off by the Ritualist movement. This tendency was also often expressed in such details as the revival in the use of the pre-Reformation Gothic forms rather than the Baroque – the Baroque was more closely linked in the minds of many with specifically continental and Counter Reformation forms.\n\nAlthough ritualism had an aesthetic and ideological appeal for many in the cultural elite, and had a cognate relationship with the Gothic Revival, the idea that it was inextricably linked with an inclination towards political despotism was a misapprehension. Ritualism had an appeal for many who were politically conservative and had supporters highly placed in the establishment (e.g. Viscount Halifax and the 4th Marquess of Bath). However, the outlook of many of the ritualist clergy themselves, many of whom inevitably operated in some of the most deprived communities in England, resulted in their becoming politically radicalised by the experience – some became ardent Christian Socialists.\n\nIn the spectrum of hostility that it aroused, ritualism also provoked in some of its opponents a reaction that saw its theatricality and its aestheticism as symptoms of \"effeminacy\". A typical charge was that ritualistic clergy were \"man milliners\", more concerned with lace and brocade than doctrine. Adverse reaction to this played a significant role in the evolution of the Broad and Low Church enthusiasm for \"muscular Christianity\".\n\nOne of the key ideological justifications used by many of the early ritualists, apart from the fact that it was a symbolic way of affirming their belief in the essentially Catholic nature of Anglicanism, was the argument that it provided a particularly effective medium for bringing Christianity to the poorest, \"slum parishes\" of the Church of England.\n\nIt was argued that ritual and aesthetically impressive liturgy did not only provide a powerful contrast to the drabness of the lives of the poor, its emphasis on symbol and action rather than word was a more effective medium for spreading Christian faith in areas with poor literacy rates than the highly cerebral and logocentric worship that was focused on the Book of Common Prayer. This argument may have had some merits, but, very often, the respect that the most successful ritualists often gained in the highly impoverished communities they went to serve was based on the fact that they had expressed a genuine pastoral concern for the poor amongst whom they lived.\n\nThe argument for ritualism in Anglicanism was also based on the analogy of the success of the Roman Catholic Church amongst the highly impoverished Irish migrant communities in the urban areas of England – it was argued by some that ritual played a key role in the growth of the Roman Catholic Church amongst the poor. However, the use of ritual probably played little more than a subsidiary role in the success of the Catholic Church in this area: its success was probably largely due to a special cultural identity that many Irish migrants felt with the Roman Catholic Church as one of the few institutions that they encountered in diaspora that was also a feature of life in their homeland.\n\nThe ritualists use of vestments and wafer bread have become widespread, even normative, in the Church of England for much of the 20th century.\n\nAlthough many members of the Church of England today still feel uncomfortable or sceptical about certain 'Catholic' or 'Romish' liturgical practices, they would be astonished to be told that, in the late 19th century, using incense, wearing vestments, putting candles on the altar, the mixed cup, making the sign of the Cross over the congregation, and using unleavened (wafer) bread in the Eucharist could spark riots, put priests in prison and even led in 1888–90 to the prosecution of a bishop – Edward King, Bishop of Lincoln. The lasting legacy is that the Ritualists won: the current liturgical style in its various manifestations in almost all Anglican parishes world-wide is much closer to the way Mass was celebrated 500 years ago even in Low Church and 'mid-range' parishes. What offended so many 150 years ago are the new norm and even fewer seem to care or even know about past fights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13766203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13766203", "title": "South Park and Philosophy: You Know, I Learned Something Today", "text": "South Park and Philosophy: You Know, I Learned Something Today\n\nSouth Park and Philosophy: You Know, I Learned Something Today is the first non-fiction book in Blackwell Publishing Company’s Philosophy & Pop Culture series and is edited by philosopher and ontologist, Robert Arp, at the time assistant professor of philosophy at Southwest Minnesota State University. The series itself is edited by William Irwin, who is a professor of philosophy at King's College, Pennsylvania in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. The book utilizes the five classic branches of Western philosophy, namely, metaphysics, epistemology, ethics, political philosophy, and logic, in order to analyze episodes of \"South Park\" as well as place the show in a context of current popular culture.\n\nThe book was published December 1, 2006. The following year, \"\"—volume 26 of Open Court Publishing Company's Popular Culture and Philosophy series—was published, with editing by philosopher Richard Hanley.\n\nThe book includes contributions from twenty-two academics in the field of philosophy. Topics include issues of sexuality involved in depicting Saddam Hussein and Satan as gay lovers, existentialism as applied to the death of Kenny, and a debate about whether feminists can enjoy the show due to some of its misogynistic characters. The contributors to the work utilize philosophical concepts derived from Plato, Aristotle, Freud and Sartre and place them in a \"South Park\" context.\n\nThe book's contributors all attempted to analyze the philosophical and cultural aspects of \"South Park\" in the work. One of the authors, David Koepsell, wrote about the controversial episode dealing with Scientology, entitled: \"Trapped in the Closet\". Koepsell cited the fact that the series won a Peabody Award due to its willingness to criticize intolerance in April 2006 as a \"special concern for criticizing and countering intolerance\", and the notion that \"the Church of Scientology suffers from the widely held perceptions that it seeks to silence former members and others who criticize its beliefs and practices\" as the motivation behind the episode. Koepsell analyzed Comedy Central's reaction to the episode itself, in a section of his book entitled \"2005–2006: Comedy Central Caves\". He mentions \"South Park's\" usage of the onscreen caption \"this is what Scientologists actually believe\". in the episode, noting that the same device was used in the episode \"All About the Mormons?\". In referencing this similar use of the onscreen caption device, Koepsell seemed to point to an inconsistency in the behavior of Comedy Central relative to the episode. He explained \"By a long shot, this show was more kind to Scientology than was \"All About the Mormons\" to Mormonism.\" He noted Comedy Central had suggested it would not rebroadcast the episode for the second time, though it later announced on July 12, 2006 that it would.\n\nA review in \"The Boston Herald\" called the work an \"indispensable collection of thought-provoking essays\". The book was featured on \"The Book Show\" radio program on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. Host Lynne Mitchell wrote that most of the contributors to the book succeeded in teaching philosophy to the reader while discussing the various \"South Park\" episodes. However Mitchell also commented that she was annoyed by a pretend interview by the editor with the creators of \"South Park\", which she felt was made up in \"a kind of South Park pastiche\". A review in \"Publishers Weekly\" stated that \"some of the writers' attempts at lowbrow humor can be embarrassingly off-mark\", but also noted that pop-philosophy devotees and South Park fans with a philosophical bent will enjoy the book.\n\n"}
{"id": "25490263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25490263", "title": "Speech repetition", "text": "Speech repetition\n\nSpeech repetition is the saying by one individual of the spoken vocalizations made by another individual. This requires the ability in the person making the copy to map the sensory input they hear from the other person's vocal pronunciation into a similar motor output with their own vocal tract.\n\nSuch speech input output imitation often occurs independently of speech comprehension such as in speech shadowing when a person automatically says words heard in earphones, and the pathological condition of echolalia in which people reflexively repeat overheard words. This links to speech repetition of words being separate in the brain to speech perception. Speech repetition occurs in the dorsal speech processing stream while speech perception occurs in the ventral speech processing stream. Repetitions are often incorporated unawares by this route into spontaneous novel sentences immediately or after delay following storage in phonological memory.\n\nIn humans, the ability to map heard input vocalizations into motor output is highly developed due to this copying ability playing a critical role in a child's rapid expansion of their spoken vocabulary. In older children and adults it still remains important as it enables the continued learning of novel words and names and additional languages. Such repetition is also necessary for the propagation of language from generation to generation. It has also been suggested that the phonetic units out of which speech is made have been selected upon by the process of vocabulary expansion and vocabulary transmissions due to children preferentially copying words in terms of more easily imitated elementary units.\n\nVocal imitation happens quickly: words can be repeated within 250-300 milliseconds both in normals (during speech shadowing) and during echolalia. The imitation of speech syllables possibly happens even quicker: people begin imitating the second phone in the syllable [ao] earlier than they can identify it (out of the set [ao], [aæ] and [ai]). Indeed, \"...simply executing a shift to [o] upon detection of a second vowel in [ao] takes very little longer than does interpreting and executing it as a shadowed response\". Neurobiologically this suggests \"...that the early phases of speech analysis yield information which is directly convertible to information required for speech production\". Vocal repetition can be done immediately as in speech shadowing and echolalia. It can also be done after the pattern of pronunciation is stored in short-term memory or long-term memory. It automatically uses both auditory and where available visual information about how a word is produced.\n\nThe automatic nature of speech repetition was noted by Carl Wernicke, the late nineteenth century neurologist, who observed that \"The primary speech movements, enacted before the development of consciousness, are reflexive and mimicking in nature..\".\n\nVocal imitiation arises in development before speech comprehension and also babbling: 18-week-old infants spontaneously copy vocal expressions provided the accompanying voice matches. Imitation of vowels has been found as young as 12 weeks. It is independent of native language, language skills, word comprehension and a speaker's intelligence. Many autistic and some mentally disabled people engage in the echolalia of overheard words (often their only vocal interaction with others) without understanding what they echo. Reflex uncontrolled echoing of others words and sentences occurs in roughly half of those with Gilles de la Tourette syndrome. The ability to repeat words without comprehension also occurs in mixed transcortical aphasia where it links to the sparing of the short-term phonological store.\n\nThe ability to repeat and imitate speech sounds occurs separately to that of normal speech. Speech shadowing provides evidence of a 'privileged' input/output speech loop that is distinct to the other components of the speech system. Neurocognitive research likewise finds evidence of a direct (nonlexical) link between phonological analysis input and motor programming output.\n\nSpeech sounds can be imitatively mapped into vocal articulations in spite of vocal tract anatomy differences in size and shape due to gender, age and individual anatomical variability. Such variability is extensive making input output mapping of speech more complex than a simple mapping of vocal track movements. The shape of the mouth varies widely: dentists recognize three basic shapes of palate: trapezoid, ovoid, and triagonal; six types of malocclusion between the two jaws; nine ways teeth relate to the dental arch and a wide range of maxillary and mandible deformities. Vocal sound can also vary due to dental injury and dental caries. Other factors that do not impede the sensory motor mapping needed for vocal imitation are gross oral deformations such as hare-lips, cleft palates or amputations of the tongue tip, pipe smoking, pencil biting and teeth clinching (such as in ventriloquism). Paranasal sinuses vary between individuals 20-fold in volume, and differ in the presence and the degree of their asymmetry.\n\nVocal imitation occurs potentially in regard to a diverse range of phonetic units and types of vocalization. The world's languages use consonantal phones that differ in thirteen imitable vocal tract place of articulations (from the lips to the glottis). These phones can potentially be pronounced with eleven types of imitable manner of articulations (nasal stops to lateral clicks). Speech can be copied in regard to its social accent, intonation, pitch and individuality (as with entertainment impersonators). Speech can be articulated in ways which diverge considerably in speed, timbre, pitch, loudness and emotion. Speech further exists in different forms such as song, verse, scream and whisper. Intelligible speech can be produced with pragmatic intonation and in regional dialects and foreign accents. These aspects are readily copied: people asked to repeat speech-like words imitate not only phones but also accurately other pronunciation aspects such as fundamental frequency, schwa-syllable expression, voice spectra and lip kinematics, voice onset times, and regional accent.\n\nIn 1874 Carl Wernicke proposed that the ability to imitate speech plays a key role in language acquisition. This is now a widely researched issue in child development. A study of 17,000 one and two word utterances made by six children between 18 months to 25 months found that, depending upon the particular infant, between 5% and 45% of their words might be mimicked. These figures are minima since they concern only immediately heard words. Many words that may seem spontaneous are in fact delayed imitations heard days or weeks previously. At 13 months children who imitate new words (but not ones they already know) show a greater increase in noun vocabulary at four months and non noun vocabulary at eight months. A major predictor of vocabulary increase in both 20 months, 24 months, and older children between 4 and 8 years is their skill in repeating nonword phone sequences (a measure of mimicry and storage). This is also the case with children with Down's syndrome . The effect is larger than even age: in a study of 222 two-year-old children that had spoken vocabularies ranging between 3–601 words the ability to repeat nonwords accounted for 24% of the variance compared to 15% for age and 6% for gender (girls better than boys).\n\nImitation provides the basis for making longer sentences than children could otherwise spontaneously make on their own. Children analyze the linguistic rules, pronunciation patterns, and conversational pragmatics of speech by making monologues (often in crib talk) in which they repeat and manipulate in word play phrases and sentences previously overheard. Many proto-conversations involve children (and parents) repeating what each other has said in order to sustain social and linguistic interaction. It has been suggested that the conversion of speech sound into motor responses helps aid the vocal \"alignment of interactions\" by \"coordinating the rhythm and melody of their speech\". Repetition enables immigrant monolingual children to learn a second language by allowing them to take part in 'conversations'. Imitation related processes aids the storage of overheard words by putting them into speech based short- and long-term memory.\n\nThe ability to repeat nonwords predicts the ability to learn second-language vocabulary. A study found that adult polyglots performed better in short-term memory tasks such as repeating nonword vocalizations compared to nonpolyglots though both are otherwise similar in general intelligence, visuo-spatial short-term memory and paired-associate learning ability. Language delay in contrast links to impairments in vocal imitation.\n\nElectrical brain stimulation research upon the human brain finds that 81% of areas that show disruption of phone identification are also those in which the imitating of oral movements is disrupted and vice versa; Brain injuries in the speech areas show a 0.9 correlation between those causing impairments to the copying of oral movements and those impairing phone production and perception.\n\nSpoken words are sequences of motor movements organized around vocal tract gesture motor targets. Vocalization due to this is copied in terms of the motor goals that organize it rather than the exact movements with which it is produced. These vocal motor goals are auditory. According to James Abbs 'For speech motor actions, the individual articulatory movements would not appear to be controlled with regard to three- dimensional spatial targets, but rather with regard to their contribution to complex vocal tract goals such as resonance properties (e.g., shape, degree of constriction) and or aerodynamically significant variables'. Speech sounds also have duplicable higher-order characteristics such as rates and shape of modulations and rates and shape of frequency shifts. Such complex auditory goals (which often link—though not always—to internal vocal gestures) are detectable from the speech sound which they create.\n\nTwo cortical processing streams exist: a ventral one which maps sound onto meaning, and a dorsal one, that maps sound onto motor representations. The dorsal stream projects from the posterior Sylvian fissure at the temporoparietal junction, onto frontal motor areas, and is not normally involved in speech perception. \nCarl Wernicke identified a pathway between the left posterior superior temporal sulcus (a cerebral cortex region sometimes called the Wernicke's area) as a centre of the sound \"images\" of speech and its syllables that connected through the arcuate fasciculus with part of the inferior frontal gyrus (sometimes called the Broca's area) responsible for their articulation. This pathway is now broadly identified as the dorsal speech pathway, one of the two pathways (together with the ventral pathway) that process speech. The posterior superior temporal gyrus is specialized for the transient representation of the phonetic sequences used for vocal repetition. Part of the auditory cortex also can represent aspects of speech such as its consonantal features.\n\nMirror neurons have been identified that both process the perception and production of motor movements. This is done not in terms of their exact motor performance but an inference of the intended motor goals with which it is organized. Mirror neurons that both perceive and produce the motor movements of speech have been identified. According to the motor theory of speech imitation such speech mirror neurons in infants have selected for motor goals with vocal track gestures that are easy to imitate and this has shaped the nature of the phonetic units out of which spoken words are constructed. Speech is mirrored constantly into its articulations since speakers cannot know in advance that a word is unfamiliar and in need of repetition—which is only learnt after the opportunity to map it into articulations has gone. Thus, speakers if they are to incorporate unfamiliar words into their spoken vocabulary\nmust by default map all spoken input. The motor theory of speech imitation unlike that of motor theory of speech perception does not link mirror neurons with speech perception.\n\nHuman language is a vocabulary-based form of communication that unlike that of other animals employs tens of thousands of lexicals and names. This requires that young humans new to language have the ability to quickly learn both the pronunciations and use of many thousands of words. If children could not repeat speech without problems, human language could not exist. This makes the evolution of the capacity of speech repetition a critical innovation needed for the origin of speech The motor theory of speech imitation argues that this need for speech to be imitable not speech perception nor speech production moreover underlies the evolved nature of the vowel and consonant units of phonetics.\n\nWords in sign languages, unlike those in spoken ones, are made not of sequential units but of spatial configurations of subword unit arrangements, the spatial analogue of the sonic-chronological morphemes of spoken language. These words, like spoken ones, are learnt by imitation. Indeed, rare cases of compulsive sign-language echolalia exist in otherwise language-deficient deaf autistic individuals born into signing families. At least some cortical areas neurobiologically active during both sign and vocal speech, such as the auditory cortex, are associated with the act of imitation.\n\nBirds learn their songs from those made by other birds. In several examples, birds show highly developed repetition abilities: the Sri Lankan Greater racket-tailed drongo (\"Dicrurus paradiseus\") copies the calls of predators and the alarm signals of other birds Albert's lyrebird (\"Menura alberti\") can accurately imitate the satin bowerbird (\"Ptilonorhynchus violaceus\"),\n\nResearch upon avian vocal motor neurons finds that they perceive their song as a series of articulatory gestures as in humans. Birds that can imitate humans, such as the Indian hill myna (Gracula religiosa), imitate human speech by mimicking the various speech formants, created by changing the shape of the human vocal tract, with different vibration frequencies of its internal tympaniform membrane. Indian hill mynahs also imitate such phonetic characteristics as voicing, fundamental frequencies, formant transitions, nasalization, and timing, through their vocal movements are made in a different way from those of the human vocal apparatus.\n\n\nApes taught language show an ability to imitate language signs with chimpanzees such as Washoe who was able to learn with his arms a vocabulary of 250 American Sign Language gestures. However, such human trained apes show no ability to imitate human speech vocalizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1270984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1270984", "title": "Taijin kyofusho", "text": "Taijin kyofusho\n\nTaijin kyofusho (対人恐怖症 taijin kyōfushō, TKS, for \"taijin kyofusho symptoms\") is a Japanese culture-specific syndrome. The term taijin kyofusho translates into the disorder (sho) of fear (kyofu) of interpersonal relations (taijin). Those who have taijin kyofusho are likely to be extremely embarrassed about themselves or fearful of displeasing others when it comes to the functions of their bodies or their appearances. These bodily functions and appearances include their faces, odor, actions, or even looks. They do not want to embarrass other people with their presence. This culture-bound syndrome is a social phobia based on fear and anxiety.\n\nThe symptoms of this disorder include avoiding social outings and activities, rapid heartbeat, shortness of breath, panic attacks, trembling, and feelings of dread and panic when around people. The causes of this disorder are mainly from emotional trauma or psychological defense mechanism. It is more common in men than women. Lifetime prevalence is estimated at 3–13%.\n\n\"Taijin kyofusho\" is commonly described as a form of social anxiety (social phobia), with the person dreading and avoiding social contact, and as a subtype of \"shinkeishitsu\" (anxiety disorder). However, instead of a fear of embarrassing themselves or being harshly judged by others because of their social ineptness, sufferers of \"taijin kyofusho\" report a fear of offending or harming other people. The focus is thus on avoiding harm to others rather than to oneself.\n\nIn the fifth edition of the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM-5), variants of \"taijin kyofusho\" (shubo-kyofu and jikoshu-kyofu) are listed under 300.3 (F42) \"Other Specified Obsessive-Compulsive and Related Disorders\".\n\nOne source even breaks \"taijin kyofusho\" into two different subtypes: neurotic and offensive. The first subtype can be broken into two parts that are classical type and avoidant type. The classical type being afraid of being judged negatively because of physical signs of anxiety and feeling shame due to anxiety. The physical signs that can cause fear of being judged include sweating and tremors. The second subtype deals with people thinking something about them is offensive. Some of their fears include body odor, gas, excessive or insufficient eye contact, blushing, etc.\n\nIn the official Japanese diagnostic system, \"taijin kyofusho\" is subdivided into the following categories:\n\n\nJapan psychology also recognizes additional types of \"taijin kyofusho\" based on severity:\n\n\nTypically, this disease is presaged by a childhood history of social inhibition and shyness. It is possible that it could result from a humiliating traumatic experience, or it could emerge from a lifelong onset of the illness that only comes to the surface after time.\n\nClinical data indicates that more males have the condition than females, despite the fact that females scored higher on a social phobia scale than men, and report higher scores on proclivity towards feelings of embarrassment. This differs from Western society where the prevalence of females with social phobias is to some extent greater than that of males. The lifetime prevalence of the disorder falls anywhere between 3% and 13% with changes in severity occurring throughout one's lifetime. It is estimated that about 17% of individuals with taijin kyofusho have fears of releasing foul body odor.\n\nA person may be diagnosed with taijin kyofusho if they feel as if their attitudes, behavior, and physical characteristics are inadequate in social situations. As a result of these feelings, they also experience persistent suffering in the form of emotional distress through shame, embarrassment, anxiety, fear, and other tense feelings that occur when confronted with social circumstances. In addition, individuals also worry about being unable to maintain healthy relationships with others. When it comes to socializing, taijin kyofusho sufferers avoid painful social and interpersonal situations, while simultaneously being averse to doing so. Those likely to develop taijin kyofusho have more of a temperamental characteristic of being hypochondriacal. The balance between introversion and extroversion in hypochondriacal temperament is geared more towards introversion. The introversion causes sufferers to focus on themself and problems they have, and by fixating on their weaknesses they become more anxious and depressed.\n\nA problem with culture-bound syndromes is that they are resistant to some medicine.} The standard Japanese treatment for taijin kyofusho is Morita therapy, developed by Shoma Morita in the 1910s as a treatment for the Japanese mental disorders taijin kyofusho and shinkeishitsu (nervousness). The original regimen involved patient isolation, enforced bed rest, diary writing, manual labor, and lectures on the importance of self-acceptance and positive endeavor. Since the 1930s, the treatment has been modified to include out-patient and group treatments. This modified version is known as neo-Morita therapy. Medications have also gained acceptance as a treatment option for taijin kyofusho. Other treatments include systematic desensitization, which includes slowly exposing one self to the fear, and learning relaxation skills, to extinguish fear and anxiety.\n\nMilnacipran, a serotonin–norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI), is currently used in the treatment of taijin kyofusho and has been shown to be efficacious for the related social anxiety disorder. The primary aspect of treating this disorder is getting patients to focus their attention on their body parts and sensations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10518546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10518546", "title": "Technology life cycle", "text": "Technology life cycle\n\nThe technology life-cycle (TLC) describes the commercial gain of a product through the expense of research and development phase, and the financial return during its \"vital life\". Some technologies, such as steel, paper or cement manufacturing, have a long lifespan (with minor variations in technology incorporated with time) while in other cases, such as electronic or pharmaceutical products, the lifespan may be quite short.\n\nThe TLC associated with a product or technological service is different from product life-cycle (PLC) dealt with in product life-cycle management. The latter is concerned with the life of a product in the marketplace with respect to timing of introduction, marketing measures, and business costs. The \"technology\" underlying the product (for example, that of a uniquely flavoured tea) may be quite marginal but the process of creating and managing its life as a branded product will be very different. \n\nThe technology life cycle is concerned with the time and cost of developing the technology, the timeline of recovering cost, and modes of making the technology yield a profit proportionate to the costs and risks involved. The TLC may, further, be protected during its cycle with patents and trademarks seeking to lengthen the cycle and to maximize the profit from it.\n\nThe \"product\" of the technology may be a commodity such as polyethylene plastic or a sophisticated product like the integrated circuits used in a smartphone.\n\nThe development of a \"competitive product\" or process can have a major effect on the lifespan of the technology, making it shorter. Equally, the loss of intellectual property rights through litigation or loss of its secret elements (if any) through leakages also work to reduce a technology's lifespan. Thus, it is apparent that the \"management\" of the TLC is an important aspect of technology development.\n\nMost new technologies follow a similar technology maturity lifecycle describing the technological maturity of a product. This is not similar to a product life cycle, but applies to an entire technology, or a generation of a technology.\n\nTechnology adoption is the most common phenomenon driving the evolution of industries along the industry lifecycle. After expanding new uses of resources they end with exhausting the efficiency of those processes, producing gains that are first easier and larger over time then exhaustingly more difficult, as the technology matures.\n\nThe TLC may be seen as composed of four phases:\n\nThe shape of the technology lifecycle is often referred to as S-curve.\n\nThere is usually technology hype at the introduction of any new technology, but only after some time has passed can it be judged as mere hype or justified true acclaim.\nBecause of the logistic curve nature of technology adoption, it is difficult to see in the early stages whether the hype is excessive.\n\nThe two errors commonly committed in the early stages of a technology's development are:\nSimilarly, in the later stages, the opposite mistakes can be made relating to the possibilities of technology maturity and market saturation.\n\nThe technology adoption life cycle typically occurs in an S curve, as modelled in diffusion of innovations theory. This is because customers respond to new products in different ways. Diffusion of innovations theory, pioneered by Everett Rogers, posits that people have different levels of readiness for adopting new innovations and that the characteristics of a product affect overall adoption. Rogers classified individuals into five groups: innovators, early adopters, early majority, late majority, and laggards. In terms of the S curve, innovators occupy 2.5%, early adopters 13.5%, early majority 34%, late majority 34%, and laggards 16%.\n\nThe four stages of technology life cycle are as follows:\n\nLarge corporations develop technology for their own benefit and not with the objective of licensing. The tendency to license out technology only appears when there is a threat to the life of the TLC (business gain) as discussed later.\n\nThere are always smaller firms (SMEs) who are inadequately situated to finance the development of innovative R&D in the post-research and early technology phases. By sharing incipient technology under certain conditions, substantial risk financing can come from third parties. This is a form of quasi-licensing which takes different formats. Even large corporates may not wish to bear all costs of development in areas of significant and high risk (e.g. aircraft development) and may seek means of spreading it to the stage that proof-of-concept is obtained.\n\nIn the case of small and medium firms, entities such as venture capitalists or business angels, can enter the scene and help to materialize technologies. Venture capitalists accept both the costs and uncertainties of R&D, and that of market acceptance, in reward for high returns when the technology proves itself. Apart from finance, they may provide networking, management and marketing support. Venture capital connotes financial as well as human capital.\n\nLarger firms may opt for Joint R&D or work in a consortium for the early phase of development. Such vehicles are called strategic alliances – strategic partnerships.\nWith both venture capital funding and strategic (research) alliances, when business gains begin to neutralize development costs (the TLC crosses the X-axis), the ownership of the technology starts to undergo change.\n\nIn the case of smaller firms, venture capitalists help clients enter the stock market for obtaining substantially larger funds for development, maturation of technology, product promotion and to meet marketing costs. A major route is through initial public offering (IPO) which invites risk funding by the public for potential high gain. At the same time, the IPOs enable venture capitalists to attempt to recover expenditures already incurred by them through part sale of the stock pre-allotted to them (subsequent to the listing of the stock on the stock exchange). When the IPO is fully subscribed, the assisted enterprise becomes a corporation and can more easily obtain bank loans, etc. if needed.\n\nStrategic alliance partners, allied on research, pursue separate paths of development with the incipient technology of common origin but pool their accomplishments through instruments such as 'cross-licensing'. Generally, contractual provisions among the members of the consortium allow a member to exercise the option of independent pursuit after joint consultation; in which case the optee owns all subsequent development.\n\nThe ascent stage of the technology usually refers to some point above Point A in the TLC diagram but actually it commences when the R&D portion of the TLC curve inflects (only that the cashflow is negative and unremunerative to Point A). The ascent is the strongest phase of the TLC because it is here that the technology is superior to alternatives and can command premium profit or gain. The slope and duration of the ascent depends on competing technologies entering the domain, although they may not be \"as successful\" in that period. Strongly patented technology extends the duration period.\n\nThe TLC begins to flatten out (the region shown as M) when equivalent or challenging technologies come into the competitive space and begin to eat away marketshare.\n\nTill this stage is reached, the technology-owning firm would tend to exclusively enjoy its profitability, preferring \"not\" to license it. If an overseas opportunity does present itself, the firm would prefer to set up a controlled subsidiary rather than license a third party.\n\nThe maturity phase of the technology is a period of stable and remunerative income but its competitive viability can persist over the larger timeframe marked by its 'vital life'. However, there may be a tendency to license out the technology to third parties during this stage to lower risk of decline in profitability (or competitivity) and to expand financial opportunity.\n\nThe exercise of this option is, generally, inferior to seeking participatory exploitation; in other words, engagement in joint venture, typically in regions where the technology would be in the \"ascent phase\",as say, a developing country. In addition to providing financial opportunity it allows the technology-owner a degree of control over its use. Gain flows from the two streams of investment-based and royalty incomes. Further, the vital life of the technology is enhanced in such strategy.\n\nAfter reaching a point such as D in the above diagram, the earnings from the technology begin to decline rather rapidly. To prolong the life cycle, owners of technology might try to license it out at some point L when it can still be attractive to firms in other markets. This, then, traces the lengthening path, LL'. Further, since the decline is the result of competing rising technologies in this space, licenses may be attracted to the general lower cost of the older technology (than what prevailed during its vital life).\n\nLicenses obtained in this phase are 'straight licenses'. They are free of direct control from the owner of the technology (as would otherwise apply, say, in the case of a joint-venture). Further, there may be fewer restrictions placed on the licensee in the employment of the technology.\n\nThe utility, viability, and thus the cost of straight-licenses depends on the estimated 'balance life' of the technology. For instance, should the key patent on the technology have expired, or would expire in a short while, the residual viability of the technology may be limited, although balance life may be governed by other criteria such as knowhow which could have a longer life if properly protected.\n\n\"It is important to note that the license has no way of knowing the stage at which the prime, and competing technologies, are on their TLCs\". It would, of course, be evident to competing licensor firms, and to the originator, from the growth, saturation or decline of the profitability of their operations.\n\nThe license may, however, be able to approximate the stage by vigorously negotiating with the licensor and competitors to determine costs and licensing terms. A lower cost, or easier terms, \"may\" imply a declining technology.\n\nIn any case, access to technology in the decline phase is a large risk that the licensee accepts. (In a joint-venture this risk is substantially reduced by licensor sharing it). Sometimes, financial guarantees from the licensor may work to reduce such risk and can be negotiated.\n\nThere are instances when, even though the technology declines to becoming a technique, it may still contain important knowledge or experience which the licensee firm cannot learn of without help from the originator. This is often the form that \"technical service\" and \"technical assistance\" contracts take (encountered often in developing country contracts). Alternatively, consulting agencies may fill this role.\n\nAccording to the Encyclopedia of Earth, \"In the simplest formulation, innovation can be thought of as being composed of research, development, demonstration, and deployment.\"\n\n\"Technology development cycle\" describes the process of a new technology through the stages of technological maturity:\n\n"}
{"id": "38566488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38566488", "title": "Trademark look", "text": "Trademark look\n\nTrademark look or signature look is the characteristic clothes or other distinguishing signs used by a certain character or performer, making the person more recognizable by the audience. Politicians may also have trademark signs, such as the suit of American President Barack Obama or the Merkel-Raute of German Chancellor Angela Merkel. It can also refer to the clothes of a certain subculture.\n\nSometimes, when a celebrity stops using a trademark look, people might even find it hard to recognise them.\n\nThe term is not used in trademark law and a trademark look is not necessarily trademark protected in itself.\n\n"}
{"id": "7779220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7779220", "title": "Travel technology", "text": "Travel technology\n\nTravel technology (also called tourism technology, and hospitality automation) is the application of Information Technology (IT) or Information and Communications Technology (ICT) in the travel, tourism and hospitality industry. One form of travel technology is flight tracking.\n\nSince travel implies locomotion, travel technology was originally associated with the computer reservations system (CRS) of the airlines industry, but now is used more inclusively, incorporating the broader tourism sector as well as its subset the hospitality industry. While travel technology includes the computer reservations system, it also represents a much broader range of applications, in fact increasingly so. Travel technology includes virtual tourism in the form of virtual tour technologies. Travel technology may also be referred to as \"e-travel\" / \"etravel\" or \"e-tourism\" / \"etourism\" (eTourism), in reference to \"electronic travel\" or \"electronic tourism\".\n\ne-Tourism can be defined as the analysis, design, implementation and application of IT and e-commerce solutions in the travel&tourism industry; as well as the analysis of the respective economic processes and market structures and customer relationship management.\n\nFrom a communication science perspective, eTourism can be also defined as every application of Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) within both the hospitality and tourism industry, as well as within the tourism experience.\n\nTravel technology is increasingly being used to describe systems for managing and monitoring travel, including travel tracking and flight tracking systems.\n\nIn other contexts, the term \"travel technology\" can refer to technology intended for use by travelers, such as light-weight laptop computers with universal power supplies or satellite Internet connections. That is not the sense in which it is used here.\n\nTravel technology includes many processes such as dynamic packaging which provide useful new options for consumers. Today the tour guide can be a GPS tour guide, and the guidebook could be an audioguide, podguide or I-Tours, such as City audio guides. The biometric passport may also be included as travel technology in the broad sense.\n\nXML-based technologies have become increasingly important for the travel industry. XML can be used to support air reservation booking or to implement optional services and merchandising functions in the booking process. Another important application of XML is the establishing of direct connections between Airlines and Travel Agencies. In order to create a generally accepted XML-standard, the Open Axis Group was founded.\n\nThe Internet has a powerful impact on hospitality and tourism. For many businesses and locations, the experience starts long before a traveler arrives--it begins with the first visit to the website, when a person sees photos of the location and gets a sense of what to expect. In the hospitality and tourism business, effective use of Internet technologies can improve revenue. Websites, blogs, online advertising, social media, online ordering and information repositories all help convince customers to choose a location or business.\nReservations Systems\n\nBooking engines to allow easy access by consumers and travel professionals; the systems enable individuals to make reservations and compare prices. Many, like Expedia and Orbitz, are available through online interfaces. Booking engines cut costs for travel businesses by reducing call volume and give the traveler more control over their purchasing process.\n\nBecause many tourism businesses are large and dispersed, they use computer systems to stay connected. Computer systems allow communication between branches and locations which makes it easier to streamline reservations and cross-company policies. They are also used internally to keep all of the staff on the same page and make it easier to access information that can improve the guest experience: guest preferences, housekeeping information and reservation details can all be kept on a single system.\n\nMany travelers take some form of mobile communication device with them on the road, whether it is a tablet computer or a mobile phone. To keep customers advised of changes many tourism and hospitality businesses use mobile communication; they send delay notices, offer deals and sponsor location-based advertising. Depending on the type of business the communication might happen through emails, text messaging or GPS tagging, for example.\n\nThe continuing evolution of information technology has had a considerable impact on the travel agency service industry. The widespread public use of the Internet has created a number of conditions that have been game-changers -- in both beneficial and detrimental ways -- to the modern travel agency. As a result, many travel agencies in the 21st century have had to make considerable adaptations to remain solvent and relevant.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30666", "title": "Trivium", "text": "Trivium\n\nThe trivium is the lower division of the seven liberal arts and comprises grammar, dialectic, and rhetoric.\n\nThe trivium is implicit in \"De nuptiis Philologiae et Mercurii\" (\"On the Marriage of Philology and Mercury\") by Martianus Capella, but the term was not used until the Carolingian Renaissance, when it was coined in imitation of the earlier quadrivium. Grammar, logic, and rhetoric were essential to a classical education, as explained in Plato's dialogues. The three subjects together were denoted by the word \"trivium\" during the Middle Ages, but the tradition of first learning those three subjects was established in ancient Greece. Contemporary iterations have taken various forms, including those found in certain British and American universities (some being part of the Classical education movement) and at the independent Oundle School in the United Kingdom.\n\nEtymologically, the Latin word trivium means \"the place where three roads meet\" (tri + via); hence, the subjects of the trivium are the foundation for the quadrivium, the upper division of the medieval education in the liberal arts, which comprised arithmetic (number), geometry (number in space), music (number in time), and astronomy (number in space and time). Educationally, the trivium and the quadrivium imparted to the student the seven liberal arts of classical antiquity.\n\nGrammar teaches the mechanics of language to the student. This is the step where the student \"comes to terms,\" defining the objects and information perceived by the five senses. Hence, the Law of Identity: \"a tree is a tree, and not a cat\".\n\nLogic (also dialectic) is the \"mechanics\" of thought and of analysis, the process of identifying fallacious arguments and statements and so systematically removing contradictions, thereby producing factual knowledge that can be trusted.\n\nRhetoric is the application of language in order to instruct and to persuade the listener and the reader. It is the knowledge (grammar) now understood (logic) and being transmitted outwards as wisdom (rhetoric).\n\nSister Miriam Joseph, in \"The Trivium: The Liberal Arts of Logic, Grammar, and Rhetoric\" (2002), described the trivium as follows:\n\nGrammar is the art of inventing symbols and combining them to express thought; logic is the art of thinking; and rhetoric is the art of communicating thought from one mind to another, the adaptation of language to circumstance.\n\nGrammar is concerned with the thing as-it-is-symbolized. Logic is concerned with the thing as-it-is-known. Rhetoric is concerned with the thing as-it-is-communicated.\n\nJohn Ayto wrote in the \"Dictionary of Word Origins\" (1990) that study of the trivium (grammar, logic, and rhetoric) was requisite preparation for study of the quadrivium (arithmetic, geometry, music, and astronomy). For the medieval student, the trivium was the curricular beginning of the acquisition of the seven liberal arts; as such, it was the principal undergraduate course of study. The word \"trivial\" arose from the contrast between the simpler trivium and the more difficult quadrivium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3834447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3834447", "title": "Túath", "text": "Túath\n\nTúath (plural \"túatha\") is the Old Irish term for the basic political and jurisdictional unit of Gaelic Ireland. \"Túath\" can refer to both a geographical territory as well the people who lived in that territory. \n\nIn ancient Irish terms, a household was reckoned at about 30 people per dwelling. A \"trícha cét\" (\"thirty hundreds\"), was an area comprising 100 dwellings or, roughly, 3,000 people. A \"túath\" consisted of a number of allied \"trícha céta\", and therefore referred to no fewer than 6,000 people. Probably a more accurate number for a \"túath\" would be no fewer than 9,000 people.\n\nEach \"túath\" was a self contained unit, with its own executive, assembly, courts system and defence force. \"Túatha\" were grouped together into confederations for mutual defence. There was a hierarchy of \"túatha\" statuses, depending on geographical position and connection to the ruling dynasties of the region. The organization of \"túatha\" is covered to a great extent within the Brehon laws, Irish laws written down in the 7th century, also known as the \"Fénechas\".\n\nThe old Irish political system was altered during and after the Elizabethan conquest, being gradually replaced by a system of baronies and counties under the new colonial system. Due to a loss of knowledge, there has been some confusion regarding old territorial units in Ireland, mainly between \"trícha céta\" and \"túatha\", which in some cases seem to be overlapping units, and in others, different measurements altogether. The \"trícha céta\" were primarily for reckoning military units; specifically, the number of fighting forces a particular population could rally. Some scholars equate the \"túath\" with the modern parish, whereas others equate it with the barony. This partly depends on how the territory was first incorporated into the county system. in cases where surrender and regrant was the method, the match between the old \"túath\" and the modern barony is reasonably equivalent. Whereas in cases like Ulster, which involved large scale colonisation and confiscation of land, the shape of the original divisions is not always clear or recoverable. \n\n\"Túath\" in Old Irish means both \"the people\", \"country, territory\", and \"territory, petty kingdom, the political and jurisdictional unit of ancient Ireland\". The word possibly derives from Proto-Celtic *\"toutā\" (\"tribe, tribal homeland\"; cognate roots may be found in the Gaulish god name Toutatis), which is perhaps from Proto-Indo-European *\"tewtéh₂\" (\"tribesman, tribal citizen\"). In Modern Irish it is spelled \"tuath\", without the fada accent, and is usually used to refer to \"rural districts\" or \"the country\" (as in \"the countryside\"); however the historical meaning is still understood and employed, as well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31037220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31037220", "title": "Vs. (magazine)", "text": "Vs. (magazine)\n\nVs. is an international fashion and lifestyle magazine published twice per year. Featuring sleek design, luxury fashion stories, editorial edge, and large format, glossy, print size, \"Vs.\" was founded by Jakob F. Stubkjær and Vibe Dabelsteen in 2005. \"Vs.\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s offices are based in New York, United States. \n\n\"Vs.\" features some of the most prominent figures in fashion and mainstream culture from supermodels and celebrities to emerging talents within fashion, beauty, music, art, film and culture. \nEvery issue has four different covers. Fall/Winter 2010 featured Naomi Campbell, Eva Mendes, Christina Ricci and Rachel Weisz on the front cover, and the Spring/Summer 2011 issues featured Kylie Minogue, Sky Ferreira, Paris Hilton and Oh Land \n\nVsmagazinelive.com is the LIVE edition of the printed magazine. With all the notions of web exploited, that is the motion, the audio, the pace, the form. Vsmagazinelive.com features new content every day from historic film clips to exclusive Vs. fashion productions, daily style and fashion news, as well as trends, industry and cultural updates.\nHeadquarters in NYC\n\nThe following models and talent have featured on the front covers of \"Vs. Magazine\".\n"}
