{"id": "33440372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33440372", "title": "Civil Society Coordination 2.0", "text": "Civil Society Coordination 2.0\n\nCivil Society Coordination 2.0 refers to the strong coordination achieved through the online Virtual community and the Web 2.0 phenomenon over the World Wide Web; Civil Society Coordination 2.0 basically refers to the new organizational strengths the Internet has afforded to the 21st century Civil Society.\n\nThe Civil Society Coordination 2.0 was coined by Chika Sylva-Olejeme, Founder of the Center for Diplomacy and Development (CDD) and proponent of the Oxford-Nigeria Training and Research Project, the term was first used in the context of Politics and Government on the Facebook page of Patience Jonathan Institute for Creativity and Entrepreneurship.\n\n“It is our duty to monitor, evaluate and direct the activities of our governments \nIt is our duty to ensure that governments provides adequate mentoring for their citizens \nOur method is “Government Mentoring and Monitoring System (GMMS)”\nOur platform will be the Mentorship Advocate (MA) website; created and managed by the Civil Society Coordination 2.0”\n\nThe importance Civil Society Coordination 2.0 is based on the Key principle that large groups of people are smarter than an elite few, no matter how brilliant, organised groups of people are better at solving problems, fostering innovation, coming to wise decisions, even predicting the future. It is perceived that some emerging Government policies are leveraging on the social web, it might be considered as a successful type of community organizing\n\nCivil Society Coordination 2.0 is playing a remarkable role in Governance and transparency, Nations of the world are yielding to its dictates. Examples of Civil Society Coordination 2.0 influence and control include the official government presence in social networking sites, blogs, and video sharing sites,\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1392681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1392681", "title": "Learning organization", "text": "Learning organization\n\nIn business management, a learning organization is a company that facilitates the learning of its members and continuously transforms itself. The concept was coined through the work and research of Peter Senge and his colleagues.\n\nLearning organizations develop as a result of the pressures facing modern organizations and enables them to remain competitive in the business environment.\n\nThere is a multitude of definitions of a learning organization as well as their typologies. \nPeter Senge stated in an interview that a learning organization is a group of people working together collectively to enhance their capacities to create results they really care about. Senge popularized the concept of the learning organization through his book \"The Fifth Discipline\". In the book, he proposed the following five characteristics: \n\nThis combination encourages organizations to shift to a more interconnected way of thinking. Organizations should become more like communities that employees can feel a commitment to.\n\nOrganizations do not organically develop into learning organizations; there are factors prompting their change. As organizations grow, they lose their capacity to learn as company structures and individual thinking becomes rigid. When problems arise, the proposed solutions often turn out to be only short-term (single-loop learning instead of double-loop learning) and re-emerge in the future. To remain competitive, many organizations have restructured, with fewer people in the company. This means those who remain need to work more effectively. To create a competitive advantage, companies need to learn faster than their competitors and to develop a customer responsive culture. Chris Argyris identified that organizations need to maintain knowledge about new products and processes, understand what is happening in the outside environment and produce creative solutions using the knowledge and skills of all within the organization. This requires co-operation between individuals and groups, free and reliable communication, and a culture of trust.\n\nOne of the main benefits being a learning organization offers is a competitive advantage. This competitive advantage can be founded on different strategies, which can be acquired by organizational learning. One way of gaining a competetive advantage is strategic flexibility. The continuous inflow of new experience and knowledge keeps the organization dynamic and prepared for change. In an ever-changing institutional environment this can be a key factor for an advantage. Better management of an organizations explorative investments and exploitative acting can be a benefit of a learning organization, too. Next, a competitive advantage of a company can be gained by lower prices and better quality of products. Through organizational learning both cost leadership and differentiation strategies are possible. The ability to reconfigure actions based on needs and environment avoids the tradeoff between the two . Overall the customer performance of learning organizations might be better, which is the direct and measurable channel, that establishes a competitive advantage . Another important aspect is innovation. Innovation and learning are closely related. While encouraging people to learn and develop, a more innovative environment is commonly generated, innovative ideas coming from e.g. communities of practice can result in greater overall organizational learning .\n\nOther benefits of a learning organization are:\n\nEven within or without learning organization, problems can stall the process of learning or cause it to regress. Most of them arise from an organization not fully embracing all the necessary facets. Once these problems can be identified, work can begin on improving them.\n\nSome organizations find it hard to embrace personal mastery because as a concept it is intangible and the benefits cannot be quantified; personal mastery can even be seen as a threat to the organization. This threat can be real, as Senge points out, that 'to empower people in an unaligned organization can be counterproductive'. In other words, if individuals do not engage with a shared vision, personal mastery could be used to advance their own personal visions. In some organizations a lack of a learning culture can be a barrier to learning. An environment must be created where individuals can share learning without it being devalued and ignored, so more people can benefit from their knowledge and the individuals becomes empowered. A learning organization needs to fully accept the removal of traditional hierarchical structures.\n\nResistance to learning can occur within a learning organization if there is not sufficient buy-in at an individual level. This is often encountered with people who feel threatened by change or believe that they have the most to lose. They are likely to have closed mind sets, and are not willing to engage with mental models. Unless implemented coherently across the organization, learning can be viewed as elitist and restricted to senior levels. In that case, learning will not be viewed as a shared vision. If training and development is compulsory, it can be viewed as a form of control, rather than as personal development. Learning and the pursuit of personal mastery needs to be an individual choice, therefore enforced take-up will not work.\n\nIn addition, organizational size may become the barrier to internal knowledge sharing. When the number of employees exceeds 150, internal knowledge sharing dramatically decreases because of higher complexity in the formal organizational structure, weaker inter-employee relationships, lower trust, reduced connective efficacy, and less effective communication. As such, as the size of an organizational unit increases, the effectiveness of internal knowledge flows dramatically diminishes and the degree of intra-organizational knowledge sharing decreases.\n\nProblems with Senge's vision include a failure to fully appreciate and incorporate the imperatives that animate modern organizations; the relative sophistication of the thinking he requires of managers (and whether many in practice are up to it); and questions regarding his treatment of organizational politics. It is certainly difficult to find real-life examples of learning organizations (Kerka 1995). There has also been a lack of critical analysis of the theoretical framework.\n\nBased on their study of attempts to reform the Swiss Postal Service, Matthias Finger and Silvia Bűrgin Brand (1999) provide a useful listing of more important shortcomings of the learning organization concept. They conclude that it is not possible to transform a bureaucratic organization by learning initiatives alone. They believe that by referring to the notion of the learning organization it was possible to make change less threatening and more acceptable to participants. 'However, individual and collective learning, which has undoubtedly taken place, has not really been connected to organizational change and transformation'. Part of the issue, they suggest, has to do with the concept of the learning organization itself. They argue that the concept of the learning organization:\n\nThe book \"The Dance of Change\" states there are many reasons why an organization may have trouble in transforming itself into a learning organization. The first is that an organization does not have enough time. Employees and management may have other issues that take priority over trying to change the culture of their organization. The team may not be able to commit the time if an institution does not have the appropriate help or training. For an organization to be able to change, it needs to know the steps necessary to solve the problems it faces. As a solution, a mentor or coach who is well versed in the learning organization concept may be necessary.\n\nAlso, the change may not be relevant to the organization's needs. Time should be spent on the actual issues of the organization and its daily issues. To combat this challenge, a strategy must be built. The organization should determine what its problems are before entering into the transformation. Training should remain linked to business results so that it is easier for employees to connect the training with everyday issues.\n\nA usual challenge with many organizations is the lack of concentration on personal development while focusing mainly on professional development which is more likely to have a direct contribution to organization's performance whereas personal development's positive results appear more in the long run and less visibly.\n\nAs for the leader, it may be challenging not to consider one's own personal vision as the organization's shared vision.\n\nSome of the issues that learning organizations were designed to address within institutions is fragmentation, competition and reactiveness. Fragmentation is described as breaking a problem into pieces. For example, each organization has an accounting department, finance, operations, IT and marketing. Competition occurs when employees are trying to do better or 'beat' others in an assignment instead of collaborating. Reactiveness occurs when an organization changes only in reaction to outside forces, rather than proactively initiating change.\n\nInappropriate habits while organizing team meetings can effect negatively. Meetings should be prepared in time, agenda drawn up and enough time dedicated to focus on the subjects. Because best results in team learning form through discipline, it is essential to have an agenda, make atmosphere open and respect others: avoid interruption, be interested and respond.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23025574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23025574", "title": "Making Sense of Abstinence", "text": "Making Sense of Abstinence\n\nMaking Sense of Abstinence is a collection of 16 lessons for teaching about sexual abstinence in the context of comprehensive sexuality education. According to the Minnesota Organization on Adolescent Pregnancy, Prevention, and Parenting, it is \"a curriculum that takes abstinence beyond a one-dimensional scope of 'just say no,'...[utilizing] positive and engaging activities to help young people think about abstinence in a way that values their ability to make decisions.\"\n\nSample lessons include such titles as \"So What's An Abstinence Anyway?\" \"Hey, Mom? Hey, Dad? Hey...Gram? Can We Talk about Abstinence?\" \"Just Say Know,\" \"Masturbation: A Touchy Subject,\" \"Handling Horny,\" and \"Some Day: Making the Transition from Sexual Abstinence\".\n\nThe manual has received praise from sexuality educators for expanding the way sexuality education teaches about abstinence, and for teaching the subject in a positive way, unlike other fear-based approaches. For example, the online journal \"Sexual Intelligence\" praised \"Making Sense of Abstinence\" for \"not treating kids like robotic idiots.\"\n\nAbstinence-only advocates have criticized the manual for including such topics as outercourse and masturbation, behaviors they believe should not be acknowledged. Critics also claim that teenagers should not learn information to protect themselves when their abstinence decisions change.\n\nThe authors of \"Making Sense of Abstinence\" state that neither the \"Just say no\" approach, nor the \"Always say yes,\" is appropriate for abstinence education. Rather, they emphasize that teens need complete information to help them make the best decisions for themselves.\n"}
{"id": "1957138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1957138", "title": "Our Bodies, Ourselves", "text": "Our Bodies, Ourselves\n\nOur Bodies, Ourselves is a book about women's health and sexuality produced by the nonprofit organization Our Bodies Ourselves (originally called the Boston Women's Health Book Collective). First published in the late 1960s, it contains information related to many aspects of women's health and sexuality, including: sexual health, sexual orientation, gender identity, birth control, abortion, pregnancy and childbirth, violence and abuse, and the menopause. The most recent edition of the book was published in 2011. The book was revolutionary in that it encouraged women to celebrate their sexuality, including chapters on reproductive rights, lesbian sexuality, and sexual independence. The move towards women’s active engagement with their actual sexual desires was contradicting the popular gendered myth of “women as docile, and passive,” and “men as active and aggressive” in a sexual relationship.\n\nThe book has been translated and adapted by women's groups around the world and is available in 29 languages. Sales for all the books exceed four million copies. The \"New York Times\" has called the seminal book \"America's best-selling book on all aspects of women's health\" and a \"feminist classic\".\n\nThe health seminar that inspired the booklet was organized in 1969 by Nancy Miriam Hawley at Boston's Emmanuel College. \"We weren't encouraged to ask questions, but to depend on the so-called experts,\" Hawley told \"Women's eNews\". \"Not having a say in our own health care frustrated and angered us. We didn't have the information we needed, so we decided to find it on our own.\" As a result of this goal, the book contained information intended to guide women on \"how to maneuver the American health care system, with subsections called 'The Power and Role of Male Doctors,' 'The Profit Motive in Health Care,'\" 'Women as Health Care Workers,' and 'Hospitals.'\n\nThe original writers of the book stated four main reasons for creating it. First, that personal experiences provide a valuable way to understand one's own body beyond the mere facts that experts can provide, creating an empowering learning experience. Second, this kind of learning meant that they were \"better prepared to evaluate that institutions that are supposed to meet our health needs . . .\". Third, the historical lack of self-knowledge about the female body \"had had one major consequence - pregnancy\" and through greater information, women will have more ability to make proactive choices about when to get pregnant. Fourth, information about one's body is perhaps the most essential kind of education, because \"bodies are the physical bases from which we move out into the world\". Without this basic information, women are alienated from their own body and necessarily on unequal footing with men.\n\nThe women researched and wrote up the information themselves. Wendy Sanford wrote about abortion, Jane Pincus and Ruth Bell about pregnancy, and Paula Doress and Esther Rome about postpartum depression. The 12 feminists then published their research as a 35-cent, 136-page booklet called \"Women and Their Bodies\", published in 1970 by the New England Free Press. The booklet sold 250,000 copies in New England without any formal advertising.\n\nAs a result of their success, the women formed the non-profit Boston Women's Health Book Collective (which now goes by the name Our Bodies Ourselves) and published the first 276-page \"Our Bodies, Ourselves\" in 1973. The collective published it with the major publisher Simon & Schuster only on the condition that they would have complete editorial control and that nonprofit health centers could purchase copies at a significant discount. It featured first-person stories from women, and tackled many topics then regarded as taboo. Since then, over four million copies have been sold.\n\nIn 2018, the group announced that due to financial pressures, it would no longer publish new print editions nor have experts update its web site with new health information.\n\nThe Boston Women's Health Book Collective, also known as the Our Bodies, Ourselves Collective, is a feminist group that created \"Our Bodies, Ourselves\". The collective formed at the peak of the women's movement in Boston.\n\nTwelve women all between the ages of 23 to 39 first attended a workshop entitled \"Women and Their Bodies\" which allowed the women to discuss together the issues they had surrounding their health. The discussion created a consciousness-raising environment, providing each woman with information that they all deal with when handling issues about their bodies. The strong discussion supplied the women with the necessary tools and ideas that lead to the creation of their book that addressed issues surrounding sexuality and abortion. They put their knowledge into an accessible format that served as a model for women who wanted to learn about themselves, communicate with doctors, and challenge the medical establishment to change and improve the health of women everywhere.\n\nReproductive justice was at the forefront during the women's liberation, causing much debate over the biological rights of women. The Equal Rights Amendment had a section specifically targeting the important issues about Reproductive justice that combines multiple reproductive rights and issues surrounding family. The strategy of the reproductive justice plank was to establish the necessary rights and access for women to gain control over their bodies. Through the passing of this legislation woman would be granted the ability to have abortions, obtain access to birth control and gain full control over their bodies. \n\nThe Boston Collective focused on these ideas to allow women the ability to understand their bodies and themselves as women. During the National Women's Conference, women from all over the country deliberated to determine the exact laws that should be put into place for women's reproductive justice. The Boston Collective work together to teach courses and create books that provide knowledge from women not only in Boston, but women across the nation. These women use their skills and knowledge to provide many women with knowledge about their lives through rhetoric that avoids describing the female reproductive system as passive, unproductive, helpless, or powerless.\n\nThe organization has also created two single-topic books. \"Our Bodies, Ourselves: Menopause\" was published in 2006, and \"Our Bodies, Ourselves: Pregnancy and Birth\" in 2008. The Boston Women's Health Book Collective earlier produced \"Changing Bodies, Changing Lives: A Book For Teens on Sex and Relationships\" and \"The New Ourselves, Growing Older: Women Aging with Knowledge and Power\".\n\nThe first book was a product of the feminist movement and could still be said to reflect its values. The personal experiences of women are taken into account and are quoted throughout, while the social and political context of women's health informs the content of the book. The book emphasizes empowerment through information and learning, specifically, information gained through women sharing their personal narratives with each other because \"by sharing our responses we can develop a base on which to be critical of what the experts tell us.\"\n\nTopics such as male-to-female and female-to-male transsexualism/transgenderism are discussed in the most recent edition and considered in a nonjudgmental manner, despite the controversy to which they have been subject within the feminist movement. The writing style of the book tends toward a familiar, inclusive tone, with the authors referring to women and themselves as a collective group.\n\nThe collective of women who initiated \"Our Bodies, Ourselves\" are part of the documentary \"She's Beautiful When She's Angry\", about the founders of the modern women's movement from 1966 to 1971.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1173917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1173917", "title": "Paul Underwood Kellogg", "text": "Paul Underwood Kellogg\n\nPaul Underwood Kellogg (September 30, 1879 – November 1, 1958) was an American journalist and social reformer. He died at 79 in New York on November 1, 1958. His obituary was printed the next day in \"The New York Times\".\n\nHe was born in Kalamazoo, Michigan, in 1879. After working as a journalist he moved to New York City to study at Columbia University.\n\nAfter university Kellogg worked for \"Charities\" magazine before carrying out an unprecedented, in-depth study of industrial life in Pittsburgh. Published as \"The Pittsburgh Survey\" (1910–14), it became a model for sociologists wishing to employ research to aid social reform. His studies which helped to abolish the seven-day work week.\n\nKellogg returned to \"Charities\" magazine, now retitled \"Survey\" magazine. He became editor in 1912 and over the next few years turned into America's leading social work journal.\n\nAn opponent of U.S. involvement in the First World War, Kellogg joined Jane Addams and Oswald Garrison Villard, to persuade Henry Ford, the American industrialist, to organize a peace conference in Stockholm. Ford came up with the idea of sending a boat of pacifists to Europe to determine if they could negotiate an agreement to end the war. He chartered the ship \"Oskar II\", and it sailed from Hoboken, New Jersey, on December 4, 1915. The Ford Peace Ship reached Stockholm in January, 1916, and a conference was organized with representatives from Denmark, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the United States.\n\nIn 1918 Kellogg became the chairman of the Foreign Policy Association in New York. By the 1920s, Kellogg had become appalled by the way people were being persecuted for their political beliefs, particularly by President Woodrow Wilson's appointee A. Mitchell Palmer. In 1920, Kellogg joined with Roger Baldwin, Norman Thomas, Crystal Eastman, Addams, Clarence Darrow, John Dewey, Abraham Muste, Elizabeth Gurley Flynn and Upton Sinclair to form the American Civil Liberties Union.\n\nIn 1927 Kellogg joined with John Dos Passos, Alice Hamilton, Addams, Upton Sinclair, Dorothy Parker, Ben Shahn, Edna St. Vincent Millay, Floyd Dell, George Bernard Shaw and H. G. Wells in an effort to prevent the execution of Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti. Although Webster Thayer, the original judge, was officially criticized for his conduct at the trial, the execution took place on August 23, 1927.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3722964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3722964", "title": "Sadistic personality disorder", "text": "Sadistic personality disorder\n\nSadistic personality disorder is a personality disorder involving sadism which appeared in an appendix of the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM-III-R). The later versions of the DSM (DSM-IV, DSM-IV-TR and DSM-5) do not include it.\n\nThe words \"sadism\" and \"sadist\" are derived from Marquis de Sade.\n\nSadism involves deriving pleasure through themselves or others undergoing discomfort or pain. The opponent-process theory explains the way in which individuals not only display, but also enjoy committing sadistic acts. Individuals possessing sadistic personalities tend to display recurrent aggression and cruel behavior. Sadism can also include the use of emotional cruelty, purposefully manipulating others through the use of fear, and a preoccupation with violence.\n\nTheodore Millon claimed there were four subtypes of sadism, which he termed Enforcing sadism, Explosive sadism, Spineless sadism, and Tyrannical sadism.\n\nSadistic personality disorder has been found to occur frequently in unison with other personality disorders. Studies have also found that sadistic personality disorder is the personality disorder with the highest level of comorbidity to other types of psychopathological disorders. In contrast, sadism has also been found in patients who do not display any or other forms of psychopathic disorders. One personality disorder that is often found to occur alongside sadistic personality disorder is conduct disorder, not an adult disorder but one of childhood and adolescence. Studies have found other types of illnesses, such as alcoholism, to have a high rate of comorbidity with sadistic personality disorder.\n\nResearchers have had some level of difficulty distinguishing sadistic personality disorder from other forms of personality disorders due to its high level of comorbidity with other disorders.\n\nNumerous theorists and clinicians introduced sadistic personality disorder to the DSM in 1987 and it was placed in the DSM-III-R as a way to facilitate further systematic clinical study and research. It was proposed to be included because of adults who possessed sadistic personality traits but were not being labeled, even though their victims were being labeled with a self-defeating personality disorder. Theorists like Theodore Millon wanted to generate further study on SPD, and so proposed it to the DSM-IV Personality Disorder Work Group, who rejected it.\n\nThere is renewed interest in studying sadism as a personality trait. Sadism joins with subclinical psychopathy, narcissism, and Machiavellianism to form the so-called \"dark tetrad\" of personality.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "411590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=411590", "title": "Science and technology studies", "text": "Science and technology studies\n\nScience and technology studies, or science, technology and society studies (both abbreviated STS) is the study of how society, politics, and culture affect scientific research and technological innovation, and how these, in turn, affect society, politics and culture.\n\nLike most interdisciplinary programs, STS emerged from the confluence of a variety of disciplines and disciplinary subfields, all of which had developed an interest—typically, during the 1960s or 1970s—in viewing science and technology as socially embedded enterprises. The key disciplinary components of STS took shape independently, beginning in the 1960s, and developed in isolation from each other well into the 1980s, although Ludwik Fleck's (1935) monograph \"Genesis and Development of a Scientific Fact\" anticipated many of STS's key themes. In the 1970s Elting E. Morison founded the STS program at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), which served as a model. By 2011, 111 STS research centres and academic programs were counted worldwide.\n\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s, leading universities in the US, UK, and Europe began drawing these various components together in new, interdisciplinary programs. For example, in the 1970s, Cornell University developed a new program that united science studies and policy-oriented scholars with historians and philosophers of science and technology. Each of these programs developed unique identities due to variation in the components that were drawn together, as well as their location within the various universities. For example, the University of Virginia's STS program united scholars drawn from a variety of fields (with particular strength in the history of technology); however, the program's teaching responsibilities—it is located within an engineering school and teaches ethics to undergraduate engineering students—means that all of its faculty share a strong interest in engineering ethics.\n\nA decisive moment in the development of STS was the mid-1980s addition of technology studies to the range of interests reflected in science. During that decade, two works appeared \"en seriatim\" that signaled what Steve Woolgar was to call the \"turn to technology\": \"Social Shaping of Technology\" (MacKenzie and Wajcman, 1985) and \"The Social Construction of Technological Systems\" (Bijker, Hughes and Pinch, 1987). MacKenzie and Wajcman primed the pump by publishing a collection of articles attesting to the influence of society on technological design. In a seminal article, Trevor Pinch and Wiebe Bijker attached all the legitimacy of the Sociology of Scientific Knowledge to this development by showing how the sociology of technology could proceed along precisely the theoretical and methodological lines established by the sociology of scientific knowledge. This was the intellectual foundation of the field they called the social construction of technology.\n\nThe \"turn to technology\" helped to cement an already growing awareness of underlying unity among the various emerging STS programs. More recently, there has been an associated turn to ecology, nature, and materiality in general, whereby the socio-technical and natural/material co-produce each other. This is especially evident in work in STS analyses of biomedicine (such as Carl May, Annemarie Mol, Nelly Oudshoorn, and Andrew Webster) and ecological interventions (such as Bruno Latour, Sheila Jasanoff, Matthias Gross, S. Lochlann Jain, and Jens Lachmund).\n\nThe subject has several professional associations.\n\nFounded in 1975, the Society for Social Studies of Science, initially provided scholarly communication facilities, including a journal (\"Science, Technology, and Human Values\") and annual meetings that were mainly attended by science studies scholars. The society has since grown into the most important professional association of science and technology studies scholars worldwide. The Society for Social Studies of Science members also include government and industry officials concerned with research and development as well as science and technology policy; scientists and engineers who wish to better understand the social embeddedness of their professional practice; and citizens concerned about the impact of science and technology in their lives. Proposals have been made to add the word \"technology\" to the association's name, thereby reflecting its stature as the leading STS professional society, that the name is long enough as it is.\n\nIn Europe, the European Association for the Study of Science and Technology (EASST) was founded in 1981 to \"stimulate communication, exchange and collaboration in the field of studies of science and technology\". Similarly, the European Inter-University Association on Society, Science and Technology (ESST) researches and studies science and technology in society, in both historical and contemporary perspectives.\n\nIn Asia several STS associations exist.\nIn Japan, the Japanese Society for Science and Technology Studies (JSSTS) was founded in 2001. The Asia Pacific Science Technology & Society Network (APSTSN) primarily has members from Australasia, Southeast and East Asia and Oceania.\n\nIn Latin America ESOCITE (Estudios Sociales de la Ciencia y la Tecnología) is the biggest association of Science and Technology studies. The study of STS (CyT in Spanish, CTS in Portuguese) here was shaped by authors like Amílcar Herrera and Jorge Sabato y Oscar Varsavsky in Argentina, José Leite Lopes in Brazil, Miguel Wionczek in Mexico, Francisco Sagasti in Peru, Máximo Halty Carrere in Uruguay and Marcel Roche in Venezuela.\n\nFounded in 1958, the Society for the History of Technology initially attracted members from the history profession who had interests in the contextual history of technology. After the \"turn to technology\" in the mid-1980s, the society's well-regarded journal (\"Technology and Culture\") and its annual meetings began to attract considerable interest from non-historians with technology studies interests.\n\nLess identified with STS, but also of importance to many STS scholars, are the History of Science Society, the Philosophy of Science Association, and the American Association for the History of Medicine.\n\nAdditionally, within the US there are significant STS-oriented special interest groups within major disciplinary associations, including the American Anthropological Association, the American Political Science Association, the National Women's Studies Association, and the American Sociological Association.\n\nNotable peer-reviewed journals in STS include: \nStudent journals in STS include: \nSocial constructions are human created ideas, objects, or events created by a series of choices and interactions. These interactions have consequences that change the perception that different groups of people have on these constructs. Some examples of social construction include class, race, money, and citizenship.\n\nThe following also alludes to the notion that not everything is set, a circumstance or result could potentially be one way or the other. According to the article \"What is Social Construction?\" by Laura Flores, \"Social construction work is critical of the status quo. Social constructionists about X tend to hold that:\nVery often they go further, and urge that:\nIn the past, there have been viewpoints that were widely regarded as fact until being called to question due to the introduction of new knowledge. Such viewpoints include the past concept of a correlation between intelligence and the nature of a human's ethnicity or race (X may not be at all as it is).\n\nAn example of the evolution and interaction of various social constructions within science and technology can be found in the development of both the high-wheel bicycle, or velocipede, and then of the bicycle. The velocipede was widely used in the latter half of the 19th century. In the latter half of the 19th century, a social need was first recognized for a more efficient and rapid means of transportation. Consequently, the velocipede was first developed, which was able to reach higher translational velocities than the smaller non-geared bicycles of the day, by replacing the front wheel with a larger radius wheel. One notable trade-off was a certain decreased stability leading to a greater risk of falling. This trade-off resulted in many riders getting into accidents by losing balance while riding the bicycle or being thrown over the handle bars.\n\nThe first \"social construction\" or progress of the velocipede caused the need for a newer \"social construction\" to be recognized and developed into a safer bicycle design. Consequently, the velocipede was then developed into what is now commonly known as the \"bicycle\" to fit within society's newer \"social construction,\" the newer standards of higher vehicle safety. Thus the popularity of the modern geared bicycle design came as a response to the first social construction, the original need for greater speed, which had caused the high-wheel bicycle to be designed in the first place. The popularity of the modern geared bicycle design ultimately ended the widespread use of the velocipede itself, as eventually it was found to best accomplish the social-needs/ social-constructions of both greater speed and of greater safety.\n\nTechnoscience is a subset of Science, Technology, and Society studies that focuses on the inseparable connection between science and technology. It states that fields are linked and grow together, and scientific knowledge requires an infrastructure of technology in order to remain stationary or move forward. Both technological development and scientific discovery drive one another towards more advancement. Technoscience excels at shaping human thought and behavior by opening up new possibilities that gradually or quickly come to be perceived as necessities.\n\n\"Technological action is a social process.\" Social factors and technology are intertwined so that they are dependent upon each other. This includes the aspect that social, political, and economic factors are inherent in technology and that social structure influences what technologies are pursued. In other words, \"technoscientific phenomena combined inextricably with social/political/ economic/psychological phenomena, so 'technology' includes a spectrum of artifacts, techniques, organizations, and systems.\" Winner expands on this idea by saying \"in the late twentieth century technology and society, technology and culture, technology and politics are by no means separate.\"\n\n\nDeliberative democracy is a reform of representative or direct democracies which mandates discussion and debate of popular topics which affect society. Deliberative Democracy is a tool for making decisions. Deliberative democracy can be traced back all the way to Aristotle’s writings. More recently, the term was coined by Joseph Bessette in his 1980 work \"Deliberative Democracy: The Majority Principle in Republican Government\", where he uses the idea in opposition to the elitist interpretations of the United States Constitution with emphasis on public discussion.\n\nDeliberative Democracy can lead to more legitimate, credible, and trustworthy outcomes. Deliberative Democracy allows for \"a wider range of public knowledge,\" and it has been argued that this can lead to \"more socially intelligent and robust\" science. One major shortcoming of deliberative democracy is that many models insufficiently ensure critical interaction.\n\nAccording to Ryfe, there are five mechanisms that stand out as critical to the successful design of deliberative democracy:\n\nRecently, there has been a movement towards greater transparency in the fields of policy and technology. Jasanoff comes to the conclusion that there is no longer a question of if there needs to be increased public participation in making decisions about science and technology, but now there needs to be ways to make a more meaningful conversation between the public and those developing the technology.\n\nAckerman and Fishkin offer an example of a reform in their paper \"Deliberation Day.\" The deliberation is to enhance public understanding of popular, complex, and controversial issues, through devices such as Fishkin’s Deliberative Polling. Although implementation of these reforms is unlikely in a large government situation such as the United States Federal Government. However, things similar to this have been implemented in small, local, governments like New England towns and villages. New England town hall meetings are a good example of deliberative democracy in a realistic setting.\n\nAn ideal Deliberative Democracy balances the voice and influence of all participants. While the main aim is to reach consensus, a deliberative democracy should encourage the voices of those with opposing viewpoints, concerns due to uncertainties, and questions about assumptions made by other participants. It should take its time and ensure that those participating understand the topics on which they debate. Independent managers of debates should also have substantial grasp of the concepts discussed, but must \"[remain] independent and impartial as to the outcomes of the process.\"\n\nIn 1968, Garrett Hardin popularised the phrase \"tragedy of the commons.\" It is an economic theory where rational people act against the best interest of the group by consuming a common resource. Since then, the tragedy of the commons has been used to symbolize the degradation of the environment whenever many individuals use a common resource. Although Garrett Hardin was not an STS scholar, the concept of tragedy of the commons still applies to science, technology and society.\n\nIn a contemporary setting, the Internet acts as an example of the tragedy of the commons through the exploitation of digital resources and private information. Data and internet passwords can be stolen much more easily than physical documents. Virtual spying is almost free compared to the costs of physical spying. Additionally, net neutrality can be seen as an example of tragedy of the commons in an STS context. The movement for net neutrality argues that the Internet should not be a resource that is dominated by one particular group, specifically those with more money to spend on Internet access.\n\nA counterexample to the tragedy of the commons is offered by Andrew Kahrl. Privatization can be a way to deal with the tragedy of the commons. However, Kahrl suggests that the privatization of beaches on Long Island, in an attempt to combat overuse of Long Island beaches, made the residents of Long Island more susceptible to flood damage from Hurricane Sandy. The privatization of these beaches took away from the protection offered by the natural landscape. Tidal lands that offer natural protection were drained and developed. This attempt to combat the tragedy of the commons by privatization was counter-productive. Privatization actually destroyed the public good of natural protection from the landscape.\n\nAlternative modernity is a conceptual tool conventionally used to represent the state of present western society. Modernity represents the political and social structures of the society, the sum of interpersonal discourse, and ultimately a snapshot of society's direction at a point in time. Unfortunately conventional modernity is incapable of modeling alternative directions for further growth within our society. Also, this concept is ineffective at analyzing similar but unique modern societies such as those found in the diverse cultures of the developing world. Problems can be summarized into two elements: inward failure to analyze growth potentials of a given society, and outward failure to model different cultures and social structures and predict their growth potentials.\n\nPreviously, modernity carried a connotation of the current state of being modern, and its evolution through European colonialism. The process of becoming \"modern\" is believed to occur in a linear, pre-determined way, and is seen by Philip Brey as a way of to interpret and evaluate social and cultural formations. This thought ties in with modernization theory, the thought that societies progress from \"pre-modern\" to \"modern\" societies.\n\nWithin the field of science and technology, there are two main lenses with which to view modernity. The first is as a way for society to quantify what it wants to move towards. In effect, we can discuss the notion of \"alternative modernity\" (as described by Andrew Feenberg) and which of these we would like to move towards. Alternatively, modernity can be used to analyze the differences in interactions between cultures and individuals. From this perspective, alternative modernities exist simultaneously, based on differing cultural and societal expectations of how a society (or an individual within society) should function. Because of different types of interactions across different cultures, each culture will have a different modernity.\n\nPace of Innovation is the speed at which technological innovation or advancement is occurring, with the most apparent instances being too slow or too rapid. Both these rates of innovation are extreme and therefore have effects on the people that get to use this technology.\n\n\"No innovation without representation\" is a democratic ideal of ensuring that everyone involved gets a chance to be represented fairly in technological developments.\n\n\nThe privileged positions of business and science refer to the unique authority that persons in these areas hold in economic, political, and technosocial affairs. Businesses have strong decision-making abilities in the function of society, essentially choosing what technological innovations to develop. Scientists and technologists have valuable knowledge, ability to pursue the technological innovations they want. They proceed largely without public scrutiny and as if they had the consent of those potentially affected by their discoveries and creations.\n\nLegacy thinking is defined as an inherited method of thinking imposed from an external source without objection by the individual, because it is already widely accepted by society.\n\nLegacy thinking can impair the ability to drive technology for the betterment of society by blinding people to innovations that do not fit into their accepted model of how society works. By accepting ideas without questioning them, people often see all solutions that contradict these accepted ideas as impossible or impractical. Legacy thinking tends to advantage the wealthy, who have the means to project their ideas on the public. It may be used by the wealthy as a vehicle to drive technology in their favor rather than for the greater good.\nExamining the role of citizen participation and representation in politics provides an excellent example of legacy thinking in society. The belief that one can spend money freely to gain influence has been popularized, leading to public acceptance of corporate lobbying. As a result, a self-established role in politics has been cemented where the public does not exercise the power ensured to them by the Constitution to the fullest extent. This can become a barrier to political progress as corporations who have the capital to spend have the potential to wield great influence over policy. Legacy thinking however keeps the population from acting to change this, despite polls from Harris Interactive that report over 80% of Americans feel that big business holds too much power in government. Therefore, Americans are beginning to try to steer away this line of thought, rejecting legacy thinking, and demanding less corporate, and more public, participation in political decision making.\n\nAdditionally, an examination of net neutrality functions as a separate example of legacy thinking. Starting with dial-up, the internet has always been viewed as a private luxury good. Internet today is a vital part of modern-day society members. They use it in and out of life every day. Corporations are able to mislabel and greatly overcharge for their internet resources. Since the American public is so dependent upon internet there is little for them to do. Legacy thinking has kept this pattern on track despite growing movements arguing that the internet should be considered a utility. Legacy thinking prevents progress because it was widely accepted by others before us through advertising that the internet is a luxury and not a utility. Due to pressure from grassroots movements the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has redefined the requirements for broadband and internet in general as a utility. Now AT&T and other major internet providers are lobbying against this action and are in-large able to delay the onset of this movement due to legacy thinking’s grip on American culture and politics.\n\nFor example, those who cannot overcome the barrier of legacy thinking may not consider the privatization of clean drinking water as an issue. This is partially because access to water has become such a given fact of the matter to them. For a person living in such circumstances, it may be widely accepted to not concern themselves with drinking water because they have not needed to be concerned with it in the past. Additionally, a person living within an area that does not need to worry about their water supply or the sanitation of their water supply is less likely to be concerned with the privatization of water.\n\nThis notion can be examined through the thought experiment of \"veil of ignorance\". Legacy thinking causes people to be particularly ignorant about the implications behind the \"you get what you pay for\" mentality applied to a life necessity. By utilizing the \"veil of ignorance\", one can overcome the barrier of legacy thinking as it requires a person to imagine that they are unaware of their own circumstances, allowing them to free themselves from externally imposed thoughts or widely accepted ideas.\n\n\n\nSTS is taught in several countries. According to the STS wiki, STS programs can be found in twenty countries, including 45 programs in the United States, three programs in India, and eleven programs in the UK. STS programs can be found in Israel, Malaysia, and Taiwan. Some examples of institutions offering STS programs are Stanford University, Harvard University, the University of Oxford, Mines ParisTech, and Bar-Ilan University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14554121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14554121", "title": "Social inequity aversion", "text": "Social inequity aversion\n\nInequity is injustice or unfairness or an instance of either of the two. Aversion is \"a feeling of repugnance toward something with a desire to avoid or turn from it; a settled dislike; a tendency to extinguish a behavior or to avoid a thing or situation and especially a usually pleasurable one because it is or has been associated with a noxious stimulus\". The given definition of inequity aversion is \"the preference for fairness and resistance to inequitable outcomes\".\n\nTo better understand and breakdown the concept of social inequity aversion would be to use the study done by Sarah Brosnan (as well as with Frans B. M. de Waal), who specializes in social behavior and social cognition. In their experiment, \"Monkeys Reject Unequal Pay\" five female capuchin monkeys were used and given an unequal distribution of rewards by the human experimenter. The female monkeys alternated in pairs under four different conditions with the experimenter. Of the female monkeys, two received the same reward, one female received a superior reward, one female received a superior reward without exchange (for example without work), and a single female observed a superior reward in the absence of a partner. The females were much less likely to complete a trade with the human experimenter when their corresponding partner received a food item of higher value item (a grape; the lower item was a cucumber), and when that partner received the higher food item with no exchange of work of any kind, the likelihood of not completing a trade intensified. All of these refusals of exchange included both passive and active rejections ranging from refusing to take the awards to throwing the reward, respectively. These negative responses of situation made with the monkeys support the early evolutionary origin of inequity aversion and thus helps (in combination with the definitions of inequity and aversion) give an overall idea of what social inequity aversion is: the tendency to reject or avoid situations in which there is social inequality, unfairness, or injustice.\n\nIt is important to note that the experiment was done with capuchin monkeys and not humans, and because humans are not the only cooperative animals (monkeys being one of many examples), we cannot assume that inequity aversion is an exclusive human trait or nature. There have been other experiments done with humans to test the validity of the inequity aversion theory proposed by Brosnan and de Waal. An experiment performed by Urs Fischbacher, Christina M. Fong, and Ernst Fehr called \"Fairness, Errors, and the Power of Competition\" consisted of a multi-lateral ultimatum game where one contestant was put up against multiple ones. In this experiment when the responders accepts the offer from the person giving the reward (say the 'provider'), the person giving the reward (the provider) gets his full pay. The key to this experiment is that the ability of one responder to affect the pay of the provider is lessened by all of the other responders' willingness to accept the reward. As a result, the concept of inequity aversion is followed, which says that the responders' willingness to reject the reward is lessened as well as the providers' offers. (This is because in order to evade inequality or injustice due to unequal pay, all of the participants reduce their amounts to reduce the chance of unfairness). What's most important to realize in this experiment is that the outcome does not seem to agree with those of Brosnan and de Waal's capuchin experiment; humans will not reject the offer unless it affects others reward and/or pay. So for humans, the original Fehr-Schmidt inequity aversion model, which was cited by Brosnan and de Waal in their capuchin experiment saying that the capuchin monkeys should always eat the lower value food, seems to hold validity. By not rejecting the reward offered, the humans decreased the amount of inequality. This was the opposite for the capuchins as they rejected the lower value food (cucumbers) when they couldn't get the higher value food (grapes) thus increasing the inequality, especially when the capuchins who received the grapes stole the discarded cucumbers, leaving the other monkeys with nothing. That increased the amount of inequality among the capuchins—The humans would only reject the reward if it reduced the reward of the individual who received the most.\n\nAccording to Sarah Brosnan, \"human beings have a similar approach, we do not live in a world of absolute values but one in which we are constantly comparing ourselves with those about us and, like a capuchin, we can tell when we are being short changed\". This can directly be connected to social inequality in that we as humans know what social inequality is and can identify it as an injustice; it is how we know that something such as unequal pay based on socioeconomic status is social inequality. However, according to the concept of social inequity aversion, we will not reject what is offered to us unless we realize that by rejecting what we are offered we will reduce another person's earnings or the earnings of the person who is giving to us, thus making our earnings closer to theirs, thus lessening the inequality.\n\nOne key example that links these two concepts could be that of the Neoclassical labor-market theory. Based on several important facts, this theory is based on the supposition that \"(1) a relatively free and open market exists in which individuals compete for position. (2) Position in that markets depends heavily on the individual's efforts, abilities, experience, training, or 'human capital.' (3) There are automatic mechanisms that operate in the marketplace to ensure that imbalances between one's input (human capital) and one's rewards (wages) are corrected in a way to restore balance\" (Hurst 231). This concept is interesting in that the third fact that is assumed to be true in a labor-market theory would apply greatly to the concept of social inequity aversion. This is because it would seem that in order to get the reward that is expected we as people will take what is given to us for our skill. But when it becomes possible that our fellow citizen can get more than us, or that the company that is providing us with the reward (payments) gets more money from our labor/skill, then we as people in this labor market theory will reject the payments, and try to obtain a better one. We do this by trying to attain better resources for ourselves, such as \"education, training, skills, and intelligence\" (Hurst 231). So take for example an African American woman, she will take the payment that all African American women are receiving. But once another African American woman begins to get better payment: via her better resources, other African American women will reject their current position as well as resources and seek more to in order to, maybe not directly lessen the payment that other African American woman, but to get more for themselves. This greatly illustrates the social inequity aversion concept when it comes to humans and how it crosses with the neoclassical labor market theory. However, because it is a continuous process in which different opportunities open up doors for individuals based on their life changes and access to better resources, an imbalance is made and a gap develops, thus separating individuals and creating ongoing social inequality (Hurst 231).\n\n"}
{"id": "2088249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088249", "title": "Social problem film", "text": "Social problem film\n\nA social problem film is a narrative film that integrates a larger social conflict into the individual conflict between its characters. Like many film genres, the exact definition is often in the eye of the beholder, but Hollywood did produce and market a number of topical films in the 1930s and by the 1940s, the term \"social problem\" or \"message\" film was conventional in its usage among the film industry and the public. Many characteristics that have grown to define the social problem film revolve around the perceived consciousness of the nation about a certain social issue and integrating that issue into a narrative structure. Social problems such as the horrors of war, suffering of the poor, addiction, the rights of women, and the inhumanity of a certain world are often put on display. The problem with defining this type of film as a genre lies within the ability it has to separate itself from films that display similar style, as a lot of films do address social issues. However, the social problem film differentiates itself by focusing on the problems within the historical context of the current time, dealing with the social issue of a certain era as it applies to that era with a style that is much more didactic than its contemporaries. Furthermore, the social problem film allows further immersion into a certain issue than other genre films. For instance, gangster and prison films will reflect certain features of a social issue but won't actually fully explore the problem in the way that would qualify it for this genre.\n\nAn important fact of the social problem film is its ability to react and display a social problem that is relevant to the current era it was produced in. It specifically addresses an issue while the issue is still part of the national consciousness, often forming an argument for what the problem actually is through the narrative and character development. Early social problem films often blended ideological feelings of the time into a narrative which translated it into a message for audiences to absorb. This can be evidenced within certain sociological experiments that occurred revolving around the ability for a film to change public perception. A prime example of this is the representation of anti-semitism within the film \"Gentleman's Agreement\" and the subsequent sociological study by Russell Middleton that measured perceived anti-semitism before and after seeing the film. Surprisingly the film seemed to positively affect the subjects as the majority of people who participated in the study had markedly less anti-semitic feelings than before they saw the film. Although there are certain factors that need to be considered this study seems to indicate once again the primary didactic nature of the Social Problem Film as well as the tackling of subject matter relevant to the current era of the film and how audiences of the historical period perceived such a message.\n\nThis phenomenon of historical context and audience reaction created an interesting balance between the teaching nature of the film and its ability to contain an interesting narrative. Oftentimes the earlier films of the classical era can be seen as a bit preachy, often appearing less like a fictional feature and more like a public service announcement. This is displayed in the common occurrence of a teaching moment often near the end of the film where a character will literally give a speech often referring to the social message the film is attempting to portray. Examples can be seen through the judges at the end of \"Wild Boys of the Road\" and \"Where Are My Children?\", both of whom provide a lesson in monologue form that almost seems separate from the fictional narrative being presented. This relevance to the problem of the era the film resides in lends a sort of didactic authority to this type of film that others may not have. For instance, the film \"Where Are My Children?\" had trouble getting through the National Board of Review to public release due to reviewers believing that audiences were being provided with misleading information regarding birth control. They believed that the film was more educational in nature rather than a fictional narrative addressing a social issue.\n\nThe social problem film often takes a larger social issue during its respective era and displays it in a much more focused way. The problem will be expressed through a narrative often involving a few characters, often a family or an individual that traverses the filmic world experiencing the perceived social issue. Oftentimes they will interact directly with social institutions meant to display the social problems.The typifying of these institutions is styled based on the overall ideological message of the film, either being portrayed as ineffective or idealized as a proper solution. These can be seen throughout the development of the social problem film and even into contemporary times as the form of the social problem film changed. Examples if this style of narrative are apparent within films such as \"The Soul of Youth\" in which the larger problem of delinquent children with no home is portrayed through the ineffectiveness of the orphanage the protagonist resides in juxtaposed with the idealized life of the family of the judge he eventually settles in with. Another instance that deserves to be mentioned comes once again from \"Wild Boys of the Road\" in which the film reaches its climax as the protagonists are being dealt with by a judge, bringing the larger social issue into an individualist lens by applying the solution of a nationwide problem to a few individual experiences.\n\nAnother important Social Problem Film dealing with institutions is the alcoholism themed \"Days of Wine and Roses\". The film follows the progressive demise of a couple due to their inability to control their drinking, once again devolving a larger societal problem onto a focused set of characters. It does however, offer a solution in the form of the institution of Alcoholic's Anonymous which serves as an effective way to treat one's self. A sociological study done by Elizabeth Hirschman revealed that the film's portrayal was indeed relatable to addicts and alcoholics who after watching the film viewed AA as a viable option to address their problem. This effect on the real population indicates the interaction that Social Problem Films hope to have on their audience in comparison to films meant to purely entertain while skimming the surface of certain issues.\n\nA more contemporary instance of the focused narrative of characters and institutions in the Social Problem Film is the ineffectiveness and cruelty of the military hospital in \"Coming Home\", a movie about returning vets from Vietnam. The mistreatment and negligent behavior affecting all vets in the hospital is reduced to the experiences of two or three characters.\n\nOne aspect that is widely seen within the social problem film is the usage of non-actors to portray either background characters or voices of reason within the narrative as well as the desire to film scenes on location. Both of these factors help lend authenticity and relation to the real world which is essential to the genre. Some notable examples are the inclusion of actual Judge Ben Lindsey playing himself in the previously mentioned film \"The Soul of Youth\". This insertion created an environment the audience knew was based in reality and thus lent a sense of authenticity to the didactic nature this genre possesses. The presence of a figure from the real world directly confronts the idea that the messages displayed in social problem films must be confirmed by real life counterparts. It lends a sense of integrity reminiscent of journalism or a documentary film.\n\nLocation shooting is a factor that although not limited to the social problem film, has grown to exemplify certain factors within the genre. The idea of shooting outside of a studio and in the real environment again strengthens the films authenticity in the same way non-actors do. A film that utilized this style of shooting in order to gain this sense of realism is the previously mentioned \"Wild Boys of the Road\". The film's scenes that are set within the train yard that the children temporarily reside in is shot on location in an actual train yard in Glendale, Ca.\n\nPerhaps the most notable instance of the idea of real life insertions is the opening scene of the social problem film about Mexican immigration following the instituting of the Bracero Program in 1942 meant to alleviate the shortage of farmhand work in the United States. The film, titled \"Border Incident\", opens with a flyover shot of farmland as an unseen narrator describes the landscape, the lack of labor, and the subsequent creation of the bracero program in response. This is an insertion of a program that actively was occurring during the production of this film. This reality-based narrative combines with the voice over, which mentions borders no less than five times to subtly push an ideology of mutual dependency towards the audience while allowing itself the appearance of being an authentic representation of the situation, showing again the effect real life insertions can have on the social problem films ability to affect its viewers.\n\nMany social problem films contain a theme of transit and the importance of familial relationships. These factors lend further authenticity to the genre as the audience seems to often follow the protagonist as he or she travels a necessary journey to arrive at a viable solution. Internal journeys are often mirrored in literal transportation of the characters. This can be seen in the traveling across the nation in \"Wild Boys of the Road\", the trip to the doctor's office in \"Where Are My Children?\", and the international migration of farmworkers in \"Border Incident\". Similarly the idea of the family is apparent within this genre, oftentimes the idea of the family is of utmost importance. There is a finality in terms of the protagonists descent when he or she has lost the trust and support of their family, and thus the social problem is often resolved by a return to these ideals. Although wartime feelings can account for some of this, it is important to note that this theme is maintained throughout the development of the genre. Even in more contemporary social problem films such as \"Coming Home\" and \"The Good Lie\", there is a sense of familial importance, the former in terms of his \"brothers\" who he stands by no matter what, and the latter in the form of their tribe members who travel thousands of miles for a new life.\n\nHistorian Kay Sloan has shown how various reformist groups made social problem shorts and features during the silent era. Generally, these dealt with prohibition, labor relations and concerns over \"white slavery.\" The ideologies of these pre-World War I productions often aligned with concerns over the worker and the interaction filmmakers had with real world problems. This was important to the development of the genre as it was the first foray into displaying issues of the common man but wasn't successful in terms of offering a viable solution. Rather, the didactic nature of these films indicated an upper-middle class solution to labor issues; oftentimes it would take the presence of a non-working class negotiator to resolve the issues laborers in the films dealt with. The discovery of the effect of and utilization of the happy ending was also implemented during this time. The happy ending left a cathartic effect on its audience, leaving them satisfied with the social message being provided. This itself is an imperative to the social problem genre due to its demonstration of directors and filmmakers desire to affect social change through movies. As a genre, however, these Progressive statements did not touch off a long-lasting concern in the film industry, which was solidifying behind standardized product, oligopoly and the star system.\n\nWarner Brothers under Darryl F. Zanuck started making topical films \"ripped from the headlines.\" These \"headliners\" generally were cheaply made, gritty in their realist aesthetic, and foregrounded a working class milieu and New Deal political sympathies. The social problem films of this era reflected the general national consciousness of the New Deal. Many social problem films of the time fed into a populist form of thought meant to instill confidence among the nation in the wake of the Great Depression, supporting the Franklin Delano Roosevelt platform that supposedly would alleviate the unemployment problem the United States faced at that time. Social problem films made during this era put the obligation of finding work on the individual while also displaying the benefits of having a neighborly attitude of helping those in need back to sustainable living. This is particularly displayed in films such as \"Wild Boys of the Road\" where the protagonist runs away from home with friends to try and find work, only to end up arrested and in need of assistance, which is subsequently granted by a Judge. The films interaction with New Deal ideologies is reflected in the confident tone of the judge as he grants aid to the homeless kids presented to him, the progressive nature of neighborly helpfulness is thrust upon the audience without allowing them to contemplate the fact that it took a middle class figure to save the unemployed. Just as the New Deal gave confidence in the short term but lagged in long-term growth for employment so did the social problem films of this time depict a sense of optimism even if they were stuck in the non-progressive narrative of a middle class savior.\n\nMervy LeRoy's \"I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang\" was the most notable of the genre, and its success led Warner Brothers and other studios to copy the formula.\n\nMeanwhile, at Columbia Pictures, Frank Capra made his reputation (among the industry and filmgoing public alike; a rarity in those days) by developing his signature blend of social problem film and screwball comedy. Working with writer Robert Riskin, he would develop, repeat and refine this blend in films like \"Mr. Deeds Goes to Town\", \"Meet John Doe\", and \"Mr. Smith Goes to Washington\".\n\nThe postwar social problem films marked a noticeable shift away from economic problems to ones of social and psychological adjustment. This is perhaps due to the idea of returning veterans ability to become reestablished in normal society. As the thoughts and feelings of the nation progressed from worrying about unemployment to the horrors of war and rehabilitation of those suffering from addiction, so did the social problem film adapt to the national consciousness of its time. William Wyler's \"Best Years of Our Lives\" chronicled three returning veterans adjusting to civilian life. It was particularly powerful in that it served as a soothing to the anxieties many Americans felt about the returning of veterans to society. The national fear included the idea that these returning veterans would be bitter among their return not feeling properly reciprocated while also changed from the horrors they had seen. Also factoring in was the idea that the nuclear family had been broken up. The film addressed this social problem through its optimistic portrayal of the struggle for normalization, using a protagonist who had lost both hands in the war, notedly played by a non-professional actor who had that same experience, Harold Russell. The film depicts the intense male bonding that occurs during wartime in a positive way, showing the support each of the men have for each other. It also shows the struggles they face upon returning to their pre-war lives, although in an attempt to alleviate national anxiety the film ultimately resolves itself into a happy ending in which everything is reconciled. Although this film follows the general guidelines of a social problem film from the classic era such as usage of non-actors, the importance of historical context, a melodramatic feeling, and the didactic nature of the genre, the identification and solution to the social problem is less of a warning to society and more about increasing positive feelings in a nation reeling from the horrors of war.\n\nBilly Wilder's \"Lost Weekend\" was about alcoholism, inaugurating a cycle of films dealing with drug and alcohol abuse. Films like \"Gentleman's Agreement\", \"Pinky\" and \"Home of the Brave\" tackled anti-Semitism and racism. The 1944 film \"Gaslight\" based on an earlier play, dramatized the Psychological abuse technique later known as Gaslighting(because of the film).\n\nIn particular \"Gentleman's Agreement\" addresses specific issues that plagued the postwar environment in America. The film follows a journalist as he decides to pass for Jewish in order to understand their experience. One social issue that was integrated within United States society is the categorizing of minorities together as one group; African-Americans, Asian Americans, Jews, and homosexuals were all discriminated against without distinction. Awareness of this problem was raised a bit, however, through the evils of the Nazis being revealed to the nation as a result of this type of hatred. Antisemitism became a topic of discussion among the world as well after the suffering the Jewish people had endured and the social problem film responded through attempted representation of the problem. The efforts in \"Gentleman's Agreement\" were criticized by Jewish critics for not really delving into Jewish culture at all as well as not going deep enough into the effect of the Holocaust. The film was seen as depicting antisemitism as a nasty habit rather that cultural discrimination. However, the film succeeded at a commercial level and was able to affect audiences in a way that reduced their antisemitic feelings.\n\nMcCarthyism, in the form of the House Un-American Activities Committee, dampened some of Hollywood's enthusiasm for left-leaning critiques of American society, but the genre continued nonetheless over the next two decades. Robert Wise's 1951 science fiction film \"The Day the Earth Stood Still\" urged international cooperation in matters of violence and world security in an environment of Cold War mistrust and nuclear paranoia: the \"message\" is literally delivered to the Earth by a civilized extraterrestrial. Stanley Kramer's exposés of racism—\"The Defiant Ones\", \"Pressure Point\" and \"Guess Who's Coming to Dinner\"—became synonymous with the genre. Also, \"juvenile delinquency films\" combined the censorious tone of social problem films with exploitation film and melodrama.\n\nA series of Journalistic pieces on the ineffectiveness of mental health facilities also lead to an increase in public awareness about the social problem of mental health care. In particular the exposé Bedlam 1946 caused outrage among Americans affecting the national attitude of the time, which was already in a fragile place due to Nazi horrors being revealed to the public. This combined with the untrusting environment and cold war tensions was reflected in a bevy of films about mental health, the ineffectiveness of treatment, and the way these sort of people can be helped. The social problem genre reflected this notion particularly well through its 1956 film \"Bigger Than Life\", which was consequently based on another article titled Ten Feet Tall published in The New Yorker\".\" The film tackles the social problems of mental health and addiction as it displays it's protagonist in a healthy happy familial relationship until he is forced to take cortisone for a rare disease, he abuses the medication resulting in mental health issues. The hospital and doctors in this film are shown as incompetent willing to believe anything the patient tells them and even supplying him with more cortisone when he shows drug seeking behavior.\n\nThis film also shows a marked shift from the social problem films of classic Hollywood due to a myriad of factors. In 1948, the Paramount Decrees were instituted after a landmark antitrust case by the United States against the major studios of the time. This resulted in a restriction on many forms of distribution, marketing, and time between film runs. This resulted in a shifting of power from the major studios of the time and thus they needed to find a new way to market their films. The creation of Cinemascope, which widened the aspect ratio allowing for widescreen viewing, and was viewed as the beginning of the end of the classical era of Hollywood. Having access to these new technologies the social problem film too would adapt, \"Bigger Than Life\" exhibited less didactic speech giving and allowed more interpretation from the audience as to what the social problem was.\n\nA big theme of films of the 1970s is the Vietnam War. Films such as \"Apocalypse Now\" and \"The Deer Hunter\" focused on exposing the extreme conditions, both mentally and physically, that soldiers face during deployment. The social problem film however, returns to its common theme of returning veterans, resulting in the critically acclaimed \"Coming Home\", which followed a woman whose husband was away on tour as she volunteers at the veteran hospital and befriends a crippled soldier. However, the way in which the film interacts with narrative as well as with its audience shows a shift in form that reflects attitudes of the time. The 60's and 70's were a period time when second-wave feminism became apparent, raising awareness about inequalities regarding many social issues, though it mainly focused on white upper class feminism. This national consciousness of feminist ideals combined with a wartime environment that was largely a failure, as well the inability to fully care for veterans is expressed through \"Coming Home\"'s narrative and characters while also maintaining certain factors of the classic social problem film. The feminization of the Vietnam experience can be seen through the protagonist Luke, who is able to allow Sally to transcend her role as a stereotypical military wife, while also feminizing himself as he progresses into moving back to society. The more passive, a stereotypical feminine quality, he becomes the more he is allowed to leave the horrors of Vietnam behind. This type of characterization is differs greatly from the characters we see in earlier returning veteran social problem films as they often portrayed the veteran as ultra-masculine and his wife as a traditional caretaker. Furthermore, the narrative of this film shows a marked difference from early social problem films. Instead of a didactic theme constantly being pushed on the audience, the story goes back and forth between this teaching vibe and following more of a soap opera romance formula. It is sometimes difficult to discern what the film wants us to focus on. However, the film does maintain certain characteristics of the social problem film such as a focused narrative, ending on a didactic speech, and usage of non-actors to portray the veterans at the hospital.\n\nAs the United States transitioned into the contemporary era, the social issues that encompassed the nation have adapted to focus on different aspects of the problems, especially in the case of immigration and the veteran experience, both of which feature heavily in the classic social problem film. For instance, the theme of the film \"Border Incident\" was the immigration of migrant farmworkers from Mexico. The returning veteran social problem films titled \"Best Years Of Our Lives\" and \"Coming Home\" focused on the treatment as well as the rehabilitation of veterans. In the contemporary United States an immigration social issue which has been relevant for years is the idea of refugee asylum, whereas the returning veteran storylines now often focus on the addiction to war and the inability to function normally without it.\n\nThe Sudanese refugees in particular are of focus as their country is plagued in civil war, yet asylum in the United States had been blocked due to terrorist fears. A contemporary social problem film that addresses this issue is titled \"The Good Lie\" which follows the life of a group of Sudanese children as they escape their village to a refugee camp and come to America as adults. The beginning of the film does a decent job of representing the struggle over 25,000 children faced while trekking across Africa enduring the elements, animals, and soldiers trying to kill them as it follows the protagonists as they make the journey themselves, losing some along the way. It utilizes classic techniques such as location shooting at the refugee camp and the usage of real refugees as background characters. However, the film has much more in common with the form of social problem films such as \"Coming Home\". It not only stars a famous actress in Reese Witherspoon but ultimately utilizes engagement with the narrative much more than trying to preach to its audience. As the protagonist group arrives in America the film experiences a shift from displaying the plight of these refugees to a culture clash of sorts as they struggle to adapt to American customs and realize the ineffectiveness of the bureaucratic systems meant to help them. Like \"Coming Home\", the audience is not being put in a space where the film is meant to be purely educational, rather they are encouraged to discern the social problem from the drama being displayed. This is shown in the frustration of some reviewers who claim the plot seems manufactured and doesn't focus enough on certain social issues. This particular aspect of the changing form of the social problem film is largely due to audiences desire to be entertained as well as satiated with a well formulated story to engage in.\n\nAnother instance in which this becomes palpable is in the changing representation of returning veterans. The effects of wartime on American society are fluid depending on the situation and national feelings of the time. This is evident as post-WWII films often focused on a return to home for the veterans, encouraging family life and spousal support, as well as the revealing of the capability of humans to commit evil, resulting in forays into addressing these issues. Then during Vietnam, the feminist movement combined with national feelings of regret created both hyper-masculine films depicting the horror of battle but also the returning veterans plight and a more formulaic approach to narrative instead of a didactic one. The current era then is focused on international conflict within the middle east which has created a division in terms of ideology in our country. The social problem film has adapted to encompass these feelings through films such as \"Green Zone\" which addresses the idea of false motivations for entering the war against Iraq. More pertinent to the social problem film genre however, is the idea of returning veterans. Whereas the treatment of these men has been displayed on screen, the contemporary social problem goes beyond that scope, and rather into the psyches of the soldiers themselves and the systems that perpetuate their situation. This is done through the depiction of war in a way that the 20th century would never consider, as another type of social problem, an addiction. This is the case in \"The Hurt Locker\" a 2008 film depicting the Explosive Ordnance Disposal team in Iraq. Although it did shoot on location in Jordan, utilize non-actors, and focus on a small group of people the movie is much more like more recent social problem films in that it focuses on characterization, storytelling, and filming stylization to portray its social issue more than straightforward preaching. The film is both cinematic and visceral interweaving aspects of the war in documentary style while juxtaposing it with the usage of sound and technological advances to create an intense encapsulating narrative. Again the viewer is meant to see the protagonist's mundane home life compared to his experience on tour, where he seems more at home. The film begins on a quote equating war to a drug and ends on his days on tour counter resetting to 0, indicating both the hardship these men face and how it has shaped them into being more like machines built for a purpose rather than purely motivated soldiers. These scenes show a palpable shift from telling the audience how to feel via ending monologue, to displaying the problem and letting audiences interpret it for themselves.\n\nWith the development of new technologies such as television it was inevitable that programming about social issues would become apparent. From documentaries for social justice to public broadcasting about local issues, the television is able to be accessed in ways movies can't. Certain programming such as \"The Biggest Loser\" address a specific social problem such as obesity in a setting which is presented as reality. However, in reality the whole thing is pretty much scripted. Contestants waive their rights to creating their own storyline and are trained to point of collapsing, not a healthy way to address weight loss. This pseudo-reality is problematic in that it presents a certain social problem, along with a viable solution, like diet and exercise, yet it doesn't speak to the cultural issues and systematic factors like cheap fast food in poverty stricken areas.\n\nThe rise of social media has led to a transformation of many established systems, such as advertising, news, protests, campaigning, and exposure to other cultures. The ability to instantly connect with an event occurring and to share something with the public instantly has led to a new development of networks that can be accessed at the click of a mouse. So just as these other aspects of life were effected so is the idea of the social problem film. The ability for users to obtain, via YouTube, actual real-life video of events occurring around the world makes it tougher for filmic representations to become the didactic entity they need to be in order to fit in the genre. For instance, with over 100,000 results for a search on Iraq war footage, it becomes difficult to depict a sense of reality in which the viewer can relate purely, therefore the filmmaker's artistic influence becomes more apparent. This combined with the development of news programming via television has created a sort of environment where the social problem film was forced to change form, the majority didactic approach was no longer satisfactory as people have access to actual footage, therefore the implementation of deeper characterization and richer narratives became relevant in the more contemporary entries into this genre.\n\n\n"}
