{"id": "15037222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15037222", "title": "Adolescent health", "text": "Adolescent health\n\nAdolescent health, or youth health, is the range of approaches to preventing, detecting or treating young people’s health and well being . \n\nThe term adolescent and young people are often used interchangeably, as are the terms Adolescent Health and Youth Health. Young people's health is often complex and requires a comprehensive, biopsychosocial approach.\n\nSome young people engage in risky behaviours that affect their health and therefore the majority of health problems are psychosocial. Many young people experience multiple problems. These behaviours are established as a young person and go on to become the lifestyles of adults leading to chronic health problems. Social, cultural and environmental factors are all important.\nYoung people have specific health problems and developmental needs that differ from those of children or adults: The causes of ill-health in adolescents are mostly psychosocial rather than biological. Young people often engage in health risk behaviours that reflect the processes of adolescent development: experimentation and exploration, including using drugs and alcohol, sexual behaviour, and other risk taking that affect their physical and mental health. Adolescent health also encompasses children's and young people's sexual and reproductive health (SRH). \n\nThe World Health Organisation describes the leading health related problems in the age group 10 – 19 years to include:\n\nYoung people often lack awareness of the harm associated with risk behaviours, and the skills to protect themselves as well as the lack knowledge about how and where to seek help for their health concerns . By intervening at this early life stage, many chronic conditions later in life can be prevented.\n\nEvidence-based practices include harm reduction and health promotion to intervene early in the life course and illness trajectory. Youth health is founded on collaborative approaches that address social justice. Youth development approaches include youth empowerment and youth participation. Their aim is to promote youth rights, youth voice and youth engagement.\n\nStudies about young people's access to healthcare have identified major barriers including concerns about confidentiality, practitioners attitudes and communication style, environment, availability of services, cost and the developmental characteristics of young people. Marginalised young people can have greater difficulty accessing health services and need support to navigate the health system.\n\nThe World Health Organisation 'Global standards for quality health-care services for adolescents' include: \n\nYouth Health includes adolescent medicine as a speciality, along with other primary and tertiary care services. Health services for young people include mental health services, child protection, drug and alcohol services, sexual health services. General Practitioners work alongside multidisciplinary health practitioners including psychology, social Work and Youth health nursing and school health services. Youth work and youth development services support and engage young people. Web based supports, such as Reach Out!, provide early intervention.\n\nYouth health services ('one-stop-shops' for young people) are specialist services providing multi-disciplinary, primary health care to young people. Focusing on engaging disadvantaged young people, they deliver flexible and unique services to young people in relaxed and comfortable youth-friendly environments. Youth health services work in partnership with other government and non-government services. Youth health services provide a range of entry-points and non-threatening services (such as creative arts, basic services such as showers and laundries, a drop in service, sports and recreational facilities), which encourage young people to connect with the service on their own terms. They also provide informal links to other support services and sectors including education, housing, financial support and legal services, offering support to young people who are dealing with complex issues. Youth health services understand the need to respond immediately to young people’s requests for support and assistance and they share a common operating philosophy, which values social justice, equity, and a holistic view of young people’s health and well being.\n\nCapacity building organisations support the Youth Health sector by providing access to information and resources, conducting research and providing training.\n\nThe Egyptian Society for Adolescent Medicine\nThe Arab Coalition for Adolescent Medicine\n\n"}
{"id": "38493462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38493462", "title": "Adoption of Electronic Medical Records in U.S. Hospitals", "text": "Adoption of Electronic Medical Records in U.S. Hospitals\n\nThe move to electronic medical records (EMRs) is becoming increasingly prevalent in health care delivery systems in the United States.\n\nDue to the enactment of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, there has been a rise in the number of federal investments in programs that increase EMR adoption. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act portion of this stimulus law provides payments for providers that show they have reached the standard for “meaningful use”. This has led more hospitals to adopt EMR, though they have had different experiences in adopting electronic medical records.\n\nThere are several steps that need to be taken in order to adopt electronic medical records. \nHospitals have been using different suppliers of health data systems in order to adopt electronic medical records. The key suppliers of health data systems are Epic Systems, Allscripts, Meditech, Cerner, IBM, McKesson, Siemens, Healthland, CPSI, and GE Healthcare.\n\nThe decision of choosing an EMR vendor like Epic or Meditech can fall on either hospital leadership or the corporate level based on the size of the system. If an organization only has one hospital, the hospital leaders select the vendor. If the system is larger, the decision is made at the corporate level, though several people from the hospitals remain involved. There are several criteria for deciding the vendor. Sentara Healthcare was able to make their selection by looking for a vendor with high outpatient care integration, technical support at all levels of integration, and one that customized a system to their needs.\n\nThe length of time it takes to implement electronic medical records can vary but usually takes two to three years. The first stage of implementation is called “design, build, validate,” where the vendor is selected and the plans are put in place. This is followed by a “big bang” implementation, which means all the departments transfer to the system at once, due to the interconnectedness of hospitals this is necessary.\n\nThough the adoption of electronic medical records is increasing, there is a range in the level of implementation. The HIMSS Analytics Database shows the eight stages of adoption in their United States EMR Adoption Model. Stage 0 implies “All three ancillaries not installed,” while in Stage 7 there is a shift to complete EMR. The EMR Adoption Model shows that in 2011, the number of acute care hospitals achieving Stage 5 or Stage 6 increased by more than 80 percent. Meanwhile, the number of hospitals at Stages 0, 1, 2, and 3 has decreased. Furthermore, adoption has increased most among large hospitals and those in urban areas.\n\nEMR implementation experiences among hospitals and healthcare delivery systems vary. Some systems have successful experiences, while others do not have as seamless of a transition. For example, in 2002, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, CA attempted to implement a new EMR system, but the US$34 million system failed due to numerous factors. The physicians were unhappy because of the new physician order entry system for medications, labs and procedures was more time consuming than doing the orders by hand. Physicians often found themselves spending extra time to avoid the system's warnings because there was not room for flexibility within the EMR system. Not only was the new system more time consuming, but it also alerted physicians with numerous electronic reminders and alerts that the physicians felt were excessive. The system was implemented with numerous decision support mechanisms, which created alerts that could not be overridden by physicians. This flaw was a result of not obtaining adequate physician input for the EMR system and not enough prior testing. These problems then made it very difficult to obtain buy-in from the physicians, which ultimately caused several hundred physicians employed at Cedars to refuse to use the system after only 3 months.\n\nThe failure was not only due to technology design and inefficiencies, but also to poor training and implementation. The hospital had implemented the system with very little prior testing, and did not gradually phase in the system but rather implemented it all at once. There was also not full buy-in from the staff at all levels of the organization, and insufficient training to ensure that the staff was ready for implementation. The example of failed EMR implementation at Cedars shows the complexities that health systems face in EMR implementation. However, there are numerous positive EMR experiences as well.\n\nBoth Geisinger Health System and New York-Presbyterian Hospital have been cited as having successful implementations of EMR systems. Both of these systems utilized key strategies that ultimately led to successful implementation. To create success, both Geisinger and NY Presbyterian utilized clinical teams to develop the EMR system, and therefore gained staff and physician buy-in. Another strategy used to reach successful implementation is for the organization to focus on training. At Geisinger, for example, the hospital provided “shadowers” for physicians and nurses throughout the day during the implementation phase. Then, as physicians and nurses gradually become proficient with the new system, the number of trainers needed gradually decreased. Both hospitals also clearly emphasized that training was mandatory for all staff and that all staff must pass a proficiency test before they can access the EMR system. Another strategy for successful EMR implementation used by these two hospitals is to use the EMR system for performance improvement through standardized care protocols. To successfully do this, NY Presbyterian gradually utilized more hard stops within their protocols over time to ensure that protocols were being followed. However, these hard stops were created collaboratively to achieve physician buy-in and ensure that they were appropriate for care delivery. Allowing tailoring of the EMR system is essential to both before implementation and afterwards, and physicians and clinical staff must be used in this development process to create success.\n\nCurrently, there has been little research and evaluation on the post-implementation of commercial electronic medical records (EMR). MetroHealth Medical Center in Cleveland, OH, has published an evaluation of the EpicCare EMR by Epic Systems five years after implementation. MetroHealth’s methods included a web-based survey for primary care providers to measure their level of utilization of the EpicCare EMR. The physicians surveyed were those in the internal medicine, family medicine, and the pediatric units of the hospital. Prior to the survey, physicians were given eight hours of training by consultants on how to navigate the EMR system. The survey subsequently taken showed a response rate of 35% or 59 of 154 providers. Questions included whether providers have a computer at home, whether they access EpicCare from home, and their level of expertise on using a computer. The results showed that 97% had a computer at home, while 53% accessed EpicCare from home, and 11% were computer novice, 76% intermediate, and 13% were advance users. \n\nThe survey showed that in terms of the overall level of satisfaction with the EMR, 6% of respondents felt that EpicCare was inferior to a paper-based system, 81% felt that it was superior, while 13% were indifferent. In the area of training, 46% of respondents felt that their training was inadequate, and 75% would like to receive additional training. The implementation of the EpicCare EMR has impacted the way physicians treated their patients as evidenced by 12% of respondents reporting that they had changed medications based on the medication alerts and 15% reporting that they followed the EMR’s best practices alerts. The survey results revealed several areas that can benefit from improvement, such as ongoing training and support as well as the optimal utilization of all EMR functions.\n\nJKL Healthcare System, a nonprofit organization that employs a 450-employee physician group and operates three acute care hospitals, implemented an EMR system in 2001. The cost of \"Epic\", the new system, was $35 million. Their goal is for every physician in their organization to adapt the EMR at a 100% utilization rate in order to increase efficiency and reduce adverse patient outcomes. 450 physicians were required to attend a 16-hour training session in order to obtain a certification that would allow them to admit patients. 1,700 Non-physician employees were required to attend the same training to receive their certification as well.\n\nA physician survey was conducted two months after implementation which showed that out of 73 respondents, 90% of physicians felt that the Epic system made their jobs easier and more efficient. Admissions for the hospitals have risen since implementation as well as physician support, which indicated that the EMR has been implemented successfully. During the May – August 2004 period of post implementation, outpatient visits increased by 3%, medication errors were eliminated completely, and patient satisfaction surveys showed that overall satisfaction increased to their highest level since 2000. EMR utilization has saved JKL Healthcare approximately $50,000 on office supplies and has significantly reduced the number of medical records staff.\n\nThe JKL Healthcare System was one of the first successful implementers of EMR using the Epic System, and they became a model site for other healthcare systems. JKL Healthcare received the Davies Award in September 2004, which is the most prestigious award in the IT industry for its implementation of the most comprehensive EMR system in the US.\n"}
{"id": "77485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77485", "title": "Altitude sickness", "text": "Altitude sickness\n\nAltitude sickness, the mildest form being acute mountain sickness (AMS), is the negative health effect of high altitude, caused by rapid exposure to low amounts of oxygen at high elevation. Symptoms may include headaches, vomiting, tiredness, trouble sleeping, and dizziness. Acute mountain sickness can progress to high altitude pulmonary edema (HAPE) with associated shortness of breath or high altitude cerebral edema (HACE) with associated confusion. Chronic mountain sickness may occur after long term exposure to high altitude.\nAltitude sickness typically only occurs above , though some are affected at lower altitudes. Risk factors include a prior episode of altitude sickness, a high degree of activity, and a rapid increase in elevation. Diagnosis is based on symptoms and is supported in those who have more than a minor reduction in activities. It is recommended that at high-altitude any symptoms of headache, nausea, shortness of breath, or vomiting be assumed to be altitude sickness.\n\nPrevention is by gradually increasing elevation by no more than per day. Being physically fit does not decrease the risk. Treatment is generally by descending to a lower altitude and sufficient fluids. Mild cases may be helped by ibuprofen, acetazolamide, or dexamethasone. Severe cases may benefit from oxygen therapy and a portable hyperbaric bag may be used if descent is not possible. Treatment efforts, however, have not been well studied.\nAMS occurs in about 20% of people after rapidly going to and 40% of people going to . While AMS and HACE occurs equally frequently in males and females, HAPE occurs more often in males. The earliest description of altitude sickness is attributed to a Chinese text from around 30 BCE which describes \"Big Headache Mountains\" possibly referring to the Karakoram Mountains around Kilik Pass.\n\nPeople have different susceptibilities to altitude sickness; for some otherwise healthy people, acute altitude sickness can begin to appear at around above sea level, such as at many mountain ski resorts, equivalent to a pressure of . This is the most frequent type of altitude sickness encountered. Symptoms often manifest themselves six to ten hours after ascent and generally subside in one to two days, but they occasionally develop into the more serious conditions. Symptoms include headache, fatigue, stomach illness, dizziness, and sleep disturbance. Exertion aggravates the symptoms.\n\nThose individuals with the lowest initial partial pressure of end-tidal pCO (the lowest concentration of carbon dioxide at the end of the respiratory cycle, a measure of a higher alveolar ventilation) and corresponding high oxygen saturation levels tend to have a lower incidence of acute mountain sickness than those with high end-tidal pCO and low oxygen saturation levels.\n\nHeadaches are the primary symptom used to diagnose altitude sickness, although a headache is also a symptom of dehydration. A headache occurring at an altitude above a pressure of combined with any one or more of the following symptoms, may indicate altitude sickness:\nSymptoms that may indicate life-threatening altitude sickness include:\n\n\nThe most serious symptoms of altitude sickness arise from edema (fluid accumulation in the tissues of the body). At very high altitude, humans can get either high altitude pulmonary edema (HAPE), or high altitude cerebral edema (HACE). The physiological cause of altitude-induced edema is not conclusively established. It is currently believed, however, that HACE is caused by local vasodilation of cerebral blood vessels in response to hypoxia, resulting in greater blood flow and, consequently, greater capillary pressures. On the other hand, HAPE may be due to general vasoconstriction in the pulmonary circulation (normally a response to regional ventilation-perfusion mismatches) which, with constant or increased cardiac output, also leads to increases in capillary pressures. For those suffering HACE, dexamethasone may provide temporary relief from symptoms in order to keep descending under their own power.\n\nHAPE can progress rapidly and is often fatal. Symptoms include fatigue, severe dyspnea at rest, and cough that is initially dry but may progress to produce pink, frothy sputum. Descent to lower altitudes alleviates the symptoms of HAPE.\n\nHACE is a life-threatening condition that can lead to coma or death. Symptoms include headache, fatigue, visual impairment, bladder dysfunction, bowel dysfunction, loss of coordination, paralysis on one side of the body, and confusion. Descent to lower altitudes may save those afflicted with HACE.\n\nAltitude sickness can first occur at 1,500 metres, with the effects becoming severe at extreme altitudes (greater than 5,500 metres). Only brief trips above 6,000 metres are possible and supplemental oxygen is needed to avert sickness.\n\nAs altitude increases, the available amount of oxygen to sustain mental and physical alertness decreases with the overall air pressure, though the relative percentage of oxygen in air, at about 21%, remains practically unchanged up to . The RMS velocities of diatomic nitrogen and oxygen are very similar and thus no change occurs in the ratio of oxygen to nitrogen until stratospheric heights.\n\nDehydration due to the higher rate of water vapor lost from the lungs at higher altitudes may contribute to the symptoms of altitude sickness.\n\nThe rate of ascent, altitude attained, amount of physical activity at high altitude, as well as individual susceptibility, are contributing factors to the onset and severity of high-altitude illness.\n\nAltitude sickness usually occurs following a rapid ascent and can usually be prevented by ascending slowly. In most of these cases, the symptoms are temporary and usually abate as altitude acclimatization occurs. However, in extreme cases, altitude sickness can be fatal.\n\nAt high altitude, , the onset of physiological effects of diminished inspiratory oxygen pressure (PiO) includes decreased exercise performance and increased ventilation (lower arterial partial pressure of carbon dioxide: PCO). While arterial oxygen transport may be only slightly impaired the arterial oxygen saturation (SaO) generally stays above 90%. Altitude sickness is common between 2,400 and 4,000 m because of the large number of people who ascend rapidly to these altitudes.\n\nAt very high altitude, , maximum SaO falls below 90% as the arterial PO falls below 60mmHg. Extreme hypoxemia may occur during exercise, during sleep, and in the presence of high altitude pulmonary edema or other acute lung conditions. Severe altitude illness occurs most commonly in this range.\n\nAbove , marked hypoxemia, hypocapnia, and alkalosis are characteristic of extreme altitudes. Progressive deterioration of physiologic function eventually outstrips acclimatization. As a result, no permanent human habitation occurs above . A period of acclimatization is necessary when ascending to extreme altitude; abrupt ascent without supplemental oxygen for other than brief exposures invites severe altitude sickness.\n\nThe physiology of altitude sickness centres around the alveolar gas equation; the atmospheric pressure is low, but there is still 20.9% Oxygen, water vapour still occupies the same pressure too, this means that there is less oxygen pressure available in the lungs and blood. Compare these two equations comparing the amount of oxygen in blood at altitude:\n\nThe hypoxia leads to an increase in minute ventilation (hence both low CO, and subsequently bicarbonate), Hb increases through haemoconcentration and erythrogenesis. Alkylosis shifts the haemaglobin dissociation constant to the left, 2,3-DPG increases to counter this. Cardiac output increases through an increase in heart rate.\n\nThe body's response to high altitude includes the following:\nPeople with high-altitude sickness generally have reduced hyperventilator response, impaired gas exchange, fluid retention or increased sympathetic drive. There is thought to be an increase in cerebral venous volume because of an increase in cerebral blood flow and hypocapnic cerebral vasoconstriction causing oedema.\n\nDiagnosis can be assisted with a number of different scoring systems.\n\nAscending slowly is the best way to avoid altitude sickness. Avoiding strenuous activity such as skiing, hiking, etc. in the first 24 hours at high altitude reduces the symptoms of AMS. Alcohol and sleeping pills are respiratory depressants, and thus slow down the acclimatization process and should be avoided. Alcohol also tends to cause dehydration and exacerbates AMS. Thus, avoiding alcohol consumption in the first 24–48 hours at a higher altitude is optimal.\n\nPre-acclimatization is when the body develops tolerance to low oxygen concentrations before ascending to an altitude. It significantly reduces risk because less time has to be spent at altitude to acclimatize in the traditional way. Additionally, because less time has to be spent on the mountain, less food and supplies have to be taken up. Several commercial systems exist that use altitude tents, so called because they mimic altitude by reducing the percentage of oxygen in the air while keeping air pressure constant to the surroundings.\n\nAltitude acclimatization is the process of adjusting to decreasing oxygen levels at higher elevations, in order to avoid altitude sickness. Once above approximately a pressure of most climbers and high-altitude trekkers take the \"climb-high, sleep-low\" approach. For high-altitude climbers, a typical acclimatization regimen might be to stay a few days at a base camp, climb up to a higher camp (slowly), and then return to base camp. A subsequent climb to the higher camp then includes an overnight stay. This process is then repeated a few times, each time extending the time spent at higher altitudes to let the body adjust to the oxygen level there, a process that involves the production of additional red blood cells. Once the climber has acclimatized to a given altitude, the process is repeated with camps placed at progressively higher elevations. The rule of thumb is to ascend no more than per day to sleep. That is, one can climb from () to () in one day, but one should then descend back to () to sleep. This process cannot safely be rushed, and this is why climbers need to spend days (or even weeks at times) acclimatizing before attempting to climb a high peak. Simulated altitude equipment such as altitude tents provide hypoxic (reduced oxygen) air, and are designed to allow partial pre-acclimation to high altitude, reducing the total time required on the mountain itself.\n\nAltitude acclimatization is necessary for some people who move rapidly from lower altitudes to intermediate altitudes (e.g., by aircraft and ground transportation over a few hours), such as from sea level to as in many Colorado, USA mountain resorts. Stopping at an intermediate altitude overnight (for example, staying overnight when arriving through Denver, at , when traveling to the aforementioned Colorado resorts) can alleviate or eliminate occurrences of AMS.\n\nThe drug acetazolamide (trade name Diamox) may help some people making a rapid ascent to sleeping altitude above , and it may also be effective if started early in the course of AMS. Acetazolamide can be taken before symptoms appear as a preventive measure at a dose of 125 mg twice daily. The Everest Base Camp Medical Centre cautions against its routine use as a substitute for a reasonable ascent schedule, except where rapid ascent is forced by flying into high altitude locations or due to terrain considerations. The Centre suggests a dosage of 125 mg twice daily for prophylaxis, starting from 24 hours before ascending until a few days at the highest altitude or on descending; with 250 mg twice daily recommended for treatment of AMS. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) suggest the same dose for prevention of 125 mg acetazolamide every 12 hours. Acetazolamide, a mild diuretic, works by stimulating the kidneys to secrete more bicarbonate in the urine, thereby acidifying the blood. This change in pH stimulates the respiratory center to increase the depth and frequency of respiration, thus speeding the natural acclimatization process. An undesirable side-effect of acetazolamide is a reduction in aerobic endurance performance. Other minor side effects include a tingle-sensation in hands and feet. Although a sulfonamide; acetazolamide is a non-antibiotic and has not been shown to cause life-threatening allergic cross-reactivity in those with a self-reported sulfonamide allergy. Dosage of 1000 mg/day will produce a 25% decrease in performance, on top of the reduction due to high-altitude exposure. The CDC advises that Dexamethasone be reserved for treatment of severe AMS and HACE during descents, and notes that Nifedipine may prevent HAPE.\n\nA single randomized controlled trial found that sumatriptan may help prevent altitude sickness. Despite their popularity, antioxidant treatments have not been found to be effective medications for prevention of AMS. Interest in phosphodiesterase inhibitors such as sildenafil has been limited by the possibility that these drugs might worsen the headache of mountain sickness. A promising possible preventive for altitude sickness is myo-inositol trispyrophosphate (ITPP), which increases the amount of oxygen released by hemoglobin.\n\nPrior to the onset of altitude sickness, ibuprofen is a suggested non-steroidal anti-inflammatory and painkiller that can help alleviate both the headache and nausea associated with AMS. It has not been studied for the prevention of cerebral edema (swelling of the brain) associated with extreme symptoms of AMS.\n\nFor centuries, indigenous peoples of the Americas such as the Aymaras of the Altiplano, have chewed coca leaves to try to alleviate the symptoms of mild altitude sickness. In Chinese and Tibetan traditional medicine, an extract of the root tissue of \"Radix rhodiola\" is often taken in order to prevent the same symptoms, though neither of these therapies has been proven effective in clinical study.\n\nIn high-altitude conditions, oxygen enrichment can counteract the hypoxia related effects of altitude sickness. A small amount of supplemental oxygen reduces the equivalent altitude in climate-controlled rooms. At (), raising the oxygen concentration level by 5% via an oxygen concentrator and an existing ventilation system provides an effective altitude of (), which is more tolerable for those unaccustomed to high altitudes.\n\nOxygen from gas bottles or liquid containers can be applied directly via a nasal cannula or mask. Oxygen concentrators based upon pressure swing adsorption (PSA), VSA, or vacuum-pressure swing adsorption (VPSA) can be used to generate the oxygen if electricity is available. Stationary oxygen concentrators typically use PSA technology, which has performance degradations at the lower barometric pressures at high altitudes. One way to compensate for the performance degradation is to utilize a concentrator with more flow capacity. There are also portable oxygen concentrators that can be used on vehicular DC power or on internal batteries, and at least one system commercially available measures and compensates for the altitude effect on its performance up to . The application of high-purity oxygen from one of these methods increases the partial pressure of oxygen by raising the FiO (fraction of inspired oxygen).\n\nIncreased water intake may also help in acclimatization to replace the fluids lost through heavier breathing in the thin, dry air found at altitude, although consuming excessive quantities (\"over-hydration\") has no benefits and may cause dangerous hyponatremia.\n\nThe only reliable treatment, and in many cases the only option available, is to descend. Attempts to treat or stabilize the patient \"in situ\" (at altitude) are dangerous unless highly controlled and with good medical facilities. However, the following treatments have been used when the patient's location and circumstances permit:\n\n"}
{"id": "58713754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58713754", "title": "Anurag Chauhan", "text": "Anurag Chauhan\n\nAnurag Chauhan (born 1994) is an Indian social worker and founder of Humans For Humanity, a non-governmental organization (NGO) headquartered in Dehradun, India. He is founder-director of Dehradun Literature Festival. He is known for his work towards menstrual hygiene.\n\nHe was awarded the \"Karmavir Chakra Award\" by the United Nations for social work in the year 2016. In July 2016, he was conferred the \"Bharat Nirman Award\" 2016 by Union Minister Dr. Najma Heptulla for entrepreneurship and excellence in social work at the India International Centre, New Delhi.\nIn 2015, Anurag started a project called WASH - Women, Sanitation, Hygiene, that works towards educating women about menstrual hygiene, providing them sanitary napkins and giving training to them for making bio-degradable sanitary napkins. Chauhan founded his NGO \"Humans For Humanity\" in 2014, after reading an article written about deaths caused due to lack of menstruation hygiene. His cause received support from actress Twinkle Khanna. Anurag runs awareness programs in many villages of Uttarakhand, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka, reportedly by Dainik Jagaran. \nChauhan acted in a film, based on Clean India Campaign, an initiative by PM Narendra Modi. In 2016, he launched the Dehradun Literature Festival, an annual literary fest in Dehradun.\n\nIn September, 2017, Chauhan started an online compaign #TheDoorChallenge to promote ethnic Indian attire among youngsters.\n\n"}
{"id": "43772633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43772633", "title": "Back labor", "text": "Back labor\n\nBack labor (less commonly called posterior labor) is a term referring to sensations of pain or discomfort that occur in the lower back, just above the tailbone, to a mother during childbirth.\n\nBack labor may be noted when the baby is face up in the birth canal (occiput posterior), and not face down, so that the back of the baby's skull (occiput) is pushed against the mother's sacrum. But back labor can also occur when the baby is not in that position. The discomfort is often noted to be intensely painful, and may not completely abate between contractions. Whether back labor will occur cannot be predicted in advance. Reports of how many mothers experience back labor vary, though estimates in the range of 30% are common.\n\nActions that have been suggested to ameliorate back labor include physical activity, changing positions, back rubbing, water massage, application of hot or cold to the lower back, use of a birthing ball and medication including an epidural. Some research has suggested that injecting sterile water into the lower back may provide pain relief, but there is no consensus that it actually helps.\n\n"}
{"id": "23804755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23804755", "title": "Capitation (healthcare)", "text": "Capitation (healthcare)\n\nCapitation is a payment arrangement for health care service providers such as physicians, physician assistants or nurse practitioners. It pays a physician or group of physicians a set amount for each enrolled person assigned to them, per period of time, whether or not that person seeks care. These providers generally are contracted with a type of health maintenance organization (HMO) known as an independent practice association (IPA), which enlists the providers to care for HMO-enrolled patients. The amount of remuneration is based on the average expected health care utilization of that patient, with greater payment for patients with significant medical history.\n\nPrimary capitation is a relationship between a managed care organization (MCO) and primary care physician (PCP), in which the PCP is paid directly by the MCO for those enrolled members who have selected the physician as their provider.\n\nSecondary capitation is a relationship arranged by the MCO between a PCP and a secondary or specialist provider, such as an X-ray facility or ancillary facility such as a durable medical equipment supplier whose secondary provider is also paid capitation based on that PCP’s enrolled membership.\n\nGlobal capitation is a relationship based on a provider who provides services and is reimbursed per-member per-month (PMPM) for the entire network population.\n\nUnder capitation, physicians are given an incentive to consider the cost of treatment. Pure capitation pays a set fee per patient, regardless of their degree of infirmity, giving physicians an incentive to avoid the most costly patients.\n\nProviders who work under such plans focus on preventive health care, as there is a greater financial reward in the prevention of illness than in the treatment of the ill. Such plans divert providers from the use of expensive treatment options.\n\nThe financial risks providers accept in capitation are traditional insurance risks. Provider revenues are fixed, and each enrolled patient makes a claims against the full resources of the provider. In exchange for the fixed payment, physicians essentially become the enrolled clients' insurers, who resolve their patients' claims at the point of care and assume the responsibility for their unknown future health care costs. Large providers tend to manage the risk better than do smaller providers because they are better prepared for variations in service demand and costs, but even large providers are inefficient risk managers in comparison to large insurers. Providers tend to be small in comparison to insurers and so are more like individual consumers, whose annual costs as a percentage of their annual cash flow vary far more than do those of large insurers. For example, a capitated eye care program for 25,000 patients is more viable than a capitated eye program for 10,000 patients. The smaller the roster of patients, the greater the variation in annual costs and the more likely that the costs may exceed the resources of the provider. In very small capitation portfolios, a small number of costly patients can dramatically affect a provider's overall costs and increase the provider's risk of insolvency.\n\nPhysicians and other health care providers lack the necessary actuarial, underwriting, accounting and finance skills for insurance risk management, but their most severe problem is the greater variation in their estimates of the average patient cost, which leaves them at a financial disadvantage as compared to insurers whose estimates are far more accurate. Because their risks are a function of portfolio size, providers can reduce their risks only by increasing the numbers of patients they carry on their rosters, but their inefficiency relative to that of the insurers' is far greater than can be mitigated by these increases. To manage risk as efficiently as an insurer, a provider would have to assume 100% of the insurer's portfolio. HMOs and insurers manage their costs better than risk-assuming healthcare providers and cannot make risk-adjusted capitation payments without sacrificing profitability. Risk-transferring entities will enter into such agreements only if they can maintain the levels of profits they achieve by retaining risks.\n\nProviders cannot afford reinsurance, which would further deplete their inadequate capitation payments, as the reinsurer's expected loss costs, expenses, profits and risk loads must be paid by the providers. The goal of reinsurance is to offload risk and reward to the reinsurer in return for more stable operating results, but the provider's additional costs make that impractical. Reinsurance assumes that the insurance-risk-transferring entities do not create inefficiencies when they shift insurance risks to providers.\n\nWithout any induced inefficiencies, providers would be able to pass on a portion of their risk premiums to reinsurers, but the premiums that providers would have to receive would exceed the premiums that risk-transferring entities could charge in competitive insurance markets. Reinsurers are wary of contracting with physicians, as they believe that if providers think they can collect more than they pay in premiums, they would tend to revert to the same excesses encouraged by fee-for-service payment systems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49644336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49644336", "title": "Cristina Possas", "text": "Cristina Possas\n\nCristina Possas de Albuquerque (born 5 June 1948) is a Brazilian public health scientist working with infectious diseases and emerging infectious diseases from an eco-social perspective. However, her approach to social ecosystem complexity is quite different from the four-fold eco-social approach of Harvard's Nancy Krieger in that she has proposed in a 2001 English-language article in the \"Brazilian Journal of Public Health Reports\" the concept of \"social ecosystem health\" where ecosystems are increasingly changed by social human activity, favoring the emergence of diseases, so the term \"social\" should precede the prefix \"eco\".\n\nShe is a Takemi Fellow at Harvard University in Boston, where for 10 years she has been a Visiting Scientist and a Fulbright Fellow, and a professor at FIOCRUZ in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.\n\nAs a Brazilian Brazilian public health scientist working with infectious diseases from an eco-social perspective, Cristina Possas de Albuquerque (Cristina Possas) has as a policymaker long worked closely with public health and environmental scientists and with human rights and social justice civil organizations.\n\nShe also is a full professor at FIOCRUZ in Brazil, where in 1998 she had earned a PhD in public health, and where she now does research on infectious diseases and teaches a course named \"Scientific Methodology\" in the Masters and Doctoral Programs.\n\nShe has been also a Professor of Health Policy at the National School of Public Health at the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation, Brazil. She was nominated in 1987 by the Brazilian Ministry of Health/Fiocruz to be the National Technical Coordinator of seven Groups supporting the Health Reform in Brazil, whose contributions were later incorporated into the new Brazilian 1988 Constitution.\n\nFor a decade, she also has been a Takemi Fellow at Harvard University, a Visiting Scientist and Fulbright Fellow, and a member of the Harvard New Diseases Group, coordinated by the late Richard Levins and by Tamara Awerbuch-Friedlander, collaborating with them and other outstanding members of the group in the organizing committee of the Woods Hole Conference on New Diseases, with articles with the group later published in a special supplement of the \"Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences\" on this conference and in other journals. She had held for 10 years a national position as the Head of the Research and Development Unit of the Brazilian National AIDS Program.\n\nShe has worked for more than five decades in several national and international positions with the scientific community and civil society organizations. For ten years, she had been National Director of the Research and Technological Development Unit at the Brazilian AIDS Program in the Brazilian Ministry of Health, which has been recognized globally as an outstanding public health initiative with innovative approaches to the pandemics, always centering on free and universal access to prevention and treatment. She was invited by the Director of the National AIDS Program to conceive and create a new and innovative Research and Technological Development Unit in the Program’s structure.\n\nShe has given interviews on AIDS, dengue, and zika.\n\n\nFIOCRUZ\n\n1985–present - Full professor and researcher at FIOCRUZ (Master, Doctoral and Post-Doctoral Programs in Clinical Research on Infectious Diseases). Scientific Advisor for the President of the Policy and Strategy Council of Bio-Manguinhos.\n\nPositions:\n\n\nNATIONAL TECHNICAL BIOSAFETY COMMISSION - CTNBio\n\n\nNATIONAL AIDS PROGRAM\n\n\nHARVARD UNIVERSITY\n\n\nSTATE OF SÃO PAULO, BRAZIL\n\n\nPUC OF CAMPINAS, SP.\n\n\nCITY OF CAMPINAS, SP\n\n\nUNICAMP, SP\n\n\n\nDr. Possas's writings are in six broad areas:\n\n\nThese numerous writings include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14993731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14993731", "title": "Doppler fetal monitor", "text": "Doppler fetal monitor\n\nA Doppler fetal monitor is a hand-held ultrasound transducer used to detect the fetal heartbeat for prenatal care. It uses the Doppler effect to provide an audible simulation of the heart beat. Some models also display the heart rate in beats per minute (BPM). Use of this monitor is sometimes known as Doppler auscultation. The Doppler fetal monitor is commonly referred to simply as a \"Doppler\" or \"fetal Doppler\". It may be classified as a form of Doppler ultrasonography (although usually not technically -graphy but rather sound-generating).\n\nDoppler fetal monitors provide information about the fetus similar to that provided by a fetal stethoscope. One advantage of the Doppler fetal monitor over a (purely acoustic) fetal stethoscope is the electronic audio output, which allows people other than the user to hear the heartbeat. One disadvantage is the greater complexity and cost and the lower reliability of an electronic device.\n\nThe device was invented in 1958 by Dr. Edward H. Hon, Originally intended for use by health care professionals, this device is becoming popular for personal use.\n\nDopplers for home or hospital use differ in the following ways: \n\nA major advantage of being able to record and share the recording is that it can be emailed to a healthcare professional to be checked if there are any concerns about whether or not it is the fetus's heart rate and whether or not is normal. Typically, they work from about 12 weeks. \n\nIn response to increasing home usage of clinical fetal doppler systems, the FDA issued a formal statement recommending against at-home use. Fetal dopplers using 2-3GHz ultrasound are prescription devices designed and developed for use by licensed and trained health care professionals. System misuse (duration, angulation) and systems operating outside of intended range can produce thermal and non-thermal effects on fetal tissue, including the possibility for over-heating fetal tissue and introducing mechanical stress on the fetus due to cavitation, radiation force, and acoustic streaming. \n\nThe use of the word \"Sonicaid\" for Doppler fetal monitors comes from the products of the UK company Sonicaid Ltd. Sonicaid products included the D205/206 portable fetal Dopplers and FM2/3/4 series of fetal monitors. The company was acquired by Oxford Instruments in 1987 to form Oxford Sonicaid.\n\nIt was recently demonstrated that continuous Doppler enables the auscultation of valvular movements and blood flow sounds that are undetected during cardiac examination with a stethoscope in adults. The Doppler auscultation presented a sensitivity of 84% for the detection of aortic regurgitations, while classic stethoscope auscultation presented a sensitivity of 58%. Moreover, Doppler auscultation was superior in the detection of impaired ventricular relaxation Since the physics of Doppler auscultation and classic auscultation are different, it has been suggested that both methods could complement each other.\n\n"}
{"id": "8774042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8774042", "title": "Environmental health officer", "text": "Environmental health officer\n\nEnvironmental Health Officers (also known as Public Health Inspectors or Environmental Health Practitioners) are responsible for carrying out measures for protecting public health, including administering and enforcing legislation related to environmental health and providing support to minimize health and safety hazards. Environmental Health Practitioners are multi-skilled in many areas with individuals being highly trained, usually to degree level, and often requiring additional professional training, professional competency assessment and continuing professional development in order to continue to practise in the field.\nThey are involved in a variety of activities, for example inspecting food facilities, investigating public health nuisances, and implementing disease control, conducting work place safety assessments and accident investigation. Environmental health officers are focused on prevention, consultation, investigation, and education of the community regarding health risks and maintaining a safe environment.\n\nEHOs bring to the position an understanding of microbiology, risk assessment, environmental science and technology, food science, knowledge of the built environment as well as the skills and knowledge related to the tracking and control of communicable disease, investigation of environmental health related incidents and criminal investigations. They therefore must also have strong investigative skills and a thorough understanding of the application of legislation related to public health, the built environment, pollution control and workplace safety. Working in partnership with Government Ministries (such as Health, Agriculture and Environment), local municipalities, businesses, community groups, other agencies and individual members of the community, the EHO plays a major role in protecting public health. They are allowed with a permit to select what to inspect.\n\nSome past/historic titles include inspector of nuisances, sanitarian, and sanitary inspector. Other titles that currently exist include environmental health specialist/practitioner/professional, public health officer, health officer, health inspector, and health official. The legal title used will depend on the definitions found in local legislation/jurisdiction.\n\nEnvironmental health professionals are usually employed by local government or state health authorities to advise on and enforce public health standards. However, many are employed in the private sector the military and other third sector agencies such as charities and NGOs.\n\nThe following represents jobs that can be found in either the public or private sectors:\n\nThe common identifier of environmental health personnel is that they are responsible for the identification, evaluation and management of risks to human health from factors in the environment, whether on behalf of government agencies or commercial and industrial concerns.\n\nA Public Health Inspector (also known as an Environmental Health Officer) investigates health hazards in a wide variety of settings, and will take action to mitigate or eliminate the hazards. Usually the public perception of a health inspector is someone who examines restaurants and ensures they maintain sanitary standards for food safety set by the regulating authority. However, public health inspectors have much broader job duties, including inspecting swimming pools, substandard housing conditions, public schools, day cares, nursing homes, and personal service establishments such as tattoo parlours. Depending on their jurisdiction, Registered Environmental Health Officers often permit and inspect wells, private water systems, and individual subsurface sewage disposal (septic) systems. Other tasks include: campground inspections, tanning salon inspections, beauty salon inspections, correctional facility inspections and mobile home park inspection. The public health inspector (environmental health officer) also plays a vital role in community projects such as those concerning health promotion, tobacco reduction, healthy built environments/healthy communities, food security, and emergency preparedness.\nThey may also respond to complaints such as animal bites, garbage complaints, odor complaints, or sewage overflows. Due to their educational background they can provide information and referrals with regards to; lead, radon, mold, and emerging diseases such as West Nile Virus and Avian Flu. The field also overlaps with hazardous materials (Hazmat) and many Hazmat responders are also Licensed Environmental Health Practitioners or Registered Environmental Health Specialists.\n\nEnvironmental health officers work with many different people in a variety of environments. Their jobs often involve considerable fieldwork, and some travel frequently. Many environmental health officers work long and often irregular hours. They inspect pools, childcare centers, restaurants, septic systems, and many other types of establishments that relate to health and safety.\n\nEnvironmental health officers may be exposed to many of the same physically strenuous conditions and hazards as industrial employees, and the work may be performed in unpleasant, stressful, and dangerous working conditions. They may find themselves in an adversarial role if the management of an organization disagrees with the recommendations for ensuring a safe working environment.\n\nThe field of environmental health can be traced back to the 1840s in England. Edwin Chadwick, a Poor Law Commissioner, conducted an inquiry into the causes of poverty which concluded that people often became poor because of ill health due to a bad environment. He believed that improving sanitation was the key to breaking this vicious cycle.\n\nChadwick led a vigorous campaign for change which eventually won over the establishment, resulting in the Public Health Act 1848. The Act provided for the appointment of Inspectors of Nuisances – the forerunners of today’s environmental health practitioners – in areas of need.\n\nThe Association of Public Sanitary Inspectors – the organisation which was to become the United Kingdom's Chartered Institute of Environmental Health – was established in 1883. Over subsequent decades, the role of environmental health practitioners changed and grew, with standards of qualification rising until, in the 1960s, it became a graduate profession. The grant of a Royal Charter in 1984 set the seal on this enhanced role and status. As a result of changing roles, the titles have changed over the decades from inspector of nuisances -> sanitary inspector -> public health inspector / environmental health officer (see Inspector of Nuisances below). This is also true internationally, as the titles have changed to reflect the advanced education and roles of environmental health officers today.\n\nAn Inspector of Nuisances was the title of an office in several English-speaking jurisdictions. In many jurisdictions this term is now archaic, the position and/or term having been replaced by others. In the United Kingdom from the mid 19th century this office was generally associated with public health and sanitation.\n\nThe first Inspector of Nuisances appointed by a UK local authority Health Committee was Thomas Fresh in Liverpool in 1844. Both the 1855 Nuisances Removal and Diseases Prevention Act and the Metropolis Management Act 1855 defined such an office but with the title of 'Sanitary Inspector'. In local authorities that had established a Board of Health, the title was 'Inspector of Nuisances'. Eventually the title was standardized across all UK local authorities as 'Sanitary Inspector'. An Act of Parliament later changed the title to 'Public Health Inspector'. Similar offices were established across the British Empire.\n\nThe nearest modern equivalent of this position in the UK is an Environmental Health Officer. This title being adopted by local authorities on the recommendation of Central Government after the Local Government Act 1972. Today, Registered UK Environmental Health Officers working in non-enforcement roles (e.g. in the private sector) may prefer to use the generic term 'Environmental Health Practitioner'.\n\nIn the United States, a modern example of an officer with the title 'Inspector of Nuisances' but not the public health role is found in Section 3767[7] of the Ohio Revised Code which defines such a position to investigate nuisances, where this term broadly covers establishments in which lewdness and alcohol are found. Whereas in the United States the environmental health officer role in local authorities is taken by officers with the titles 'Registered Environmental Health Specialist' or 'Registered Sanitarian' depending on the jurisdiction. The role in the US Public Health Service is undertaken by Commissioned (uniformed) 'Environmental Health Officers'.\n\nEnvironmental health is a graduate career in most countries. The minimum requirements in most countries include an approved university degree program, field training and professional certification & registration.\n\nEnvironmental Health Australia accredits Australian Environmental Health Degree and Graduate Diploma programs in accordance with the Environmental Health Australia Accreditation Policy to ensure course content meets nationally consistent requirements for practice as an EHO anywhere in Australia. As at 1 July 2009 there are EHA-accredited Universities in every State and the Northern Territory.\n\nThe current requirement to become an authorised officer under the Food Act 1984 in Victoria are defined by the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services. A range of undergraduate and graduate qualifications from Victoria, interstate and overseas are acceptable.\n\nThe Health Act 1911 (as amended) defines the role of 'environmental health officer', and empowers the Executive Director, Public Health to appoint EHOs to local government health authorities and as public health officials employed by State government. The Executive Director, Public Health is advised by the Western Australia Environmental Health Officer Professional Review Board on Environmental Health Graduate and Postgraduate qualifications that are deemed suitable to allow practice in Western Australia, and the qualifications are published from time to time in the Government Gazette.\n\nCurrently Curtin University of Technology and Edith Cowan University offer Environmental Health degrees in Western Australia which are also accredited by Environmental Health Australia.\n\nEntrants to the profession must have either a BAppSc Health Protection or BHSc Environmental Health. Alternatively, suitably qualified science graduates can obtain a graduate diploma in environmental health.\n\nTo become an Environmental Health Officer it is necessary to hold an environmental health degree approved by the Department of Health & Children. The study of Environmental Health in Ireland also requires students to undertake a period of professional practice with the Health Service Executive. Following the period of professional practice, competence must then be demonstrated through an experiential learning logbook and oral examination.\n\nEHOs often hold at least an undergraduate (or postgraduate) qualification recognised by (in England, Wales and Northern Ireland) the Environmental Health Registration Board. \nSimilar provisions exist in Scotland, where the profession is regulated by The Royal Environmental Health Institute of Scotland.\nFollowing the educational requirements and practical training period, competence must then be demonstrated through an experiential learning logbook and oral examination before registration is granted.\n\nEnvironmental Health Officers/Public Health Inspectors have a university degree in environmental health and a national professional certificate – the Certificate in Public Health Inspection (Canada), CPHI(C). \n\nPublic Health Inspectors are highly trained individuals whose training include a bachelor's degree in environmental health followed by certification by the Canadian Institute of Public Health Inspectors (CIPHI). To become nationally certified, public health inspectors must complete a field training practicum, submit a number of reports and pass the Institute's exam. Some inspectors have additional training in areas such as biology, toxicology and epidemiology.\n\nOnly six schools in Canada offer degree programs approved by the CIPHI as meeting the educational component for certification: British Columbia Institute of Technology, Cape Breton University, Concordia University of Edmonton, Conestoga College Institute of Technology and Advanced Learning, First Nations University of Canada, and Ryerson University. These programs are generally four years long, however fast-track programs are available in some schools for those who have completed a previous science degree.\n\nPublic Health Inspectors appointed by the Department of Health, must have passed the Public Health Inspectors Examination conducted by the Department of Health to joined the service as a Public Health Inspector Grade III, thereafter they receive training to a Diploma level.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "784032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=784032", "title": "Enzyte", "text": "Enzyte\n\nEnzyte is an herbal nutritional supplement originally manufactured by Berkeley Premium Nutraceuticals. The marketing of Enzyte resulted in a conviction and prison term for the company's owner and bankruptcy of the company. The product is now marketed by Vianda, LLC of Cincinnati, Ohio. The manufacturer has claimed that Enzyte promotes \"natural male enhancement,\" which is a euphemism for enhancing erectile function. However, its effectiveness has been called into doubt and the claims of the manufacturer have been under scrutiny from various state and federal organizations. Kenneth Goldberg, medical director of the Male Health Center at Baylor University, says, \"It makes no sense medically. There's no way that increasing blood flow to the penis, as Enzyte claims to do, will actually increase its size.\"\n\nIn March 2005, following thousands of consumer complaints to the Better Business Bureau, federal agents raided Berkeley facilities, gathering material that resulted in a 112-count criminal indictment. The company's founder and CEO, Steven M Warshak and his mother, Harriet Warshak, were found guilty of conspiracy to commit mail fraud, bank fraud, and money laundering, and in September 2008 they were sentenced to prison and ordered to forfeit $500 million in assets. The convictions and fines forced the company into bankruptcy, and in December 2008 its assets were sold for $2.75 million to investment company Pristine Bay, which continued operations.\n\nEnzyte is widely advertised on U.S. television as \"the once daily tablet for natural male enhancement.\" The commercials feature a character known as \"Smilin' Bob,\" acted out by Canadian actor Andrew Olcott, who, in the commercials, always wears a smile that is implied to be caused by the enhancing effects of Enzyte; these advertisements feature double entendres. Some such commercials also feature an equally smiling \"Mrs. Bob.\" (Olcott, who was married and a father in real life, was also a visual artist, and he later owned and operated a small advertising firm.)\n\nBecause Enzyte is an herbal product, no testing is required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. An official of the Federal Trade Commission division that monitors advertising says the lack of scientific testing is \"a red flag right away. There's no science behind these claims.\" The company has conceded that it has no scientific studies that substantiate any of its Enzyte claims.\n\nIra Sharlip, a spokesman for the American Urological Association, has said, \"There is no such thing as a penis pill that works. These are all things that are sold for profit. There's no science or substance behind them.\"\n\nEnzyte's formulation was reportedly developed for Vianda by Marilyn Barrett.\n\nEnzyte is said to contain:\n\nMost of the above ingredients are commonly available as over the counter herbal or dietary supplements, and most have anecdotal reports, but marginal or unproven scientific evidence, of efficacy on various systems in the human body. Several of the herbal ingredients are included only in very low quantities.\n\nOne notable ingredient, yohimbe, was included in the original formulation of Enzyte, produced until at least 2004; however, as yohimbe's legal status in Canada is unclear, Enzyte produced after 2004 no longer contains yohimbe extract.\n\nAdditionally, zinc is an ingredient in Enzyte. Some men who have low zinc levels in their body have had success using zinc supplements to treat erection problems.\n\nCurrently, the effectiveness of Enzyte is unproven.\n\nA civil lawsuit alleged Enzyte does not work as advertised. Despite manufacturer claims that Enzyte will increase penis size, girth, and firmness and improve sexual performance, there exists no scientific evidence that Enzyte is capable of making good on these claims. In fact, Enzyte has never been scientifically tested by the FDA or other independent third party. Accordingly, Enzyte is required by current U.S. law to be marketed as an herbal supplement and may not legally be called a drug. In keeping with FTC rulings, Enzyte is not allowed to claim these benefits in its advertising. However, as of June 2010, TV commercials for the product still use the phrase \"natural male enhancement.\"\n\nThousands of consumer complaints were made to the Better Business Bureau about the company's business practices, especially the \"autoship\" program that repeatedly charged customers' credit cards for refills even after they canceled their orders. Federal agents raided Berkeley facilities in March 2005, gathering material that led to criminal charges. On September 21, 2006, Berkeley Premium Nutraceuticals; its owner and president, Steve Warshak; and five other individuals were indicted by the United States, Southern District of Ohio, U.S. Attorney Greg Lockhart, on charges of conspiracy, money laundering, and mail, wire, and bank fraud. The indictment alleged that the company defrauded consumers and banks of US$100 million. The United States Food and Drug Administration, Internal Revenue Service, United States Postal Inspection Service, and other agencies participated in the investigation. The federal fraud trial began on January 8, 2008.\n\nIn testimony during the trial, a former executive with Berkeley testified that the enhancements the company claimed were achieved by use of Enzyte were fabricated, and the company defrauded customers by continuing to charge them for additional shipments of the supplement. He further testified that company employees were instructed to make it as difficult as possible for unhappy customers to receive refunds.\n\nOn February 22, 2008, Steven \nWarshak was found guilty of 93 counts of conspiracy, fraud, and money laundering. On August 27, 2008, he was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Arthur Spiegel to 25 years in prison and ordered to pay $93,000 in fines. Warshak was an inmate at the Federal Correctional Institution in Elkton, Ohio. His company, Berkeley Premium Nutraceuticals, along with other defendants, was ordered to forfeit $500 million. His 75-year-old mother, Harriet Warshak, was sentenced to two years in prison but released on bond pending appeal after turning over her house, bank accounts, and other assets related to her crimes.\n\nBoth Steven and Harriet Warshak appealed their convictions. The United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in \"United States v. Warshak\" (6th Cir. Dec. 14, 2010) 631 F.3d 266, upheld Steven Warshak's convictions and all convictions against Harriet Warshak except for money laundering and vacated their sentences, remanding the sentencing to the lower court.\n\nOn September 21, 2011, Steven Warshak's sentence was reduced from 25 years to 10 years. With credit for time served, he could be out in five years. His mother's sentence was reduced from two years to one day, and she never served any time in jail. Factors in reducing the sentence were that the amount of total loss by customers may have been less than $400 million and that the sentences of co-defendants were only two years. Warshak was released from prison on June 14, 2017 according to the Federal Prison Inmate Locator system.\n\nThe Warshaks' convictions and fines forced the company into bankruptcy. In December 2008, its assets were acquired from bankruptcy court for $2.75 million by investment company Pristine Bay, which is affiliated with Cincinnati developer Chuck Kubicki. Kubicki said he wanted to save the jobs of the company's 200 employees and retain a major tenant in one of his properties in suburban Cincinnati at Forest Park, Ohio. He said he would change the company name but would keep the brand. In March 2009, Hamilton County commissioners unanimously voted to give a $195,000 property tax break to the company based on projected jobs.\n\nOn June 26, 2009, the company name was changed to Vianda LLC. In a press release, the company announced plans to expand, hiring as many as 400 additional workers. On December 14, 2009, Cincinnati Business Courier reported employment of 180, revision of sales projections of 400% growth to $120 million downward to an estimated 33% growth to $40 million, management team changes, and continued customer complaints of improper billing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18834674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18834674", "title": "Erection", "text": "Erection\n\nAn erection (clinically: penile erection or penile tumescence) is a physiological phenomenon in which the penis becomes firm, engorged, and enlarged. Penile erection is the result of a complex interaction of psychological, neural, vascular, and endocrine factors, and is often associated with sexual arousal or sexual attraction, although erections can also be spontaneous. The shape, angle, and direction of an erection varies considerably in humans.\n\nPhysiologically, erection is triggered by the parasympathetic division of the autonomic nervous system, causing nitric oxide (a vasodilator) levels to rise in the trabecular arteries and smooth muscle of the penis. The arteries dilate causing the corpora cavernosa of the penis (and to a lesser extent the corpus spongiosum) to fill with blood; simultaneously the ischiocavernosus and bulbospongiosus muscles compress the veins of the corpora cavernosa restricting the egress and circulation of this blood. Erection subsides when parasympathetic activity reduces to baseline.\n\nAs an autonomic nervous system response, an erection may result from a variety of stimuli, including sexual stimulation and sexual arousal, and is therefore not entirely under conscious control. Erections during sleep or upon waking up are known as nocturnal penile tumescence (NPT). Absence of nocturnal erection is commonly used to distinguish between physical and psychological causes of erectile dysfunction and impotence.\n\nThe state of a penis which is partly, but not fully, erect is sometimes known as semi-erection (clinically: partial tumescence); a penis which is not erect is typically referred to as being flaccid, or soft.\n\nAn erection occurs when two tubular structures, called the corpora cavernosa, that run the length of the penis, become engorged with venous blood. This may result from any of various physiological stimuli, also known as sexual stimulation and sexual arousal. The corpus spongiosum is a single tubular structure located just below the corpora cavernosa, which contains the urethra, through which urine and semen pass during urination and ejaculation respectively. This may also become slightly engorged with blood, but less so than the corpora cavernosa.\n\nThe scrotum may, but not always, become tightened during erection. Generally, the foreskin automatically and gradually retracts, exposing the glans, though some men may have to manually retract their foreskin.\n\nIn the presence of mechanical stimulation, erection is initiated by the parasympathetic division of the autonomic nervous system with minimal input from the central nervous system. Parasympathetic branches extend from the sacral plexus into the arteries supplying the erectile tissue; upon stimulation, these nerve branches release acetylcholine, which in turn causes release of nitric oxide from endothelial cells in the trabecular arteries. Nitric oxide diffuses to the smooth muscle of the arteries (called \"trabecular smooth muscle\"), acting as a vasodilating agent. The arteries dilate, filling the \"corpus spongiosum\" and \"corpora cavernosa\" with blood. The ischiocavernosus and bulbospongiosus muscles also compress the veins of the corpora cavernosa, limiting the venous drainage of blood. Erection subsides when parasympathetic stimulation is discontinued; baseline stimulation from the sympathetic division of the autonomic nervous system causes constriction of the penile arteries, forcing blood out of the erectile tissue.\n\nAfter ejaculation or cessation of stimulation, erection usually subsides, but the time taken may vary depending on the length and thickness of the penis.\n\nThe cerebral cortex can initiate erection in the absence of direct mechanical stimulation (in response to visual, auditory, olfactory, imagined, or tactile stimuli) acting through erectile centers in the lumbar and sacral regions of the spinal cord. The cortex may suppress erection, even in the presence of mechanical stimulation, as may other psychological, emotional, and environmental factors.\n\nThe penis may erect during sleep or be erect on waking up. Such an erection is medically known as nocturnal penile tumescence (informally: \"morning wood\" or \"morning glory\").\n\nErection is a common indicator of sexual arousal and is required for a male to effect vaginal penetration and sexual intercourse.\n\nErections are common for children and infants, and even occur before birth. After reaching puberty, erections occur much more frequently. The penile plethysmograph which measures erections has been used by some governments and courts of law to measure sexual orientation. An unusual aversion to the erect penis is sometimes referred to as phallophobia.\n\nSpontaneous erection, also known as involuntary, random or unwanted erection, is commonplace and a normal part of male physiology. Socially, such erections can be embarrassing if they happen in public or when undesired. Erections can occur spontaneously at any time of day, and if clothed may cause a bulge which (if required) can be disguised or hidden by wearing close-fitting underwear, a long shirt, or baggier clothes.\n\nThe length of the flaccid penis does not necessarily correspond to the length of the penis when it becomes erect; some smaller flaccid penises grow much longer, while some larger flaccid penises grow comparatively less.\nGenerally, the size of an erect penis is fixed throughout post-pubescent life. Its size may be increased by surgery, although penile enlargement is controversial, and a majority of men were \"not satisfied\" with the results, according to one study.\n\nIn regards to the average size of a human erect penis, a study of 15,521 men, and the best research to date on the topic, as the subjects were measured by health professionals, rather than self-measured, has concluded that the average length of an erect human penis is 13.12 cm (5.17 inches) long, while the average circumference of an erect human penis is 11.66 cm (4.59 inches).\n\nAlthough many erect penises point upwards, it is common and normal for the erect penis to point nearly vertically upwards or nearly vertically downwards or even horizontally straight forward, all depending on the tension of the suspensory ligament that holds it in position. An erect penis can also take on a number of different shapes, ranging from a straight tube to a tube with a curvature up or down or to the left or right. An increase in penile curvature can be caused by Peyronie's disease. This may cause physical and psychological effects for the affected individual, which could include erectile dysfunction or pain during an erection. Treatments include oral medication (such as colchicine) or surgery, which is most often reserved as a last resort.\n\nThe following table shows how common various erection angles are for a standing male. In the table, zero degrees (0°) is pointing straight up against the abdomen, 90 degrees is horizontal and pointing straight forward, while 180 degrees would be pointing straight down to the feet. An upward pointing angle is most common.\n\nErectile dysfunction (also known as ED or \"(male) impotence\") is a sexual dysfunction characterized by the inability to develop and/or maintain an erection. The study of erectile dysfunction within medicine is known as andrology, a sub-field within urology.\n\nErectile dysfunction occurs for a variety of reasons. Please see below and also refer to the separate entry on erectile dysfunction and the references therein. Ultimately, the cause for erectile dysfunction is that not enough Nitrous oxide (NO) is released by the vascular endothelium of the branches of the perineal artery, a branch of the internal pudendal artery. \nErectile dysfunction can occur due to both physiological and psychological reasons, most of which are amenable to treatment. Common physiological reasons include diabetes, kidney disease, chronic alcoholism, multiple sclerosis, atherosclerosis, vascular disease, and neurologic disease which collectively account for about 70 percent of ED cases. Some drugs used to treat other conditions, such as lithium and paroxetine, may cause erectile dysfunction.\n\nErectile dysfunction, tied closely as it is to cultural notions of potency, success and masculinity, can have devastating psychological consequences including feelings of shame, loss or inadequacy; There is a strong culture of silence and inability to discuss the matter. In fact, around one in ten men will experience recurring impotence problems at some point in their lives.\n\nPriapism is a painful condition in which the penis does not return to its flaccid state, despite the absence of both physical and psychological stimulation. Priapism lasting over four hours is a medical emergency.\n\nAt the time of penetration, the canine penis is not erect, and only able to penetrate the female because it includes a narrow bone called the baculum, a feature of most placental mammals. After the male achieves penetration, he will often hold the female tighter and thrust faster, and it is during this time that the male's penis expands. Unlike human sexual intercourse, where the male penis commonly becomes erect before entering the female, canine copulation involves the male first penetrating the female, after which swelling of the penis to erection occurs.\n\nAn elephant's penis is S-shaped when fully erect and has a Y-shaped orifice.\n\nGiven the small amount of erectile tissue in a bull's penis, there is little enlargement after erection. The penis is quite rigid when non-erect, and becomes even more rigid during erection. Protrusion is not affected much by erection, but more by relaxation of the retractor penis muscle and straightening of the sigmoid flexure.\n\nA male fossa's penis reaches to between his forelegs when erect.\n\nWhen not erect, a horse's penis is housed within the prepuce, long and in diameter with the distal end . The retractor muscle contracts to retract the penis into the sheath and relaxes to allow the penis to extend from the sheath. When erect, the penis doubles in length and thickness and the glans increases by 3 to . Erection and protrusion take place gradually, by the increasing tumescence of the erectile vascular tissue in the \"corpus cavernosum penis\". Most stallions achieve erection within 2 minutes of contact with an estrus mare, and mount the estrus mare 5–10 seconds afterward.\n\nA bird penis is different in structure from mammal penises, being an erectile expansion of the cloacal wall and being erected by lymph, not blood. The penis of the lake duck can reach about the same length as the animal himself when fully erect, but more commonly is about half the bird's length.\n\nClinically, erection is often known as \"penile erection\", and the state of being erect, and process of erection, are described as \"tumescence\" or \"penile tumescence\". The term for the subsiding or cessation of an erection is \"detumescence\".\n\nColloquially and in slang, erection is known by many informal terms. Commonly encountered English terms include 'stiffy', 'hard-on', 'boner' and 'woody'. There are several slang words, euphemisms and synonyoms for an erection in English and in other languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "842910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=842910", "title": "Ergosterol", "text": "Ergosterol\n\nErgosterol (ergosta-5,7,22-trien-3β-ol) is a sterol found in cell membranes of fungi and protozoa, serving many of the same functions that cholesterol serves in animal cells. Because many fungi and protozoa cannot survive without ergosterol, the enzymes that synthesize it have become important targets for drug discovery. Ergosterol is a provitamin form of vitamin D; exposure to ultraviolet (UV) light causes a chemical reaction that produces vitamin D.\n\nErgosterol (ergosta-5,7,22-trien-3β-ol) is a sterol found in fungi, and named for ergot, the common name of members of the fungal genus \"Claviceps\" from which ergosterol was first isolated. Ergosterol is a component of yeast and other fungal cell membranes, serving many of the same functions that cholesterol serves in animal cells.\nIts specificity in higher fungi is thought to be related to the climatic instabilities (highly varying humidity and moisture conditions) encountered by these organisms in their typical ecological niches (plant and animal surfaces, soil). Thus, despite the added energy requirements of ergosterol synthesis (if compared to cholesterol), ergosterol is thought to have evolved as a nearly ubiquitous, evolutionarily advantageous fungal alternative to cholesterol.\n\nBecause ergosterol is present in cell membranes of fungi, yet absent in those of animals, it is a useful target for antifungal drugs. Ergosterol is also present in the cell membranes of some protists, such as trypanosomes. This is the basis for the use of some antifungals against West African sleeping sickness.\n\nAmphotericin B, an antifungal drug, targets ergosterol. It binds physically to ergosterol within the membrane, thus creating a polar pore in fungal membranes. This causes ions (predominantly potassium and protons) and other molecules to leak out, which will kill the cell. Amphotericin B has been replaced by safer agents in most circumstances, but is still used, despite its side effects, for life-threatening fungal or protozoan infections.\n\nFluconazole, miconazole, itraconazole, and clotrimazole work in a different way, inhibiting synthesis of ergosterol from lanosterol by interfering with 14α-demethylase.. Ergosterol is a smaller molecule than lanosterol; it is synthesized by combining two molecules of farnesyl pyrophosphate, a 15-carbon-long terpenoid, into lanosterol, which has 30 carbons. Then, two methyl groups are removed, making ergosterol. The \"azole\" class of antifungal agents inhibit the enzyme that performs these demethylation steps in the biosynthetic pathway between lanosterol and ergosterol.\n\nSome protozoa, including \"Trichomonas\" and \"Leishmania\" are inhibited by drugs that target ergosterol synthesis and function\n\nErgosterol is a biological precursor of vitamin D, the chemical name of which is ergocalciferol. Exposure to ultraviolet light causes a photochemical reaction that converts ergosterol to ergocalciferol.\n\nThis happens naturally to a certain extent, and many mushrooms are irradiated after harvest to increase their Vitamin D content. Fungi are also grown industrially so that ergosterol can be extracted and converted to Vitamin D for sale as a dietary supplement and food additive.\n\nPreparations of irradiated ergosterol containing a mixture of previtamin and vitamin D were called Viosterol in the 1930s.\n\nErgosterol powder is an irritant to skin, eyes, and the respiratory tract. Ingestion of large amounts can cause hypercalcemia, which (if prolonged) can lead to calcium salt deposits in the soft tissues and, in particular, the kidneys.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44674023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44674023", "title": "Fitkid", "text": "Fitkid\n\nFitkid (also \"FitKid\", \"Fit Kid\" or \"Fit-Kid\") is a type of children's sport combining gymnastics, dance and acrobatics. It originated in Europe in the 1990s, and is meant to engage children 8–18 years of age in fun individual and group exercise, free of the extremes of more strenuous aerobics or traditional gymnastics. International competitions are organized regularly by the \"International FitKid Division\", in addition to national competitions. A routine stands of four types of elements: strength, flexibility, acrobatics, and jumps. All elements are graded by difficulty from A to H. A elements being worth 0.1 points, B 0.2, C 0.3, and so on until H which is worth 0.8. Routines get evaluated in three categories: technique, artistry, and content (execution of elements). Competition is divided by age groups (I. to IX. (or Senior in A category)), and categories ( which are based on knowledge). There three categories (from hardest to easiest) A, B, and C, also called Dance. In each categories there are group and individual routines. In C Category (here group routines are also called Dance Show) team member can go from 4 to 8. In A and B category there are duos, small groups (3-4), and big groups (5-6). In C category, individually 4 elements have to be performed ( one from each type), A or B difficulty, and in groups, two are optional. In B category individually 8 elements need to be performed ( two from each type) A-D difficulty ( but max. two elements can be D), and in groups 4 (same as C category individual). In A category team and individual, 8 elements need to be performed (same as B category) and an acrobatic connection is optional. Skills in A category can be any difficulty. \n\n"}
{"id": "58855557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58855557", "title": "Geography of disability", "text": "Geography of disability\n\nGeography of disability is a branch of Human Geography focusing on the disabled or impairs and their experience. Disability refers to individuals with physical and intellectual impairments. (Jacobson, 2013) The difference between the disability and impairment is that disability is the restriction of the ability caused by the actual decrement of functioning, aka impairment, of the individual. The Geography of disability studies the experience of disabled people and examines the relationship between the disability and space, ranging from the accessibility, mobility and the landscape, in terms of socio-economic, environmental and political perspectives. Hawkesworth, a scholar refers the Geography of disability as “a set of discursive and performative practice”, which intersects more with in the social and cultural aspects, instead of solely on the physical impairment.\n\nAccording to the World report on disability published by the World Health Organisation, around 15% of the world population, which is approximately 1.14billion people, lives with a disability, of whom 2-4% experience significant disability. In Europe and America, the disability ratio is one in five people.\n\nThere are some major factors that give rise to the risk of non-congenital disability, which are age, their living environment, their gender and the access to healthcare. The report had shown that there is a strong correlation between age and the risk of disability, the elder tends to have a higher risk of disability such as Alzheimer, cognitive impairment. There is a global correlation between the disability and poverty due to the short of resources and government investment to medical service, and lack of access to healthcare. Inadequate infrastructure and investment could worsen the condition. In Australia, a research on disability conducted by Australian Institute of Health and Welfare Canberra had demonstrated a strong correlation that the more economically disadvantaged area or community people living in, the higher probability of these people will suffer from disability problem or severe disability, justified by the social gradient of disability correlation coefficient. The likelihood of having severe disability of the population who live in the disadvantaged area in Sydney were 2.6% higher than the population who live in the most economically and socially advantaged area in Sydney This correlation could also be seen in the United State. In the US, according to the 2017 Disability Statistics Annual Report conducted by Institute on Disability/UCED of University of New Hampshire, the distribution of people with disabilities aged from 18-64 has concentrated in the Southeast United States, including Georgia Tennesse, Louisiana and Arkansas etc, which are also the most economically disadvantaged area among the state. For examples, in Memphis, Tennesse, a city with 26.2% poverty rate is also one of the cities with the densest disabled population, 12.6%-17.8% of its working population (aged from 18-64) live with disabilities. The figures also indicated that female is riskier of being disability than male regardless of their age. In Europe, according to the Eurostat, women are 3% more prone to suffering from a longstanding health problem, daily activity difficulties or both than men in Europe in 2011.\n\nGeography scholars had been recognizing the issues of disability since the 1930s. The study has then been extended to a range of socio-spatial processes relating to the issue arisen from disability, that interacts among power, space, and society. There were some analyses of disability within the socio-spatial perspectives, though these analyses tended to isolate from each other instead of integrating all ideas together as a critical discourse. It also changed the definition of disability from a medical point of view towards the socio-spatial determinants.\n\nImrie, explained the recent development in \"The Geographies of Disability\" as follows:\n\n“An opening observation is that what has emerged, since the mid 1990’s, has been a broadening of the substantive focus of studies of space and disability, beyond some of the earlier foci of health, cognition and behaviour, welfare, design, and architecture. In particular, the study of disability is evident in most parts of human geography, and not just confined to a specialist or sub-part of the discipline.\n\nHowever, up to the early 1990’s, the study of geography and disability had been the preserve of specific niche areas of research activity, with some scholars, like Park et al (1998), suggesting that human geography had rarely engaged with studies of 7 disability.’’\n\nThe narratives and discursive practices, suggested by Hawkesworth, is also emerged in the geography of disability studies. It has developed to the interrelationships between the body, the feeling of a place and disability, suggested by Imrie, which lead to a wider and deeper scope and the focus of the studies especially regarding to different age groups with different extent and types of disability, for examples, children with learning difficulties vs elderly people.\n\nThe disabled are often seen as the oppressive socialization of a given form of physiological difference, experiencing who suffer the common socially.\n\nThe medical model of refers Disability as the physical problem, the incapability of a disabled person to perform as ‘normal’ as a person that has no disability. Disability intrigues a further disclosure on easing the inconvenience and improving a disabled’s daily experience. For example, introducing advanced assistive devices or aids like mobile wheelchair for disabled individuals who live on their own. On the other hand,  the social model of disability evokes the idea of social integration through demonstrating the difficulties faced by the disabled in the wake of their physical or mental functioning decrement. The social model of disability encourages the mainstream social and cultural structure to accommodate the disabled individuals with more assistive infrastructure and social attitude.\n\nIn the Geography of disability, the research mainly focuses on discussing the relationships between the disabled, their basic human rights and the social development, as in the inclusion and the marginalization. This was one of the main study to research and approach the disabled’s need, address the problem without additional negative effects or embarrassment to the disabled pupils. Many of the disabilities do not have equal access to the resources aka the materiality or the basic human rights aka the non-materiality inequality as ‘the normal’ population, such as healthcare, education, and employment opportunities. . Their weak and limited physical ability led to higher and extreme level of difficulty to make earning and accumulate wealth by their own power as a non-disabled. This, as a result, make it more difficult for them to live out of poverty or economic disadvantage. What’s more, discrimination, inequality and social exclusion reflected from the ‘mainstream’ society and thus received by the disabled population in different areas creates a virus circle of the disabled experience. Children and teenagers who has learning difficulties is more likely to cause them a discrimination, getting rejected by the mainstream school. The young disabled population aged 15–24 are 10 times more prone to receiving discrimination than the elder disabled population aged 65 and over. And it seems to them doomed to be/ inevitably be socially marginalized and excluded.\n\nImrie(2007) further described in his article of how the geographical research methodology is carried out and work well for the social research on disabled people.\n\n“Hall and Kearns (2001: 243), for example, comment that ‘traditional’ research methods, such as questionnaires and interviews, ‘can fail to represent the geographical lives of intellectually disabled people’ (also, see Hall, 2004). Similarly, a project by Kitchin (2000), about the opinions of disabled people about social research, shows that most do not like the use of methods that fail to capture the complexities of disability. Such methods include pre-set questions that collect quantitative data and statistics. These observations suggest that the use of particular qualitative or interpretative methods are a preferred way of giving voice to disabled people’s experiences, and open up scope for inclusive research practices. In this respect, there have been some important methodological developments in geographical research that seek to articulate the different ways that disabled people know and experience the world.“\n\nA disabled person’s origin and living environment, including the mobility, accessibility, space, living condition, greatly determine and impact his daily experience, and even affect his physical and mental condition. Space, resources, and investment to be invested in the infrastructure needed by the disabled population are somehow considered to be ‘extra’, as the mainstream society has neglected, somehow judged and less inclined to put forward about it. One of the aim to be achieved through the geography studies of disability is to highlight the issue and problem the disabled population come across on daily basis so as to create a more including and less-tension society and community.\n\nThe concept of the Accessible tourism is one of the significant developments derived from the development of the geography of disability. The idea behind the accessible tourism is to strive for a basic human right for the disabled to participate in tourism, and to promote the best accessibility practices in tourism by engaging representatives of international tourism sector as well as the representatives of disabled individuals and also non-governmental parties to cooperate. In the wake of the development of disability researches, along with the awareness of the need of tourists, the concept and the idea of accessible tourism which aim to promote ‘tourism without barriers’ has gradually drawn people’s attention as well as the World Tourism Organisation’s publication. UNWTO has since published a range of information including Manuals on Accessible Tourism for tourism stakeholders to ensure the quality and quantity of the supply of good accessible tourism practises, and recommendations on Accessible Tourism for people with disabilities.\n\nThe research results of the geography of disability intrigue a further studies of universe design of space in relation to the mobility and accessibility, and the improvement of the assistive technologies to confront the barriers encountered by the disabled. The geographical model of disability was created during research of the geography of disability. According to Zajadacz, he stated that: “In recent years, geographers have made significant strides towards understanding the spatially of disability. This research has presented disability as a characteristic of the population that inevitably leads to marginalization and spatial exclusion from otherwise normal social arenas and spaces within the built environment. Geographers claimed that throughout the research on the geography of disability, they connected the cause of disability in terms of social and spatial environment and helped the promotion of more accommodating resolution which “provide access to sites and the full scope of life within society taking different degrees and types of disability into consideration.”\n\nGaining the idea of disability from the social model of disability and the geographical model of disability, the definition and the attitude towards Disability no longer limited only to the physical decrement of an individual, but evolve further to the consideration to disabled’s daily experience relating to social and spatial aspects.\n\nIn WHO’s report about the disabling barriers, it said:\n\n“Beliefs and prejudices constitute barriers to education, employment, health care, and social participation. For example, the attitudes of teachers, school administrators, other children, and even family members affect the inclusion of children with disabilities in mainstream schools. Misconceptions by employers that people with disabilities are less productive than their non-disabled counterparts, and ignorance about available adjustments to work arrangements limits employment opportunities.”\n\nIn Australia, The \"Disability Discrimination Act 1992(DDA)\" illegitimate any direct or indirect discriminating actions towards a person, either temporarily or permanently disabled, or with the future potential of being disabled, in areas including employment, education, access to services and public places and rights to purchase premises.\n\nBrendan Gleeson ( https://www.findanexpert.unimelb.edu.au/display/person28173 )\n\nDan Jacobson ( https://geog.ucalgary.ca/profiles/dan-jacobson)\n\nVera Chouinard ( https://www.science.mcmaster.ca/geo/component/comprofiler/userprofile/chouinar.html?Itemid=351 )\n"}
{"id": "697890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=697890", "title": "Gestational diabetes", "text": "Gestational diabetes\n\nGestational diabetes is a condition in which a woman without diabetes develops high blood sugar levels during pregnancy. Gestational diabetes generally results in few symptoms; however, it does increase the risk of pre-eclampsia, depression, and requiring a Caesarean section. Babies born to mothers with poorly treated gestational diabetes are at increased risk of being too large, having low blood sugar after birth, and jaundice. If untreated, it can also result in a stillbirth. Long term, children are at higher risk of being overweight and developing type 2 diabetes.\nGestational diabetes is caused by not enough insulin in the setting of insulin resistance. Risk factors include being overweight, previously having gestational diabetes, a family history of type 2 diabetes, and having polycystic ovarian syndrome. Diagnosis is by blood tests. For those at normal risk screening is recommended between 24 and 28 weeks' gestation. For those at high risk testing may occur at the first prenatal visit.\nPrevention is by maintaining a healthy weight and exercising before pregnancy. Gestational diabetes is treated with a diabetic diet, exercise, and possibly insulin injections. Most women are able to manage their blood sugar with a diet and exercise. Blood sugar testing among those who are affected is often recommended four times a day. Breastfeeding is recommended as soon as possible after birth.\nGestational diabetes affects 3–9% of pregnancies, depending on the population studied. It is especially common during the last three months of pregnancy. It affects 1% of those under the age of 20 and 13% of those over the age of 44. A number of ethnic groups including Asians, American Indians, Indigenous Australians, and Pacific Islanders are at higher risk. In 90% of people gestational diabetes will resolve after the baby is born. Women, however, are at an increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes.\n\nGestational diabetes is formally defined as \"any degree of glucose intolerance with onset or first recognition during pregnancy\". This definition acknowledges the possibility that a woman may have previously undiagnosed diabetes mellitus, or may have developed diabetes coincidentally with pregnancy. Whether symptoms subside after pregnancy is also irrelevant to the diagnosis.\nA woman is diagnosed with gestational diabetes when glucose intolerance continues beyond 24 to 28 weeks of gestation.\n\nThe White classification, named after Priscilla White, who pioneered research on the effect of diabetes types on perinatal outcome, is widely used to assess maternal and fetal risk. It distinguishes between gestational diabetes (type A) and pregestational diabetes (diabetes that existed prior to pregnancy). These two groups are further subdivided according to their associated risks and management.\n\nThe two subtypes of gestational diabetes under this classification system are: \n\nDiabetes which existed prior to pregnancy is also split up into several subtypes under this system:\n\n\nAn early age of onset or long-standing disease comes with greater risks, hence the first three subtypes.\n\nTwo other sets of criteria are available for diagnosis of gestational diabetes, both based on blood-sugar levels.\n\nCriteria for diagnosis of gestational diabetes, using the 100 gram Glucose Tolerance Test, according to Carpenter and Coustan:\n\n\nCriteria for diagnosis of gestational diabetes according to National Diabetes Data Group: \n\n\nClassical risk factors for developing gestational diabetes are:\n\nIn addition to this, statistics show a double risk of GDM in smokers. Polycystic ovarian syndrome is also a risk factor, although relevant evidence remains controversial. Some studies have looked at more controversial potential risk factors, such as short stature.\n\nAbout 40–60% of women with GDM have no demonstrable risk factor; for this reason many advocate to screen all women. Typically, women with GDM exhibit no symptoms (another reason for universal screening), but some women may demonstrate increased thirst, increased urination, fatigue, nausea and vomiting, bladder infection, yeast infections and blurred vision.\n\nThe precise mechanisms underlying gestational diabetes remain unknown. The hallmark of GDM is increased insulin resistance. Pregnancy hormones and other factors are thought to interfere with the action of insulin as it binds to the insulin receptor. The interference probably occurs at the level of the cell signaling pathway beyond the insulin receptor. Since insulin promotes the entry of glucose into most cells, insulin resistance prevents glucose from entering the cells properly. As a result, glucose remains in the bloodstream, where glucose levels rise. More insulin is needed to overcome this resistance; about 1.5–2.5 times more insulin is produced than in a normal pregnancy.\n\nInsulin resistance is a normal phenomenon emerging in the second trimester of pregnancy, which in cases of GDM progresses thereafter to levels seen in a non-pregnant person with type 2 diabetes. It is thought to secure glucose supply to the growing fetus. Women with GDM have an insulin resistance that they cannot compensate for with increased production in the β-cells of the pancreas. Placental hormones, and to a lesser extent increased fat deposits during pregnancy, seem to mediate insulin resistance during pregnancy. Cortisol and progesterone are the main culprits, but human placental lactogen, prolactin and estradiol contribute, too. Multivariate stepwise regression analysis reveals that, in combination with other placental hormones, leptin, tumor necrosis factor alpha, and resistin are involved in the decrease in insulin sensitivity occurring during pregnancy, with tumor necrosis factor alpha named as the strongest independent predictor of insulin sensitivity in pregnancy. An inverse correlation with the changes in insulin sensitivity from the time before conception through late gestation accounts for about half of the variance in the decrease in insulin sensitivity during gestation: in other words, low levels or alteration of TNF alpha factors corresponds with a greater chance of, or predisposition to, insulin resistance or sensitivity.\n\nIt is unclear why some women are unable to balance insulin needs and develop GDM; however, a number of explanations have been given, similar to those in type 2 diabetes: autoimmunity, single gene mutations, obesity, along with other mechanisms.\n\nThough the clinical presentation of gestational diabetes is well characterized, the biochemical mechanism behind the disease is not well known. One proposed biochemical mechanism involves insulin-producing β-cell adaptation controlled by the HGF/c-MET signaling pathway. β-cell adaption refers to the change that pancreatic islet cells undergo during pregnancy in response to maternal hormones in order to compensate for the increased physiological needs of mother and baby. These changes in the β-cells cause increased insulin secretion as a result of increased β-cell proliferation.\nHGF/c-MET has also been implicated in β-cell regeneration, which suggests that HGF/c-MET may help increase β-cell mass in order to compensate for insulin needs during pregnancy. Recent studies support that loss of HGF/c-MET signaling results in aberrant β-cell adaptation.\n\nc-MET is a receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) that is activated by its ligand, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), and is involved in the activation of several cellular processes. When HGF binds c-MET, the receptor homodimerizes and self-phosphorylates to form an SH2 recognition domain. The downstream pathways activated include common signaling molecules such as RAS and MAPK, which affect cell motility, cell motility, and cell cycle progression.\n\nStudies have shown that HGF is an important signaling molecule in stress related situations where more insulin is needed. Pregnancy causes increased insulin resistance and so a higher insulin demand. The β-cells must compensate for this by either increasing insulin production or proliferating. If neither of the processes occur, then markers for gestational diabetes are observed. It has been observed that pregnancy increases HGF levels, showing a correlation that suggests a connection between the signaling pathway and increased insulin needs. In fact, when no signaling is present, gestational diabetes is more likely to occur.\n\nThe exact mechanism of HGF/c-MET regulated β-cell adaptation is not yet known but there are several hypotheses about how the signaling molecules contribute to insulin levels during pregnancy. c-MET may interact with FoxM1, a molecule important in the cell cycle, as FOXM1 levels decrease when c-MET is not present. Additionally, c-MET may interact with p27 as the protein levels increase with c-MET is not present. Another hypothesis says that c-MET may control β-cell apoptosis because a lack of c-MET causes increases cell death but the signaling mechanisms have not been elucidated.\n\nAlthough the mechanism of HGF/c-MET control of gestational diabetes is not yet well understood, there is a strong correlation between the signaling pathway and the inability to produce an adequate amount of insulin during pregnancy and thus it may be the target for future diabetic therapies.\n\nBecause glucose travels across the placenta (through diffusion facilitated by GLUT1 carrier), which is located in the syncytiotrophoblast on both the microvillus and basal membranes, these membranes may be the rate-limiting step in placental glucose transport. There is a two- to three-fold increase in the expression of syncytiotrophoblast glucose transporters with advancing gestation. Finally, the role of GLUT3/GLUT4 transport remains speculative. If the untreated gestational diabetes fetus is exposed to consistently higher glucose levels, this leads to increased fetal levels of insulin (insulin itself cannot cross the placenta). The growth-stimulating effects of insulin can lead to excessive growth and a large body (macrosomia). After birth, the high glucose environment disappears, leaving these newborns with ongoing high insulin production and susceptibility to low blood glucose levels (hypoglycemia).\n\nA number of screening and diagnostic tests have been used to look for high levels of glucose in plasma or serum in defined circumstances. One method is a stepwise approach where a suspicious result on a screening test is followed by diagnostic test. Alternatively, a more involved diagnostic test can be used directly at the first prenatal visit for a woman with a high-risk pregnancy. (for example in those with polycystic ovarian syndrome or acanthosis nigricans).\n\nNon-challenge blood glucose tests involve measuring glucose levels in blood samples without challenging the subject with glucose solutions. A blood glucose level is determined when fasting, 2 hours after a meal, or simply at any random time. In contrast, challenge tests involve drinking a glucose solution and measuring glucose concentration thereafter in the blood; in diabetes, they tend to remain high. The glucose solution has a very sweet taste which some women find unpleasant; sometimes, therefore, artificial flavours are added. Some women may experience nausea during the test, and more so with higher glucose levels.\n\nThere is currently not enough research to show which way is best at diagnosing gestational diabetes. Routine screening of women with a glucose challenge test appears to find more women with gestational diabetes than only screening women with risk factors. It is not clear how these screening tests affect the rest of the pregnancy. Future research should include how the method of screening impacts the mother and baby.\n\nOpinions differ about optimal screening and diagnostic measures, in part due to differences in population risks, cost-effectiveness considerations, and lack of an evidence base to support large national screening programs. The most elaborate regimen entails a random blood glucose test during a booking visit, a screening glucose challenge test around 24–28 weeks' gestation, followed by an OGTT if the tests are outside normal limits. If there is a high suspicion, a woman may be tested earlier.\n\nIn the United States, most obstetricians prefer universal screening with a screening glucose challenge test. In the United Kingdom, obstetric units often rely on risk factors and a random blood glucose test. The American Diabetes Association and the Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada recommend routine screening unless the woman is low risk (this means the woman must be younger than 25 years and have a body mass index less than 27, with no personal, ethnic or family risk factors) The Canadian Diabetes Association and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists recommend universal screening. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force found there is insufficient evidence to recommend for or against routine screening, and a 2017 a Cochrane review found that there is not evidence to determine which screening method is best for women and their babies.\n\nSome pregnant women and careproviders choose to forgo routine screening due to the absence of risk factors, however this is not advised due to the large proportion of women who develop gestational diabetes despite having no risk factors present and the dangers to the mother and baby if gestational diabetes remains untreated.\n\nWhen a plasma glucose level is found to be higher than 126 mg/dl (7.0 mmol/l) after fasting, or over 200 mg/dl (11.1 mmol/l) on any occasion, and if this is confirmed on a subsequent day, the diagnosis of GDM is made, and no further testing is required. These tests are typically performed at the first antenatal visit. They are simple to administer and inexpensive, but have a lower test performance compared to the other tests, with moderate sensitivity, low specificity and high false positive rates.\n\nThe screening glucose challenge test (sometimes called the O'Sullivan test) is performed between 24–28 weeks, and can be seen as a simplified version of the oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). No previous fasting is required for this screening test, in contrast to the OGTT. The O'Sullivan test involves drinking a solution containing 50 grams of glucose, and measuring blood levels 1 hour later.\n\nIf the cut-off point is set at 140 mg/dl (7.8 mmol/l), 80% of women with GDM will be detected. If this threshold for further testing is lowered to 130 mg/dl, 90% of GDM cases will be detected, but there will also be more women who will be subjected to a consequent OGTT unnecessarily.\n\nA standardized oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) should be done in the morning after an overnight fast of between 8 and 14 hours. During the three previous days the subject must have an unrestricted diet (containing at least 150 g carbohydrate per day) and unlimited physical activity. The subject should remain seated during the test and should not smoke throughout the test.\n\nThe test involves drinking a solution containing a certain amount of glucose, usually 75 g or 100 g, and drawing blood to measure glucose levels at the start and on set time intervals thereafter.\n\nThe diagnostic criteria from the National Diabetes Data Group (NDDG) have been used most often, but some centers rely on the Carpenter and Coustan criteria, which set the cutoff for normal at lower values. Compared with the NDDG criteria, the Carpenter and Coustan criteria lead to a diagnosis of gestational diabetes in 54 percent more pregnant women, with an increased cost and no compelling evidence of improved perinatal outcomes.\n\nThe following are the values which the American Diabetes Association considers to be abnormal during the 100 g of glucose OGTT:\n\n\nAn alternative test uses a 75 g glucose load and measures the blood glucose levels before and after 1 and 2 hours, using the same reference values. This test will identify fewer women who are at risk, and there is only a weak concordance (agreement rate) between this test and a 3-hour 100 g test.\n\nThe glucose values used to detect gestational diabetes were first determined by O'Sullivan and Mahan (1964) in a retrospective cohort study (using a 100 grams of glucose OGTT) designed to detect risk of developing type 2 diabetes in the future. The values were set using whole blood and required two values reaching or exceeding the value to be positive. Subsequent information led to alterations in O'Sullivan's criteria. When methods for blood glucose determination changed from the use of whole blood to venous plasma samples, the criteria for GDM were also changed.\n\nWomen with GDM may have high glucose levels in their urine (glucosuria). Although dipstick testing is widely practiced, it performs poorly, and discontinuing routine dipstick testing has not been shown to cause underdiagnosis where universal screening is performed. Increased glomerular filtration rates during pregnancy contribute to some 50% of women having glucose in their urine on dipstick tests at some point during their pregnancy. The sensitivity of glucosuria for GDM in the first 2 trimesters is only around 10% and the positive predictive value is around 20%.\n\nA 2015 review found that when done during pregnancy moderate physical exercise is effective for the prevention of gestational diabetes. A 2014 review however did not find a significant effect.\n\nDiet and physical activity interventions designed to prevent excessive gestational weight gain reduce the rates of gestational diabetes. However, the impact of these interventions varies with the body-mass index of the person as well as with the region in which the studies were performed.\n\nIt has been suggested that for women who have had gestational diabetes, support between pregnancies may lower their chances of having gestational diabetes again in future pregnancies. This support might include diet and exercise, education, and lifestyle advice. However, there is no research to show whether interventions between pregnancies lower the number of women who develop gestational diabetes again.\n\nTheoretically, smoking cessation may decrease the risk of gestational diabetes among smokers.\n\nTreatment of GDM with diet and insulin reduces health problems mother and child. Treatment of GDM is also accompanied by more inductions of labour.\n\nA repeat OGTT should be carried out 6 weeks after delivery, to confirm the diabetes has disappeared. Afterwards, regular screening for type 2 diabetes is advised.\n\nLifestyle interventions include exercise, diet advice, behavioural interventions, relaxation, self-monitoring glucose, and combined interventions. Women with gestational diabetes who receive lifestyle interventions seem to have less postpartum depression, and were more likely to reach their weight loss targets after giving birth, than women who had no intervention. Their babies are also less likely to be large for their gestational age, and have less percentage of fat when they are born. More research is needed to find out which lifestyle interventions are best.\n\nIf a diabetic diet or G.I. Diet, exercise, and oral medication are inadequate to control glucose levels, insulin therapy may become necessary.\n\nThe development of macrosomia can be evaluated during pregnancy by using sonography. Women who use insulin, with a history of stillbirth, or with hypertension are managed like women with overt diabetes.\n\nCounselling before pregnancy (for example, about preventive folic acid supplements) and multidisciplinary management are important for good pregnancy outcomes. Most women can manage their GDM with dietary changes and exercise. Self monitoring of blood glucose levels can guide therapy. Some women will need antidiabetic drugs, most commonly insulin therapy. \n\nAny diet needs to provide sufficient calories for pregnancy, typically 2,000 – 2,500 kcal with the exclusion of simple carbohydrates. The main goal of dietary modifications is to avoid peaks in blood sugar levels. This can be done by spreading carbohydrate intake over meals and snacks throughout the day, and using slow-release carbohydrate sources—known as the G.I. Diet. Since insulin resistance is highest in mornings, breakfast carbohydrates need to be restricted more. Ingesting more fiber in foods with whole grains, or fruit and vegetables can also reduce the risk of gestational diabetes. There is not enough evidence to indicate if one type of dietary advice is better than another.\n\nRegular moderately intense physical exercise is advised, although there is no consensus on the specific structure of exercise programs for GDM. Pregnant women who exercise have lower blood sugar levels when fasting and after meals compared to those who do not exercise. It is not clear which form of exercise is best when pregnant.\n\nSelf monitoring can be accomplished using a handheld capillary glucose dosage system. Compliance with these glucometer systems can be low. There is not a lot of research into what target blood sugar levels should be for women with gestational diabetes and targets recommended to women vary around the world. Target ranges advised by the Australasian Diabetes in Pregnancy Society are as follows:\nRegular blood samples can be used to determine HbA1c levels, which give an idea of glucose control over a longer time period.\n\nResearch suggests a possible benefit of breastfeeding to reduce the risk of diabetes and related risks for both mother and child.\n\nIf monitoring reveals failing control of glucose levels with these measures, or if there is evidence of complications like excessive fetal growth, treatment with insulin might be necessary. This is most commonly fast-acting insulin given just before eating to blunt glucose rises after meals. Care needs to be taken to avoid low blood sugar levels due to excessive insulin. Insulin therapy can be normal or very tight; more injections can result in better control but requires more effort, and there is no consensus that it has large benefits. A 2016 Cochrane review concluded that quality evidence is not yet available to determine the best blood sugar range for improving health for pregnant women with GDM and their babies.\n\nThere is some evidence that certain medications by mouth might be safe in pregnancy, or at least, are less dangerous to the developing fetus than poorly controlled diabetes. When comparing which diabetes tablets (medication by mouth) work best and are safest, there is not enough quality research to support one medication over another. The medication metformin is better than glyburide. If blood glucose cannot be adequately controlled with a single agent, the combination of metformin and insulin may be better than insulin alone. Another review found good short term safety for both the mother and baby with metformin but unclear long term safety.\n\nPeople may prefer metformin by mouth to insulin injections. Treatment of polycystic ovarian syndrome with metformin during pregnancy has been noted to decrease GDM levels.\n\nAlmost half of the women did not reach sufficient control with metformin alone and needed supplemental therapy with insulin; compared to those treated with insulin alone, they required less insulin, and they gained less weight. With no long-term studies into children of women treated with the drug, there remains a possibility of long-term complications from metformin therapy. Babies born to women treated with metformin have been found to develop less visceral fat, making them less prone to insulin resistance in later life.\n\nGestational diabetes generally resolves once the baby is born. Based on different studies, the chances of developing GDM in a second pregnancy, if a woman had GDM in her first pregnancy, are between 30 and 84%, depending on ethnic background. A second pregnancy within 1 year of the previous pregnancy has a large likelihood of GDM recurrence.\n\nWomen diagnosed with gestational diabetes have an increased risk of developing diabetes mellitus in the future. The risk is highest in women who needed insulin treatment, had antibodies associated with diabetes (such as antibodies against glutamate decarboxylase, islet cell antibodies and/or insulinoma antigen-2), women with more than two previous pregnancies, and women who were obese (in order of importance). Women requiring insulin to manage gestational diabetes have a 50% risk of developing diabetes within the next five years. Depending on the population studied, the diagnostic criteria and the length of follow-up, the risk can vary enormously. The risk appears to be highest in the first 5 years, reaching a plateau thereafter. One of the longest studies followed a group of women from Boston, Massachusetts; half of them developed diabetes after 6 years, and more than 70% had diabetes after 28 years. In a retrospective study in Navajo women, the risk of diabetes after GDM was estimated to be 50 to 70% after 11 years. Another study found a risk of diabetes after GDM of more than 25% after 15 years. In populations with a low risk for type 2 diabetes, in lean subjects and in women with auto-antibodies, there is a higher rate of women developing type 1 diabetes (LADA).\n\nChildren of women with GDM have an increased risk for childhood and adult obesity and an increased risk of glucose intolerance and type 2 diabetes later in life. This risk relates to increased maternal glucose values. It is currently unclear how much genetic susceptibility and environmental factors contribute to this risk, and whether treatment of GDM can influence this outcome.\n\nRelative benefits and harms of different oral anti-diabetic medications are not yet well understood as of 2017.\n\nThere are scarce statistical data on the risk of other conditions in women with GDM; in the Jerusalem Perinatal study, 410 out of 37962 women were reported to have GDM, and there was a tendency towards more breast and pancreatic cancer, but more research is needed to confirm this finding.\n\nGDM poses a risk to mother and child. This risk is largely related to uncontrolled high blood glucose levels and its consequences. The risk increases with higher blood glucose levels. Treatment resulting in better control of these levels can reduce some of the risks of GDM considerably.\n\nThe two main risks GDM imposes on the baby are growth abnormalities and chemical imbalances after birth, which may require admission to a neonatal intensive care unit. Infants born to mothers with GDM are at risk of being both large for gestational age (macrosomic) in unmanaged GDM, and small for gestational age and Intrauterine growth retardation in managed GDM. Macrosomia in turn increases the risk of instrumental deliveries (e.g. forceps, ventouse and caesarean section) or problems during vaginal delivery (such as shoulder dystocia). Macrosomia may affect 12% of normal women compared to 20% of women with GDM. However, the evidence for each of these complications is not equally strong; in the Hyperglycemia and Adverse Pregnancy Outcome (HAPO) study for example, there was an increased risk for babies to be large but not small for gestational age in women with uncontrolled GDM. Research into complications for GDM is difficult because of the many confounding factors (such as obesity). Labelling a woman as having GDM may in itself increase the risk of having an unnecessary caesarean section.\n\nNeonates born from women with consistently high blood sugar levels are also at an increased risk of low blood glucose (hypoglycemia), jaundice, high red blood cell mass (polycythemia) and low blood calcium (hypocalcemia) and magnesium (hypomagnesemia). Untreated GDM also interferes with maturation, causing dysmature babies prone to respiratory distress syndrome due to incomplete lung maturation and impaired surfactant synthesis.\n\nUnlike pre-gestational diabetes, gestational diabetes has not been clearly shown to be an independent risk factor for birth defects. Birth defects usually originate sometime during the first trimester (before the 13th week) of pregnancy, whereas GDM gradually develops and is least pronounced during the first and early second trimester. Studies have shown that the offspring of women with GDM are at a higher risk for congenital malformations. A large case-control study found that gestational diabetes was linked with a limited group of birth defects, and that this association was generally limited to women with a higher body mass index (≥ 25 kg/m²). It is difficult to make sure that this is not partially due to the inclusion of women with pre-existent type 2 diabetes who were not diagnosed before pregnancy.\n\nBecause of conflicting studies, it is unclear at the moment whether women with GDM have a higher risk of preeclampsia. In the HAPO study, the risk of preeclampsia was between 13% and 37% higher, although not all possible confounding factors were corrected.\n\nGestational diabetes affects 3–10% of pregnancies, depending on the population studied.\n\n"}
{"id": "26082350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26082350", "title": "Global Health Initiatives", "text": "Global Health Initiatives\n\nGlobal Health Initiatives (GHIs) are humanitarian initiatives that raise and disburse additional funds for infectious diseases– such as AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria– for immunization and for strengthening health systems in developing countries. GHIs classify a type of global initiative, which is defined as an organized effort integrating the involvement of organizations, individuals, and stakeholders around the world to address a global issue (i.e.: climate change, human rights, etc.).\n\nExamples of GHIs are the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (Global Fund), and the World Bank's Multi-country AIDS Programme (MAP), all of which focus on HIV/AIDS. The Gavi (formerly the GAVI Alliance) focuses on immunization, particularly with respect to child survival.\n\nIn terms of their institutional structure, GHIs have little in common with each other. In terms of their function – specifically their ability to raise and disburse funds, provide resources and coordinate and/or implement disease control in multiple countries – GHIs share some common ground, even if the mechanisms through which each of these functions is performed are different.\n\nPEPFAR - an initiative established in 2003 by the Bush Administration - and PEPFAR II (PEPFAR’s successor in 2009 under the Obama Administration) are bilateral agreements between the United States and a recipient of its development aid for HIV/AIDS – typically an international non-government organisation INGO or a recipient country’s government. The Global Fund, established in 2002, and the GAVI Alliance, launched in 2000, are public-private partnerships that raise and disburse funds to treat AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, and for immunization and vaccines. The World Bank is an International financial institution. It is the largest funder of HIV/AIDS within the United Nations system and has a portfolio of HIV/AIDS programmes dating back to 1989. In 2000, the Bank launched the first phase of its response to HIV/AIDS in Sub-Saharan Africa – the Multi-Country AIDS Program (MAP). This came to an end in 2006 when a second phase – Agenda for Action 2007-11 – came into effect.\n\nTracking funding from GHIs poses challenges. However, it is possible to determine the amounts of funding GHIs commit and disburse from sources such as the OECD CRS online database, as well as data provided by individual GHIs (Figure 1).\n\nSince 1989, the World Bank has committed approximately US$4.2bn in loans and credits for programs, and has disbursed US$3.1bn. Of this total, the Bank's MAP has committed US$1.9bn since 2000. Through bilateral contributions to HIV/AIDS and Tuberculosis programmes and donations to the Global Fund, PEPFAR has donated approximately US$25.6bn since 2003. In July 2008, the U.S Senate re-authorised a further US$48 bn over five years for PEPFAR II, of which US$6.7bn has been requested for FY 2010. During the period 2001-2010, donors have pledged US$21.1bn to the Global Fund, of which US$15.8bn has been paid by donors to the Fund. Gavi has approved US$3.7bn for the period 2000-2015\n\nThe amount of political priority given to Global Health Initiatives varies between national and international governing powers. Though evidence shows that there exists an inequity between resource allocation for initiatives concerning issues such as child immunization, HIV/AIDS, and family planning in comparison to initiatives for high-burden disorders such as malnutrition and pneumonia, the source of this variance is unknown due to lack of systematic research pertaining to this subject. Global political priority is defined as the extent to which national and international political leaders address an issue of international concern through support in the forms of human capital, technology, and/or finances in order to aid efforts to resolve the problem. Global political priority is demonstrated through national and international leaders expressing sustained concern both privately and publicly, political systems and organizations enacting policies to help alleviate the issue, and national and international agencies providing resource levels that reflect the severity of the given crisis.\n\nThe amount of attention a given global initiative receives is considerably dependent on the power and authority of actors connected to the issue, the power and impact of ideas defining and describing the issue, the power of political contexts framing the environments in which the actors operate to address the issue, as well as the weight and power of issue characteristics indicating the severity of the issue (i.e.: statistical indicators, severity metrics, efficacy of proposed interventions, etc.). Factors including objective measurability, scalability of the issue and proposed interventions, ability to track and monitor progress, risk of perceived harm, as well as simplicity and affordability of proposed solutions all contribute to the degree to which a given global initiative is likely to receive political attention.\n\nHowever, case studies have shown that the likelihood of global initiatives garnering public and political attention is not limited to the aforementioned factors. For example, initiatives concerning polio eradication continue to receive substantial resources in spite of the relatively small global burden of disease as compared to chronic diseases such as cancer, cardiovascular disorders, diabetes, and some communicable diseases such as pneumonia which comparatively attract fewer worldwide resources irrespective of the high morbidity and mortality rates associated with such diseases. These cases highlight the need for extensive research methods and evaluative measures to assess the relative causal weights of factors used to determine how global political priority is attributed to global health initiatives. Existing debates also attribute factors such as the increasing influences of economic globalization, international organizations, and economic actors with little to no previous health remit as each contributing to the evolution of global health governance.\n\nThere is much discussion about the extent to which the volume of these additional funds creates multiple effects that positively and/or negatively impact both health systems and health outcomes for specific diseases. Assessing the direct impact of GHIs on specific diseases and health systems poses challenges pertaining to the issue of attributing particular effects to individual GHIs. As such, a common response in evaluations of GHIs is to acknowledge the inherent limitations of establishing causal chains in what is a highly complex public health environment, and to base conclusions on adequacy statements resulting from trends that demonstrate substantial growth in process and impact indicators.\n\nHowever, existing literature argues that this approach towards evaluating GHIs can inadvertently result in overlooking the impact of social determinants on a disease, as implementers and evaluators are less likely to tackle the complexity of a disease within the larger social, political, cultural, and environmental system. Even if a GHI is effectively evaluated– perhaps showing a decrease in disease prevalence– the challenge remains of comprehensively analyzing the long-term impacts of the GHI by addressing the root social, political, or environmental causes of the disease. Accordingly, existing debates suggest that GHIs should be less concerned with the eradication of specific diseases, and should instead focus primarily on factors– such as basic living conditions, sanitation, and access to nutritious food– that are essential to delivering a sustainable heath program.\n\nA small number of institutions have shaped, and continue to shape, research on GHIs. In 2003, researchers at Abt Associates devised an influential framework for understanding the system-wide effects of the Global fund which has informed much subsequent research, including their own studies of system-wide effects of the Global Fund in Benin, Ethiopia, Georgia and Malawi - often referred to as the 'SWEF' studies.\n\nAbt continues to support ongoing research on the effects of GHIs in multiple countries. The Washington-based Center for Global Development has also been very active in its analysis of GHIs, particularly PEPFAR financing. The Center's HIV/AIDS Monitor is essential reading for researchers of GHIs. With hubs in London and Dublin, the Global Health Initiatives Network (GHIN) has been coordinating and supporting research in 22 countries on the effects of GHIs on existing health systems.\n\nKnowledge of the effects of GHIs on specific diseases and on health systems comes from multiple sources.Longitudinal studies enable researchers to establish baseline data and then track and compare GHI effects on disease control or country health systems over time. In addition to Abt Associates' SWEF studies, additional early examples of this type of analysis were three-year, multi-country studies of the Global Fund in Mozambique, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia. In 2009, research findings were published from tracking studies in Kyrgyzstan, Peru and Ukraine that sought to identify the health effects of the Global Fund at national and sub-national levels.\n\nIn contrast to longitudinal studies, multi-country analyses of GHIs can provide a ‘snapshot’ of GHI effects but are often constrained by “aggressive timelines”. The Maximising Positive Synergies Academic Consortium, for example, reported in 2009 on the effects of the Global Fund and PEPFAR on disease control and health systems, drawing on data from 20 countries. Most GHI evaluations – both internally and externally commissioned – rely on this type of short-term analysis and, inevitably, there is often a trade-off between depth and breadth of reporting.\n\nSynthesis of data from multiple sources is an invaluable resource for making sense of the effects of GHIs. Early synthesis studies include a 2004 synthesis of findings on the effects of the Global Fund in four countries by researchers at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (LSHTM), a 2005 study by McKinsey & Company and an assessment of the comparative advantages of the Global Fund and World Bank AIDS programs.\n\nTwo wide-ranging studies were published in 2009: a study of interactions between GHIs and country health systems commissioned by the World Health Organisation and a study by researchers from LSHTM and the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland. The latter study - The effects of global health initiatives on country health systems: a review of the evidence from HIV/AIDS control – reviewed the literature on the effects of the Global fund, the World Bank MAP and PEPFAR on country health systems with respect to: 1) national policy; 2) coordination and planning; 3) stakeholder involvement; 4) disbursement, absorptive capacity and management; 5) monitoring & evaluation; and 6) human resources (Table 2).\n\nIn a comparison between the three largest donors in sponsoring efforts to win the fight against AIDS in Africa, a research study found that PEPFAR performs best in money transfer and data collection; the Global Fund outperforms in tailoring programmatic initiatives and sharing data; and MAP performs highest in collaborating with government systems, strengthening health systems, and helping to build the capacity of local recipients. Each of the four GHIs summarized has been evaluated at least once since 2005 and all four produce their own annual reports.\n\nThe primary purpose of the MAP initiative was to introduce a major upscaling of multi-sectoral approach to responding to the HIV/AIDS crisis in Sub-Saharan Africa by involving a multitude of stakeholders including community-based organizations (CBOs), non-governmental organizations (NGOs), line ministries, and state governments at the highest levels.\n\nA comprehensive study of MAP programs published in 2007 reviewed whether MAP was implemented as designed, but did not evaluate MAP or assess its impact. In addition, there have been two evaluations that provide important additional insight into the effectiveness of the Bank's HIV/AIDS programmes (though not specifically MAP focused). In 2005, the Bank conducted an internal evaluation - Committing to Results: Improving the Effectiveness of HIV/AIDS Assistance - which found that National AIDS strategies were not always prioritised or costed.\n\nSupervision, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E), were weak; civil society had not been engaged; political commitment and capacity had been overestimated, and mechanisms for political mobilisation were weak; and bank research and analysis, whilst perceived to be useful, was not reaching policy makers in Africa. In 2009, a hard-hitting evaluation of the Bank’s Health, Nutrition and Population support – Improving Effectiveness of Outcomes for the Poor in Health, Nutrition and Population – found that a third of the Bank’s HNP lending had not performed well, and that while the performance of the Bank’s International Finance Corporation investments had improved, accountability was weak.\n\nUnlike many implementing agencies, the Global Fund has no presence in the countries it supports; rather it is a financial mechanism which provides funding to countries in the form of grants through a Secretariat in Geneva on the competitive basis of country proposals. Special emphasis is placed on proposals demonstrating country ownership as well as those that meet other evidence-based, performance-based, and inclusivity-based criteria.\n\nA five-year, comprehensive evaluation of the Global Fund published a synthesis report in 2009 of findings from three Study areas. The Fund’s Technical Evaluation Research Group (TERG) Five Year Evaluation (5YE) of the Global Fund drew on data from 24 countries to evaluate the Fund’s organisational effectiveness and efficiency, partnership environment and impact on AIDS, TB and Malaria. The Evaluation highlighted the possible decline in HIV incidence rate in some countries, and rapid scale up of funding for HIV/AIDS, access and coverage, but also identified major gaps in support for national health information systems, and poor drug availability.\n\nThough GHIs have been instrumental in bringing national and international attention to crucial global health issues, existing debates suggest that they can also negatively impact country health systems. As such, disease-specific GHIs such as GAVI have worked to integrate health system strengthening (HSS) measures into programmatic implementation. However, the existing global debate questions the efficacy of HSS programs aimed at targeting technical solutions with clear measurable outcomes versus those more broadly focused on supporting holistic health systems.\n\nIn 2008, an evaluation of GAVI’s vaccine and immunization support - Evaluation of the GAVI Phase 1 performance - reported increased coverage of HepB3, Hib3 and DTP3 and increased coverage in rural areas but also a lack of cost data disaggregated by vaccine that prevented GAVI from accurately evaluating the cost effectiveness of its programs and vaccines, and an “unrealistic” reliance by GAVI on the market to reduce the cost of vaccines. The same year, a study of the financial sustainability of GAVI vaccine support - Introducing New Vaccines in the Poorest Countries: What did we learn from the GAVI Experience with - found that although GAVI funding equated to $5 per infant in developing countries per year for the period 2005-10, resource need was accelerating faster than growth in financing.\n\nFindings from two evaluations of GAVI’s support for health systems strengthening (HSS) were published in 2009. An external evaluation by HLSP found insufficient technical support provided to countries applying for GAVI grants, an under-performing Independent Review Committee (IRC), and weaknesses in GAVI’s monitoring of grant activities. The study also found that countries were using GAVI grants for ‘downstream’ short-term HSS fixes rather than ‘upstream’ and long-term structural reform.\nA study by John Snow, Inc praised the multi-year, flexible and country-driven characteristics of GAVI HSS grant funding and encouraged GAVI to continue this support. But also found weak M&E of grant activity, low Civil Society involvement in the HSS proposal development process, unclear proposal writing guidelines, and over-reliance by countries on established development partners for assistance in implementing health system reform.\n\nA quantitative study by Stanford University in 2009 – The President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief in Africa: An Evaluation of Outcomes – calculated a 10.5% reduction in the death rate in PEPFAR’s 12 focus countries, equating to 1.2 million lives saved at a cost of $2450 per death averted. In 2007, an evaluation of PEPFAR by the Institute of Medicine found that PEPFAR had made significant progress in reaching its targets for prevention, treatment and care but also reported that budget allocations \"limit the Country Teams ability to harmonize PEPFARs activities with those of the partner government and other donors\", and PEPFARs ABC (Abstinence, Be faithful, and correct and consistent Condom use) priorities \"fragment the natural continuum of needs and services, often in ways that do not correspond with global standards\".\n\nThe PEPFAR program has brought about substantial impact in its recipient countries. The level of urgency and scale of initiatives led through the PEPFAR program were commensurate with that of the HIV/AIDS epidemic at the time of implementation. Existing debates suggest that the next phase of the program consider placing emphasis on the development of knowledge surrounding HIV/AIDS programming.\n\n"}
{"id": "12950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12950", "title": "Glucose", "text": "Glucose\n\nGlucose (also called dextrose) is a simple sugar with the molecular formula . Glucose is the most abundant monosaccharide, a subcategory of carbohydrates. Glucose is mainly made by plants and most algae during photosynthesis from water and carbon dioxide, using energy from sunlight. There it is used to make cellulose in cell walls, which is the most abundant carbohydrate. In energy metabolism, glucose is the most important source of energy in all organisms. Glucose for metabolism is partially stored as a polymer, in plants mainly as starch and amylopectin and in animals as glycogen. Glucose circulates in the blood of animals as blood sugar. The naturally occurring form of glucose is D-glucose, while L-glucose is produced synthetically in comparably small amounts and is of lesser importance.\n\nGlucose is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most important medications needed in a basic health system. The name glucose derives through the French from the Greek γλυκός, which means \"sweet,\" in reference to must, the sweet, first press of grapes in the making of wine. The suffix \"-ose\" is a chemical classifier, denoting a sugar.\n\nGlucose was first isolated from raisins in 1747 by the German chemist Andreas Marggraf. Glucose was discovered in grapes by Johann Tobias Lowitz in 1792 and recognized as different from cane sugar (sucrose). Glucose is the term coined by Jean Baptiste Dumas in 1838, which has prevailed in the chemical literature. Friedrich August Kekulé proposed the term dextrose (from Latin dexter = right), because in aqueous solution of glucose, the plane of linearly polarized light is turned to the right. In contrast, D-fructose (a ketohexose) and L-glucose turn linearly polarized light to the left. The earlier notation according to the rotation of the plane of linearly polarized light (\"d\" and \"l\"-nomenclature) was later abandoned in favor of the D- and L-notation, which refers to the absolute configuration of the asymmetric center farthest from the carbonyl group, and in concordance with the configuration of D- or L-glyceraldehyde.\n\nSince glucose is a basic necessity of many organisms, a correct understanding of its chemical makeup and structure contributed greatly to a general advancement in organic chemistry. This understanding occurred largely as a result of the investigations of Emil Fischer, a German chemist who received the 1902 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his findings. The synthesis of glucose established the structure of organic material and consequently formed the first definitive validation of Jacobus Henricus van 't Hoff's theories of chemical kinetics and the arrangements of chemical bonds in carbon-bearing molecules. Between 1891 and 1894, Fischer established the stereochemical configuration of all the known sugars and correctly predicted the possible isomers, applying van 't Hoff's theory of asymmetrical carbon atoms. The names initially referred to the natural substances. Their enantiomers were given the same name with the introduction of systematic nomenclatures, taking into account absolute stereochemistry (e.g. Fischer nomenclature, D/L nomenclature).\n\nFor the discovery of the metabolism of glucose Otto Meyerhof received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1922. Hans von Euler-Chelpin was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry along with Arthur Harden in 1929 for their \"research on the fermentation of sugar and their share of enzymes in this process\". In 1947, Bernardo Houssay (for his discovery of the role of the pituitary gland in the metabolism of glucose and the derived carbohydrates) as well as Carl and Gerty Cori (for their discovery of the conversion of glycogen from glucose) received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. In 1970, Luis Leloir was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the discovery of glucose-derived sugar nucleotides in the biosynthesis of carbohydrates.\n\nWith six carbon atoms, it is classed as a hexose, a subcategory of the monosaccharides. -Glucose is one of the sixteen aldohexose stereoisomers. The -isomer, -glucose, also known as dextrose, occurs widely in nature, but the -isomer, -glucose, does not. Glucose can be obtained by hydrolysis of carbohydrates such as milk sugar (lactose), cane sugar (sucrose), maltose, cellulose, glycogen, etc. It is commonly commercially manufactured from cornstarch by hydrolysis via pressurized steaming at controlled pH in a jet followed by further enzymatic depolymerization. Unbonded glucose is one of the main ingredients of honey. All forms of glucose are colorless and easily soluble in water, acetic acid, and several other solvents. They are only sparingly soluble in methanol and ethanol.\n\nGlucose is a monosaccharide with formula CHO or H-(C=O)-(CHOH)-H, whose five hydroxyl (OH) groups are arranged in a specific way along its six-carbon back. Glucose is usually present in solid form as a monohydrate with a closed pyran ring (dextrose hydrate). In aqueous solution, on the other hand, it is has an open-chain to a small extent and is present predominantly as α- or β-pyranose, which partially mutually merge by mutarotation. From aqueous solutions, the three known forms can be crystallized: α-glucopyranose, β-glucopyranose and β-glucopyranose hydrate. Glucose is a building block of the disaccharides lactose and sucrose (cane or beet sugar), of oligosaccharides such as raffinose and of polysaccharides such as starch and amylopectin, glycogen or cellulose. The glass transition temperature of glucose is 31 °C and the Gordon-Taylor constant (an experimentally determined constant for the prediction of the glass transition temperature for different mass fractions of a mixture of two substances) is 4.5.\n\nIn its fleeting open-chain form, the glucose molecule has an open (as opposed to cyclic) and unbranched backbone of six carbon atoms, C-1 through C-6; where C-1 is part of an aldehyde group H(C=O)-, and each of the other five carbons bears one hydroxyl group -OH. The remaining bonds of the backbone carbons are satisfied by hydrogen atoms -H. Therefore, glucose is both a hexose and an aldose, or an aldohexose. The aldehyde group makes glucose a reducing sugar giving a positive reaction with the Fehling test.\n\nEach of the four carbons C-2 through C-5 is a stereocenter, meaning that its four bonds connect to four different substituents. (Carbon C-2, for example, connects to -(C=O)H, -OH, -H, and -(CHOH)H.) In -glucose, these four parts must be in a specific three-dimensional arrangement. Namely, when the molecule is drawn in the Fischer projection, the hydroxyls on C-2, C-4, and C-5 must be on the right side, while that on C-3 must be on the left side.\n\nThe positions of those four hydroxyls are exactly reversed in the Fischer diagram of -glucose. - and -glucose are two of the 16 possible aldohexoses; the other 14 are allose, altrose, galactose, gulose, idose, mannose, and talose, each with two enantiomers, “-” and “-”.\n\nIt is important to note that the linear form of glucose makes up less than 0.02% of the glucose molecules in a water solution. The rest is one of two cyclic forms of glucose that are formed when the hydroxyl group on carbon 5 (C5) bonds to the aldehyde carbon 1 (C1).\n\nIn solutions, the open-chain form of glucose (either \"-\" or \"-\") exists in equilibrium with several cyclic isomers, each containing a ring of carbons closed by one oxygen atom. In aqueous solution however, more than 99% of glucose molecules, at any given time, exist as pyranose forms. The open-chain form is limited to about 0.25% and furanose forms exists in negligible amounts. The terms \"glucose\" and \"-glucose\" are generally used for these cyclic forms as well. The ring arises from the open-chain form by an intramolecular nucleophilic addition reaction between the aldehyde group (at C-1) and either the C-4 or C-5 hydroxyl group, forming a hemiacetal linkage, -C(OH)H-O-.\n\nThe reaction between C-1 and C-5 yields a six-membered heterocyclic system called a pyranose, which is a monosaccharide sugar (hence \"–ose\") containing a derivatised pyran skeleton. The (much rarer) reaction between C-1 and C-4 yields a five-membered furanose ring, named after the cyclic ether furan. In either case, each carbon in the ring has one hydrogen and one hydroxyl attached, except for the last carbon (C-4 or C-5) where the hydroxyl is replaced by the remainder of the open molecule (which is -(C(CHOH)HOH)-H or -(CHOH)-H, respectively).\n\nThe ring-closing reaction makes carbon C-1 chiral, too, since its four bonds lead to -H, to -OH, to carbon C-2, and to the ring oxygen. These four parts of the molecule may be arranged around C-1 (the anomeric carbon) in two distinct ways, designated by the prefixes \"α-\" and \"β-\". When a glucopyranose molecule is drawn in the Haworth projection, the designation \"α-\" means that the hydroxyl group attached to C-1 and the -CHOH group at C-5 lies on opposite sides of the ring's plane (a \"trans\" arrangement), while \"β-\" means that they are on the same side of the plane (a \"cis\" arrangement). Therefore, the open-chain isomer -glucose gives rise to four distinct cyclic isomers: α--glucopyranose, β--glucopyranose, α--glucofuranose, and β--glucofuranose. These five structures exist in equilibrium and interconvert, and the interconversion is much more rapid with acid catalysis.\n\nThe other open-chain isomer -glucose similarly gives rise to four distinct cyclic forms of -glucose, each the mirror image of the corresponding -glucose.\n\nThe rings are not planar, but are twisted in three dimensions. The glucopyranose ring (α or β) can assume several non-planar shapes, analogous to the \"chair\" and \"boat\" conformations of cyclohexane. Similarly, the glucofuranose ring may assume several shapes, analogous to the \"envelope\" conformations of cyclopentane.\n\nIn the solid state, only the glucopyranose forms are observed, forming colorless crystalline solids that are highly soluble in water and acetic acid but poorly soluble in methanol and ethanol. They melt at (\"α\") and (\"β\"), and decompose at higher temperatures into carbon and water.\n\nEach glucose isomer is subject to rotational isomerism. Within the cyclic form of glucose, rotation may occur around the O6-C6-C5-O5 torsion angle, termed the \"ω\"-angle, to form three staggered rotamer conformations called \"gauche\"-\"gauche\" (gg), \"gauche\"-\"trans\" (gt) and \"trans\"-\"gauche\" (tg). There is a tendency for the \"ω\"-angle to adopt a \"gauche\" conformation, a tendency that is attributed to the gauche effect.\n\nMutarotation consists of a temporary reversal of the ring-forming reaction, resulting in the open-chain form, followed by a reforming of the ring. The ring closure step may use a different -OH group than the one recreated by the opening step (thus switching between pyranose and furanose forms), or the new hemiacetal group created on C-1 may have the same or opposite handedness as the original one (thus switching between the α and β forms). Thus, though the open-chain form is barely detectable in solution, it is an essential component of the equilibrium.\n\nThe open-chain form is thermodynamically unstable, and it spontaneously isomerizes to the cyclic forms. (Although the ring closure reaction could in theory create four- or three-atom rings, these would be highly strained, and are not observed in practice.) In solutions at room temperature, the four cyclic isomers interconvert over a time scale of hours, in a process called mutarotation. Starting from any proportions, the mixture converges to a stable ratio of α:β 36:64. The ratio would be α:β 11:89 if it were not for the influence of the anomeric effect. Mutarotation is considerably slower at temperatures close to .\n\nWhether in water or in the solid form, -(+)-glucose is dextrorotatory, meaning it will rotate the direction of polarized light clockwise as seen looking toward the light source. The effect is due to the chirality of the molecules, and indeed the mirror-image isomer, -(−)-glucose, is levorotatory (rotates polarized light counterclockwise) by the same amount. The strength of the effect is different for each of the five tautomers.\n\nNote that the - prefix does not refer directly to the optical properties of the compound. It indicates that the C-5 chiral center has the same handedness as that of -glyceraldehyde (which was so labeled because it is dextrorotatory). The fact that -glucose is dextrorotatory is a combined effect of its four chiral centers, not just of C-5; and indeed some of the other -aldohexoses are levorotatory.\n\nThe conversion between the two anomers can be observed in a polarimeter, since pure α- D- glucose has a specific rotation angle of +112.2 ° · ml · dm · g, pure β- D- glucose of +17.5 ° · ml · dm · g. When equilibrium has been reached after a certain time due to mutarotation, the angle of rotation is +52.7 ° · ml · dm · g. By adding acid or base, this transformation is much accelerated. The equilibration takes place via the open-chain aldehyde form.\n\nIn dilute sodium hydroxide or other dilute bases, the monosaccharides mannose, glucose and fructose interconvert (via a Lobry de Bruyn–Alberda–van Ekenstein transformation), so that a balance between these isomers is formed. This reaction proceeds via an enediol:\n\nGlucose is the most abundant monosaccharide. Glucose is also the most widely used aldohexose in most living organisms. One possible explanation for this is that glucose has a lower tendency than other aldohexoses to react nonspecifically with the amine groups of proteins. This reaction—glycation—impairs or destroys the function of many proteins, e.g. in glycated hemoglobin. Glucose's low rate of glycation can be attributed to its having a more stable cyclic form compared to other aldohexoses, which means it spends less time than they do in its reactive open-chain form. The reason for glucose having the most stable cyclic form of all the aldohexoses is that its hydroxy groups (with the exception of the hydroxy group on the anomeric carbon of -glucose) are in the equatorial position. Presumably, glucose is the most abundant natural monosaccharide because it is less glycated with proteins than other monosaccharides. Another hypothesis is that glucose, being the only D-aldohexose that has all five hydroxy substituents in the equatorial position in the form of β-D-glucose, is more readily accessible to chemical reactions, for example, for esterification or acetal formation. For this reason, D-glucose is also a highly preferred building block in natural polysaccharides (glycans). Polysaccharides that are composed solely of Glucose are termed glucans.\n\nGlucose is produced by plants through the photosynthesis using sunlight, water and carbon dioxide and can be used by all living organisms as an energy and carbon source. However, most glucose does not occur in its free form, but in the form of its polymers, i.e. lactose, sucrose, starch and others which are energy reserve substances, and cellulose and chitin, which are components of the cell wall in plants or fungi and arthropods, respectively. These polymers are degraded to glucose during food intake by animals, fungi and bacteria using enzymes. All animals are also able to produce glucose themselves from certain precursors as the need arises. Nerve cells, cells of the renal medulla and erythrocytes depend on glucose for their energy production.<ref name=\"Löffler/Petrides 195\">Peter C. Heinrich: \"Löffler/Petrides Biochemie und Pathobiochemie.\" Springer-Verlag, 2014, , p. 195. (german)</ref> In adult humans, there are about 18 g of glucose, of which about 4 g are present in the blood. Approximately 180 to 220 g of glucose are produced in the liver of an adult in 24 hours.\n\nMany of the long-term complications of diabetes (e.g., blindness, kidney failure, and peripheral neuropathy) are probably due to the glycation of proteins or lipids. In contrast, enzyme-regulated addition of sugars to protein is called glycosylation and is essential for the function of many proteins.\n\nIngested glucose initially binds to the receptor for sweet taste on the tongue in humans. This complex of the proteins T1R2 and T1R3 makes it possible to identify glucose-containing food sources. Glucose mainly comes from food - about 300 g per day are produced by conversion of food,<ref name=\"Löffler/Petrides 404\">Peter C. Heinrich: \"Löffler/Petrides Biochemie und Pathobiochemie.\" Springer-Verlag, 2014, , p. 404.</ref> but it is also synthesized from other metabolites in the body's cells. In humans, the breakdown of glucose-containing polysaccharides happens in part already during chewing by means of amylase, which is contained in saliva, as well as by maltase, lactase and sucrase on the brush border of the small intestine. Glucose is a building block of many carbohydrates and can be split off from them using certain enzymes. Glucosidases, a subgroup of the glycosidases, first catalyze the hydrolysis of long-chain glucose-containing polysaccharides, removing terminal glucose. In turn, disaccharides are mostly degraded by specific glycosidases to glucose. The names of the degrading enzymes are often derived from the particular poly- and disaccharide; inter alia, for the degradation of polysaccharide chains there are amylases (named after amylose, a component of starch), cellulases (named after cellulose), chitinases (named after chitin) and more. Furthermore, for the cleavage of disaccharides, there are maltase, lactase, sucrase, trehalase and others. In humans, about 70 genes are known that code for glycosidases. They have functions in the digestion and degradation of glycogen, sphingolipids, mucopolysaccharides and poly(ADP-ribose). Humans do not produce cellulases, chitinases and trehalases, but the bacteria in the gut flora do.\n\nIn order to get into or out of cell membranes of cells and membranes of cell compartments, glucose requires special transport proteins from the major facilitator superfamily. In the small intestine (more precisely, in the jejunum), glucose is taken up into the intestinal epithelial cells with the help of glucose transporters via a secondary active transport mechanism called sodium ion-glucose symport via the sodium/glucose cotransporter 1. The further transfer occurs on the basolateral side of the intestinal epithelial cells via the glucose transporter GLUT2, as well as their uptake into liver cells, kidney cells, cells of the islets of Langerhans, nerve cells, astrocytes and tanyocytes. Glucose enters the liver via the vena portae and is stored there as a cellular glycogen. In the liver cell, it is phosphorylated by glucokinase at position 6 to glucose-6-phosphate, which can not leave the cell. With the help of glucose-6-phosphatase, glucose-6-phosphate is converted back into glucose exclusively in the liver, if necessary, so that it is available for maintaining a sufficient blood glucose concentration. In other cells, uptake happens by passive transport through one of the 14 GLUT proteins. In the other cell types, phosphorylation occurs through a hexokinase, whereupon glucose can no longer diffuse out of the cell.\n\nThe glucose transporter GLUT1 is produced by most cell types and is of particular importance for nerve cells and pancreatic β-cells. GLUT3 is highly expressed in nerve cells. Glucose from the bloodstream is taken up by GLUT4 from muscle cells (of the skeletal muscle and heart muscle) and fat cells. GLUT14 is formed exclusively in testes. Excess glucose is broken down and converted into fatty acids, which are stored as triacylglycerides. In the kidneys, glucose in the urine is absorbed via SGLT1 and SGLT2 in the apical cell membranes and transmitted via GLUT2 in the basolateral cell membranes. About 90% of kidney glucose reabsorption is via SGLT2 and about 3% via SGLT1.\n\nIn plants and some prokaryotes, glucose is a product of photosynthesis. Glucose is also formed by the breakdown of polymeric forms of glucose like glycogen (in animals and mushrooms) or starch (in plants). The cleavage of glycogen is termed glycogenolysis, the cleavage of starch is called starch degradation.\n\nThe metabolic pathway that begins with molecules containing two to four carbon atoms (C) and ends in the glucose molecule containing six carbon atoms is called gluconeogenesis and occurs in all living organisms. The smaller starting materials are the result of other metabolic pathways. Ultimately almost all biomolecules come from the assimilation of carbon dioxide in plants during photosynthesis. The free energy of formation of α-D-glucose is 917.2 kilojoules per mole. In humans, gluconeogenesis occurs in the liver and kidney, but also in other cell types. In the liver about 150 g of glycogen are stored, in skeletal muscle about 250 g.<ref name=\"Löffler/Petrides 389\">Peter C. Heinrich: \"Löffler/Petrides Biochemie und Pathobiochemie.\" Springer-Verlag, 2014, , p. 389. (german)</ref> However, the glucose released in muscle cells upon cleavage of the glycogen can not be delivered to the circulation because glucose is phosphorylated by the hexokinae, and a glucose-6-phosphatase is not expressed to remove the phosphate group. Unlike for glucose, there is no transport protein for glucose-6-phosphate. Gluconeogenesis allows the organism to build up glucose from other metabolites, including lactate or certain amino acids, while consuming energy. The renal tubular cells can also produce glucose.\n\nIn humans, glucose is metabolised by glycolysis and the pentose phosphate pathway. Glycolysis is used by all living organisms, with small variations, and all organisms generate energy from the breakdown of monosaccharides. In the further course of the metabolism, it can be completely degraded via oxidative decarboxylation, the Krebs cycle (synonym \"citric acid cycle\") and the respiratory chain to water and carbon dioxide. If there is not enough oxygen available for this, the glucose degradation in animals occurs anaerobic to lactate via lactic acid fermentation and releases less energy. Muscular lactate enters the liver through the bloodstream in mammals, where gluconeogenesis occurs (Cori cycle). With a high supply of glucose, the metabolite acetyl-CoA from the Krebs cycle can also be used for fatty acid synthesis. Glucose is also used to replenish the body's glycogen stores, which are mainly found in liver and skeletal muscle. These processes are hormonally regulated.\n\nIn other living organisms, other forms of fermentation can occur. The bacterium \"Escherichia coli\" can grow on nutrient media containing glucose as the sole carbon source. In some bacteria and, in modified form, also in archaea, glucose is degraded via the Entner-Doudoroff pathway.\n\nUse of glucose as an energy source in cells is by either aerobic respiration, anaerobic respiration, or fermentation. The first step of glycolysis is the phosphorylation of glucose by a hexokinase to form glucose 6-phosphate. The main reason for the immediate phosphorylation of glucose is to prevent its diffusion out of the cell as the charged phosphate group prevents glucose 6-phosphate from easily crossing the cell membrane. Furthermore, addition of the high-energy phosphate group activates glucose for subsequent breakdown in later steps of glycolysis. At physiological conditions, this initial reaction is irreversible.\n\nIn anaerobic respiration, one glucose molecule produces a net gain of two ATP molecules (four ATP molecules are produced during glycolysis through substrate-level phosphorylation, but two are required by enzymes used during the process). In aerobic respiration, a molecule of glucose is much more profitable in that a maximum net production of 30 or 32 ATP molecules (depending on the organism) through oxidative phosphorylation is generated.\n\nTumor cells often grow comparatively quickly and consume an above-average amount of glucose by glycolysis, which leads to the formation of lactate, the end product of fermentation in mammals, even in the presence of oxygen. This effect is called the Warburg effect. For the increased uptake of glucose in tumors various SGLT and GLUT are overly produced.\n\nIn yeast, ethanol is fermented at high glucose concentrations, even in the presence of oxygen (which normally leads to respiration but not to fermentation). This effect is called the Crabtree effect.\n\nGlucose is a ubiquitous fuel in biology. It is used as an energy source in organisms, from bacteria to humans, through either aerobic respiration, anaerobic respiration (in bacteria), or fermentation. Glucose is the human body's key source of energy, through aerobic respiration, providing about 3.75 kilocalories (16 kilojoules) of food energy per gram. Breakdown of carbohydrates (e.g., starch) yields mono- and disaccharides, most of which is glucose. Through glycolysis and later in the reactions of the citric acid cycle and oxidative phosphorylation, glucose is oxidized to eventually form carbon dioxide and water, yielding energy mostly in the form of ATP. The insulin reaction, and other mechanisms, regulate the concentration of glucose in the blood. The physiological caloric value of glucose, depending on the source, is 16.2 kilojoules per gram and 15.7 kJ/g (3.74 kcal/g), respectively. The high availability of carbohydrates from plant biomass has led to a variety of methods during evolution, especially in microorganisms, to utilize the energy and carbon storage glucose. Differences exist in which end product can no longer be used for energy production. The presence of individual genes, and their gene products, the enzymes, determine which reactions are possible. The metabolic pathway of glycolysis is used by almost all living beings. An essential difference in the use of glycolysis is the recovery of NADPH as a reductant for anabolism that would otherwise have to be generated indirectly.\n\nGlucose supplies almost all the energy for the brain, so its availability influences psychological processes. When glucose is low, psychological processes requiring mental effort (e.g., self-control, effortful decision-making) are impaired. In the brain, which is dependent on glucose as the major source of energy, the glucose concentration is usually 4 to 6 mM (5 mM equals 90 mg / dL), but decreases to 2 to 3 mM when fasting. Confusion occurs below 1 mM and coma at lower levels.\n\nThe glucose in the blood is called blood sugar. Blood sugar levels are regulated by glucose-binding nerve cells in the hypothalamus. In addition, glucose in the brain binds to glucose receptors of the reward system in the nucleus accumbens. The binding of glucose to the sweet receptor on the tongue induces a release of various hormones of energy metabolism, either through glucose or through other sugars, leading to an increased cellular uptake and lower blood sugar levels. Artificial sweeteners do not lower blood sugar levels.\n\nThe blood sugar content of a healthy person in the short-time fasting state, e.g. after overnight fasting, is about 70 to 100 mg/dl of blood (4 to 5.5 mM). In blood plasma, the measured values are about 10-15 % higher. In addition, the values in the arterial blood are higher than the concentrations in the venous blood since glucose is absorbed into the tissue during the passage of the capillary bed. Also in the capillary blood, which is often used for blood sugar determination, the values are sometimes higher than in the venous blood. The glucose content of the blood is regulated by the hormones insulin, incretin and glucagon. Insulin lowers the glucose level, glucagon increases it. Furthermore, the hormones adrenaline, thyroxine, glucocorticoids, somatotropin and adrenocorticotropin lead to an increase in the glucose level. In addition, there is also a hormone-independent regulation, which is referred to as glucose autoregulation. After food intake the blood sugar concentration increases. Values over 180 mg/dl in venous whole blood are pathological and are termed hyperglycemia, values below 40 mg/dl are termed hypoglycaemia. When needed, glucose is released into the bloodstream by glucose-6-phosphatase from glucose-6-phosphate originating from liver and kidney glycogen, thereby regulating the homeostasis of blood glucose concentration. In ruminants, the blood glucose concentration is lower (60 mg/dL in cattle and 40 mg/dL in sheep), because the carbohydrates are converted more by their gut flora into short-chain fatty acids.\nSome glucose is converted to lactic acid by astrocytes, which is then utilized as an energy source by brain cells; some glucose is used by intestinal cells and red blood cells, while the rest reaches the liver, adipose tissue and muscle cells, where it is absorbed and stored as glycogen (under the influence of insulin). Liver cell glycogen can be converted to glucose and returned to the blood when insulin is low or absent; muscle cell glycogen is not returned to the blood because of a lack of enzymes. In fat cells, glucose is used to power reactions that synthesize some fat types and have other purposes. Glycogen is the body's \"glucose energy storage\" mechanism, because it is much more \"space efficient\" and less reactive than glucose itself.\n\nAs a result of its importance in human health, glucose is an analyte in glucose tests that are common medical blood tests. Eating or fasting prior to taking a blood sample has an effect on analyses for glucose in the blood; a high fasting glucose blood sugar level may be a sign of prediabetes or diabetes mellitus.\n\nThe glycemic index is an indicator of the speed of resorption and conversion to blood glucose levels from ingested carbohydrates, measured as the area under the curve of blood glucose levels after consumption in comparison to glucose (glucose is defined as 100). The clinical importance of the glycemic index is controversial, as foods with high fat contents slow the resorption of carbohydrates and lower the glycemic index, e.g. ice cream. An alternative indicator is the insulin index, measured as the impact of carbohydrate consumption on the blood insulin levels. The glycemic load is an indicator for the amount of glucose added to blood glucose levels after consumption, based on the glycemic index and the amount of consumed food.\n\nOrganisms use glucose as a precursor for the synthesis of several important substances. Starch, cellulose, and glycogen (\"animal starch\") are common glucose polymers (polysaccharides). Some of these polymers (starch or glycogen) serve as energy stores, while others (cellulose and chitin, which is made from a derivative of glucose) have structural roles. Oligosaccharides of glucose combined with other sugars serve as important energy stores. These include lactose, the predominant sugar in milk, which is a glucose-galactose disaccharide, and sucrose, another disaccharide which is composed of glucose and fructose. Glucose is also added onto certain proteins and lipids in a process called glycosylation. This is often critical for their functioning. The enzymes that join glucose to other molecules usually use phosphorylated glucose to power the formation of the new bond by coupling it with the breaking of the glucose-phosphate bond.\n\nOther than its direct use as a monomer, glucose can be broken down to synthesize a wide variety of other biomolecules. This is important, as glucose serves both as a primary store of energy and as a source of organic carbon. Glucose can be broken down and converted into lipids. It is also a precursor for the synthesis of other important molecules such as vitamin C (ascorbic acid). In living organisms, glucose is converted to several other chemical compounds that are the starting material for various metabolic pathways. Among them, all other monosaccharides<ref name=\"Löffler/Petrides 27\">Peter C. Heinrich: \"Löffler/Petrides Biochemie und Pathobiochemie.\" Springer-Verlag, 2014, , p. 27. (german)</ref> such as fructose (via the polyol pathway),<ref name=\"Löffler/Petrides 199\">Peter C. Heinrich: \"Löffler/Petrides Biochemie und Pathobiochemie.\" Springer-Verlag, 2014, , p. 199, 200. (german)</ref> mannose (the epimer of glucose at position 2), galactose (the epimer at position 4), fucose, various uronic acids and the amino sugars are produced from glucose.<ref name=\"Löffler/Petrides 214\">Peter C. Heinrich: \"Löffler/Petrides Biochemie und Pathobiochemie.\" Springer-Verlag, 2014, , p. 214. (german)</ref> In addition to the phosphorylation to glucose-6-phosphate, which is part of the glycolysis, glucose can be oxidized during its degradation to glucono-1,5-lactone. Glucose is used in some bacteria as a building block in the trehalose or the dextran biosynthesis and in animals as a building block of glycogen. Glucose can also be converted from bacterial xylose isomerase to fructose. In addition, glucose metabolites produce all nonessential amino acids, sugar alcohols such as mannitol and sorbitol, fatty acids, cholesterol and nucleic acids. Finally, glucose is used as a building block in the glycosylation of proteins to glycoproteins, glycolipids, peptidoglycans, glycosides and other substances (catalyzed by glycosyltransferases) and can be cleaved from them by glycosidases.\n\nDiabetes is a metabolic disorder where the body is unable to regulate levels of glucose in the blood either because of a lack of insulin in the body or the failure, by cells in the body, to respond properly to insulin. Each of these situations can be caused by persistently high elevations of blood glucose levels, through pancreatic burnout and insulin resistance. The pancreas is the organ responsible for the secretion of the hormones insulin and glucagon. Insulin is a hormone that regulates glucose levels, allowing the body's cells to absorb and use glucose. Without it, glucose cannot enter the cell and therefore cannot be used as fuel for the body's functions. If the pancreas is exposed to persistently high elevations of blood glucose levels, the insulin-producing cells in the pancreas could be damaged, causing a lack of insulin in the body. Insulin resistance occurs when the pancreas tries to produce more and more insulin in response to persistently elevated blood glucose levels. Eventually, the rest of the body becomes resistant to the insulin that the pancreas is producing, thereby requiring more insulin to achieve the same blood glucose-lowering effect, and forcing the pancreas to produce even more insulin to compete with the resistance. This negative spiral contributes to pancreatic burnout, and the disease progression of diabetes.\n\nTo monitor the body's response to blood glucose-lowering therapy, glucose levels can be measured. Blood glucose monitoring can be performed by multiple methods, such as the fasting glucose test which measures the level of glucose in the blood after 8 hours of fasting. Another test is the 2-hour glucose tolerance test (GTT) – for this test, the person has a fasting glucose test done, then drinks a 75-gram glucose drink and is retested. This test measures the ability of the person's body to process glucose. Over time the blood glucose levels should decrease as insulin allows it to be taken up by cells and exit the blood stream.\n\nAn increased intake of glucose leads to obesity and, in consequence, partly to the metabolic syndrome with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, but not the consumption of glucose as part of a normal calorie intake.\n\nIndividuals with diabetes or other conditions that result in low blood sugar often carry small amounts of sugar in various forms. One sugar commonly used is glucose, often in the form of glucose tablets (glucose pressed into a tablet shape sometimes with one or more other ingredients as a binder), hard candy, or sugar packet.\n\nMost dietary carbohydrates contain glucose, either as their only building block (as in the polysaccharides starch and glycogen), or together with another monosaccharide (as in the hetero-polysaccharides sucrose and lactose). Unbounded glucose is one of the main ingredients of honey.\n\nAll data with a unit of g (gram) are based on 100 g of a food item.\n\nGlucose is produced industrially from starch by enzymatic hydrolysis using glucose amylase or by the use of acids. The enzymatic hydrolysis has largely displaced the acid-catalyzed hydrolysis. The result is glucose syrup (enzymatically with more than 90% glucose in the dry matter) with an annual worldwide production volume of 20 million tonnes (as of 2011). This is the reason for the former common name \"starch sugar\". The amylases most often come from \"Bacillus licheniformis\" or \"Bacillus subtilis\" (strain MN-385), which are more thermostable than the originally used enzymes. Starting in 1982, pullulanases from \"Aspergillus niger\" were used in the production of glucose syrup to convert amylopectin to starch (amylose), thereby increasing the yield of glucose. The reaction is carried out at a pH of 4.6-5.2 and a temperature of 55-60 °C. Corn syrup has between 20% and 95% glucose in the dry matter. The Japanese form of the glucose syrup, Mizuame, is made from sweet potato or rice starch. Maltodextrin contains about 20% glucose.\n\nMany crops can be used as the source of starch. Maize, rice, wheat, cassava, potato, barley, sweet potato, corn husk and sago are all used in various parts of the world. In the United States, corn starch (from maize) is used almost exclusively. Some commercial glucose occurs as a component of invert sugar, a roughly 1:1 mixture of glucose and fructose that is produced from sucrose. In principle, cellulose could be hydrolysed to glucose, but this process is not yet commercially practical.\n\nIn the USA almost exclusively corn (more precisely: corn syrup) is used as glucose source for the production of isoglucose, which is a mixture of glucose and fructose, since fructose has a higher sweetening power — with same physiological calorific value of 374 kilocalories per 100 g. The annual world production of isoglucose is eight million tonnes (as of 2011). When made from corn syrup, the final product is high fructose corn syrup (HFCS).\n\nGlucose is mainly used for the production of fructose and in the production of glucose-containing foods. In foods, it is used as a sweetener, humectant, to increase the volume and to create a softer mouthfeel. Various sources of glucose, such as grape juice (for wine) or malt (for beer), are used for fermentation to ethanol during the production of alcoholic beverages. Most soft drinks in the US use HFCS-55 (with a fructose content of 55% in the dry mass), while most other HFCS-sweetened foods in the US use HFCS-42 (with a fructose content of 42% in the dry mass). In the neighboring country Mexico, on the other hand, cane sugar is used in the soft drink as a sweetener, which has a higher sweetening power. In addition, glucose syrup is used, inter alia, in the production of confectionery such as candies, toffee and fondant. Typical chemical reactions of glucose when heated under water-free conditions are the caramelization and, in presence of amino acids, the maillard reaction.\n\nIn addition, various organic acids can be biotechnologically produced from glucose, for example by fermentation with \"Clostridium thermoaceticum\" to produce acetic acid, with \"Penicilium notatum\" for the production of araboascorbic acid, with \"Rhizopus delemar\" for the production of fumaric acid, with \"Aspergillus niger\" for the production of gluconic acid, with \"Candida brumptii\" to produce isocitric acid, with \"Aspergillus terreus\" for the production of itaconic acid, with \"Pseudomonas fluorescens\" for the production of 2-ketogluconic acid, with \"Gluconobacter suboxydans\" for the production of 5-ketogluconic acid, with \"Aspergillus oryzae\" for the production of kojic acid, with \"Lactobacillus delbrueckii\" for the production of lactic acid, with \"Lactobacillus brevis\" for the production of malic acid, with \"Propionibacter shermanii\" for the production of propionic acid, with \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\" for the production of pyruvic acid and with \"Gluconobacter suboxydans\" for the production of tartaric acid.\n\nSpecifically, when a glucose molecule is to be detected at a certain position in a larger molecule, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, X-ray crystallography analysis or lectin immunostaining is performed with concanavalin A reporter enzyme conjugate (that binds only glucose or mannose).\n\nThese reactions have only historical significance:\n\nThe Fehling test is a classic method for the detection of aldoses. Due to mutarotation, glucose is always present to a small extent as an open-chain aldehyde. By adding the Fehling reagents (Fehling (I) solution and Fehling (II) solution), the aldehyde group is oxidized to a carboxylic acid, while the Cu tartrate complex is reduced to Cu and forming a brick red precipitate (CuO).\n\nIn the Tollens test, after addition of ammoniacal AgNO to the sample solution, Ag is reduced by glucose to elemental silver.\n\nIn Barfoed's test, a solution of dissolved copper acetate, sodium acetate and acetic acid is added to the solution of the sugar to be tested and subsequently heated in a water bath for a few minutes. Glucose and other monosaccharides rapidly produce a reddish color and reddish brown copper(I) oxide (CuO).\n\nAs a reducing sugar, glucose reacts in the Nylander's test.\n\nUpon heating a dilute potassium hydroxide solution with glucose to 100 °C, a strong reddish browning and a caramel-like odor develops. Concentrated sulfuric acid dissolves dry glucose without blackening at room temperature forming sugar sulfuric acid. In a yeast solution, alcoholic fermentation produces carbon dioxide in the ratio of 2.0454 molecules of glucose to one molecule of CO. Glucose forms a black mass with stannous chloride. In an ammoniacal silver solution, glucose (as well as lactose and dextrin) leads to the deposition of silver. In an ammoniacal lead acetate solution, white lead glycoside is formed in the presence of glucose, which becomes less soluble on cooking and turns brown. In an ammoniacal copper solution, yellow copper oxide hydrate is formed with glucose at room temperature, while red copper oxide is formed during boiling (same with dextrin, except for with an ammoniacal copper acetate solution). With Hager's reagent, glucose forms mercury oxide during boiling. An alkaline bismuth solution is used to precipitate elemental, black-brown bismuth with glucose. Glucose boiled in an ammonium molybdate solution turns the solution blue. A solution with indigo carmine and sodium carbonate destains when boiled with glucose.\n\nIn concentrated solutions of glucose with a low proportion of other carbohydrates, its concentration can be determined with a polarimeter. For sugar mixtures, the concentration can be determined with a refractometer, for example in the Oechsle determination in the course of the production of wine.\n\nThe enzyme glucose oxidase (GOx) converts glucose into gluconic acid and hydrogen peroxide while consuming oxygen. Another enzyme, peroxidase, catalyzes a chromogenic reaction (Trinder reaction) of phenol with 4-aminoantipyrine to a purple dye.\n\nThe test strip method employs the above-mentioned enzymatic conversion of glucose to gluconic acid to form hydrogen peroxide. The reagents are immobilised on a polymer matrix, the so-called test strip, which assumes a more or less intense color. This can be measured reflectometrically at 510 nm with the aid of an LED-based handheld photometer. This allows for routine blood sugar determination by laymen. In addition to the reaction of phenol with 4-aminoantipyrine, new chromogenic reactions have been developed that allow photometry at higher wavelengths (550 nm, 750 nm).\n\nThe electroanalysis of glucose is also based on the enzymatic reaction mentioned above. The produced hydrogen peroxide can be amperometrically quantified by anodic oxidation at a potential of 600 mV. The GOx is immobilised on the electrode surface or in a membrane placed close to the electrode. Precious metals such as platinum or gold are used in electrodes, as well as carbon nanotube electrodes, which e.g. are doped with boron. Cu-CuO nanowires are also used as enzyme-free amperometric electrodes. This way a detection limit of 50 µmol/L has been achieved. A particularly promising method is the so-called \"enzyme wiring\". In this case, the electron flowing during the oxidation is transferred directly from the enzyme via a molecular wire to the electrode.\n\nThere are a variety of other chemical sensors for measuring glucose. Given the importance of glucose analysis in the life sciences, numerous optical probes have also been developed for saccharides based on the use of boronic acids, which are particularly useful for intracellular sensory applications where other (optical) methods are not or only conditionally usable. In addition to the organic boronic acid derivatives, which often bind highly specifically to the 1,2-diol groups of sugars, there are also other probe concepts classified by functional mechanisms which use selective glucose-binding proteins (e.g. concanavalin A) as a receptor. Furthermore, methods were developed which indirectly detect the glucose concentration via the concentration of metabolised products, e.g. by the consumption of oxygen using fluorescence-optical sensors. Finally, there are enzyme-based concepts that use the intrinsic absorbance or fluorescence of (fluorescence-labeled) enzymes as reporters.\n\nGlucose can be quantified by copper iodometry.\n\nIn particular, for the analysis of complex mixtures containing glucose, e.g. in honey, chromatographic methods such as high performance liquid chromatography and gas chromatography are often used in combination with mass spectrometry. Taking into account the isotope ratios, it is also possible to reliably detect honey adulteration by added sugars with these methods. Derivatisation using silylation reagents is commonly used. Also, the proportions of di- and trisaccharides can be quantified.\n\nGlucose uptake in cells of organisms is measured with 2-deoxy-D-glucose or fluorodeoxyglucose. (F)fluorodeoxyglucose is used as a tracer in positron emission tomography in oncology and neurology, where it is by far the most commonly used diagnostic agent.\n"}
{"id": "37652243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37652243", "title": "HIV and men who have sex with men", "text": "HIV and men who have sex with men\n\nSince reports of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) began to emerge in the United States in the 1980s, the HIV epidemic has frequently been linked to gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men (MSM) by epidemiologists and medical professionals. The first official report on the virus was published by the Center for Disease Control (CDC) on June 5, 1981 and detailed the cases of five young gay men who were hospitalised with serious infections. A month later, The New York Times reported that 41 homosexuals had been diagnosed with Kaposi’s Sarcoma, and eight had died less than 24 months after the diagnosis was made. By 1982, the condition was referred to in the medical community as (Gay-related immune deficiency (GRID), \"gay cancer,\" and \"gay compromise syndrome.\" It was not until July 1982 that the term Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) was suggested to replace GRID, and even then it was not until September that the CDC first used the AIDS acronym in an official report.\n\nIt is now well understood that HIV does not only affect the gay community but can also infect anybody, regardless of sex, ethnicity, or sexual orientation. However, HIV still severely affects MSM across the globe. MSM are only a small percentage of the U.S. population, but they are consistently the population group most affected by the HIV/AIDS virus and are the largest proportion of American citizens with an AIDS diagnosis who have died. The United Nations estimates that 2 to 20% of MSM are infected with HIV, depending on the region they live in.\n\n\"Smartphone users: article continues below table\"\n\nMen who have sex with men (abbreviated as MSM, also known as males who have sex with males) are male persons who engage in sexual activity with members of the same sex, regardless of how they personally identify themselves. Many MSM choose not to (or cannot for other reasons) identify as homosexual or bisexual. Similarly, the label excludes men who identify as gay or bisexual, but who have never had sex with another man, including many gay teenagers.\n\nThe terms MSM and women who have sex with women (WSW) have been used in medical scholarship since at least 1990. But, the term has been attributed to Glick \"et al.\", because their usage in a 1994 study solidified the concept in medical terminology. MSM is often used in medical literature and social research to describe such men as a group for research studies without considering issues of self-identification because it offers better behavioral categories for the study of disease-risk than identity-based categories (such as \"gay\", \"bisexual\", or \"straight\"), because a man who self-identifies as gay or bisexual is not necessarily sexually active with men, and someone who identifies as straight might be sexually active with men.\n\nDetermining the number of men who have ever had sex with another man is difficult worldwide. The World Health Organization estimates that at least 3% and as high as 16% of men have had sex at least once with a man. Their estimate includes victims of sexual abuse in addition to men who regularly or voluntarily have sex with men. The United Nations estimates that 6-20% of men worldwide have sex with other men at some point during their lifetime.\n\nEstimates about the U.S. population of MSM vary. The Center for Disease Control estimates that men who have sex with men represent about 2% of the American population. A 2005 study estimates that among U.S. men aged 15 to 44, an estimated 6% of have engaged in oral or anal sex with another man at some point in their lives, and about 2.9% have had at least one male partner in the previous 12 months. A 2007 study estimated that they are 7.1 million men who have sex with men (MSM) in the United States, or 6.4% of the overall population. Of these men, 71% are White, 15.9% are Hispanic, and 8.9% are black. The percentage of men who were MSM varied by state, with the lowest percentage in South Dakota (3.3%) and the highest in the District of Columbia (13.2%). However, the same study found that 57% of men who have sex with men identify as bisexual or straight. A 2010 Study estimated that 2.6% had engaged in same-sex behavior in the past year, 4.0% in the past five years, and 7.0% at any point in their lifetime.\n\nThe HIV virus affects the human immune system and, if left untreated can eventually lead to Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS).\n\nThe CDC reported that in 2009 that male-to-male sex (MSM) accounted for 61% of all new HIV infections in the U.S. and that those who had a history of recreational drug injection accounted for an additional 3% of new infections. Among the approximately 784,701 people living with an HIV diagnosis, 396,810 (51%) were MSM. About 48% of MSM living with an HIV diagnosis were white, 30% were black, and 19% were Hispanic or Latino. Although the majority of MSM are white, non-whites accounted for 54% of new infections HIV related MSM infections in 2008.\n\nIn 2010 the CDC reported that MSM represented approximately 4 percent of the male population in the United States but male-to-male sex accounted for 78 percent of new HIV infections among men and 63 percent of all new infections. Men overall accounted for 76% of all adults and adolescents living with HIV infection at the end of 2010 in the United States, and 80% (38,000) of the estimated 47,500 new HIV infections. 69% of men living with HIV were gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men. 39% (14,700) of new HIV infections in US men were in blacks, 35% (13,200) were in whites, and 22% (8,500) were in Hispanics/Latinos. The rate of estimated new HIV infections among black men (per 100,000) was 103.6—six and a half times that of white men (15.8) and more than twice the rate among Hispanic/Latino men (45.5) as of 2010.\n\nThe CDC (2015) reported that gay and bisexual men accounted for 82% (26,375 out of 1,242,000 adults and adolescents) of HIV diagnoses among males and 67% of all diagnoses in the United States, while six percent (2,392) of HIV diagnoses were attributed to injection drug use (IDU) and another 3% (1,202) to male-to-male sexual contact plus IDU. Heterosexual contact accounted for 24% (9,339) of all HIV diagnoses.\n\nAmong all gay and bisexual men with HIV infection classified as AIDS in the United States in 2015, African Americans accounted for the highest number (3,928; 39%), followed by whites (3,096; 31%) and Hispanics/Latinos (2,430; 24%). At the end of 2014, 508,676 gay and bisexual men were living with diagnosed HIV infection (53% of everyone living with diagnosed HIV in the US). Of gay and bisexual men living with diagnosed HIV, 157,758 (31%) were African American, 212,558 (42%) were white, and 109,857 (22%) were Hispanic/Latino. From 2005 to 2014 diagnoses among African American gay and bisexual men increased 22% but has increased less than 1% between 2010 and 2014. HIV diagnoses among African American gay and bisexual men aged 13 to 24 increased 87% between 2005 and 2014, but with diagnoses declining 2% between 2010 and 2014.\nA 2010 study estimated that for every 100,000 MSM, 692 will be diagnosed with HIV. This makes MSM 60 times more likely to contract the virus than other men and 54 times more likely than women.\n\nSince its height in 1993-1994 the death rate due to HIV has fallen more than 9 other leading causes of death, yet as of 2013 HIV continues to be one of the 10 leading causes of death among persons 25-44, especially among men, African Americans and in the South. Also as regards HIV relation to mortality, a study in the United Kingdom reported that in 2008 the overall mortality rate among the HIV-diagnosed population aged 15–59 years remained more than five times higher than that in the general population. However, as the study acknowledges data on the impact of HIV/AIDS on mortality among gay and bisexual men as well as among other populations, is very limited, and methods to use this are problematic.\n\nA 2007 study analyzing two large population surveys found that \"the majority of gay men had similar numbers of unprotected sexual partners annually as straight men and women.\" However, a 2006 study found that men who reported 4 or more male sexual partners were at increased risk of HIV infection. Study participants who reported amphetamine or heavy alcohol use before sex were more likely to have HIV or other sexually transmitted infections.\n\nA Kaiser Family Foundation study indicated that fewer Americans view HIV as a top health priority today compared to ten years ago. In 1996, 25% of Americans viewed HIV as an “urgent problem” to their community but in 2009, only 17% listed it as “urgent.” The percentage of 18- to 29-year-olds that were personally concerned about contracting the virus dropped from 28% in 1995 to 17% in 2009 A study conducted in 6 major U.S. cities found that only one in 4 teenage men who have sex with men believed they were personally at risk for contracting the HIV virus.\n\nThe HIV virus is more easily transmitted through unprotected anal intercourse than through unprotected vaginal intercourse and men who report unprotected receptive anal intercourse are at increased risk of contracting the HIV virus. Generally, the receptive partner is at greater risk of contracting the HIV virus because the lining of the rectum is thin and may allow the virus to enter the body through semen exchange. The insertive partner is also at risk because STIs can enter through the urethra or through small cuts, abrasions, or open sores on the penis. Also, condoms are more likely to break during anal sex than during vaginal sex. Thus, even with a condom, anal sex can be risky. A 2004 study of HIV positive men found men who had unprotected anal intercourse (UAI) in the past year were put at risk for contracting the virus. The study found that men who reported engaging in UAI had increased from 30% in 1996 to 42% in 2000. Almost half of all men who participated in UAI in 1996-1997 said that they had not known the HIV status of their partner Studies have found that risk factors for HIV infection are anal intercourse with a man in the past 12 months, having unstable housing, and having inhaled alkyl nitrites (“poppers”). A 2009 study on the prevalence of unprotected anal intercourse among HIV-diagnosed MSM found that majority protected their partners during sexual activity, but a sizeable number of men continue to engage in sexual behaviors that place themselves and others at risk for HIV infections.\n\nAlthough HIV transmission rates fell throughout the 1990s, they hit a plateau at the end of the decade. The increasing rates of sexually transmitted diseases in major cities in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom led to reports in the gay and mainstream media of condom fatigue and \"AIDS optimism\" as causes of the new \"laxness\" in safe sex practices. This is supported by research on the tendency of couples (heterosexual or homosexual) to use condoms less over time.\nA 2010 study found that gay and bisexual men choose to have unprotected sex for a variety of reasons and cannot be generalized. Erectile dysfunction, mental health problems and depression, lack of communication or intimacy, and a subculture of unprotected sex were all listed as reasons why men had sex without condoms voluntarily.\n\nIn the late 1980s the first direct advocacy groups for people with HIV/AIDS were created. Notably, the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power (ACT UP) formed at the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender Community Center in New York in the wake of the antiretroviral drug AZT to petition better access to drugs as well as cheaper prices, public education about AIDS and the prohibition of AIDS-related discrimination.\n\nThe Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) published a paper in 2005 offering specific policy solutions for alleviating the spread of the HIV virus in the MSM population for specific regions around the world. They pointed to “a profound lack of knowledge” and stigma about sexual identity as worldwide barriers to preventing transmission and encouraging those infected to seek treatment. The UNAIDS program has recommended that the South African government implement “sex positive” policies to reduce societal stigma around homosexuality and promote the use of water-based lubricants. Particularly in Morocco, the program has advocated distributing condoms in prisons. In recent years, the Chinese government has begun to acknowledge the sexuality of its constituents. According to UNAIDS, the “Government has made significant progress in recognizing the issue of male-to-male sexual health and HIV.” In Latin America, outreach to rural areas is critical to ensuring care to all individuals. The United Nations also emphasizes a focus on LGBT populations that are most vulnerable in Latin American nations. In Jamaica, as in many countries across the globe, homosexuality is outlawed so there are unique challenges to HIV prevention in the MSM community. The UN is trying to implement community-based strategies in Jamaica while still ensuring the anonymity of the people served. In Norway, UNAIDS has observed an increasing number of MSM who have untreated sexually transmitted infections, and their emphasis is on promoting condom use within the gay community. Despite Canada’s “liberal and progressive” reputation on the world stage, HIV-related stigma is still related to the gay community. The United Nations believes the United States needs to recognize sexual education as a fundamental human right. Additionally, better research on MSM in the U.S. would positively affect funding for HIV prevention and treatment programs.\n\nStudies have shown that although there is a large market for vaginal microbicides in developing nations, rectal microbicides are stigmatized and less researched. No microbicide has yet been proven to effectively protect against the risks of unprotected anal intercourses, but advocates believe greater funding for research is needed since condom usage rates are so low. However, stigma and homophobia would potentially be barriers to individuals buying the product. The authors mention this is especially a concern in Caribbean countries where HIV prevalence is high but homosexuality is still illegal and highly stigmatized (See HIV/AIDS in the Caribbean.) \n\nUNAIDS has observed “sero-selection” (choosing a partner based on their HIV status) becoming increasingly prevalent in partner choice and transmission in the United States. A 2008 CDC study found that one in five (19%) of MSM in major U.S. cities were infected with HIV and almost half (44%) were unaware of their infection. Many HIV-infected individuals do not seek treatment until late in their infection (an estimated 42% do not seek treatment until they begin to experience signs of illness.) Furthermore, a significant portion of individuals who are tested for HIV never return for their test results. Studies have advocated for funding and implementation of HIV tests that can be administered outside medical settings since 2003. Home testing is considered especially important because 8%-39% of partners tested in studies of partner counseling and referral services (PCRS) were found to have a previously undiagnosed HIV infection that their partner was unaware of.\n\nIn October 2012, OraQuick, the first rapid HIV home-testing kit, went on sale for $40. The test is nearly 100% accurate when it predicts HIV-negative results for HIV-negative individuals. However, for HIV-positive individuals that are not yet producing the antibodies detected by the test, it produces a false negative 93% of the time. Although the manufacturer, OraSure Technologies, is not advertising the test for use for selection of partners, experts have suggested that it may prevent unprotected sexual contact with partners that lie about or are unaware of their HIV status.\n\nA recent study examined how the OraQuick test would identify the behavior of 27 self-identified gay men who frequently had unprotected sex with acquaintances. The researchers gave each participant 16 tests to use over the course of three months. 101 potential partners were tested, and 10 were positive. None of the participants had sex with someone who tested positive. 23 other potential partners refused testing and left the encounter. 2 men admitted they were HIV-positive. Most participants said they would continue using home tests after the study ended to test potential partners on their own. The researchers considered home testing to be an effective prevention method for high-risk groups. However, the test’s $40 cost is considered a major deterrent to commonplace partner testing. \n"}
{"id": "57785320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57785320", "title": "Hazardous energy", "text": "Hazardous energy\n\nHazardous energy in occupational safety and health is any source of energy (including electrical, mechanical, thermal, and pneumatic sources of energy) that \"can be hazardous to workers\", such as from discharge of stored energy. Failure to control the unexpected release of energy can lead to machine-related injuries or fatalities. The risk from these sources of energy can be controlled in a number of ways, including access control procedures such as lockout-tagout.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1935636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1935636", "title": "Healing environments", "text": "Healing environments\n\nHealing environment, for healthcare buildings describes a physical setting and organizational culture that supports patients and families through the stresses imposed by illness, hospitalization, medical visits, the process of healing, and sometimes, bereavement. The concept implies that the physical healthcare environment can make a difference in how quickly the patient recovers from or adapts to specific acute and chronic conditions.\n\nThe original concept of the healing environment was developed by Florence Nightingale whose theory of nursing called for nurses to manipulate the environment to be therapeutic (Nightingale, F. 1859). Nightingale outlined in detail the requirements of the \"sick room\" to minimize suffering and optimize the capacity of a patient to recover, including quiet, warmth, clean air, light, and good diet. Early healthcare design followed her theories outlined in her treatise, \"Notes on Hospitals.\". Following the discoveries by Louis Pasteur and others which lead to the Germ Theory, plus other technologies, the role of the environment was dominated by infection control and technological advances.\n\nStarting in the 1960s, healing environments have been linked with Evidence-based design (EBD), giving the concept a strong scientific base. While in some respects it can be said that the concept of healing environments has evolved into EBD, it’s mainly in the area of reduction of stress that this overlap occurs; as EBD goes beyond the healing environments dimension to consider the effect of the built environment on patient clinical outcomes in the areas of staff stress and fatigue, patient stress, and facility operational efficiency and productivity to improve quality and\npatient safety. A 1984 study by Roger Ulrich found that surgical patients with a view of nature suffered fewer complications, used less pain medication and were discharged sooner than those who looked out on a brick wall. Since then, many studies have followed, showing impact of several environmental factors on several health outcomes.\n\nToday, the philosophy that guides the concept of the healing environment is rooted in research in the neurosciences, environmental psychology, psychoneuroimmunology, and evolutionary biology. The common thread linking these bodies of research is the physiological effects of stress on the individual and the ability to heal. Psychologically supportive environments enable patients and families to cope with and transcend illness.\n\nThe goal of creating a healing environment is to reduce stress, and thereby reduce associated problems such as medical error, inability to concentrate, and physical symptoms of stress that can affect logical thought process. While use of EBD techniques would not necessarily make an environment a healing one, through EBD we can define environmental factors that can help to ease stress and thereby result in a healing environment. Malkin emphasizes the contribution of research to concepts that can create a healing environment, but just the inclusion do not make setting a 'healing environment'. The design team needs to translate the EBD into design solutions unique to the individual hospital. \n\nAccording to \"The Business Case for Creating a Healing Environment\" written by Jain Malkin, the physical setting has the potential to be therapeutic if it achieves the following:\n\nThe most important thing for inpatients at hospitals is the comfort and normalcy of having family members and friends that visit and spend time with them. With advances in healthcare most patients are treated in an outpatient setting, where they come in have a procedure or test run and then go back to their homes. Today’s inpatients are more likely to have a serious condition and be there for a period of at least several days and sometimes even months. This explains the growing trend of creating healthcare environments that make not only the patient, but also their loved ones feel like they can relax and maybe even forget that they’re at the hospital. It is proven that if someone feels comfortable and relaxed, they can rest easier and heal faster.\n\nLighting Eighty percent of what we interpret of our surroundings comes to us from what we see of our environment and that is greatly affected by the light available in that environment. Lighting design in healthcare environments is a major factor in creating healing situations. Since the design of healthcare environments is said to influence patient’s outcomes, yet high costs prevent most hospitals from renovating or rebuilding, changes in lighting becomes a cost-effective way to improve existing environments. It is proven that people who are surrounded by natural light are more productive and live healthier lives. When patients are sick, and surrounded by medical equipment and white walls, the last thing they need is a dark, stuffy room. This is why it is important for every room to have a window for natural light to come into and help create a healing environment for the patient.\n\nThe Auditory Environment While so much of the patient's experience is based on visual cues, the majority of meaning of their experience is auditory. The many sounds of a hospital are foreign to their experience and their line of sight is limited. Nightingale claimed that sounds that create \"anticipation, expectation, waiting, and fear of surprise ...damage the patient.\"(). Add to the perception and meaning attribute to any sound the factors of age-related hearing impairment common to older patients, heavy medication, pain, and other conditions, cognition is impacted as is the ability to understand language. Hospital noise, at any volume level, is credited with being the primary cause of sleep deprivation, a contributing factor in delirium, and a risk factor for errors. The current pressure to reduce noise at night has been mistakenly understood to mean undue quiet at night when patients most need cues that people are around them and available if they need help. Just s lighting must be designed to serve both day and night, so much the auditory environment be designed to support activity,cognition, rest, and sleep.\n\nAdding to the above, patients need positive visual and auditory stimulation. Nightingale called for variety, color, and form as a means of arousing creativity and health in patients. Currently, using appropriate art, nature imagery and music are found to improve the experience of the patient. Technologies have afforded patients infinite options to use media as the choose. The addition of beauty must also be accompanied by an attention to orderliness: removal of clutter, trash, and other distractions.\n\nMalkin, Jain; \"Healing Environments at the Century Mark: the Quest for Optimal Patient Experiences\"; unpublished article by summarizing a presentation given at a mini-course sponsored by the Institute for Healthcare Improvement and The Center for Health Design, October 2003.\n\nMalkin, Jain; \"The Business Case for Creating a Healing Environment\"; published article written by Jain Malkin and published by The Center for Health Design, 2003\n\nSimeonova, M. (2002) Healthy lighting. Evidence Based Building Design for Healthcare.\nRetrieved 3 Apr. 2010. <http://healthdesign.org/resources/pubs/articles/essays/healthy_lighting.php>.\n\n"}
{"id": "32890301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32890301", "title": "Health crisis", "text": "Health crisis\n\nA health crisis or public health crisis is a difficult situation or complex health system that affects humans in one or more geographic areas (mainly occurred in natural hazards), from a particular locality to encompass the entire planet. Health crises generally have significant impacts on community health, loss of life, and on the economy. They may result from disease, industrial processes or poor policy.\n\nIts severity is often measured by the number of people affected by its geographical extent, or the disease or death of the pathogenic process which it originates.\n\nGenerally there are three key components in health crises:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49627903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49627903", "title": "Health effects of coal ash", "text": "Health effects of coal ash\n\nCoal ash, also known as coal combustion residuals (CCRs), is the particulate residue that remains from burning coal. Depending on the chemical composition of the coal burned, this residue may contain toxic substances and pose a health risk to workers in coal-fired power plants. \n\nCoal ash is found in coal-fired power plants. Coal is burned in coal-fired plants to produce electricity. More specifically, the coal is pulverized and then burned to generate energy. The particles that remain after burning coal is called coal ash. The production of coal combustion produces many by-products of coal ash. Some of these by-products are boiler slag, flue gas desulfurization material, bottom ash, fly ash, scrubber residues, cenospheres and fluidized bed combustion ash. Depending on the coal that was burned, the chemical composition found in coal ash can vary. However, most coal ash will contain aluminum oxide (AlO), calcium oxide (CaO) and silicon dioxide (SiO). Regardless of the by-product produced, there are many toxic substances that are present in coal ash that can cause major health problems in humans. Some toxic constituents that are found in coal ash are arsenic, boron, cadmium, chromium, cobalt, copper, lead, mercury, molybdenum, selenium, thallium and uranium.\n\nIn the United States, approximately 44.6 percent of electricity is produced from over 450 coal-fired power plants. In 2012, approximately 110 million tons of coal ash was produced from the coal that was burned in the United States. However, more than half of the coal ash produced is dumped into surface impoundments (wet storage) or landfills (dry storage). Specifically, there are approximately 1,070 coal ash waste ponds and about 435 landfill sites located throughout the United States. The major problem of these disposal sites is the toxicity of coal ash escaping and causing harm to humans and the environment. When coal ash waste is not properly controlled, the toxic substances can affect drinking water, food and air.\n\nCoal ash contains many toxic substances that can negatively impact the human body. Employees working in coal-fired power plants or near coal ash waste sites are at major risk of inhaling coal ash dust. Coal ash dust is generally known as particulate matter (particle pollution) and the dust particles can harm the lungs when inhaled. Workers increase their risk of harmful side effects when they inhale the smallest coal ash dust particles. The smaller the coal ash dust particle, the deeper the particle will be inhaled into the lungs. As a result, the toxic particles can inflame the lungs causing severe damage to the body. Furthermore, coal ash dust can enter the body through the nose causing damage to the brain directly. However, regardless of particle entry, the toxicity from coal ash can cause harm to major body parts such as the brain, lungs, heart, liver, kidneys, stomach and intestines. Thus, individuals working near coal ash surface impoundments or landfills are at increased risk for many serious health problems.\n\nLead: The exposure of lead in coal ash can cause major damage to the nervous system. Lead exposure can lead to kidney disease, hearing impairment, high blood pressure, delays in development, swelling of the brain, hemoglobin damage, and male reproductive problems. Both low levels and high levels of lead exposure can cause harm to the human body.\n\nCadmium: When coal ash dust is inhaled, high levels of cadmium is absorbed into the body. More specifically, the lungs directly absorb cadmium into the bloodstream. When humans are exposed to cadmium over a long period of time, kidney disease and lung disease can occur. In addition, cadmium exposure can be associated with hypertension. Lastly, chronic exposure of cadmium can cause bone weakness which increases the risk of bone fractures and osteoporosis.\n\nChromium: The exposure of chromium (IV) in coal ash can cause lung cancer and asthma when inhaled. When coal ash waste pollutes drinking water, chromium (IV) can cause ulcers in the small intestine and stomach when ingested. Lastly, skin ulcers can also occur when the exposure chromium (IV) in coal ash comes in contact with the skin. \n\nArsenic: When high amounts of arsenic is inhaled or ingested through coal ash waste, diseases such as bladder cancer, skin cancer, kidney cancer and lung cancer can develop. Ultimately, exposure of arsenic over a long period of time can cause mortality. Furthermore, low levels of arsenic exposure can cause irregular heartbeats, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, peripheral neuropathy and vision impairment. \n\nMercury: Chronic exposure of mercury from coal ash can cause harm to the nervous system. When mercury is inhaled or ingested various health effects can occur such as vision impairment, seizures, numbness, memory loss and sleeplessness.\n\nBoron: When coal ash dust is inhaled, the exposure of boron can cause discomfort in the throat, nose and eye. Moreover, when coal ash waste is ingested, boron exposure can be associated with kidney, liver, brain, and intestine impairment. \n\nMolybdenum: When molybdenum is inhaled from coal ash dust, discomfort of the nose, throat, skin and eye can occur. As a result, short-term molybdenum exposure can cause an increase of wheezing and coughing. Furthermore, chronic exposure of molybdenum can cause loss of appetite, tiredness, headaches and muscle soreness. \n\nThallium: The exposure of thallium in coal ash dust can cause peripheral neuropathy when inhaled. Furthermore, when coal ash is ingested, thallium exposure can cause diarrhea and vomiting. In addition, thallium exposure is also associated with heart, liver, lung and kidney complications. \n\nSilica: When silica is inhaled from coal ash dust, fetal lung disease or silicosis can develop. Furthermore, chronic exposure of silica can cause lung cancer. In addition, exposure to silica over a period of time can cause loss of appetite, poor oxygen circulation, breathing complications and fever.\n\nReuse of coal ash benefits the environment by reducing the production of greenhouse gas and reducing the need to use virgin materials. In addition, when coal ash is recycled, costs related to coal ash disposal sites are avoided. Thus, when coal ash is reused both the environment and economy are benefited. \n\nThere are two forms of coal ash recycling- “encapsulated” and “unencapsulated.\" When coal ash is bound to other materials it is encapsulated. For example, coal ash can be reused in making concrete, bricks and wallboards. On the other hand, unencapsulated use of coal ash is when the ash is not bound to other materials (loose particulate or sludge form). An example of unencapsulated coal ash is distributing the ash on icy roads in the winter. \n\nEven though reusing coal ash minimizes health effects in humans, health problems can still occur when coal ash is recycled. Specifically, workers drilling or cutting encapsulated coal ash increase their risk of inhaling coal ash dust. In addition, when unencapsulated coal ash is scattered on snowy streets in the winter, the loose ash can come in contact with ditches on the side of the road. As a result, the toxins from coal ash can “leach” into the water streams polluting above-ground waterways and eventually contaminating underground water supplies (drinking water). Therefore, both forms of recycled coal ash (encapsulated and unencapsulated) can cause serious health issues in humans.\n\nIn the United States, the only federal regulation regarding the disposal of coal ash is called “Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals from Electric Utilities”, which was signed into law on December 19th, 2014. In addition, when coal ash is disposed into surface impoundments and landfills, coal ash is regulated as non-hazardous solid waste under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA). Thus, the requirements of the coal ash disposal law is regulated under subtitle D of the RCRA.\n\nIn order for this federal regulation to be effective, there are some major requirements that surface impoundments and landfill facilities must follow. This rule requires facilities to prevent and control coal ash dust from accumulating into the air. As a result, facilities must provide annual plans for coal ash dust control. Furthermore, there are location restrictions where new landfills and surface impoundments can be built. In addition, if regulations of coal ash dust control are not maintained, closure of the facility will occur under the federal law. The law also requires all coal ash waste facilities to create annual groundwater monitoring reports. Lastly, all coal ash waste surface impoundments and landfills must keep a written record of the federal regulations at the facility for five years. Ultimately, this recent federal regulation is trying to eliminate occupational health concerns and environmental health issues regarding coal ash toxicity.\n\n"}
{"id": "39842091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39842091", "title": "Heterogeneous condition", "text": "Heterogeneous condition\n\nHeterogeneous medical condition in medicine are those medical conditions which have several etiologies, like hepatitis or diabetes. Medical conditions are normally defined pathologically (liver inflammation) or clinically (excessive urination) and not etiologically, and therefore it is normal to have more than one cause for them. The word is used as an opposition to homogeneous, meaning that given a group of patients, the disease is the same for all of them.\n\nWhen a condition is heterogeneous, it is normally divided in endotypes.\n\nAn endotype is a subtype of a condition, which is defined by a distinct functional or pathobiological mechanism. This is distinct from a phenotype, which is any observable characteristic or trait of a disease, such as morphology, development, biochemical or physiological properties, or behavior, without any implication of a mechanism. It is envisaged that patients with a specific endotype present themselves within phenotypic clusters of diseases.\n\nOne example is asthma, which is considered to be a syndrome, consisting of a series of endotypes. This is related to the concept of disease entity\n\nThe term medical condition is a nosological broad term that includes all diseases, disorders, injuries and syndromes, and it is specially suitable in the last case, in which it is not possible to speak about a single disease associated to the clinical course of the patient.\n\nWhile the term \"medical condition\" generally includes mental illnesses, in some contexts the term is used specifically to denote any illness, injury, or disease except for mental illnesses. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM), the widely used psychiatric manual that defines all mental disorders, uses the term \"general medical condition\" to refer to all diseases, illnesses, and injuries except for mental disorders. This usage is also commonly seen in the psychiatric literature. Some health insurance policies also define a \"medical condition\" as any illness, injury, or disease except for psychiatric illnesses.\n\nAs it is more value-neutral than terms like \"disease\", the term \"medical condition\" is sometimes preferred by people with health issues that they do not consider deleterious. It is also preferred when etiology is not unique, because the word disease is normally associated to the cause of the clinical problems. On the other hand, by emphasizing the medical nature of the condition, this term is sometimes rejected, such as by proponents of the autism rights movement.\n\nThe term is also used in specialized areas of the medicine. A genetic or allelic heterogeneous condition is one where the same disease or condition can be caused, or contributed to, by varying different genes or alleles. In clinical trials and statistics the concepts of homogeneous and heterogeneous populations is important. The same applies for epidemiology\n\n"}
{"id": "44731194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44731194", "title": "Human Factors in Engineering and Design", "text": "Human Factors in Engineering and Design\n\nHuman Factors in Engineering and Design is an engineering textbook, currently in its seventh edition. The book, first published in 1957, is considered a classic in human factors and ergonomics, and one of the best-established texts in the field. It is frequently taught in upper-level and graduate courses in the U.S., and is relied on by practicing human factors and ergonomics professionals.\n\nThe text is divided into six sections: Introduction; Information Input; Human Output and Control; Work Space and Arrangement; Environment; and Human Factors: Selected Topics.\n\n"}
{"id": "24223801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24223801", "title": "Kazutaka Kogi", "text": "Kazutaka Kogi\n\nKazutaka Kogi (born 1933) is a Japanese academic known for his contributions to simple, low-cost interventions in small manufacturing enterprises that improve the working conditions for the employees and at the same time also improve the overall productivity of the workforce. The interventions are based on simple and low-cost modifications, on local solutions to highly specific local problems and specifically on the collaboration between the shopfloor and the managerial level. This collaborative or participatory approach is possible because the intervention is presented as a win-win situation for both parties. Kazutaka Kogi and his colleague Kageyo Noro are considered to have founded the concept of participatory ergonomics in Singapore in 1983\n\nHe has worked extensively for the International Labour Organization and held the Vice-Presidency for ICOH in 2006-2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58569068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58569068", "title": "List of countries by maternal mortality rate", "text": "List of countries by maternal mortality rate\n\nMaternal death or maternal mortality is defined by the World Health Organization (WHO) as \"the death of a woman while pregnant or within 42 days of termination of pregnancy, irrespective of the duration and site of the pregnancy, from any cause related to or aggravated by the pregnancy or its management but not from accidental or incidental causes.\" The maternal mortality rate, on the other hand, is the number of maternal deaths per 100,000 births. The maternal mortality is used as a criterion for the quality of medical care in a country.\n\nCountries by maternal mortality rate in the year 2015. All data is from the World Bank.\n"}
{"id": "13392418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13392418", "title": "Literatura Latino-Americana e do Caribe em Ciências da Saúde", "text": "Literatura Latino-Americana e do Caribe em Ciências da Saúde\n\nLiteratura Latino-Americana e do Caribe em Ciências da Saúde (Literature in the Health Sciences in Latin America and the Caribbean, in Portuguese language), acronym LILACS, is an on-line bibliographic database in medicine and health sciences, maintained by the \"Latin American and Caribbean Center on Health Sciences Information\" (also known as BIREME, located in São Paulo, Brazil. Similar to MEDLINE, which was developed by the United States National Library of Medicine, it contains bibliographic references to papers that have been published in a set of scientific and medical journals of the region, and that are not covered by MEDLINE.\n"}
{"id": "41422437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41422437", "title": "MAP International", "text": "MAP International\n\nMAP International is a global Christian health and relief organization that partners with people living in conditions of poverty to save lives and develop healthier families and communities. Recognized for their 99% efficiency rating, they respond to the needs of those they serve by providing medicines, preventing disease and promoting health to create real hope and lasting change. Their mission is to advance the total health of people living in the world’s poorest communities. They carry out that mission in the broad programmatic areas of community health development, disease prevention and eradication, relief and rehabilitation and global health advocacy.\n\nMAP International was founded as Medical Assistance Programs International, an organization that provides medical supplies abroad, encourages community health development, prevents disease, and responds to disasters, was founded in 1954 by J. Raymond Knighton, the first Executive director of the Christian Medical and Dental Society (CMDS). MAP International is a member of Integral, an international cooperation of 19 Christian aid organizations. MAP International’s first project was to supply Shering Corporation and Eli Lilly’s donation of 11 tons of medicines abroad in developing areas. \n\nSince then, MAP International has instituted numerous projects including but not limited to emergency relief efforts after Typhoon Gloria in Taiwan, civilian casualties in Panama, the fall of the Soviet Union, Hurricane Mitch in Honduras, the fall of the Taliban, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, the 2010 Haiti earthquake, the Ebola outbreak in West Africa, the 2015 Nepal earthquake, the 2016 Ecuador earthquake, and Zika relief in Latin America. MAP International also started Fellowship programs to train medical students, opened offices in developing areas such as Ecuador, Kenya, and West Africa, and donated billions of dollars in medicines and supplies to people in need.\n\nMAP's Mission | MAP International is a global Christian health and relief organization that partners with people living in conditions of poverty to save lives and develop healthier families and communities. Recognized for our 99% efficiency rating, we respond to the needs of those we serve by providing medicines, preventing disease and promoting health to create real hope and lasting change. Our mission is to advance the Total Health of people living in the world’s poorest communities. We carry out that mission in the broad programmatic areas of community health development, disease prevention and eradication, relief and rehabilitation and global health advocacy. Although MAP International is a Christian organization, it has a policy against discrimination based on religion, gender, race, and other aspects of an individual’s background, and will not refuse help to anyone based on these classifications.\n\nMAP International’s status as a highly credible organization is well attested to by multiple well-known sources. Forbes, Inc. recognizes MAP International as the #37 Largest U.S. Charity. This shows that the MAP International program is very well recognized and generates a large amount of revenue. It illuminates important aspects of the program such as its donor dependency, total revenue, amount spent on charitable work, and fundraising efficiency. BBB lists MAP International as an accredited charity, meaning it meets the standards in terms of governance, measuring effectiveness, finances, and fund raising and information. Charity Navigator rates MAP International as 100 out of 100, and four out of four stars, and includes information about the program’s accountability and transparency. CNBC named MAP International #2 on their list of Top-Ten Charities Changing the World in 2015. Popline points out that some health workers have biases against working with faith-based programs, but that the merits of the MAP International program should dispel these biases. It also discusses the financial benefits of FBOs in relation to “their ability to leverage volunteer work with minimal effort.”\n\nMAP International works to respond to both natural and conflict related emergencies. MAP International provides medical relief shipments to those in need and monitors the health of those in need, if an emergency occurs in a country MAP International has instituted a country presence it implements a country office response in which MAP International staff mobilize to provide health care, and utilizes community based disaster mitigation to train community members to manage the effects of the disaster and promote health in the wake of the disaster on a long-term scale. Current MAP International disaster relief programs include Typhoon Haiyan: Philippines, Cyclone Phailin, Oklahoma Tornado, and Syrian Refugee relief. MAP International has responded to Typhoon Haiyan by shipping $4.2 million in medicines and supplies, and is still in the process of responding by providing emergency health care kits to victims. MAP International recognizes its partners for their integral role in efficiently distributing donated medicines and supplies, and states the difficulties they have encountered in getting the medicines to the victims. For example, all of the medicine shipments in Leyte Island were washed away when the typhoon hit that area. In response to the detrimental effects of Cyclone Phailin, MAP International is providing India with temporary shelter structures, food, medicine, and cooking utensils. MAP International has responded to the Oklahoma Tornado by donating over $127,000 of supplies to their partner, Convoy of Hope, in Oklahoma. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation also mentions MAP International's affiliation with Abbott in response to the tornado. In response to the civil war in Syria, MAP International has sent two shipments to refugees, and is still responding by preparing a third shipment to send when sufficient funding is acquired. The Saporta Report outlines MAP International's involvement in Syrian Refugee Crisis relief efforts, and briefly describes the cost of these emergency aid kits.\n\nA program to turn short-term missions into long-term local health programs.\n\nMedical or non-medical volunteers from the United States help with an existing program in a Total Health Village, assisted by members of MAP International.\n\nShort-term field study for students integrated into the curriculum of a scholastic establishment for credit within the degree areas of health or international development.\n\nOpportunity for fourth year medical students to work during an 8-week program in a MAP-approved hospital or clinic, usually in Kenya, Uganda, Ecuador, Honduras, Bolivia, Indonesia, Liberia, Cote d’Ivore, or Ghana.\n\nVolunteers are educated about a MAP Internal program and work with members of an underserved community to explore ways to collaborate with MAP International programs.\n\nEmergency aid teams from the United States respond quickly to help affected communities by implementing disaster management strategies and training community members to sustain these programs on a long-term basis.\n\nMAP International contributes over $250 million inexpensive bought and donated medicines and supplies to philanthropic relief organizations helping underserved communities each year. The medicines provided are from the Essential Drug List (EDL).\n\nMAP International has implemented programs in Ecuador, Uganda, Kenya, and Bolivia. These programs focus on a plethora of different topics including perinatal care, training health promoters, preventing sexual abuse, providing rehabilitation for victims of sexual abuse, and education.\n\nMAP International has implemented programs in Kenya, Uganda, Ecuador, Honduras, Bolivia, Indonesia, Liberia, Cote d’Ivore, and Ghana to treat and prevent Guinea worm, Buruli ulcer, Leprosy, Yaws, Lymphatic filariasis, Chagas Disease, Soil-transmitted Helminthes, and Rabies. Programs to eradicate these diseases include vaccinations, education, water and sanitation efforts, awareness building, community mobilization, and operations.\n\nMAP International has implemented programs in 65 villages throughout Kenya, Uganda, Ecuador, Honduras, Bolivia, Indonesia, Liberia, Cote d’Ivore, and Ghana to encourage and equip underserved communities to come up with their own innovative solutions to the daily challenges they face. This program focuses on local solutions to problems within the cultural context of the community and is designed to give the community command of the improvement plan. Community members take part in many aspects of other current projects listed such as water and sanitation efforts and disease treatment, as well as working to settle conflict, train local health promoters, and facilitate economic security.\n\nWater and Sanitation are aspects assimilated into all MAP International programs because of the significant impact they have on preventing disease and promoting other facets of Total Health. Water and Sanitation efforts involve building separate waste and clean drinking structures, providing water filters to communities, and establishing Community Led Total Sanitation programs. MAP International utilizes a sweat equity design to implement Sawyer water filters in underserved communities and implements a small-scale demonstration with the help of a few members in the community before introducing water sanitation efforts on a large-scale throughout the village. Sawyer attests to the integral role MAP International has played in distributing hundreds water filters to communities. Community Led Total Sanitation programs are designed to educate and empower local community members to make their village a more sanitary and healthy environment through education about the negative health effects of drinking unclean water and the importance of separating human waste structures and drinking water structures.\n"}
{"id": "8830624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8830624", "title": "National minimum dataset", "text": "National minimum dataset\n\nIn health informatics, a national minimum dataset is a database of health encounters held by a central repository.\n\n\"Minimum\" implies that the data fields will be only those required to aggregate information for the purposes of administering the health system in the particular country and for reporting information required as a member country of WHO.\n\n"}
{"id": "2215129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2215129", "title": "Nkosi's Haven", "text": "Nkosi's Haven\n\nNkosi's Haven is an NGO in the Johannesburg, South Africa area that offers residential, holistic care and support for mothers and their children whose lives have been impacted by HIV/AIDS. Nkosi's Haven also provides support for orphans, HIV/AIDS affected or not. It aims to improve the productivity of their residents through providing access to medical care, therapy, education and skill building workshops. The goal is to empower residents while providing a safe, dignified home in hopes that all mothers and children are able to become responsible and contributing members of society.\n\nNkosi's Haven was named after Nkosi Johnson, an AIDS activist who dedicated his life to ensuring that mothers and their children are kept together under the belief that no mother should have to leave her child due to HIV diagnosis. It is a recognized non-governmental organization that is largely funded by international donors and governmental organizations. Funding is allocated to assist accommodations, which include housing, food, water, medication, and hospice care. It also assists with education costs such as school fees, uniforms, and other expenditures. Residents share household tasks among themselves, including tasks such as cooking, cleaning, laundry, and childcare.\nAt the time of inception, it was the first and only care centre in South Africa that provided residential care for mothers living with HIV/AIDS and their children.\n\n“Through all of the work we do, we ensure that our residents learn how to live with AIDS, not die from it.” Nkosi's Haven has built a home in which residents can live free from prejudice and discrimination against HIV/AIDS and children can grow into self-sufficient and responsible members of society.\n\nNkosi's Haven was named after Nkosi Johnson, a young AIDS activist who died on International Children's Day in 2001. Born Xolani Nkosi, Nkosi was infected with HIV through mother-to-child transmission. Nkosi and his mother were admitted to an AIDS care centre in Johannesburg, where they met Gail Johnson, a volunteer worker.\n\nDue to financial restraints, the care centre that Nkosi and his mother were living in closed down. Nkosi's mother's health was deteriorating rapidly and she was unable to keep Nkosi due to her health conditions and financial dependency. She also feared that the community would find out that both herself and Nkosi were HIV positive and exile them. As a result, Gail Johnson took Nkosi into her care, changing his name to Nkosi Johnson, and became his legal foster mother.\n\nGail Johnson attempted to enroll Nkosi into school in Johannesburg and was faced with backlash as soon as Nkosi's HIV status was made public. In 1997, Johnson took the case to court, winning her case and forcing the South African educational system to revise their admittance policies discriminating against children with AIDS.\n\nAfter Nkosi's experience with discrimination due to his health status and the forced separation between him and his mother, Nkosi's dream was to create an HIV/AIDS care centre in which children and their mothers could live freely without prejudice or discrimination because of their health status. With the help of his foster mother, Gail, Nkosi opened Nkosi's Haven in 1999, providing hundreds of mothers and their children with a safe space and communal environment.\n\nNkosi's journey made him the national figure in the fight against AIDS. In July 2000, Nkosi wrote and presented a speech at the 13th International Aids Conference, held in Durban, which was televised worldwide. At 11 years old, he spoke to delegates about his experience growing up with HIV. His fight with HIV birthed his dream to raise awareness and erase the stigma of HIV/AIDS through communal, supportive environments and care centres. Nkosi is most famously known for his quote,\n“We are normal. We have hands. We have feet. We can walk, we can talk, we have needs just like everyone else- don't be afraid of us- we are all the same!\"\n\nA year before his death, Nkosi suffered through severe brain damage and viral infections due to AIDS. He was bedridden, emaciated, suffering from seizures and unable to eat solid foods. After battling the disease for 12 years, Nkosi Johnson died in his sleep on 1 June 2001.\n\nNkosi was given a hero's burial memorial service in Johannesburg with thousands of attendees paying their respects to the late activist.\n\nAt the time of his death, Nkosi Johnson was South Africa's longest surviving child born with HIV/AIDS. In 2005, he was awarded with the International Children's Peace Prize for his fight against HIV/AIDS and activist efforts. After his death, Nelson Mandela released a statement, recognizing Nkosi as an \"icon of the struggle for life\" who fought fearlessly against HIV/AIDS. He urged everyone to give their support during this time, acknowledging Nkosi as an ambassador for South Africa and its people, especially those living with HIV.\n\nNkosi Johnson's legacy lives on through the work of Nkosi's Haven.\n\nSouth Africa has had high rates of HIV/AIDS diagnoses for years, with approximately 6.19 million accounted individuals living with HIV/AIDS in 2015. Within the age group of adults aged 15–49 years old, 16.6% of that cohort is HIV positive. HIV/AIDS related deaths have been declining as of recent years, with 2005 being the year with the highest number of deaths in South Africa. Thereafter, antiretroviral treatment was administered and easily accessible, changing the patterns of HIV/AIDS and extending the lifespan of many South Africans who would have otherwise died at an earlier age.\n\nHIV/AIDS related illnesses are still high, with an increase of 4.02 million people living with HIV in South Africa from 2002 to 2015. Statistics South Africa approximates that every one out of five South African females in their reproductive ages are living with HIV.\n\nUNAIDS reports that approximately 2.1 million children in South Africa are orphans due to HIV/AIDS related illnesses, with 180,000 deaths occurring in the year of 2015. Women over the age of 15 account for 4 million people living with HIV, and approximately 240,000 children under the age of 14 have been affected by HIV.\n\nEvidence has shown that the HIV/AIDS crisis has had a significant impact on South African family life. Responsibility for children growing up in South African society has been increasingly separate from biological parenthood due to the lack of parental care available. Under many circumstances, children often care for their own families due to the circumstances created by the HIV/AIDS epidemic.\n\nIn 1999, Nkosi and Gail opened their first Nkosi's Haven location in Berea, Johannesburg. Despite being close to the city centre, selling properties became increasingly difficult in Berea, with the neighbouring area of Hillbrow beside, as it became an area that was frequented with street children and the unemployed. The 1980s was an era of high crime rates in downtown Johannesburg, which neighboured Hillbrow and Berea. After the apartheid ended in the 1990s, many gangs, along with residents from neighbouring townships, moved into the area making it unsafe. Thus, the property was offered to Gail Johnson, rent free for 5 years.\n\nThe house was located on 23 Mitchell street and consisted of four bedrooms, one bathroom upstairs and one downstairs, a lounge, a room used as a dormitory, and a courtyard. Renovations and repairs were needed, in addition to furniture and basic house necessities. To raise funds for the completion of the house, Gail, a former public relations consultant, held a “kitchen tea” in which a wish list was created and publicized in the media and to those who were potential contributors. At the tea, Gail explained the reasons behind the creation of Nkosi's Haven. She explained that Nkosi's Haven was to offer a kibbutz style of living in which residents would take turns at cooking, cleaning, caring for the children, and helping care for each other as needed. Gail also told the guests that they already reached capacity for residence at the house. At the time, the house fit nine mothers and their children with presumed costs starting at R28,000 monthly. The results of the kitchen tea were successful and Gail managed to fundraise R45,000 worth of furniture and equipment, free electrical services, along with appliances valued at R30,000 for the nursery and dormitory.\n\nAfter 3 years in operation, Nkosi's Haven saw need for a second home as the Berea residence was rapidly expanding with mothers and children living with HIV/AIDS and orphans. In 2002, a separate plot of land was purchased south of Johannesburg. Upon development, both residences catered to over 160 residents and their children providing meals, medication, education, daily necessities for residents living with or without HIV/AIDS, and care for orphans.\n\nDue to financial restraints, in 2012, the NGO sold its property in Berea and moved all occupants to Nkosi's Haven Village in Alan Manor, South of Johannesburg. Costs for operating the Berea house were as much as R150,000 to R180,000 monthly, and because all occupants could be accommodated at the village, consolidating all residents meant that no one was left without a home or unemployed. Given that Nkosi's Haven village had bigger plans in motion, the shift would focus on different things such as training opportunities for residents at the newly purchased farm and other facilities at the Nkosi's Haven Village. These opportunities were unavailable in Berea due to space and financial constraints. Gail reasoned this by stating, “We are not the Titanic. We are consolidating... it makes sense to consolidate and save money.”\n\nNkosi's Haven grew so rapidly that in 2002, a second 2.5 acre plot of land was purchased in the Alan Manor neighbourhood, south of Johannesburg to begin the development of Nkosi's Haven Village. This was made possible through a grant from the Gauteng Department of Housing, Social Housing and Special Needs. Although the project received backlash from neighbouring communities, key sponsors made the initiative possible and enabled Nkosi's Haven to host up to 180 residents at a time.\n\nNkosi's Haven Village in Alan Manor consists of 17 cottages in which residents reside in, a sickbay, a library, a baby day care, a therapy block, a kitchen, a bakery, and a leisure block. There are also workshops and classrooms such as a computer room and an arts room for additional education and skill building. Administrative offices are located near the sickbay. All residents share household tasks and duties that help with the functioning of the village, providing a sense of leadership and empowerment to residents through skill-building activities.\n\nIn 2010, Nkosi's Haven received a bakery donation from the South African Whole Grain Bread Project (SAGWBP). In addition to the onsite bakery container donation, SAGWBP donated enough bread mix for six months. White and brown loaves are still produced for resident consumption and are marketed to other organizations in the community at a competitive price. The residents of Nkosi's Haven Village handle oversight of operations in the bakery. While providing skill-building opportunities, those who assist can also earn a stipend for their labour.\n\nIn 2009, Nkosi's Haven opened their new, industrial sized kitchen through generous donations from sponsors. Employed resident mothers cook to feed the large number of residents, serving hundreds of meals daily. Three well-balanced meals are provided to every resident mother, all children and volunteers.\n\nA leisure room was built at Nkosi's Haven Village to further meet the requirements to become a Child Care Centre in South Africa. Dance lessons take place in the large space on a weekly basis. The room is painted with bright colours, equipped with colourful furniture, bean bag chairs, a television, and foosball tables.\n\nNkosi's Haven Library provides a space for resident children to do their homework, leisurely reading, art sessions and workshops. Workshops include HIV/AIDS awareness sessions and life skills for women. Through funding, the Haven continues to expand its book collection in hopes to educate and provide relevant resources for residents.\n\nA recent project development was the implementation of bibliotherapy at the library in 2010. The bibliotherapy program used books to assist the children and young teens with coping with social, emotional and physical issues. The program identified the children's needs and used a variety of programs to help eradicate the isolation of people living with HIV/AIDS through education, self-awareness, skill development, and recreation. Some sessions included storytelling, reading aloud, and \"The Wall of Happiness Sessions\" in which participants openly discussed what made them happy with the facilitator. The program was made available to all residents at Nkosi's Haven, including orphans and those who were free of HIV/AIDS in order to increase overall awareness. Results of the program showed success among residents, with 92% of young participants demonstrating increased knowledge and understanding about HIV/AIDS related issues, 78% demonstrating an increase in comfort and decrease in fear around HIV/AIDS related issues, and 91% of adults demonstrating an improvement in self-esteem and optimistic attitudes.\n\nA music and arts centre has been built onsite for resident use. This centre includes a keyboard and drums and is also a space that is used by the choir. Due to limited space and resources, Nkosi's Haven relies on the help of volunteers to teach music and arts lessons onsite. Programs are run year-round for mothers and their children.\n\nAn ongoing workshop is artsINSIDEOUT's annual two-week art camp that runs at Nkosi's Haven. With the help of ASTEP (Artists Striving to End Poverty), a unique art program featuring successful and competitive professionals from all areas of art including students and graduates from Juilliard, ASTEP volunteer artists use storytelling, singing, acting, dancing and visual arts to inspire the youth at Nkosi's Haven to build community, consciousness and self-awareness. To date, artsINSIDEOUT has organized trips to Nkosi's Haven for 6 years and has provided funding for year-round programming, including workshops and cultural programs. Local artists are invited to join the diverse artsINSIDEOUT team to enhance cultural programs available to Nkosi's Haven.\n\nIn 2006, Nkosi's Haven Village completed the Sickbay, consisting of a 9-bed unit, qualified nursing staff, and family physicians to help care for HIV positive residents. Many residents are sick due to AIDS related illnesses and are being administered quality treatment and ARV's as needed.\n\nAll children at Nkosi's Haven Village receive various forms of therapy, including remedial, play, occupational and speech. The therapy block was completed in December 2009 and employs two full-time therapists onsite to assist residents living with HIV/AIDS. Therapists also assist with helping resident mothers disclose their HIV status to their children.\n\nNkosi's Haven Village has one classroom and two workshops that act as a site for homework and afterschool programs. These areas offer skill-building workshops on a regular basis for residents to learn various skills such as knitting, pottery, resume writing, and more.\n\nWith the help of BT South Africa, an ICT infrastructure company, Nkosi's Haven opened a communications centre in 2010. The room comes equipped with computer monitors valued at R100,000 which allows the youth at Nkosi's Haven to videoconference and chat with their mentors and friends worldwide. Infinite Family, an American organization that enables children living with HIV/AIDS to connect with mentors worldwide, has provided more than 50 youth at Nkosi's Haven with mentors.\n\nThis room is also used to assist resident youth with their homework.\n\nNkosi's Haven 4Life Farm, located 50 km south of Johannesburg, has been in operation since 2008. The farm is 12 acres and currently provides crops for meals at Nkosi's Haven Village. Foundation 4Life has helped support Nkosi's Haven for years and made contributions that helped begin the production of the farm.\n\nWithin the next 5 years of full operation, Nkosi's Haven 4LIFE farm aims to implement a self-sustaining style of living in which mothers living with HIV/AIDS and their children from a neighbouring township and the surrounding area will assist in growing organic food to serve themselves, Nkosi's Haven's residents, and the local markets and supermarkets. The goal is to produce crops for sale in supermarket chains in South Africa once the farm is sustainable and crops are of good standard. A number of new cottages will be built on the farm to accommodate more mothers and their children in need of Nkosi's Haven's assistance.\n\nNkosi's Haven has begun construction on the premises to begin early interventions of child development, skill transfer and various forms of therapy. Given that children in South Africa are held back from attending school if they are undergoing forms of therapy, an onsite preschool bypasses those restrictions and enables youth to develop their skills while receiving therapy. Nkosi's Haven pays R1000 monthly for each toddler to attend preschool outside of Nkosi's Haven, thus, an onsite preschool will save financial resources and assist Nkosi's Haven in becoming self-sufficient and sustainable. Nkosi's Haven plans to hire certified teachers in addition to training resident mothers to assist at the preschool, also building their skills and capacity.\n\n"}
{"id": "29718829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29718829", "title": "OHSAS 18001", "text": "OHSAS 18001\n\nOHSAS 18001, Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series, (officially BS OHSAS 18001) is a British Standard for occupational health and safety management systems. Compliance with it enables organizations to demonstrate that they have a system in place for occupational health and safety. BS OHSAS 18001 is being replaced by ISO 45001, which was published in March 2018 by the International Organization for Standardization. Organizations which are certified to BS OHSAS 18001 should migrate to ISO 45001 by March 2021 if they want to retain a recognized certification. \n\nOrganizations worldwide recognize the need to control and improve health and safety performance and do so with occupational health and safety management systems (OHSMS). However, before 1999 there was an increase of national standards and proprietary certification schemes to choose from. This caused confusion and fragmentation in the market and undermined the credibility of individual schemes.\n\nRecognising this deficit, an international collaboration called the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) Project Group was formed to create a single unified approach. The Group comprised representatives from national standards bodies, academic bodies, accreditation bodies, certification bodies and occupational safety and health institutions, with the UK’s national standards body, BSI Group, providing the secretariat.\n\nDrawing on the best of existing standards and schemes, the OHSAS Project Group published the OHSAS 18000 Series in 1999. The Series consisted of two specifications: 18001 provided requirements for an OHS management system and 18002 gave implementation guidelines. As of 2005, around 16,000 organizations in more than 80 countries were using the OHSAS 18001 specification. By 2009 more than 54,000 certificates had been issued in 116 countries to OHSAS or equivalent OHSMS standards.\n\nThe OHSAS 18001 specification was updated in July 2007. Among other changes, the new specification was more closely aligned with the structures of ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 so that organizations could more easily adopt OHSAS 18001 alongside existing management systems. Additionally, the \"health\" component of \"health and safety\" was given greater emphasis.\nLater, the BSI Group decided to adopt OHSAS 18001 as a British standard. BSI Group subsequently adopted the updated 18002 guidance specification for publication as BS OHSAS 18002 in 2008.\n\nIts supporters claim that an occupational health and safety management system (OHSMS) promotes a safe and healthy working environment by providing a framework that helps organizations to:\n\nThe OHSAS 18000 standards provide organizations with the elements of an effective safety management system which can be integrated with other management systems and help organizations achieve better occupational health and safety performance and economic objectives.\n\nBS OHSAS 18001 specifies requirements for an OH&S management system to help an organization develop and implement a policy and objectives, which take into account legal requirements and information about OH&S risks. It applies to all types and sizes of organizations and accommodates diverse geographical, cultural and social conditions.\n\nBS OHSAS 18002 provides guidance for establishing, implementing or improving a management system which is based on OHSAS 18001 and demonstrating successful implementation of OHSAS 18001.\n\nOHSAS 18001 can be aligned with existing ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 management systems. Historically many organizations start with the quality management system ISO 9001, then add the environment management requirements from ISO 14001. Many organizations now look at implementing all three standards at once which can minimize costs and disruption. The standards can be integrated using a standard such as BSI’s PAS 99.\n\nThe OHSAS 18000 standards were written and published wholly outside of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) framework. To avoid confusion, ISO 18000 does exist – but it is a radio-frequency identification standard.\n"}
{"id": "39906307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39906307", "title": "Overseas Student Health Cover", "text": "Overseas Student Health Cover\n\nOverseas Student Health Care is a compulsory health insurance product required by international students studying in Australia. OSHC is an insurance product that basically gives international students a level of insurance coverage that is based on the Australian Medicare system. Overseas Student Health Cover is commonly referred to as OSHC. Students can arrange to pay for their OSHC through their educational institution. However, students can still choose their own OSHC provider even when their educational institution makes a specific recommendation because they have negotiated a preferred provider arrangement with a particular insurer.\n\nOSHC is only able to be offered by Australian private health insurers who have signed the Deed for the provision of Overseas Student Health Cover with the Australian government. The Deed outlines the conditions required to be met by the registered insurers in order to offer the OSHC product. A legal document between the Commonwealth of Australia and the relevant insurer, the Deed dictates the minimum benefits payable by the insurer, in addition to conditions for which it is not required to pay any benefits. \nIn addition, clause 6.8 of the Deed stipulates the conditions under which the insurers can terminate policies and make refunds, specifically:\n\n\nOSHC is not needed if the student is:\n\n\nAs at 30 June 2013, there were 5 health insurers who are signatories to the Australian Government the Deed for the provision of Overseas Student Health Cover enabling them to offer OSHC. These insurers are:\n\nOSHC Australia is website that assists students to help select their OSHC cover: http://oshcaustralia.com.au.\n"}
{"id": "16940761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16940761", "title": "PIMEX", "text": "PIMEX\n\nPIMEX is one of the so-called video exposure monitoring methods which are used in occupational hygiene practise since their introduction in the mid-1980s. The name PIMEX is an acronym from the words PIcture Mix EXposure, and implies that the method is based on mixing pictures, in this case from a video camera, with data on a worker’s exposure to some agent. The main idea of the method is to make invisible hazards in the work environment visible and in this manner facilitate the reduction of hazards in workplaces.\n\nThe method PIMEX was originally developed in Sweden during the 1980s by Gunnar Rosén and Ing-Marie Andersson. Similar technique was developed also in USA where NIOSH researchers described a technique using a video overlay board and computer program to display, in real-time or after recording of data and video on tape, the measured value as a bar graph and the picture on the computer screen. \n\nVideo exposure monitoring has thereafter been further developed and used in a number of countries.\n\nThe workers’ knowledge of risks associated with their tasks and, perhaps more importantly, how these risks can be controlled, is essential to improve their health. Applications of the PIMEX methods are various, focusing on work task analysis, training and risk communication, encouraging worker participation in and motivation for improvements in the workplace environment.\n\nPIMEX is used in many different countries. It is a widely used in the Netherlands for risk communication in the field of chemical exposure and it has been proven to be a very strong communication tool. There are more than 100 professional videos made with PIMEx for many different industries. They are all free available. The Dutch Ministry of social affairs developed a new promo video of PIMEX. It demonstrates the function and use of PIMEX with various examples from working environments.\n\nThere are a number of situations where PIMEX has been used:\n\n\nIn the Netherlands, the method is available to small and medium enterprises by the use of a half day workplace analysis or simple videos can be made.\n\nPIMEX is also used to visualize noise, heat stress, nanoparticles, electromagnetic fields and physical load. In the Netherlands there are also videos available that are made for employees in health services who are working with a mobile patient hoist. Such mobile hoists are used to reduce physical overload. The video shows the difference in exposure between using the hoist in the wrong and the correct way, for example when the wheels are in the wrong or right position.\n\n"}
{"id": "50561434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50561434", "title": "Participatory poverty assessment", "text": "Participatory poverty assessment\n\nParticipatory poverty assessment (PPA) is the approach to analyzing and reducing poverty by incorporating the views of the poor. PPAs attempt to better understand the poor, to give the poor more influence over decisions that affect their lives, and to increase effectiveness of poverty reduction policies. PPAs are seen as complements to traditional household surveys by helping to interpret survey results, and aim to capture the experiences of the poor by being more open-ended.\n\nBefore the 1990s, household-survey approaches were the main way to measure poverty. This shifted to participatory activities in the 1990s after critiques of these traditional methods.\n\nThe term \"participatory poverty assessment\" was coined within the World Bank in 1992, and was seen as a participatory form of poverty assessments (PAs, i.e. survey-based approaches).\n\nEarly experiences of PPAs were in sub-Saharan Africa in the early 1990s.\n\nBy 1998, 43 PPAs had been conducted: 28 in Africa, 6 in Latin America, 5 in Eastern Europe, and 4 in Asia.\n\nEarly PPAs focused most on making higher quality information available to policy makers, rather than seeing the poor as itself being involved in the process of reducing poverty.\n\nLater in the 1990s, \"second generation\" PPAs appeared, which tried to allow the poor to influence policy decisions.\n\nAs of 2012, the World Bank's Voices of the Poor is the largest PPA ever to have been conducted.\n\nBoth PPAs and traditional surveys contain both quantitative and qualitative information, as well as \"subjective\" and \"objective\" parts, so this is not necessarily a distinguishing feature of PPAs. Rather:\n\nPPAs are also distinguished from anthropological studies because the latter analyze few communities in depth, whereas PPAs analyze various communities of a country. PPAs also focus on policy decisions (which anthropological studies don't need to).\n\nWithin PPAs, various methodologies exist. Some PPAs use more than one methodology.\n\n\nPPAs can last from several weeks to several months.\n\nVarious organizations have used PPAs as part of their work.\n\n\nIn addition, \"secondary stakeholders\" (i.e. organizations that do not conduct PPAs directly, but participate in PPAs) such as UNICEF, various NGOs (e.g. Save the Children and Oxfam), academic institutions, etc., have also participated in PPAs.\n\nParticipatory poverty assessments confirmed the multidimensional nature of poverty (i.e. that the poor deal not just with lack of money, but with various problems like lack of resources, poor health, physical violence, social isolation, etc.) that was seen from traditional household questionnaire-based methods. PPAs have also been able to access information that was not obtained in household surveys by building trust. For instance PPAs have obtained information on sensitive topics such as child prostitution, drug use, and domestic violence in relation to poverty.\n\nIn Zambia, PPAs discovered that the timing of school fees caused economic stress for households, so new legislation to change this timing was proposed.\n\nIn Niger, a PPA found that the poor see education only as a seventh priority for poverty reduction due to \"the concern that what children learn had little relevance to getting people out of poverty\". As a result of this PPA, food security was prioritized.\n\nPPAs have also informed World Bank's World Development Reports.\n\n"}
{"id": "11058727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11058727", "title": "Peonidin", "text": "Peonidin\n\nPeonidin is an O-methylated anthocyanidin derived from Cyanidin, and a primary plant pigment. Peonidin gives purplish-red hues to flowers such as the peony, from which it takes its name, and roses. It is also present in some blue flowers, such as the morning glory.\n\nLike most anthocyanidins, it is pH sensitive, and changes from red to blue as pH rises because anthocyanidins are highly conjugated chromophores. When the pH is changed, the extent of the conjugation (of the double bonds) is altered, which alters the wavelength of light energy absorbed by the molecule. (Natural anthocyanidins are most stable in a very low pH environment; at pH 8.0, most become colorless.) At pH 2.0, peonidin is cherry red; at 3.0 a strong yellowish pink; at 5.0 it is grape red-purple; and at 8.0 it becomes deep blue; unlike many anthocyanidins, however, it is stable at higher pH, and has been isolated as a blue colorant from the brilliant \"Heavenly Blue\" morning glory (\"Ipomoea tricolor Cav cv\").\n\nBecause of its unusual color stability, a cafeyl-acylated buffered formulation of it has been patented for use as food coloring.\n\nPeonidin, like many anthocyanidins, has shown potent inhibitory and apoptotic effects on cancer cells \"in vitro\", notably metastatic human breast cancer cells.\nA very large question, however, has been raised about anthocyanidins' penetration and retention in human cells \"in vivo\", due to their rapid elimination from the human body.\n\nBy far the greatest dietary source of peonidin is raw cranberries, which contain 42 mg per 100 g of fruit. Blueberries, plums, grapes, and cherries also contain significant amounts, ranging from 5 to 12 mg/100 g. Only fresh fruit has been shown to contain significant peonidin; frozen blueberries have been shown to contain almost none. Peonidin has been found in concentrations of up to 40 mg per 100 g (cooked) of certain cultivars of purple fleshed sweet potatoes; the amount of peonidin varies greatly across cultivars. It has also been isolated from raw black rice and black bananas.\n\nThe higher level of peonidin in fresh fruit corresponds to the rule of thumb that more natural fruit is healthier. Specifically, the amount of phenolic compounds in cranberries has been found to be inversely correlated with fruit size and crop yield.\n\n"}
{"id": "17577602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17577602", "title": "Pesticide formulation", "text": "Pesticide formulation\n\nThe biological activity of a pesticide, be it chemical or biological in nature, is determined by its active ingredient (AI - also called the \"active substance\"). Pesticide products very rarely consist of pure technical material. The AI is usually formulated with other materials and this is the product as sold, but it may be further diluted in use. Formulations improves the properties of a chemical for handling, storage, application and may substantially influence effectiveness and safety.\n\nFormulation terminology follows a 2-letter convention: (\"e.g.\" GR: granules) listed by CropLife International (formerly GIFAP then GCPF) in the \"Catalogue of Pesticide Formulation Types\" (Monograph 2); see: download page . Some manufacturers do not follow these industry standards, which can cause confusion for users.\n\nBy far the most frequently used products are formulations for mixing with water then applying as sprays.\nWater miscible, older formulations include:\n\nNewer, non-powdery formulations with reduced or no use of hazardous solvents and improved stability include:\n\nOther common formulations include granules (GR) and dusts (DP), although for improved safety the latter have been replaced by microgranules (MG \"e.g\". for rice farmers in Japan). Specialist formulations are available for ultra-low volume spraying, fogging, fumigation, \"etc\". Very occasionally, some pesticides (\"e.g\". malathion) may be sold as technical material (TC - which is mostly AI, but also contains small quantities of, usually non-active, by-products of the manufacturing process).\n\nA particularly efficient form of pesticide dose transfer is seed treatment and specific formulations have been developed for this purpose. A number of pesticide bait formulations are available for rodent pest control, \"etc\".\n\nIn reality many formulation codes are used: AB, AE, AL, AP, BB, BR, CB, CF, CG, CL, CP, CS, DC, DL, DP, DS, DT, EC, ED, EG, EO, ES, EW, FD, FG, FK, FP, FR, FS, FT, FU, FW, GA, GB, GE, GF, GG, GL, GP, GR, GS, GW, HN, KK, KL, KN, KP, LA, LS, LV, MC, ME, MG, MV, OD, OF, OL, OP, PA, PB, PC, PO, PR, PS, RB, SA, SB, SC, SD, SE, SG, SL, SO, SP, SS, ST, SU, TB, TC, TK, TP, UL, VP, WG, WP, WS, WT, XX, ZC, ZE and ZW.\n\n"}
{"id": "19421270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19421270", "title": "Private healthcare", "text": "Private healthcare\n\nPrivate healthcare or private medicine is healthcare and medicine provided by entities other than the government. \n\nEthical issues relating to private healthcare primarily concerns the argument that the seriously ill be entitled to spend money on saving their lives. On the other hand, private healthcare can sometimes be more efficient than public sector provision. Private operators may be more innovative in areas such as telemedicine. Due to the profit motive, they can be more productive. The friendly behavior of staff and doctors are the main reason for people relying on private health care centers.\n\nEuropeans in all countries are willing to pay a charge for some private healthcare, whether to avoid long queues, to access cosmetic surgery, or to avoid the perceived risk of infection in public-sector hospitals. This is not a small market. In Finland, it is estimated that it is worth some €700m a year. In Greece, half the income of private hospitals is from one-off payments from patients. Maternity is a particularly large private market, as it is the demand for fertility both at home and abroad, where more than 18% of medical internet-based searches are related to infertility conditions and treatment. Healthcare tourism is also thriving within the EU, in which patients (mainly from the UK) travel to Eastern Europe for low-cost dental work. The particularly wealthy Russians and Saudi Arabians tend to go to private hospitals in Switzerland or Germany.\n\nAs most Europeans have access to public sector provision either through their mandatory social insurance fund or through taxes, private healthcare insurance remains a relatively small market, with levels typically in the range of 2–8% of the population . Many consumers prefer to pay single fees as and when necessary. In addition, any occupational healthcare paid for by employers renders private healthcare insurance unnecessary. Nonetheless, around 10% of Germans have some form of private healthcare insurance which enables them to experience a slightly higher level of comfort during hospital stays. The most notable development in this area has been the Netherlands, which in 2005 moved to a system whereby all citizens are forced to take out private healthcare insurance rather than social insurance. This is being closely monitored by many European countries.\n\nIn many European countries with a state-run national health service, employers are obliged to pay for some level of healthcare for their employees. This is the case in Romania, Poland, and Finland, for instance, and one can find networks of small clinics in large cities in these countries. In other countries, such as the UK and Sweden, many employers are willing to pay for occupational healthcare for their workforce so that key workers can avoid delays in seeing a doctor when they are unwell. Naturally, though, the occupational health department of a publicly funded hospital will provide a similar standard of healthcare to that provided for patients.\n"}
{"id": "7092020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7092020", "title": "Protein combining", "text": "Protein combining\n\nProtein combining (or protein complementing) is a dietary theory for protein nutrition that purports to optimize the biological value of protein intake. According to the theory, vegetarian and vegan diets may provide an insufficient amount of some essential amino acids, making protein combining with multiple foods necessary to obtain a complete protein. The terms \"complete\" and \"incomplete\" are outdated in relation to plant protein. The position of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics is that protein from a variety of plant foods eaten during the course of a day supplies enough of all essential amino acids when caloric requirements are met.\n\nThe theory of protein combining has been discredited by major health organizations. Studies on essential amino acid contents in plant proteins has shown that vegetarians and vegans do not actually need to complement plant proteins in each meal to reach the desired level of essential amino acids as long as their diets are varied and caloric requirements are met. The American Dietetic Association and Dietitians of Canada support this position.\n\nProtein nutrition is complex because any proteinogenic amino acid may be the limiting factor in metabolism. Mixing livestock feeds can optimize for growth, or minimize cost while maintaining adequate growth. Similarly, human nutrition is subject to Liebig's law of the minimum: The lowest level of one of the essential amino acids will be the limiting factor in metabolism.\n\nPlants are thus rated as protein sources by their limiting amino acids.\n\nAccording to WHO, human need for proteins is 0.66 g per kg of bodyweight per day. So a 70 kg person has an estimated protein requirement of 46.2g (70 kg x 0,66 g/kg).\n\nIn addition, there is a specific need of essential amino acids quantities, thereby written in the table.\n\nIn the above example, whole rice has lysine as \"limiting\" amino acids, that means that only consuming whole rice, in this specific quantity of 612g/day and not more, for long periods of time, may result indeed in lysine deficiency.\nIn the above example, canned chickpeas has methionine as \"limiting\" amino acids, that means that only consuming canned chickpeas, in this specific quantity of 522g/day and not more, for long periods of time, may result indeed in methionine deficiency.\nIn the above example, the combination of both whole rice and canned chickpeas has no limiting amino acids, that means that only consuming rice and chickpeas, in these specific quantities of 306g/day and 261g/day respectively, for long periods of time, would not result in any of the essential amino acid deficiency.\n\nAs the data of the example show, all essential amino acids are found in a specific plant, however one of them may or may not be 'limiting', that is, present in quantities below the WHO daily recommendation.\nFor this reasons vegan and vegetarian diets need to be varied in terms of plants consumed.\n\nThe first biochemist to enter the field was Karl Heinrich Ritthausen, a student of Justus von Liebig. Thomas Burr Osborne continued what Ritthausen started and published \"The Vegetable Proteins\" in 1909. Thus Yale University was the early center of protein nutrition, where William Cumming Rose was a student. Osborne also worked to determine the essentials, and later led the Biochemistry Department at the University of Chicago.\n\nWhen Ritthausen died in 1912, Osborne praised his efforts in biochemistry:\n\nOsborne then joined forces with Lafayette Mendel at the Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station to determine the essential amino acids.\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s, Nevin S. Scrimshaw took this knowledge to India and Guatemala. He designed meals using local vegetables to fight against the scourge of kwashiorkor. In Guatemala he used the combination of cottonseed flour with maize, while in India he combined peanut flour with wheat.\n\nIn 1954, Adelle Davis published \"Let's Eat Right to Keep Fit\", which described the importance of combining \"incomplete\" proteins to make \"complete\" proteins, and advised that any incomplete proteins not complemented within one hour could not be used by the body.\n\nIn 1971, Frances Moore Lappé published \"Diet for a Small Planet\", which explained how essential amino acids might be obtained from complementary sources in vegetarian nutrition. The book became a bestseller :\n\nLappé wrote:\n\nIn 1975, both Vogue and American Journal of Nursing carried articles describing the principles and practice of protein combining. \nFor a time, \nThe American National Research Council and the American Dietetic Association (ADA) cautioned vegetarians to be sure to combine their proteins.\n\nIn 1985, the principle of protein combining was explained by J. Rigó:\n\nIn 2011 PLOS ONEpublished an article investigating the specifics of protein combining for 1251 plant-based foods. The bases of reference are the amino acids indispensable to human nutrition, and the ideal proportioning of these amino acids in a meal. They explain, \"complementation involves consuming two or more foods together to yield an amino acid pattern that is better than the sum of the two foods alone.\" In contrast to pairings based on food groups, such as pairing a grain with a bean, the investigators reported that pairing by food group was not supported by their work: \"Examining the top 100 pairings for each food, we found no consistent pattern of food group-food group pairings.\"\n\nProtein combining has drawn criticism as an unnecessary complicating factor in nutrition.\n\nIn 1981, Frances Moore Lappé changed her position on protein combining from a decade prior in a revised edition of \"Diet for a Small Planet\" in which she wrote:\n\nNecessity of protein combining was not asserted. Rather, the increased biological value of meals where proteins are combined was noted. In a concession, Lappé removed from the second edition \"charts that indicate exact proportions of complementary proteins\".\n\nThe American Dietetic Association reversed itself in its 1988 position paper on vegetarianism. Suzanne Havala, the primary author of the paper, recalls the research process:\n\nIn 1994, Vernon Young and Peter Pellett published their paper that became the definitive contemporary guide to protein metabolism in humans. It also confirmed that complementing proteins at meals was totally unnecessary. Thus, people who avoid consuming animal protein do not need to be at all concerned about amino acid imbalances from the plant proteins that make up their usual diets.\n\nWhile many plant proteins are lower in one or more essential amino acids than animal proteins, especially lysine, and to a lesser extent methionine and threonine, eating a variety of plants can serve as a well-balanced and complete source of amino acids.\n\nPediatrician Charles R. Attwood wrote, \"The old ideas about the necessity of carefully combining vegetables at every meal to ensure the supply of essential amino acids has been totally refuted.\"\n\nIn 2002, Dr. John McDougall wrote a correction to the American Heart Association for a 2001 publication that questioned the completeness of plant proteins, and further asserted that \"it is impossible to design an amino acid–deficient diet based on the amounts of unprocessed starches and vegetables sufficient to meet the calorie needs of humans.\"\n\nLater that year, Dr. Andrew Weil wrote that \"you don’t have to worry that you won’t get enough usable protein if you don’t put together some magical combination of foods at each meal.\"\n\nIn \"Healthy Times\" Jeff Novick wrote that the necessity of protein combining is a \"myth that won’t go away\".\n\nIn 2005, Dr. Joel Fuhrman wrote:\n\nDr. T. Colin Campbell wrote in 2006:\n\nIn 2009, the American Dietetic Association wrote: \n\nThe American Heart Association now states:\n\nSome institutions use the Protein Digestibility Corrected Amino Acid Score to assess diets without consideration of protein combining and hence find the use of combinations to be a challenge to their methodology.\n\n"}
{"id": "34558159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34558159", "title": "Reasonable person model", "text": "Reasonable person model\n\nThe reasonable person model (RPM) is a psychological framework which argues that people are at their best when their informational needs are met. Positing that unreasonableness is not a human trait, but rather the result of environment (context and circumstances), the RPM attempts to define the environments/actions that foster reasonableness, defining three key areas that assist with this: model building, being effective, and meaningful action.\n\nThe RPM was developed by environmental psychologists Stephen and Rachel Kaplan and integrates principles from environmental, cognitive, and evolutionary psychology.\n\nThe RPM is a psychological framework that posits human functioning is improved when the following three domains of informational needs are met:\n\n\nRPM states that an environment or context supportive of informational needs can foster reasonable behavior that will \"bring out the best in people\".\n\nThe use of the term \"reasonable\" in RPM has commonalities and differences with the colloquial use of the word. In RPM, reasonableness refers to the ways in which \"one would hope people behave\". The concept is partially conveyed by what it is not, unreasonable states such as incivility, aggression, irritability and impatience. Examples may also include \"...demanding fairness for oneself while denying it to others, displaying intolerance and disrespect for others, willingness to harm or kill because of differences in beliefs, and attempting to extract the earth’s resources for personal gain without regard for the needs of future generations\".\n\nThe RPM may be viewed as a contrary theory to rational man theory (also known as Homo Economicus) or related rational choice theory, in that it describes a landscape of mutual dependencies, such as the manner in which people treat one another. RPM assumes that information is often misunderstood, overwhelming, and unavailable. It also assumes that people are not interested in maximizing personal gain, but rather satisficing. RPM further asserts that people often have multiple concerns which cannot be reduced to a single monetary value.\n\nReasonableness shares some themes with subjective well-being, including emphasis on positive/negative affect and quality of life. However, whereas SWB addresses self-directed feelings, RPM also considers the contexts that foster civil behavior and improve relationships between people.\n\nThe world, as William James described it, is a \"blooming buzzing confusion\". Mental models are neural structures, made of neurons and synapses, that organize our experiences into a usable form and allow us to\n\"If the organism carries a “small-scale model” of external reality and of its own possible actions within its head, it is able to try out various alternatives, conclude which is the best of them, react to future situations before they arise, utilize the knowledge of past events in dealing with the present and future, and in every way to react in a much fuller, easier, and more competent manner to the emergencies which face it.\" \n\nMental models are built through repetition, variation, and association. Experiencing something multiple times is said to lead to an internal representation. Experiencing sequences of things associates our internal representations in a mental map according to how those things occur in reality. Donald Hebb's rule put it as: Things that fire together, wire together.\n\nThis refers to the skills needed over and above basic knowledge to accomplish goals and refers to a state of mind that is capable of attending to and managing information. Lack of clearheadedness is described within attention restoration theory, which states there are two attentional systems: one for attending to naturally fascinating stimuli and another that allows us to intentionally direct our attention. Richard Louv's notion of nature deficit disorder describes some of the symptoms associated with a younger generation who do not spend time outdoors.\n\nRPM's third domain argues that people have a desire to use their knowledge and skills to make a difference. Fewer people have work that is directly connected to their survival yet the evolutionary desire to make a difference remains. The inability to do so can lead to learned helplessness and feeling hopeless and alone in the face of seemingly insurmountable challenges. Such a state is not amenable to effective human functioning, yet there continues to be, as Kaplan describes, a \"pervasive malaise of helplessness\". Goldschmidt described what he termed The Human Career as: one in which humans are primarily seeking the respect of others\". It is argued that, in participatory contexts, the most effective strategies are ones that help people feel like they can make a difference.\n\nRPM has been applied to the following domains:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24914531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24914531", "title": "Rede São Paulo Saudável", "text": "Rede São Paulo Saudável\n\nThe Rede São Paulo Saudável (\"Healthy São Paulo Network\", in Portuguese language) is a satellite-based digital TV corporate channel, developed by the Municipal Health Secretary of São Paulo, with the goal of bringing programs focused on health promotion and health education, which may be watched by the entire population seeking health care in its units in the city. The network consists of two complete TV studios, and a system for transmission of closed digital video in high definition via satellite, with about 1,400 points of reception in all health care units of the municipality of São Paulo, including its more than 700 public health care centers and posts, medical clinics, and 17 hospitals.\n\nThe TV network has currently three active channels.\n\nThe first channel (the \"Citizenship Channel\") is devoted to the broadcasting of health education directly to the population in the waiting rooms of the units. Currently more than 400 short- and medium-length TV programs with this content are part of its grid.\n\nThe second channel (the \"Professional Education Channel\") has the aim of providing continuing education and training programs to Health Secretary professionals, such as physicians, nurses, dentists, psychologists, social workers, etc., through distance education. The reception points for this channel are located in meeting rooms or classrooms inside the basic health units and hospitals.\n\nThe third channel (the \"Administrative Channel\") is interactive, and serves for meetings and for corporate communication with managers in general, as well as for the transmission of courses in real time. The interaction is accomplished by a chat interface, through the Internet connection of each unit, since the TV channel is unidirectional (broadcasting).\n\nEach reception room for channels 1 and 2 has a 39\" LCD TV and a digital satellite receiver conencted to an externally placed satellite dish. Channel 3 is received directly in a PC microcomputer in the administrative offices.\n\nSeveral distance education courses for doctors, nurses and other health professionals are already in the air, and are freely available for the 54,000 employees of the Secretary. The courses consist or prerecorded or real time video transmissions according to a program grid, and of a public WWW site for off-class support using a Learning Management System (LMS).\n\nThe Centro de Formação e Desenvolvimento dos Trabalhadores da Saúde de São Paulo (CEFOR-SP) (\"Center for Buildup and Development of Healthcare Workers\" (CEFOR-SP) and the centers for research and education of several hospitals of the public health network of São Paulo, such as the Hospital do Servidor Publico Municipal de São Paulo (\"Hospital of the Public Servant of São Paulo\") are among the institutions which create and provide certification of educational content. The Healthy São Paulo Network is managed by the Technical Department of Information Technology and the Educational Technology Group of CEFOR-SP.\n\nThe Healthy São Paulo Network uses IP TV through multicasting via satellite, using the DVB standard. The default compression used is H.264 MPEG 4, with a total bandwidth of 20 Mbit/s for the 3 channels. The São Paulo company SpeedCast is responsible for the operation of the system and for providing the satellite space segment, with its satellite hub located in the city of Barueri. A virtual platform to support teaching and learning uses the Moodle learning management system (LMS), hosted in a virtual dedicated server operated by the state company PRODAM and developed by the Edumed Institute for Education in Medicine and Health.\n\nThe network has two complete TV studios, a smaller one located at the central administrative center of the Secretary of Health, in downtown São Paulo, and another, with a full auditorium with 90 seats, located at CEFOR-SP, in the neighbourhood of Moema. The studios are equipped with robotic cameras, document cameras, smartboards, computers for presentation of slides, teleprompters, and control desks with video switchers, audio mixer and DVD recording capabilities\n\n"}
{"id": "13006382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13006382", "title": "Remote guidance", "text": "Remote guidance\n\nRemote guidance, in the medical context, refers to the supervision or guidance of a medical task, usually a procedures or test, from a remote location. This falls in the realm of real time telemedicine applications. By way of example, a radiologist may guide an ultrasound examination from a remote location. As such the proximate requisite expertise to accomplish a medical task is significantly diminished. In the previous example, a diagnostic quality ultrasound can be accomplished by non-medically trained individuals manipulating an ultrasound device located with the patient under guidance from a remote location. This is an example of teleradiology If appropriately configured, the remote guidance can originate from another room or floor in the same building, to as far away as another continent or even planet. NASA researchers have successfully demonstrated remote guidance of diagnostic level cardiac ultrasonography using an ultrasound on the space station, non-medical astronauts performing the exam as guided by a terrestrially located expert.\n\nRemote diagnostics refers to a real time telemedical application which achieves diagnostic level quality and information exchange. In this sense, it refers to an expectation for quality sufficient for making or excluding a medical diagnosis. In the tele-medical context specific to radiologic images these images often are consistent with the DICOM standard. Given bandwidth issues universally plaguing the healthcare environment imagery beyond still images and brief video has not yet become standard expectation of care environments or PACS systems. Ultrasound scanning commonly utilized for abdomen, musculoskeletal, pelvis, gynecologic, cardiac and vascular evaluations has shown potential for remote diagnosis only of late.\n\nMore general Remote Diagnostics (RD) refers to detecting which fault or faults are present in a system, body of object, from a distance. Examples of use: aeroplanes, spacecraft, Formula 1 and major assets such as ships, trains etc. In cases where corrective actions are also made, the term 'Remote Diagnostic & Maintenance' is more appropriate.\n\nWhile still imagery can be e-mailed and forwarded in a multitude of methods, video product of medical devices has typically not been available for remote interaction. Recent improvements in scanning devices, for example ultrasound machines has facilitated this new capability. The inclusion of the VGA output gives the opportunity for frame grabber devices to stream such outputs to the internet.\n\n"}
{"id": "706186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=706186", "title": "Reproductive rights", "text": "Reproductive rights\n\nReproductive rights are legal rights and freedoms relating to reproduction and reproductive health that vary amongst countries around the world. The World Health Organization defines reproductive rights as follows:\n\nReproductive rights rest on the recognition of the basic right of all couples and individuals to decide freely and responsibly the number, spacing and timing of their children and to have the information and means to do so, and the right to attain the highest standard of sexual and reproductive health. They also include the right of all to make decisions concerning reproduction free of discrimination, coercion and violence.\n\nWomen's reproductive rights may include some or all of the following: the right to legal and safe abortion; the right to birth control; freedom from coerced sterilization and contraception; the right to access good-quality reproductive healthcare; and the right to education and access in order to make free and informed reproductive choices. Reproductive rights may also include the right to receive education about sexually transmitted infections and other aspects of sexuality, and protection from practices such as female genital mutilation (FGM).\n\nReproductive rights began to develop as a subset of human rights at the United Nation's 1968 International Conference on Human Rights. The resulting non binding Proclamation of Tehran was the first international document to recognize one of these rights when it stated that: \"Parents have a basic human right to determine freely and responsibly the number and the spacing of their children.\" States, though, have been slow in incorporating these rights in internationally legally binding instruments. Thus, while some of these rights have already been recognized in hard law, that is, in legally binding international human rights instruments, others have been mentioned only in non binding recommendations and, therefore, have at best the status of soft law in international law, while a further group is yet to be accepted by the international community and therefore remains at the level of advocacy.\n\nIssues related to reproductive rights are some of the most vigorously contested rights' issues worldwide, regardless of the population's socioeconomic level, religion or culture.\n\nThe issue of reproductive rights is frequently presented as being of vital importance in discussions and articles by population concern organizations such as Population Matters.\n\nReproductive rights are a subset of sexual and reproductive health and rights.\n\nIn 1945, the United Nations Charter included the obligation \"to promote... universal respect for, and observance of, human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without discrimination as to race, sex, language, or religion\". However, the Charter did not define these rights. Three years later, the UN adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the first international legal document to delineate human rights; the UDHR does not mention reproductive rights. Reproductive rights began to appear as a subset of human rights in the 1968 Proclamation of Tehran, which states: \"Parents have a basic human right to determine freely and responsibly the number and the spacing of their children\".\n\nThis right was affirmed by the UN General Assembly in the 1969 Declaration on Social Progress and Development which states \"The family as a basic unit of society and the natural environment for the growth and well-being of all its members, particularly children and youth, should be assisted and protected so that it may fully assume its responsibilities within the community. Parents have the exclusive right to determine freely and responsibly the number and spacing of their children.\" The 1975 UN International Women's Year Conference echoed the Proclamation of Tehran.\n\nThe twenty-year \"Cairo Programme of Action\" was adopted in 1994 at the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) in Cairo. The non-binding Programme of Action asserted that governments have a responsibility to meet individuals' reproductive needs, rather than demographic targets. It recommended that family planning services be provided in the context of other reproductive health services, including services for healthy and safe childbirth, care for sexually transmitted infections, and post-abortion care. The ICPD also addressed issues such as violence against women, sex trafficking, and adolescent health. The Cairo Program is the first international policy document to define reproductive health, stating:\nReproductive health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity, in all matters relating to the reproductive system and its functions and processes. Reproductive health therefore implies that people are able to have a satisfying and safe sex life and that they have the capability to reproduce and the freedom to decide if, when and how often to do so. Implicit in this last condition are the right of men and women to be informed [about] and to have access to safe, effective, affordable and acceptable methods of family planning of their choice, as well as other methods for regulation of fertility which are not against the law, and the right of access to appropriate health-care services that will enable women to go safely through pregnancy and childbirth and provide couples with the best chance of having a healthy infant [para. 72].\n\nUnlike previous population conferences, a wide range of interests from grassroots to government level were represented in Cairo. 179 nations attended the ICPD and overall eleven thousand representatives from governments, NGOs, international agencies and citizen activists participated. The ICPD did not address the far-reaching implications of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. In 1999, recommendations at the ICPD+5 were expanded to include commitment to AIDS education, research, and prevention of mother-to-child transmission, as well as to the development of vaccines and microbicides.\n\nThe Cairo Programme of Action was adopted by 184 UN member states. Nevertheless, many Latin American and Islamic states made formal reservations to the programme, in particular, to its concept of reproductive rights and sexual freedom, to its treatment of abortion, and to its potential incompatibility with Islamic law.\n\nImplementation of the Cairo Programme of Action varies considerably from country to country. In many countries, post-ICPD tensions emerged as the human rights-based approach was implemented. Since the ICPD, many countries have broadened their reproductive health programs and attempted to integrate maternal and child health services with family planning. More attention is paid to adolescent health and the consequences of unsafe abortion. Lara Knudsen observes that the ICPD succeeded in getting feminist language into governments' and population agencies' literature, but in many countries the underlying concepts are not widely put into practice. In two preparatory meetings for the ICPD+10 in Asia and Latin America, the United States, under the George W. Bush Administration, was the only nation opposing the ICPD's Programme of Action.\n\nThe 1995 Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, in its non-binding Declaration and Platform for Action, supported the Cairo Programme's definition of reproductive health, but established a broader context of reproductive rights:\nThe human rights of women include their right to have control over and decide freely and responsibly on matters related to their sexuality, including sexual and reproductive health, free of coercion, discrimination and violence. Equal relationships between women and men in matters of sexual relations and reproduction, including full respect for the integrity of the person, require mutual respect, consent and shared responsibility for sexual behavior and its consequences [para. 96]. The Beijing Platform demarcated twelve interrelated critical areas of the human rights of women that require advocacy. The Platform framed women's reproductive rights as \"indivisible, universal and inalienable human rights.\"\n\nThe Yogyakarta Principles on the Application of International Human Rights Law in relation to Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity, proposed by a group of experts in November 2006 but not yet incorporated by States in international law, declares in its Preamble that \"the international community has recognized the rights of persons to decide freely and responsibly on matters related to their sexuality, including sexual and reproductive health, free from coercion, discrimination, and violence.\" In relation to reproductive health, Principle 9 on \"The Right to Treatment with Humanity while in Detention\" requires that \"States shall... <nowiki>[p]rovide</nowiki> adequate access to medical care and counseling appropriate to the needs of those in custody, recognizing any particular needs of persons on the basis of their sexual orientation and gender identity, including with regard to reproductive health, access to HIV/AIDS information and therapy and access to hormonal or other therapy as well as to gender-reassignment treatments where desired.\" Nonetheless, African, Caribbean and Islamic Countries, as well as the Russian Federation, have objected to the use of these principles as Human Rights standards.\n\nState abuses against reproductive rights have happened both under right-wing and left-wing governments. Such abuses include attempts to forcefully increase the birth rate - one of the most notorious natalist policies of the 20th century was that which occurred in communist Romania in the period of 1967-1990 during communist leader Nicolae Ceaușescu, who adopted a very aggressive natalist policy which included outlawing abortion and contraception, routine pregnancy tests for women, taxes on childlessness, and legal discrimination against childless people - as well as attempts to decrease the fertility rate - China's one child policy (1978-2015). State mandated forced marriage was also practiced by authoritarian governments as a way to meet population targets: the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia systematically forced people into marriages, in order to increase the population and continue the revolution. Some governments have implemented eugenic policies of forced sterilizations of 'undesirable' population groups. Such policies were carried out against ethnic minorities in Europe and North America in the 20th century, and more recently in Latin America against the Indigenous population in the 1990s; in Peru, President Alberto Fujimori (in office from 1990 to 2000) has been accused of genocide and crimes against humanity as a result of a sterilization program put in place by his administration targeting indigenous people (mainly the Quechuas and the Aymaras).\n\nThe Istanbul convention, the first legally binding instrument in Europe in the field of violence against women and domestic violence prohibits forced sterilization and forced abortion:\n\nSince most existing legally binding international human rights instruments do not explicitly mention sexual and reproductive rights, a broad coalition of NGOs, civil servants, and experts working in international organizations have been promoting a reinterpretation of those instruments to link the realization of the already internationally recognized human rights with the realization of reproductive rights. An example of this linkage is provided by the 1994 Cairo Programme of Action: \nReproductive rights embrace certain human rights that are already recognized in national laws, international human rights documents and other relevant United Nations consensus documents. These rights rest on the recognition of the basic right of all couples and individuals to decide freely and responsibly the number, spacing and timing of their children and to have the information and means to do so, and the right to attain the highest standard of sexual and reproductive health. It also includes the right of all to make decisions concerning reproduction free of discrimination, coercion and violence as expressed in human rights documents. In the exercise of this right, they should take into account the needs of their living and future children and their responsibilities towards the community.\nSimilarly, Amnesty International has argued that the realisation of reproductive rights is linked with the realisation of a series of recognised human rights, including the right to health, the right to freedom from discrimination, the right to privacy, and the right not to be subjected to torture or ill-treatment. \n\nThe World Health Organization states that:\n\nHowever, not all states have accepted the inclusion of reproductive rights in the body of internationally recognized human rights. At the Cairo Conference, several states made formal reservations either to the concept of reproductive rights or to its specific content. Ecuador, for instance, stated that: \nWith regard to the Programme of Action of the Cairo International Conference on Population and Development and in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and laws of Ecuador and the norms of international law, the delegation of Ecuador reaffirms, inter alia, the following principles embodied in its Constitution: the inviolability of life, the protection of children from the moment of conception, freedom of conscience and religion, the protection of the family as the fundamental unit of society, responsible paternity, the right of parents to bring up their children and the formulation of population and development plans by the Government in accordance with the principles of respect for sovereignty. Accordingly, the delegation of Ecuador enters a reservation with respect to all terms such as \"regulation of fertility\", \"interruption of pregnancy\", \"reproductive health\", \"reproductive rights\" and \"unwanted children\", which in one way or another, within the context of the Programme of Action, could involve abortion.\nSimilar reservations were made by Argentina, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Honduras, Malta, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Peru and the Holy See. Islamic Countries, such as Brunei, Djibouti, Iran, Jordan, Kuwait, Libya, Syria, United Arab Emirates, and Yemen made broad reservations against any element of the programme that could be interpreted as contrary to the Sharia. Guatemala even questioned whether the conference could legally proclaim new human rights.\n\nThe United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and the World Health Organization (WHO) advocate for reproductive rights with a primary emphasis on women's rights. In this respect the UN and WHO focus on a range of issues from access to family planning services, sex education, menopause, and the reduction of obstetric fistula, to the relationship between reproductive health and economic status.\n\nThe reproductive rights of women are advanced in the context of the right to freedom from discrimination and the social and economic status of women. The group Development Alternatives with Women for a New Era (DAWN) explained the link in the following statement:\nControl over reproduction is a basic need and a basic right for all women. Linked as it is to women's health and social status, as well as the powerful social structures of religion, state control and administrative inertia, and private profit, it is from the perspective of poor women that this right can best be understood and affirmed. Women know that childbearing is a social, not a purely personal, phenomenon; nor do we deny that world population trends are likely to exert considerable pressure on resources and institutions by the end of this century. But our bodies have become a pawn in the struggles among states, religions, male heads of households, and private corporations. Programs that do not take the interests of women into account are unlikely to succeed...\n\nWomen's reproductive rights have long retained key issue status in the debate on overpopulation.\n\"The only ray of hope I can see – and it's not much – is that wherever women are put in control of their lives, both politically and socially; where medical facilities allow them to deal with birth control and where their husbands allow them to make those decisions, birth rate falls. Women don't want to have 12 kids of whom nine will die.\" \"David Attenborough\n\nAccording to OHCHR: \"Women’s sexual and reproductive health is related to multiple human rights, including the right to life, the right to be free from torture, the right to health, the right to privacy, the right to education, and the prohibition of discrimination\".\n\nAttempts have been made to analyse the socioeconomic conditions that affect the realisation of a woman's reproductive rights. The term reproductive justice has been used to describe these broader social and economic issues. Proponents of reproductive justice argue that while the right to legalized abortion and contraception applies to everyone, these choices are only meaningful to those with resources, and that there is a growing gap between access and affordability.\n\nMen's reproductive rights have been claimed by various organizations, both for issues of reproductive health, and other rights related to sexual reproduction.\n\nThree international issues in men's reproductive health are sexually transmitted diseases, cancer and exposure to toxins.\n\nRecently men's reproductive right with regards to paternity have become subject of debate in the U.S. The term \"male abortion\" was coined by Melanie McCulley, a South Carolina attorney, in a 1998 article. The theory begins with the premise that when a woman becomes pregnant she has the option of abortion, adoption, or parenthood; it argues, in the context of legally recognized gender equality, that in the earliest stages of pregnancy the putative (alleged) father should have the right to relinquish all future parental rights and financial responsibility, leaving the informed mother with the same three options. This concept has been supported by a former president of the feminist organization National Organization for Women, attorney Karen DeCrow. The feminist argument for male reproductive choice contends that the uneven ability to choose experienced by men and women in regards to parenthood is evidence of a state-enforced coercion favoring traditional sex roles.\n\nIn 2006, the National Center for Men brought a case in the US, \"Dubay v. Wells\" (dubbed by some \"\"Roe v. Wade\" for men\"), that argued that in the event of an unplanned pregnancy, when an unmarried woman informs a man that she is pregnant by him, he should have an opportunity to give up all paternity rights and responsibilities. Supporters argue that this would allow the woman time to make an informed decision and give men the same reproductive rights as women. In its dismissal of the case, the U.S. Court of Appeals (Sixth Circuit) stated that \"the Fourteenth Amendment does not deny to [the] State the power to treat different classes of persons in different ways.\"\n\nThe opportunity to give men the right for a Paper Abortion is heavily discussed.\n\nIntersex, in humans and other animals, is a variation in sex characteristics including chromosomes, gonads, or genitals that do not allow an individual to be distinctly identified as male or female. Such variation may involve genital ambiguity, and combinations of chromosomal genotype and sexual phenotype other than XY-male and XX-female. Intersex persons are often subjected to involuntary \"sex normalizing\" surgical and hormonal treatments in infancy and childhood, often also including sterilization.\n\nUN agencies have begun to take note. On 1 February 2013, Juan E Mendés, the UN Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, issued a statement condemning non-consensual surgical intervention on intersex people. His report stated, \"Children who are born with atypical sex characteristics are often subject to irreversible sex assignment, involuntary sterilization, involuntary genital normalizing surgery, performed without their informed consent, or that of their parents, \"in an attempt to fix their sex\", leaving them with permanent, irreversible infertility and causing severe mental suffering\". In May 2014, the World Health Organization issued a joint statement on \"Eliminating forced, coercive and otherwise involuntary sterilization, An interagency statement\" with the OHCHR, UN Women, UNAIDS, UNDP, UNFPA and UNICEF. The report references the involuntary surgical \"sex-normalising or other procedures\" on \"intersex persons\". It questions the medical necessity of such treatments, patients' ability to consent, and a weak evidence base. The report recommends a range of guiding principles to prevent compulsory sterilization in medical treatment, including ensuring patient autonomy in decision-making, ensuring non-discrimination, accountability and access to remedies.\n\nIn many jurisdictions minors require parental consent or parental notification in order to access various reproductive services, such as contraception, abortion, gynecological consultations, testing for STDs etc. The requirement that minors have parental consent/notification for testing for HIV/AIDS is especially controversial, particularly in areas where the disease is endemic, and it is a sensitive subject. Balancing minors' rights versus parental rights is considered an ethical problem in medicine and law, and there have been many court cases on this issue in the US. An important concept recognized since 1989 by the Convention on the Rights of the Child is that of the evolving capacities of a minor, namely that minors should, in accordance with their maturity and level of understanding, be involved in decisions that affect them.\n\nYouth are often denied equal access to reproductive health services because health workers view adolescent sexual activity as unacceptable, or see sex education as the responsibility of parents. Providers of reproductive health have little accountability to youth clients, a primary factor in denying youth access to reproductive health care. In many countries, regardless of legislation, minors are denied even the most basic reproductive care, if they are not accompanied by parents: in India, for instance, in 2017, a 17-year-old girl who was rejected by her family due to her pregnancy, was also rejected by hospitals and gave birth in the street. In recent years the lack of reproductive rights for adolescents has been a concern of international organizations, such as UNFPA.\n\nMandatory involvement of parents in cases where the minor has sufficient maturity to understand their situation is considered by health organization as a violation of minor's rights and detrimental to their health. The World Health Organization has criticized parental consent/notification laws:\n\nDiscrimination in health care settings takes many forms and is often manifested when an individual or group is denied access to health care services that are otherwise available to others. It can also occur through denial of services that are only needed by certain groups, such as women. Examples include specific individuals or groups being subjected to physical and verbal abuse or violence; involuntary treatment; breaches of confidentiality and/or denial of autonomous decision-making, such as the requirement of consent to treatment by parents, spouses or guardians; and lack of free and informed consent. [...] Laws and policies must respect the principles of autonomy in health care decision-making; guarantee free and informed consent, privacy and confidentiality; prohibit mandatory HIV testing; prohibit screening procedures that are not of benefit to the individual or the public; and ban involuntary treatment and mandatory third-party authorization and notification requirements.\"\nAccording to UNICEF: \"When dealing with sexual and reproductive health, the obligation\nto inform parents and obtain their consent becomes a significant barrier with consequences for adolescents’ lives and for public health in general.\" One specific issue which is seen as a form of hypocrisy of legislators is that of having a higher age of medical consent for the purpose of reproductive and sexual health than the age of sexual consent - in such cases the law allows youth to engage in sexual activity, but does not allow them to consent to medical procedures that may arise from being sexually active; UNICEF states that \"On sexual and reproductive health matters, the minimum age of medical consent should never be higher than the age of sexual consent.\"\n\nMany unintended pregnancies stem from traditional contraceptive methods or no contraceptive measures.\n\nYouth sexual education in Uganda is relatively low. Comprehensive sex education is not generally taught in schools; even if it was, the majority of young people do not stay in school after the age of fifteen, so information would be limited regardless.\n\nAfrica experiences high rates of unintended pregnancy, along with high rates of HIV/AIDS. Young women aged 15–24 are eight times more likely to have HIV/AIDS than young men. Sub-Saharan Africa is the world region most affected by HIV/AIDS, with approximately 25 million people living with HIV in 2015. Sub-Saharan Africa accounts for two-thirds of the global total of new HIV infections.\n\nAttempted abortions and unsafe abortions are a risk for youth in Africa. On average, there are 2.4 million unsafe abortions in East Africa, 1.8 million in Western Africa, over 900,000 in Middle Africa, and over 100,000 in Southern Africa each year.\n\nIn Uganda, abortion is illegal except to save the mother's life. However, 78% of teenagers report knowing someone who has had an abortion and the police do not always prosecute everyone who has an abortion. An estimated 22% of all maternal deaths in the area stem from illegal, unsafe abortions.\n\nOver 85% of European women (all ages) have used some form of birth control in their lives. Europeans as an aggregate report using the pill and condoms as the most commonly used contraceptives.\n\nFamily planning has become prominent throughout the region and most taboos concerning sexuality have been lifted or diminished. Youth sexual and reproductive health centers have been established across most of the region. In Sweden, approximately 80% of girls and 17% of boys have visited these youth centers, which provide all or nearly all services youth need at little to no charge. Sweden has the highest percentage of lifetime contraceptive use, with 96% of its inhabitants claiming to have used birth control at some point in their life. Sweden also has a high self-reported rate of postcoital pill use. A 2007 anonymous survey of Swedish 18-year-olds showed that three out of four youth were sexually active, with 5% reporting having had an abortion and 4% reporting the contraction of an STI. Similar centers exist in Estonia, Finland, and Portugal.\n\nViews on sexual practice vary throughout the region. For example, in the United Kingdom (UK), sex among youth is generally looked down upon and seen as a problem in need of solution. In the Netherlands, sex between youth is viewed as normal and therefore not discussed in terms of solutions, but rather in terms of ensuring safe practices. That being said, the UK tends to focus on stopping sexual behavior, while the Netherlands focuses on building self-esteem and healthy relationships.\n\nLatin America has come to international attention due to its harsh anti-abortion laws. Latin America is home to some of the few countries of the world with a complete ban on abortion, without an exception for saving maternal life. In some of these countries, particularity in Central America, the enforcement of such laws is very aggressive: El Salvador and Nicaragua have drawn international attention for strong enforcement of their complete bans on abortion. In 2017, Chile relaxed its total ban, allowing abortion to be performed when the woman’s life is in danger, when a fetus is unviable, or in cases of rape.\n\nIn Ecuador, education and class play a large role in the definition of which young women become pregnant and which do not - 50% of young women who are illiterate get pregnant, compared to 11% of girls with secondary education. The same is true for poorer individuals - 28% become impregnated while only 11% of young women in wealthier households do. Furthermore, access to reproductive rights, including contraceptives, are limited, due to age and the perception of female morality. Health care providers often discuss contraception theoretically, not as a device to be used on a regular basis. Decisions concerning sexual activity often involve secrecy and taboos, as well as a lack of access to accurate information. Even more telling, young women have much easier access to maternal healthcare than they do to contraceptive help, which helps explain high pregnancy rates in the region.\n\nRates of adolescent pregnancy in Latin America number over a million each year.\n\nAmong sexually experienced teenagers, 78% of teenage females and 85% of teenage males used contraception the first time they had sex; 86% and 93% of these same females and males, respectively, reported using contraception the last time they had sex. The male condom is the most commonly used method during first sex, although 54% of young women in the United States rely upon the pill.\n\nYoung people in the U.S. are no more sexually active than individuals in other developed countries, but they are significantly less knowledgeable about contraception and safe sex practices. As of 2006, only twenty states required sex education in schools - of these, only ten required information about contraception. On the whole, less than 10% of American students receive sex education that includes topical coverage of abortion, homosexuality, relationships, pregnancy, and STI prevention. Abstinence-only education was used throughout much of the United States in the 1990s and early 2000s. Based upon the moral principle that sex outside of marriage is unacceptable, the programs often misled students about their rights to have sex, the consequences, and prevention of pregnancy and STIs.\n\nAbortion in the United States is legal since the United States Supreme Court decision \"Roe v. Wade\" which decriminalised abortion nationwide in 1973, and established a minimal period during which abortion is legal (with more or fewer restrictions throughout the pregnancy). That basic framework, modified in \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\" (1992), remains nominally in place, although the effective availability of abortion varies significantly from state to state, as many counties have no abortion providers. \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\" held that a law cannot place legal restrictions imposing an undue burden for \"the purpose or effect of placing a substantial obstacle in the path of a woman seeking an abortion of a nonviable fetus.\" Abortion is a controversial political issue, and regular attempts to restrict it occur in most states. One such case, originating in Texas, led to the Supreme Court case of \"Whole Woman's Health v. Hellerstedt\" (2016) in which several Texas restrictions were struck down.\n\nOne of the reasons why reproductive rights are poor in many places, is that the vast majority of the population does not know what the law is. Not only are ordinary people uninformed, but so are medical doctors. A study in Brazil on medical doctors found considerable ignorance and misunderstanding of the law on abortion (which is severely restricted, but not completely illegal). In Ghana, abortion, while restricted, is permitted on several grounds, but only 3% of pregnant women and 6% of those seeking an abortion were aware of the legal status of abortion. In Nepal, abortion was legalized in 2002, but a study in 2009 found that only half of women knew that abortion was legalized. Many people also do not understand the laws on sexual violence: in Hungary, where marital rape was made illegal in 1997, in a study in 2006, 62% of people did not know that marital rape was a crime. The United Nations Development Programme states that, in order to advance gender justice, \"Women must know their rights and be able to access legal systems\", and the 1993 UN Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women states at Art. 4 (d) [...] \"States should also inform women of their rights in seeking redress through such mechanisms\".\n\nAddressing issues of gender-based violence is crucial for attaining reproductive rights. The United Nations Population Fund refers to \"\"Equality and equity for men and women, to enable individuals to make free and informed choices in all spheres of life, free from discrimination based on gender\" and \"Sexual and reproductive security, including freedom from sexual violence and coercion, and the right to privacy,\"\" as part of achieving reproductive rights, and states that the right to liberty and security of the person which is fundamental to reproductive rights obliges states to:\n\nThe WHO states:\n\nAmnesty International writes that:\n\nOne key issue for achieving reproductive rights is criminalization of sexual violence. If a woman is not protected from forced sexual intercourse, she is not protected from forced pregnancy, namely pregnancy from rape. In order for a woman to be able to have reproductive rights, she must have the right to choose with whom and when to reproduce; and first of all, decide whether, when, and under what circumstances to be sexually active. In many countries, these rights of women are not respected, because women do not have a choice in regard to their partner, with forced marriage and child marriage being common in parts of the world; and neither do they have any rights in regard to sexual activity, as many countries do not allow women to refuse to engage in sexual intercourse when they do not want to (because marital rape is not criminalized in those countries) or to engage in consensual sexual intercourse if they want to (because sex outside marriage is illegal in those countries). In addition to legal barriers, there are also social barriers, because in many countries a complete sexual subordination of a woman to her husband is expected (for instance, in one survey 74% of women in Mali said that a husband is justified to beat his wife if she refuses to have sex with him), while sexual/romantic relations disapproved by family members, or generally sex outside marriage, can result in serious violence, such as honor killings.\n\nAccording to the CDC, \"HIV stands for human immunodeficiency virus. It weakens a person’s immune system by destroying important cells that fight disease and infection. No effective cure exists for HIV. But with proper medical care, HIV can be controlled.\" HIV amelioration is an important aspect of reproductive rights because the virus can be transmitted from mother to child during pregnancy or birth, or via breast milk.\n\nThe WHO states that: \"All women, including those with HIV, have the right “to decide freely and responsibly on the number and spacing of their children and to have access to the information, education and means to enable them to exercise these rights”\". The reproductive rights of people living with HIV, and their health, are very important. The link between HIV and reproductive rights exists in regard to four main issues:\n\nThe WHO states that the reproductive rights and health of girls in child marriages are negatively affected.\nThe UNPF calls child marriage a \"human rights violation\" and states that in developing countries, one in every three girls is married before reaching age 18, and one in nine is married under age 15. A forced marriage is a marriage in which one or more of the parties is married without his or her consent or against his or her will. The Istanbul convention, the first legally binding instrument in Europe in the field of violence against women and domestic violence, requires countries which ratify it to prohibit forced marriage (Article 37) and to ensure that forced marriages can be easily voided without further victimization (Article 32).\n\nSexual violence in armed conflict is sexual violence committed by combatants during armed conflict, war, or military occupation often as spoils of war; but sometimes, particularly in ethnic conflict, the phenomenon has broader sociological motives. It often includes gang rape. Rape is often used as a tactic of war and a threat to international security. Sexual violence in armed conflict is a violation of reproductive rights, and often leads to forced pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections. Such sexual violations affect mostly women and girls, but rape of men can also occur, such as in Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n\nMaternal death is defined by the World Health Organization (WHO) as \"the death of a woman while pregnant or within 42 days of termination of pregnancy, irrespective of the duration and site of the pregnancy, from any cause related to or aggravated by the pregnancy or its management but not from accidental or incidental causes.\" It is estimated that in 2015, about 303,000 women died during and following pregnancy and childbirth, and 99% of such deaths occur in developing countries.\n\nBirth control, also known as contraception and fertility control, is a method or device used to prevent pregnancy. Birth control has been used since ancient times, but effective and safe methods of birth control only became available in the 20th century. Planning, making available, and using birth control is called family planning. Some cultures limit or discourage access to birth control because they consider it to be morally, religiously, or politically undesirable. \n\nAll birth control methods meet opposition, especially religious opposition, in some parts of the world. Opposition does not only target modern methods, but also 'traditional' ones : for example, the Quiverfull movement, a conservative Christian ideology, encourages the maximization of procreation, and opposes all forms of birth control, including natural family planning.\n\nAccording to a study by WHO and the Guttmacher Institute worldwide, 25 million unsafe abortions (45% of all abortions) occurred every year between 2010 and 2014. 97% of unsafe abortions occur in developing countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America. By contrast, most abortions that take place in Western and Northern Europe and North America are safe.\n\nThe Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women considers the criminalization of abortion a \"violations of women’s sexual and reproductive health and rights\" and a form of \"gender based violence\"; paragraph 18 of its \"General recommendation No. 35 on gender based violence against women, updating general recommendation No. 19\" states that: \"Violations of women’s sexual and reproductive health and rights, such as forced sterilizations, forced abortion, forced pregnancy, criminalisation of abortion, denial or delay of safe abortion and post abortion care, forced continuation of pregnancy, abuse and mistreatment of women and girls seeking sexual and reproductive health information, goods and services, are forms of gender based violence that, depending on the circumstances, may amount to torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment.\" The same \"General Recommendation\" also urges countries at paragraph 31 to [...] In particular, repeal:\na) Provisions that allow, tolerate or condone forms of gender based violence against women, including [...] legislation that criminalises abortion\".\n\nAn article from the World Health Organization calls safe, legal abortion a \"fundamental right of women, irrespective of where they live\" and unsafe abortion a \"silent pandemic\". The article states \"ending the silent pandemic of unsafe abortion is an urgent public-health and human-rights imperative.\" It also states \"access to safe abortion improves women’s health, and vice versa, as documented in Romania during the regime of President Nicolae Ceaușescu\" and \"legalisation of abortion on request is a necessary but insufficient step toward improving women’s health\" citing that in some countries, such as India where abortion has been legal for decades, access to competent care remains restricted because of other barriers. WHO’s Global Strategy on Reproductive Health, adopted by the World Health Assembly in May 2004, noted: “As a preventable cause of maternal mortality and morbidity, unsafe abortion must be dealt with as part of the MDG on improving maternal health and other international development goals and targets.\" The WHO's Development and Research Training in Human Reproduction (HRP), whose research concerns people's sexual and reproductive health and lives, has an overall strategy to combat unsafe abortion that comprises four inter-related activities:\n\nThe UN has estimated in 2017 that repealing anti-abortion laws would save the lives of nearly 50,000 women a year. Unsafe abortions take place primarily in countries where abortion is illegal, but also occur in countries where it is legal, but women cannot access it because of various reasons (conscientious objectors among doctors, high prices, lack of knowledge that abortion is legal). Indeed, there are countries where the law is liberal, but in practice it is very difficult to have an abortion, due to most doctors being conscientious objectors. The fact that is some countries where abortion is legal it is \"de facto\" very difficult to have access to one is controversial; the UN in its 2017 resolution on \"Intensification of efforts to prevent and eliminate all forms of violence against women and girls: domestic violence\" urged states to guarantee access to \"safe abortion where such services are permitted by national law\". Safe and legal abortion services are often very difficult to access by women from rural areas or from lower socioeconomic backgrounds. In 2008, Human Rights Watch stated that \"In fact, even where abortion is permitted by law, women often have severely limited access to safe abortion services because of lack of proper regulation, health services, or political will\" and estimated that \"Approximately 13 percent of maternal deaths worldwide are attributable to unsafe abortion—between 68,000 and 78,000 deaths annually.\"\n\nThe Maputo Protocol, which was adopted by the African Union in the form of a protocol to the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights, states at Article 14 (Health and Reproductive Rights) that: \"(2). States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to: [...] c) protect the reproductive rights of women by authorising medical abortion in cases of sexual assault, rape, incest, and where the continued pregnancy endangers the mental and physical health of the mother or the life of the mother or the foetus.\" The Maputo Protocol is the first international treaty to recognize abortion, under certain conditions, as a woman's human right.\n\nThe \"General comment No. 36 (2018) on article 6 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, on the right to life\", adopted by the Human Rights Committee in 2018, defines, for the first time ever, a human right to abortion - in certain circumstances (however these UN general comments are considered soft law, and, as such, not legally binding).\n\n\"Although States parties may adopt measures designed to regulate voluntary terminations of pregnancy, such measures must not result in violation of the right to life of a pregnant woman or girl, or her other rights under the Covenant. Thus, restrictions on the ability of women or girls to seek abortion must not, inter alia, jeopardize their lives, subject them to physical or mental pain or suffering which violates article 7, discriminate against them or arbitrarily interfere with their privacy. \"States parties must provide safe, legal and effective access to abortion where the life and health of the pregnant woman or girl is at risk, and where carrying a pregnancy to term would cause the pregnant woman or girl substantial pain or suffering, most notably where the pregnancy is the result of rape or incest or is not viable.\" [8] In addition, States parties may not regulate pregnancy or abortion in all other cases in a manner that runs contrary to their duty to ensure that women and girls do not have to undertake unsafe abortions, and they should revise their abortion laws accordingly. [9] For example, they should not take measures such as criminalizing pregnancies by unmarried women or apply criminal sanctions against women and girls undergoing abortion [10] or against medical service providers assisting them in doing so, since taking such measures compel women and girls to resort to unsafe abortion. States parties should not introduce new barriers and should remove existing barriers [11] that deny effective access by women and girls to safe and legal abortion [12], including barriers caused as a result of the exercise of conscientious objection by individual medical providers. [13]\"\n\nWhen negotiating the Cairo Programme of Action at the 1994 International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD), the issue was so contentious that delegates eventually decided to omit any recommendation to legalize abortion, instead advising governments to provide proper post-abortion care and to invest in programs that will decrease the number of unwanted pregnancies.\n\nOn April 18, 2008 the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, a group comprising members from 47 European countries, adopted a resolution calling for the decriminalization of abortion within reasonable gestational limits and guaranteed access to safe abortion procedures. The nonbinding resolution was passed on April 16 by a vote of 102 to 69.\n\nDuring and after the ICPD, some interested parties attempted to interpret the term ‘reproductive health’ in the sense that it implies abortion as a means of family planning or, indeed, a right to abortion. These interpretations, however, do not reflect the consensus reached at the Conference.\nFor the European Union, where legislation on abortion is certainly less restrictive than elsewhere, the Council Presidency has clearly stated that the Council’s commitment to promote ‘reproductive health’ did not include the promotion of abortion. Likewise, the European Commission, in response to a question from a Member of the European Parliament, clarified:\n\n\"“The term ‘reproductive health’ was defined by the United Nations (UN) in 1994 at the Cairo International Conference on Population and Development. All Member States of the Union endorsed the Programme of Action adopted at Cairo. The Union has never adopted an alternative definition of ‘reproductive health’ to that given in the Programme of Action, which makes no reference to abortion.”\"\n\nWith regard to the U.S., it should be noted that, only a few days prior to the Cairo Conference, the head of the U.S. delegation, Vice President Al Gore, had stated for the record:\n\n\"“Let us get a false issue off the table: the US does not seek to establish a new international right to abortion, and we do not believe that abortion should be encouraged as a method of family planning.”\"\n\nSome years later, the position of the U.S. Administration in this debate was reconfirmed by U.S. Ambassador to the UN, Ellen Sauerbrey, when she stated at a meeting of the UN Commission on the Status of Women that: \"“nongovernmental organizations are attempting to assert that Beijing in some way creates or contributes to the creation of an internationally recognized fundamental right to abortion”\". She added: \"“There is no fundamental right to abortion. And yet it keeps coming up largely driven by NGOs trying to hijack the term and trying to make it into a definition”\".\n\nCollaborative research from the Institute of Development Studies states that \"access to safe abortion is a matter of human rights, democracy and public health, and the denial of such access is a major cause of death and impairment, with significant costs to [international] development\". The research highlights the inequities of access to safe abortion both globally and nationally and emphasises the importance of global and national movements for reform to address this. The shift by campaigners of reproductive rights from an issue-based agenda (the right to abortion), to safe, legal abortion not only as a human right, but bound up with democratic and citizenship rights, has been an important way of reframing the abortion debate and reproductive justice agenda.\n\nMeanwhile, the European Court of Human Rights complicated the question even more through a landmark judgment (case of \"A. B. and C. v. Ireland\"), in which it is stated that the denial of abortion for health and/or well-being reasons is an interference with an individuals right to respect for private and family life under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, an interference which in some cases can be justified.\n\nA desire to achieve certain population targets has resulted throughout history in severely abusive practices, in cases where governments ignored human rights and enacted aggressive demographic policies. In the 20th century, several authoritarian governments have sought either to increase or to decrease the births rates, often through forceful intervention. One of the most notorious natalist policies is that which occurred in communist Romania in the period of 1967-1990 during communist leader Nicolae Ceaușescu, who adopted a very aggressive natalist policy which included outlawing abortion and contraception, routine pregnancy tests for women, taxes on childlessness, and legal discrimination against childless people. Ceaușescu's policy resulted in over 9,000 women who died due to illegal abortions, large numbers of children put into Romanian orphanages by parents who couldn't cope with raising them, street children in the 1990s (when many orphanages were closed and the children ended on the streets), and overcrowding in homes and schools. The irony of Ceaușescu's aggressive natalist policy was a generation that may not have been born would eventually lead the Romanian Revolution which would overthrow and have him executed.\n\nIn stark opposition with Ceaușescu's natalist policy was China's one child policy, in effect from 1978 to 2015, which included abuses such as forced abortions. This policy has also been deemed responsible for the common practice of sex selective abortion which led to an imbalanced sex ratio in the country.\n\nFrom the 1970s to 1980s, tension grew between women's health activists who advance women's reproductive rights as part of a human rights-based approach on the one hand, and population control advocates on the other. At the 1984 UN World Population Conference in Mexico City population control policies came under attack from women's health advocates who argued that the policies' narrow focus led to coercion and decreased quality of care, and that these policies ignored the varied social and cultural contexts in which family planning was provided in developing countries. In the 1980s the HIV/AIDS epidemic forced a broader discussion of sex into the public discourse in many countries, leading to more emphasis on reproductive health issues beyond reducing fertility. The growing opposition to the narrow population control focus led to a significant departure in the early 1990s from past population control policies. In the United States, abortion opponents have begun to foment conspiracy theories about reproductive rights advocates, accusing them of advancing a racist agenda of eugenics, and of trying to reduce the African American birth rate in the U.S.\n\nFemale genital mutilation (FGM) is defined as \"all procedures that involve partial or total removal of the external female genitalia, or other injury to the female genital organs for non-medical reasons.\" The procedure has no health benefits, and can cause severe bleeding and problems urinating, cysts, infections, and complications in childbirth and increased risk of newborn deaths. It is performed for traditional, cultural or religious reasons in many parts of the world, especially in Africa. The Istanbul Convention prohibits FGM (Article 38).\n\nBride kidnapping or marriage by abduction, is the practice whereby a woman or girl is abducted for the purpose of a forced marriage. Bride kidnapping has been practiced historically in many parts of the world, and it continues to occur today in some places, especially in Central Asia and the Caucasus, in countries such as Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Armenia, as well as in Ethiopia. Bride kidnapping is often preceded or followed by rape (which may result in pregnancy), in order to force the marriage - a practice also supported by \"marry-your-rapist law\" (laws regarding sexual violence, abduction or similar acts, whereby the perpetrator avoids prosecution or punishment if he marries the victim). Abducting of women may happen on an individual scale or on a mass scale. Raptio is a Latin term referring to the large-scale abduction of women, usually for marriage or sexual slavery, particularity during wartime.\n\nBride price, also called bridewealth, is money, property, or other form of wealth paid by a groom or his family to the parents of the woman he marries. The practice of bride price sometimes leads to parents selling young daughters into marriage and to trafficking.Bride price is common across Africa. Such forced marriages often lead to sexual violence, and forced pregnancy. In northern Ghana, for example, the payment of bride price signifies a woman's requirement to bear children, and women using birth control are at risks of threats and coercion.\n\nThe 1956 Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade, and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery defines \"institutions and practices similar to slavery\" to include:\n\nc) Any institution or practice whereby:\n\nLaws in many countries and states require sperm donors to be either anonymous or known to the recipient, or the laws restrict the number of children each donor may father. Although many donors choose to remain anonymous, new technologies such as the Internet and DNA technology have opened up new avenues for those wishing to know more about the biological father, siblings and half-siblings.\n\nEthnic minority women have often been victims of forced sterilization programs, such as Amerindian women in parts of Latin America of Roma women.\n\nIn Peru, President Alberto Fujimori (in office from 1990 to 2000) has been accused of genocide and crimes against humanity as a result of the \"Programa Nacional de Población\", a sterilization program put in place by his administration. During his presidency, Fujimori put in place a program of forced sterilizations against indigenous people (mainly the Quechuas and the Aymaras), in the name of a \"public health plan\", presented on July 28, 1995. \n\nDuring the 20th century, forced sterilization of Roma women in European countries, especially in former Communist countries, was practiced, and there are allegations that these practices continue unofficially in some countries, such as Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Hungary and Romania. In V. C. vs. Slovakia, the European Court for Human Rights ruled in favor of a Roma woman who was the victim of forced sterilization in a state hospital in Slovakia in 2000.\n\nForced sterilization in the United States was practiced starting with the 19th century. The United States during the Progressive era, ca. 1890 to 1920, was the first country to concertedly undertake compulsory sterilization programs for the purpose of eugenics. Thomas C. Leonard, professor at Princeton University, describes American eugenics and sterilization as ultimately rooted in economic arguments and further as a central element of Progressivism alongside wage controls, restricted immigration, and the introduction of pension programs. The heads of the programs were avid proponents of eugenics and frequently argued for their programs which achieved some success nationwide mainly in the first half of the 20th Century.\n\nCompulsory sterilization has been practiced historically in parts of Canada. Two Canadian provinces (Alberta and British Columbia) performed compulsory sterilization programs in the 20th century with eugenic aims. Canadian compulsory sterilization operated via the same overall mechanisms of institutionalization, judgment, and surgery as the American system. However, one notable difference is in the treatment of non-insane criminals. Canadian legislation never allowed for punitive sterilization of inmates.\n\nThe Sexual Sterilization Act of Alberta was enacted in 1928 and repealed in 1972. In 1995, Leilani Muir sued the Province of Alberta for forcing her to be sterilized against her will and without her permission in 1959. Since Muir’s case, the Alberta government has apologized for the forced sterilization of over 2,800 people. Nearly 850 Albertans who were sterilized under the Sexual Sterilization Act were awarded C$142 million in damages.\n\nThe Catholic Church is opposed to artificial contraception, abortion, and sexual intercourse outside marriage. This belief dates back to the first centuries of Christianity. While Roman Catholicism is not the only religion with such views, its religious doctrine is very powerful in influencing countries where most of the population is Catholic, and the few countries of the world with complete bans on abortion are Catholic-majority countries, and in Europe strict restrictions on abortion exist in the Catholic majority countries of Malta (complete ban), Ireland, Andorra, San Marino, Liechtenstein and to a lesser extent Poland and Monaco.\n\nSome of the countries of Central America, notably El Salvador, have also come to international attention due to very forceful enforcement of the anti-abortion laws. El Salvador has received repeated criticism from the UN. The Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) named the law \"one of the most draconian abortion laws in the world\", and urged liberalization, and Zeid bin Ra'ad, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, stated that he was \"appalled that as a result of El Salvador’s absolute prohibition on abortion, women are being punished for apparent miscarriages and other obstetric emergencies, accused and convicted of having induced termination of pregnancy\".\n\nCriticism surrounds certain forms of anti-abortion activism. Anti-abortion violence is a serious issue in some parts of the world, especially in North America. It is recognized as single-issue terrorism. Numerous organizations have also recognized anti-abortion extremism as a form of Christian terrorism.\n\nIncidents include vandalism, arson, and bombings of abortion clinics, such as those committed by Eric Rudolph (199698), and murders or attempted murders of physicians and clinic staff, as committed by James Kopp (1998), Paul Jennings Hill (1994), Scott Roeder (2009), Michael F. Griffin (1993), and Peter James Knight (2001).\nSince 1978, in the US, anti-abortion violence includes at least 11 murders of medical staff, 26 attempted murders, 42 bombings, and 187 arsons.\n\nSome opponents of legalized abortion view the term \"reproductive rights\" as a euphemism to sway emotions in favor of abortion. National Right to Life has referred to \"reproductive rights\" as a \"fudge term\" and \"the code word for \"abortion\" rights.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1121947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1121947", "title": "Rete tubular ectasia", "text": "Rete tubular ectasia\n\nRete tubular ectasia is a benign condition, usually found in older men, involving numerous small, tubular cystic structures within the rete testis.\n\nThe formation of cysts in the rete testis is associated with the obstruction of the efferent ducts, which connect the rete testis with the head of the epididymis. They are often bilateral.\n\nThe condition can be detected with sonography. It is commonly associated with epididymal abnormalities, such as spermatocele, epididymal cyst, and epididymitis. The condition shares a common location with cystic dysplasia of the testis and intratesticular cysts. Unlike cystic neoplasms, they don't present specific tumor markers.\n\nTypically none is required, but they can be treated surgically if symptomatic.\n"}
{"id": "3875331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3875331", "title": "Social determinants of health", "text": "Social determinants of health\n\nThe social determinants of health are the economic and social conditions that influence individual and group differences in health status. They are the health promoting factors found in one's living and working conditions (such as the distribution of income, wealth, influence, and power), rather than individual risk factors (such as behavioral risk factors or genetics) that influence the risk for a disease, or vulnerability to disease or injury. The distributions of social determinants are often shaped by public policies that reflect prevailing political ideologies of the area. The World Health Organization says, \"This unequal distribution of health-damaging experiences is not in any sense a 'natural' phenomenon but is the result of a toxic combination of poor social policies, unfair economic arrangements [where the already well-off and healthy become even richer and the poor who are already more likely to be ill become even poorer], and bad politics.\"\n\nThere is no single definition of the social determinants of health, but there are commonalities, and many governmental and non-governmental organizations recognize that there are social factors which impact the health of individuals.\n\nIn 2003, the World Health Organization (WHO) Europe suggested that the social determinants of health included:\n\nIn Canada, these social determinants of health have gained wide usage.\n\nThese social determinants of health are related to health outcomes, public policy, and are easily understood by the public to impact health. They tend to cluster together – for example, those living in poverty experience a number of negative health determinants.\n\nIn 2008, the WHO Commission on Social Determinants of Health published a report entitled \"Closing the Gap in a Generation.\" This report identified two broad areas of social determinants of health that needed to be addressed. The first area was daily living conditions, which included healthy physical environments, fair employment and decent work, social protection across the lifespan, and access to health care. The second major area was distribution of power, money, and resources, including equity in health programs, public financing of action on the social determinants, economic inequalities, resource depletion, healthy working conditions, gender equity, political empowerment, constitution of reserves and a balance of power and prosperity of nations.\n\nThe 2011 World Conference on Social Determinants of Health brought together delegations from 125 member states and resulted in the Rio Political Declaration on Social Determinants of Health. This declaration involved an affirmation that health inequities are unacceptable, and noted that these inequities arise from the societal conditions in which people are born, grow, live, work, and age, including early childhood development, education, economic status, employment and decent work, housing environment, and effective prevention and treatment of health problems.\n\nThe United States Centers for Disease Control defines social determinants of health as \"life-enhancing resources, such as food supply, housing, economic and social relationships, transportation, education, and health care, whose distribution across populations effectively determines length and quality of life\". These include access to care and resources such as food, insurance coverage, income, housing, and transportation. Social determinants of health influence health-promoting behaviours, and health equity among the population is not possible without equitable distribution of social determinants among groups.\n\nSteven H. Woolf, MD of the Virginia Commonwealth University Center on Human Needs states, \"The degree to which social conditions affect health is illustrated by the association between education and mortality rates\". Reports in 2005 revealed the mortality rate was 206.3 per 100,000 for adults aged 25 to 64 years with little education beyond high school, but was twice as great (477.6 per 100,000) for those with only a high school education and 3 times as great (650.4 per 100,000) for those less educated. Based on the data collected, the social conditions such as education, income, and race were dependent on one another, but these social conditions also apply to independent health influences..\n\nMarmot and Bell of the University College London found that in wealthy countries, income and mortality are correlated as a marker of relative position within society, and this relative position is related to social conditions that are important for health including good early childhood development, access to high quality education, rewarding work with some degree of autonomy, decent housing, and a clean and safe living environment. The social condition of autonomy, control, and empowerment turns are important influences on health and disease, and individuals who lack social participation and control over their lives are at a greater risk for heart disease and mental illness.\n\nEven in the wealthiest countries, there are health inequalities between the rich and the poor. Researchers Labonte and Schrecker from the Department of Epidemiology and Community Medicine at the University of Ottawa emphasize that globalization is key to understanding the social determinants of health, and as Bushra (2011) posits, the impacts of globalization are unequal. Globalization has caused an uneven distribution of wealth and power both within and across national borders, and where and in what situation a person is born has an enormous impact on their health outcomes. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development found significant differences among developed nations in health status indicators such as life expectancy, infant mortality, incidence of disease, and death from injuries. Migrants and their family members also experience significant negatives health impacts.\n\nThese inequalities may exist in the context of the health care system, or in broader social approaches. According to the WHO's Commission on Social Determinants of Health, access to health care is essential for equitable health, and it argued that health care should be a common good rather than a market commodity. However, there is substantial variation in health care systems and coverage from country to country. The Commission also calls for government action on such things as access to clean water and safe, equitable working conditions, and it notes that dangerous working conditions exist even in some wealthy countries. In the Rio Political Declaration on Social Determinants of Health, several key areas of action were identified to address inequalities, including promotion of participatory policy-making processes, strengthening global governance and collaboration, and encouraging developed countries to reach a target of 0.7% of gross national product (GNP) for official development assistance.\n\nThe UK \"Black\" and \"The Health Divide\" reports considered two primary mechanisms for understanding how social determinants influence health: cultural/behavioral and materialist/structuralist The cultural/behavioral explanation is that individuals' behavioral choices (e.g., tobacco and alcohol use, diet, physical activity, etc.) were responsible for their development and deaths from a variety of diseases. However, both the \"Black\" and \"Health Divide\" reports found that behavioral choices are determined by one's material conditions of life, and these behavioral risk factorsaccount for a relatively small proportion of variation in the incidence and death from various diseases.\n\nThe materialist/structuralist explanation emphasizes the people's material living conditions. These conditions include availability of resources to access the amenities of life, working conditions, and quality of available food and housing among others. Within this view, three frameworks have been developed to explain how social determinants influence health. These frameworks are: (a) materialist; (b) neo-materialist; and (c) psychosocial comparison. The materialist view explains how living conditions – and the social determinants of health that constitute these living conditions – shape health. The neo-materialist explanation extends the materialist analysis by asking how these living conditions occur. The psychosocial comparison explanation considers whether people compare themselves to others and how these comparisons affect health and wellbeing.\n\nA nation's wealth is a strong indicator of the health of its population. Within nations, however, individual socio-economic position is a powerful predictor of health. Material conditions of life determine health by influencing the quality of individual development, family life and interaction, and community environments. Material conditions of life lead to differing likelihood of physical (infections, malnutrition, chronic disease, and injuries), developmental (delayed or impaired cognitive, personality, and social development), educational (learning disabilities, poor learning, early school leaving), and social (socialization, preparation for work, and family life) problems. Material conditions of life also lead to differences in psychosocial stress. When the fight-or-flight reaction is chronically elicited in response to constant threats to income, housing, and food availability, the immune systemis weakened, insulin resistanceis increased, and lipid and clotting disorders appear more frequently.\n\nThe materialist approach offers insight into the sources of health inequalities among individuals and nations. Adoption of health-threatening behaviours is also influenced by material deprivation and stress.Environments influence whether individuals take up tobacco, use alcohol, consume poor diets, and have low levels of physical activity. Tobacco use, excessive alcohol consumption, and carbohydrate-dense diets are also used to cope with difficult circumstances. The materialist approach seeks to understand how these social determinants occur. \n\nThe neo-materialist approach is concerned with how nations, regions, and cities differ on how economic and other resources are distributed among the population. This distribution of resources can vary widely from country to country. The neo-materialist view focuses on both the social determinants of health and the societal factors that determine the distribution of these social determinants, and especially emphasizes how resources are distributed among members of a society. \n\nThe social comparison approach holds that the social determinants of health play their role through citizens' interpretations of their standings in the social hierarchy. There are two mechanisms by which this occurs. At the individual level, the perception and experience of one's status in unequal societies lead to stress and poor health. Feelings of shame, worthlessness, and envy can lead to harmful effects upon neuro-endocrine, autonomic and metabolic, and immune systems. Comparisons to those of a higher social class can also lead to attempts to alleviate such feelings by overspending, taking on additional employment that threaten health, and adopting health-threatening coping behaviours such as overeating and using alcohol and tobacco. At the communal level, widening and strengthening of hierarchy weakens social cohesion, which is a determinant of health. The social comparison approach directs attention to the psychosocial effects of public policies that weaken the social determinants of health. However, these effects may be secondary to how societies distribute material resources and provide security to its citizens, which are described in the materialist and neo-materialist approaches.\n\nLife-course approaches emphasize the accumulated effects of experience across the life span in understanding the maintenance of health and the onset of disease. The economic and social conditions – the social determinants of health – under which individuals live their lives have a cumulative effect upon the probability of developing any number of diseases, including heart disease and stroke. Studies into the childhood and adulthood antecedents of adult-onset diabetes show that adverse economic and social conditions across the life span predispose individuals to this disorder. \n\nHertzman outlines three health effects that have relevance for a life-course perspective. Latent effects are biological or developmental early life experiences that influence health later in life. Low birth weight, for instance, is a reliable predictor of incidence of cardiovascular disease and adult-onset diabetes in later life. Nutritional deprivation during childhood has lasting health effects as well.\n\nPathway effects are experiences that set individuals onto trajectories that influence health, well-being, and competence over the life course. As one example, children who enter school with delayed vocabulary are set upon a path that leads to lower educational expectations, poor employment prospects, and greater likelihood of illness and disease across the lifespan. Deprivation associated with poor-quality neighbourhoods, schools, and housing sets children off on paths that are not conducive to health and well-being.\n\nCumulative effects are the accumulation of advantage or disadvantage over time that manifests itself in poor health, in particular between women and men. These involve the combination of latent and pathways effects. Adopting a life-course perspective directs attention to how social determinants of health operate at every level of development – early childhood, childhood, adolescence, and adulthood – to both immediately influence health and influence it in the future. .\n\nStressis hypothesized to be a major influence in the social determinants of health. There is a relationship between experience of chronic stress and negative health outcomes. This relationship is explained through both direct and indirect effects of chronic stress on health outcomes.\n\nThe direct relationship between stress and health outcomes is the effect of stress on human physiology. The long term stress hormone, cortisol, is believed to be the key driver in this relationship. Chronic stress has been found to be significantly associated with chronic low-grade inflammation, slower wound healing, increased susceptibility to infections, and poorer responses to vaccines. Meta-analysis of healing studies has found that there is a robust relationship between elevated stress levels and slower healing for many different acute and chronic conditions However, it is also important to note that certain factors, such as coping styles and social support, can mitigate the relationship between chronic stress and health outcomes.\n\nStress can also be seen to have an indirect effect on health status. One way this happens is due to the strain on the psychological resources of the stressed individual. Chronic stress is common in those of a low socio-economic status, who are having to balance worries about financial security, how they will feed their families, housing status, and many other concerns. Therefore, individuals with these kinds of worries may lack the emotional resources to adopt positive health behaviours. Chronically stressed individuals may therefore be less likely to prioritize their health.\n\nIn addition to this, the way that an individual responds to stress can influence their health status. Often, individuals responding to chronic stress will develop potentially positive or negative coping behaviors. People who cope with stress through positive behaviors such as exercise or social connections may not be as affected by the relationship between stress and health, whereas those with a coping style more prone to over-consumption (i.e. emotional eating, drinking, smoking or drug use) are more likely to be see negative health effects of stress.\n\nThe detrimental effects of stress on health outcomes are hypothesised to partly explain why countries that have high levels of income inequality have poorer health outcomes compared to more equal countries. Wilkinson and Picket hypothesise in their book that the stressors associated with low social status are amplified in societies where others are clearly far better off. \n\nReducing the health gap requires that governments build systems that allow a healthy standard of living for every resident. \n\nThree common interventions for improving social determinant outcomes as identified by the WHO are education, social security and urban development. However, evaluation of interventions has been difficult due to the nature of the interventions, their impact and the fact that the interventions strongly affect children's health outcomes.\n\n\nThe Commission on Social Determinants of Health made recommendations in 2005 for action to promote health equity based on three principles: \"improve the circumstances in which people are born, grow, live, work, and age; tackle the inequitable distribution of power, money, and resources, the structural drivers of conditions of daily life, globally, nationally, and locally; and measure the problem, evaluate action, and expand the knowledge base.\" These recommendations would involve providing resources such as quality education, decent housing, access to affordable health care, access to healthy food, and safe places to exercise for everyone despite gaps in affluence. Expansion of knowledge of the social determinants of health, including among healthcare workers, can improve the quality and standard of care for people who are marginalized, poor or living in developing nations by preventing early death and disability while working to improve quality of life.\n\nMany economic studies have been conducted to measure the effectiveness and value of social determinant interventions but are unable to accurately reflect effects on public health due to the multi-faceted nature of the topic. While neither cost-effectiveness nor cost-utility analysis is able to be used on social determinant interventions, cost-benefit analysis is able to better capture the effects of an intervention on multiple sectors of the economy. For example, tobacco interventions have shown to decrease tobacco use, but also prolong lifespans, increasing lifetime healthcare costs and is therefore marked as a failed intervention by cost-effectiveness, but not cost-benefit. Another issue with research in this area is that most of the current scientific papers focus on rich, developed countries, and there is a lack of research in developing countries.\n\nPolicy changes that affect children also present the challenge that it takes a significant amount of time to gather this type of data. In addition, policies to reduce child povertyare particularly important, as elevated stress hormones in children interfere with the development of brain circuitry and connections, causing long term chemical damage. In most wealthy countries, the relative child poverty rate is 10 percent or less; in the United States, it is 21.9 percent. The lowest poverty rates are more common in smaller well-developed and high-spending welfare states like Sweden and Finland, with about 5 or 6 percent. Middle-level rates are found in major European countries where unemployment compensation is more generous and social policies provide more generous support to single mothers and working women (through paid family leave, for example), and where social assistance minimums are high. For instance, the Netherlands, Austria, Belgium and Germany have poverty rates that are in the 7 to 8 percent range.\n\nThe Rio Political Declaration on Social Determinants of Health embraces a transparent, participatory model of policy development that, among other things, addresses the social determinants of health leading to persistent health inequalities for indigenous peoples. In 2017, citing the need for accountability for the pledges made by countries in the Rio Political Declaration on Social Detereminants of Health, the World Health Organization and United Nations Children's Fund called for the monitoring of intersectoral interventions on the social detereminants of health that improve health equity. \n\nThe United States Department of Health and Human Services includes social determinants in its model of population health, and one of its missions is to strengthen policies which are backed by the best available evidence and knowledge in the field \nSocial determinants of health do not exist in a vacuum. Their quality and availability to the population are usually a result of public policy decisions made by governing authorities. For example, early life is shaped by availability of sufficient material resources that assure adequate educational opportunities, food and housing among others. Much of this has to do with the employment security and the quality of working conditions and wages. The availability of quality, regulated childcare is an especially important policy option in support of early life. These are not issues that usually come under individual control but rather they are socially constructed conditions which require institutional responses. A policy-oriented approach places such findings within a broader policy context. In this context, Health in All Policies has seen as a response to incorporate health and health equity into all public policies as means to foster synergy between sectors and ultimately promote health.\n\nYet it is not uncommon to see governmental and other authorities individualize these issues. Governments may view early life as being primarily about parental behaviours towards their children. They then focus upon promoting better parenting, assist in having parents read to their children, or urge schools to foster exercise among children rather than raising the amount of financial or housing resources available to families. Indeed, for every social determinant of health, an individualized manifestation of each is available. There is little evidence to suggest the efficacy of such approaches in improving the health status of those most vulnerable to illness in the absence of efforts to modify their adverse living conditions.\n\nA team of the Cochrane Collaboration conducted the first comprehensive systematic review of the health impact of unconditional cash transfers, as an increasingly common up-stream, structural social determinant of health. The review of 21 studies, including 16 randomized controlled trials, found that unconditional cash transfers may not improve health services use. However, they lead to a large, clinically meaningful reduction in the likelihood of being sick by an estimated 27%. Unconditional cash transfers may also improve food security and dietary diversity. Children in recipient families are more likely to attend school, and the cash transfers may increase money spent on health care.<ref name=\"doi10.1002/14651858.CD011135.pub2\"></ref>\n\nOne of the recommendations by the Commission on the Social Determinants of Health is expanding knowledge – particularly to health care workers.\n\nAlthough not addressed by the WHO Commission on Social Determinants of Health, sexual orientation and gender identity are increasingly recognized as social determinants of health.\n\n"}
{"id": "22287305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22287305", "title": "Tannerella forsythia", "text": "Tannerella forsythia\n\nTannerella forsythia is an anaerobic, Gram-negative bacterial species of the Cytophaga-Bacteroidetes family. It has been implicated in periodontal diseases and is a member of the red complex of periodontal pathogens. \"T. forsythia\" was previously named \"Bacteroides forsythus\" and \"Tannerella forsythensis\".\n\n\"Tannerella forsythia\" was discovered by and named after Dr. Anne Tanner who works at The Forsyth Institute located in Cambridge, Massachusetts.\n\n\"T. forsythia\" has been identified in atherosclerotic lesions. Lee et al. found that infecting mice with \"T. forsythia\" induced foam cell formation and accelerated the formation of atherosclerotic lesions. It has also been isolated from women with bacterial vaginosis. The presence of oral \"T. forsythia\" has been found to be associated with an increased risk of esophageal cancer.\n\nList of bacterial vaginosis microbiota\n\n"}
{"id": "1689365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1689365", "title": "Terri Schiavo timeline", "text": "Terri Schiavo timeline\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "855199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=855199", "title": "Two-tier healthcare", "text": "Two-tier healthcare\n\nTwo-tier healthcare is a situation in which a basic government-provided healthcare system provides basic care, and a secondary tier of care exists for those who can pay for additional, better quality or faster access.\nMost countries have both publicly and privately funded healthcare, but the degree to which it creates a quality differential depends on the way the two systems are managed, funded, and regulated.\n\nSome publicly funded universal healthcare systems deliver excellent service and the private system tends to be small and not highly differentiated. In other, typically poorer countries, the public health system is underfunded and overstretched, offering opportunities for private companies to deliver better-quality, albeit more expensive coverage.Chen, Zhang, & Hua. (2015). Analysis of two-tier public service systems under a government subsidy policy. Computers & Industrial Engineering, 90, 146-157.\n\nIn Canada, there are private and public healthcare providers with complete patient freedom of choice between which doctors and facilities to use.\n\nThe public financing system, unofficially known as Medicare, consists of several different systems managed by each province or territory. The federal government distributes funds to the provinces for healthcare providing the provinces design their systems to meet certain criteria which they all do. Most people receiving care in Canada do not pay for their care. The medical provider gets paid a fixed fee for the care provided. The law bans the medical provider from charging patients to supplement their income from Medicare. Medical care providers can set their own fees that are higher than the Medicare reimbursement fee, but the patient must pay all the cost of care, not just the excess.\n\nAbout 70% of Canada's healthcare funding is via the public system. Another 30% comes from private funding, divided approximately equally between out-of-pocket funding and private insurance, which may be complementary (meeting costs not covered by the public system such as the cost of prescription medicines, dental treatments and copayments) or supplementary (adding more choice of provider or providing faster access to care) There are, however, financial disincentives that make private medicine for services that are covered by Medicare less economic.\n\nSix of Canada's ten provinces used to ban private insurance for publicly insured services to inhibit queue jumping and so preserve fairness in the health care system. In 2005, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled that in Quebec, such bans are unconstitutional if the waiting period for care is excessively long. However, this ruling only applies within the Province of Quebec. A second court challenge is currently underway to determine whether the prohibition of private parallel health care violates the patients' right to life, liberty, and security under Section 7 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. \n\nSome private hospitals operating while the national healthcare plan was instituted (for example, the Shouldice Hernia Centre in Thornhill, Ontario) continue to operate, but they may not bill additional charges for medical procedures. (The Shouldice Hospital, however, has mandatory additional room charges not covered by public health insurance. That effectively places it in the \"upper tier\" of a two-tier system. Welfare recipients, for example, cannot be referred there.)\n\nClinics are usually private operations but may not bill additional charges. Private healthcare may also be supplied, both in uncovered fields and to foreigners.\n\nHealthcare in Denmark, although primarily subsidised by the government at the county and the national levels health, is supported by complementary insurance plans to cover elective services not covered by the public system; they also help cover copayments.\n\nHealthcare in France is a system of private and public physicians, who largely draw their income from the government. There are public as well as private hospitals.\n\nPatients pay a small copayment for certain aspects of care, but many people choose to cover the costs by taking out supplemental health insurance for which a small premium is payable each year.\n\nThus, France also has a mixed delivery system with complete patient freedom of supplier choice. There is a two-tier funding arrangement, with compulsory funding of core medical services from taxation, with optional private insurance for the cost of copayments.\n\nHealthcare in Germany has multiple sickness funds, either publicly owned or not-for-profit mutuals. Membership of a sickness fund is compulsory for everyone except certain people earning an income above a certain level, who opt out of the insurance system altogether. Doctors are usually self-employed, and hospitals may be publicly owned, privately owned or not for profit.\n\nHealthcare in the Republic of Ireland is financed mainly by the state. However, all citizens have the option of buying additional private health insurance, provided by four companies. They include VHI, a large publicly owned insurer, operating, like all other insurers, community rating; people are insured at the same basic rate regardless of health status. The other insurers are Glo Healthcare, LAYA and Avivia. Also, much smaller restricted membership companies provide benefits for certain professions, such as police officers.\n\nThere are public as well as private hospitals. Private patients are often treated in public hospitals, as all privately insured patients have an entitlement to use the publicly funded system.\n\nHealthcare in the Netherlands is essentially single tier, with all persons accessing a common system of private and public providers with complete freedom of choice between providers. Insurers are all private companies. It is heavily subsidized from tax revenues and heavily regulated, with a common, regulated standard insurance policy coverage set nationwide for all providers and a more flexible top up insurance, which is less regulated and set by each company as it chooses.\n\nInsurers set a standard price for each adult for the year throughout the country and must insure all people who apply for insurance at that price regardless of the age or health status of the applicant. An equalization fund, which is essentially a national sickness fund funded from a form of income tax on employers and employees, is used to pay for the health care of all children and to compensate insurers if they have more high risk profile clients than the other insurers.\n\nThus, Dutch insurers welcome the sick and the elderly because they are fully compensated for the higher-risk profile of these clients. People living in more expensive areas of the country have to pay higher premiums, since they get less compensation from the government because they can afford to pay more but the elderly and the sick pay the same premiums as everyone else in that region. Social insurance covers the insurance costs of those with limited incomes, such as the unemployed and the permanently disabled.\n\nHealthcare in Singapore uses a true two-tier system for both the provider network and the insurance funds. A government-sponsored and subsidized system of hospitals accepts all patients, with a guaranteed list of services. A parallel system of private hospitals provides services not available in public hospitals or available with extra amenities (such as private rooms and other boutique services).\n\nSingapore uses a universal insurance fund in which all citizens are required to participate, as a baseline. Seniors and certain groups are subsidised in their membership in the universal basic insurance fund.\n\nOptional additional supplementary insurance funds are available for purchase for elective coverage, such as for plastic surgery or for extra amenities in hospital.\n\nPrivate insurance, private hospitals and private management of public hospitals exist in Spain, and coexist with hospitals completely run by the government. Public insurance guarantees universal coverage, with no expenditure from patients other than a fraction of prescription drug cost. Some private hospitals are only accessible with private insurance. The system is regularly ranked amongst the world's best \n\nPrivate health insurance is compulsory for all persons residing in Switzerland. Insurance companies are required to sell the compulsory basic health insurance at cost, and individuals who cannot afford the premium (based on a premium-to-income ratio) are provided with public cash subsidies. Public hospitals are subsidised, but there are also private hospitals that provide additional services, such as elective services.\n\nIn addition to the compulsory basic health insurance, optional complementary and supplementary private insurance plans are available for purchase.\n\nThe National Health Service (or NHS) provides universal coverage to all residents of the United Kingdom.\n\nPrivate healthcare has continued parallel to the NHS, paid for largely by private insurance, and is used by about 8% of the population, generally as an add-on to NHS services and mostly obtained by employer funded insurance schemes. That is a taxable benefit to the employee, the value imputed by the tax authorities as income to the beneficiary. Because NHS services are so comprehensive, there are many areas in which the private sector usually does not compete and private insurers almost always refuse to fund. Childbirth and perinatal services are good examples.\n\nConversely, there are some areas where the NHS does not offer free treatment (cosmetic surgery for vanity purposes, for example) and so the private sector offers a pay-for-service alternative.\n\nHistorically, avoiding waiting lists was the main reason that patients opted out of NHS treatment and into private care. Queues of many months are common. NHS Consultants, who can run both NHS and private services during their NHS contracts, used to be in charge of waiting lists and had a financial incentive to keep the public waiting list long, to ensure a stream of private income to the private business.\n\nSince the Blair government reforms of the NHS, strict rules apply to waiting lists (see hospital choice in the NHS). That and the allocation of better funding in hospitals both reduced waiting times significantly. Most hospital patients are in fact not admitted from a list at all, and those that do, on average, wait less than 9 weeks. Nobody should wait more than 18 weeks. The 18 weeks is not dead time because it includes the time taken to book a first appointment, to conduct all the tests, for the doctor and patient to agree on the desired treatment, and to book and execute an operation or commence the treatment regime. A patient not seen in the 18-week period without just cause has the legal right to go private at the NHS's expense.\n\nAs a result of these improvements, long waiting times reduced, and the private healthcare sector now sells its surplus capacity to the NHS. Dentistry is an area where many practitioners prefer to work privately (because they can set their own fees). NHS dentistry can then be patchy, and some people may find that private dentistry is the only practical option open to them in their locality.\n\nThere has always been a degree of private medicine conducted within NHS hospitals, with private work being done in those hospitals and the patient being accommodated in segregated accommodation. Until recently, few NHS patients were ever treated in private hospitals. In the English NHS, however, there has been greater willingness to outsource some work to the private sector, and so some NHS patients do sometimes gain access to private health care facilities at public expense. The equivalent NHS operations in Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland do not often fund treatment outside of their own facilities.\n\nWhether the NHS funds treatment in a private hospital is a decision for the local commissioning health authority based on formal service contracts.\n\nThe United States has a two-tier health system, but most of the population cannot gain access to the public provision tiers. Healthcare provided directly by the government is limited to military and veteran families and to certain Native American tribes. Certain cities and towns also provide free care directly but only to those who cannot afford to pay. Medicare, Medicaid, and the State Children's Health Insurance Program pay for health care obtained at private facilities but only for the elderly, disabled, and children in poor families. Since enacting the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in 2010, Medicaid has been substantially expanded, and federal subsidies are available for low- to middle-income individuals and families to purchase private health insurance.\n\nThe debate over healthcare reform in the United States has included a proposal for a public option or Medicare for all, a government-run insurance program, available to all US citizens, to compete with or replace private insurance plans.\n\n"}
{"id": "2878302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2878302", "title": "World Mental Health Day", "text": "World Mental Health Day\n\nWorld Mental Health Day (10 October) is a day for global mental health education, awareness and advocacy against social stigma. It was first celebrated in 1992 at the initiative of the World Federation for Mental Health, a global mental health organization with members and contacts in more than 150 countries. This day, each October, thousands of supporters come to celebrate this annual awareness program to bring attention to mental illness and its major effects on peoples' life worldwide. In some countries this day is part of an awareness week, such as Mental Health Week in Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54729058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54729058", "title": "World Mental Health survey initiative", "text": "World Mental Health survey initiative\n\nThe World Mental Health Survey Initiative is a collaborative project by World Health Organization, Harvard University, University of Michigan, and country-based researchers worldwide to coordinate the analysis and implementation of epidemiological surveys of mental and behavioral disorders and substance abuse in all WHO Regions.\n\nIt is estimated that the burden of mental and addictive disorders are among the highest in the world with expected increase over the next decades. However, those estimations are not based on cross-sectional epidemiological surveys, rather, they are mainly based on literature reviews and isolated studies.\nThe WMH Survey Initiative aim is to accurately address the global burden of mental disorders by obtaining accurate cross-sectional information about the prevalences and correlates of mental and behavioral disorders as well as substance abuse, allowing for evaluation of risk factors and study of patterns of service use in order to target appropriate interventions.\n\nCollaborators in this survey come from all WHO regions of the world, with 27 participating countries.\n"}
