{"id": "57444168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57444168", "title": "Brussels effect", "text": "Brussels effect\n\nThe Brussels effect is the process of unilateral regulatory globalisation caused by the European Union de facto (but not necessarily de jure) externalising its laws outside its borders through market mechanisms.\n\nThe combination of market size, market importance, relatively stringent standards and regulatory capacity of the European Union can have the effect that firms trading internationally find that it is not economically, legally or technically practical to maintain lower standards in non-EU markets. Non-EU companies exporting globally can find that it is beneficial to adopt standards set in Brussels uniformly throughout their business. \n\nThe term Brussels effect was coined in 2012 by Professor Anu Bradford of Columbia Law School and named after the similar California effect that can be seen within the United States.\n\nThe California effect and the Brussels effect are a form of ‘race to the top’ where the most stringent standard has an appeal to companies operating across multiple regulatory environments as it makes global production and exports easier. The effects are the opposite of the \"Delaware effect\", a race to the bottom where jurisdictions can purposely choose to lower its regulatory requirements in an attempt to attract businesses looking for the least stringent standard. \n\nThe October 2000 $42 billion proposed acquisition of US-based Honeywell International by US-based General Electric was blocked by the EU antitrust authorities on the grounds of risking a horizontal monopoly in jet engines. The merger could not proceed because, despite the American Department of Justice having already approved the merger between these two US based entities, it was not legally possible to let the acquisition proceed in one important market, but not in another. \n\nUS-based multinational Dow Chemical announced in 2006 it would comply with the EU's Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) regulation for the production and use of chemical substances across its global operation.\n\nIn 2012 the EU included aviation into its existing Emission Trading Scheme. This means that any airline, regardless of their country of origin, has to purchase emissions permits for any flights within the European Economic Area. The cost of complying with EU aviation emission regulation puts pressure on manufacturers to design airplanes with improved efficiency and reduced emissions. As major airlines would not likely purchase airplanes specifically to fly outside the EEA, the EU’s stricter aviation standards have an impact on global airplane fleets, regardless of the jurisdiction of the airline.\n\nWith the introduction of theData Protection Directive in 1995 the EU had opted for a strict top-down approach to data privacy. Its successor, the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), was adopted on 14 April 2016 and had a global effect . In 2017, during negotiations for a new Japan-EU trade deal, Japan set up an independent agency to handle privacy complaints to conform with the EU's new privacy regulation.\nFacebook announced in April 2018 that it would implement parts of the GDPR globally, Sonos announced in April 2018 that it would implement the GDPR globally and Microsoft announced in May 2018 that it would implement GDPR compliance for all its customers globally.\n\n"}
{"id": "50508420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50508420", "title": "Child survival revolution", "text": "Child survival revolution\n\nThe child survival revolution (also called the child survival and development revolution) was an effort started by UNICEF (but joined by others) to reduce child mortality in the developing world. The effort lasted from 1982 to the 1990s, and generally coincides with James P. Grant's tenure as executive director of UNICEF (1980–1995). The child survival revolution included various programs and conferences, including the World Summit for Children in 1990.\n\nRather than treating child mortality as a measurement of development, the effort sought to directly reduce child mortality as a way toward development.\n\nAlthough the revolution was started by UNICEF, other organizations, including the Rockefeller Foundation, UNDP, the World Bank, and WHO joined; thus the revolution is sometimes called \"a grand alliance for children\". The revolution was analogized with the Green Revolution by James Grant.\n\nThe initial reaction to Grant's announcement of the child survival revolution was overwhelmingly negative due to several reasons, including practical reasons, e.g., the money and infrastructure to support Grant's plans not existing.\n\nIt is estimated that the child vaccination increased worldwide from 20% in 1982(?) to 80% in 1990 because of the child survival revolution.\n\nWriting in 1990, D. A. Henderson noted that although \"dramatic progress\" had been made because of the child survival revolution, the results were still \"little-appreciated\".\n\nThe child survival revolution is estimated to have saved the lives of 25 million children.\n\nThe genesis of the Child Survival Revolution can be traced to 1973 when James P. Grant, gave his annual lecture at Johns Hopkins University's School of Public Health. In reviewing research findings of Prof Carl E. Taylor Grant grasped how the collective package from Taylor's Narangwal research (childhood pneumonia, oral rehydration therapy, neonatal tetanus, family planning) served as a parallel to The Green Revolution, saying \"we can now start to talk about a Child Survival Revolution!\" Grant had earlier been Deputy Director of USAID, and in that role had been an early and strong backer of The Green Revolution, a global effort that dramatically raised global food supply through a package of agricultural innovations (new seed types, fertilizer, irrigation, pesticides, and mechanization). Grant grasped that it was the synergy that came through a package of interventions that would allow children to survive,\n\nFor much of the child survival revolution, James Grant and UNICEF adopted a strategy known as GOBI-FFF, a form of selective primary healthcare:\n\nOf these, \"immunization and ORT were seen as the 'twin-engines' of the child survival revolution\".\n\nAfter 1986, when studies by Alfred Sommer and others were published, vitamin A administration also became a focus.\n\nAlthough the revolution was started by UNICEF, other organizations were involved.\n\n\nUNICEF took advantage of the growing levels of basic education and access to television and radio to generate support for the child survival revolution through persuasion.\n\nJames Grant also \"persuaded many heads of state to get personally involved in their national programmes for children, for example in their immunization by being photographed giving polio drops to a baby\". Several figures from film and sports, like Audrey Hepburn, Liv Ullmann, and Peter Ustinov also participated in the UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador program.\n\n"}
{"id": "1582312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1582312", "title": "Core countries", "text": "Core countries\n\nIn world systems theory, the core countries are the industrialized capitalist countries on which periphery countries and semi-periphery countries depend. Core countries control and benefit from the global market. They are usually recognized as wealthy nations with a wide variety of resources and are in a favorable location compared to other states. They have strong state institutions, a powerful military and powerful global political alliances.\n\nCore countries do not always stay core permanently. Throughout history, core nations have been changing and new ones have been added to the core list. The most influential countries in the past have been what would be considered core. These were the Asian, Indian and Middle Eastern empires in the ages up to the 16th century, prominently India and China were the richest regions in the world until the 15th century, when the European powers took the lead, although the major Asian powers such as China were still very influential in the region. Europe remained ahead of the pack until the 20th century, when the two World Wars turned disastrous for the European economies. It is then that the victorious United States and Soviet Union, up to late 1980s, became the two hegemons, creating a bipolar world order.\nThe heart of civilisation consists of Western Europe, North America, Australasia and Japan. The population of the core is by far the wealthiest and best educated on the planet.\n\nCore countries control and profit the most from the world system, and thus they are the \"core\" of the world system. These countries possess the ability to exercise control over other countries or groups of countries with several kinds of power such as military, economic, and political power.\n\nThe United States, Canada, the countries of the European Union, Australia, South Korea and Japan are examples of present core countries that have the most power in the world economic system. Core countries tend to have both strong state machinery and a developed national culture.\n\nBefore the 13th century, many empires were considered to be \"core\" nations, such as the Persian, Indian, and Roman empires, the Muslim Caliphates, the Chinese and Egyptian dynasties, the various Mesopotamian kingdoms, and so on.\n\nIn Asia, the Chinese Empire was considered the middle kingdom and controlled the region. The two empires communicated and traded through the Silk Route, which takes its name from the extensive trade of Chinese silk.\n\nIndia until the 13th century, often referred to as Greater India, extended its religious, cultural, and trading influence on vast Asian regions from Iran and Afghanistan to Malaysia, Indonesia and Cambodia. With Buddhism and Hinduism, two of the most followed religions in Asia and the World as a whole, having originated there, India's cultural impact spread throughout Asia. A notable example is China, where Buddhism became the prominent religion. Sanskrit was a prominent scholarly language in all the southeastern kingdoms until the 10th century C.E.. Angkor Vat of Cambodia, the largest temple complex in the world, was originally a Hindu temple and later transformed into a Buddhist monastery.\n\nPax Mongolica is a particularly important period which started in 1206 and ended, according to contradicting sources, between late 14th and early 15th centuries. The trade during this period took on a truly multi-continental dimension, efficient and safe trade routes were established, and many of the modern rules of trade were emerging. The Mongol Empire was the largest contiguous empire in the history of the world. It stretched from as far east as China all the way to Europe, taking up large parts of Central Asia, Middle East, and India.\nMany trade routes went through the Mongol Empire territory, even though they were not the easiest ones to travel, due to the rough Asian terrain. Yet, they attracted many merchants, because these routes were relatively cheap and safe to travel. The Mongols controlled their territories through military force and taxation. In many regions of the Mongol territory, Mongol rule is remembered as brutal and destructive. Yet, some argue that many economic and cultural improvements were made during the Mongol Empire's rule.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire, which emerged in 1299, quickly became a power to be reckoned with. By 1450, the Ottoman Empire took up the connecting territory between the Black and Mediterranean seas. Despite lasting three times longer than the Mongol Empire, the Ottoman Empire never came to be anywhere near as expansive.\n\nPrior to the 16th century, feudalism took over Western European society and pushed Western Europe on a road to capitalist development. Population and commerce grew rapidly within the feudal system during the years of 1150–1300. Through the years 1300–1450, an economic downfall came about. The feudalism growth had come to an end. According to Wallerstein, \"the feudal crisis was most likely brought on by the involvement of the three following factors below:\n\nThe feudal crisis lead to the development of the world economic system. The world economic system came about during the late 15th and early 16th centuries. The most dominant of Northwestern Europe were England, France, and the Netherlands (see map of Western Europe on the right). These countries took on the definition of a core country. They developed a strong central government, bureaucracies, and grew their military power. These countries were then able to control the international commerce and create a profit for themselves. All of western Europe attempted bureaucratization, homogenization of the local population, development of a stronger military, and involvement of the country in a vast number of different economic activities. After these attempts to gain the \"core\" status, north-western European states locked in their positions as core states by 1640. England dominated the pack, as Spain and Italy fell to semi-peripheral status.\n\nOne factor that helped the core countries dominate over the other countries is long-distance trade with the Americas and the East. This trade produced profits of 200–300%. In order to enter this trade market, countries needed a great amount of capital and state help. The smaller countries could not make this happen, and this widened the gap between the \"core\" and \"semi-periphery\" countries. These core positions held strong up and throughout the 18th century, even as the core regions started to produce a mixture of agricultural and industrial goods. At the beginning of 1700, manufacture of goods in industrial productions started to take off. Industrial production soon took over the agricultural production up to the year 1900.\n\nAs nations continued to grow technologically, especially through printing journals and newspapers, communication was more widespread. Thus, the global society was united through this force. In order to assure a good life for their citizens, countries needed to rely on trade and on technological advancements, which ultimately determined how well in the world a country stood.\n\nKeeping in mind the interactions of nations in this period, John W. Cell notes in his essay entitled \"Europe and the World in an Expanding World Economy, 1700—1850\", that war and trade were somewhat dependent on each other. Nations had to defend their ships while also establishing territories elsewhere to ensure successful trade for themselves. By the middle of the 17th century, the \"foundations of the modern world system had been laid.\"\n\nAt the beginning of the 18th century, Europe had not yet dominated in the world economy on account of the fact that its military did not match that of Asia or of the Middle East. However, through organizing its economics and improving technology in industry, European countries took the lead as the most powerful nations in the late 18th century and remained in this position until late in the 20th century.\n\nIn the 18th century, Asia was making and distributing goods that were valued by other areas, namely cotton, silk and tea. Europe on the other hand, was not producing products of interest to the other parts of the world. Hence, although Europe was wealthy, this dynamic shows that there may be a reversal of power because it was consistently expanding money, yet hardly bringing in currency. America's crops were not initially appealing to Europeans. Tobacco's demand had to be advertised, and eventually Europe became interested in this particular plant. In time, there was rather regular trans-Atlantic trade between the Americas and Europe for such crops as tobacco, cotton, and also goods available in South America.\n\nThe 18th century was profoundly marked by the slave trade. Slavery was present in civilizations on all continents throughout post-hunter-gatherer history. The importation of slaves from the Old World started on continental North America in August 1619 as a form of indentured servitude, and continued in the next centuries. Slavery also occurred in Africa previous to Europeans capitalizing on selling slaves. Africans were sometimes hired to collect others off the coast, and bring them back to European ships. Because of this trade, the dependent nations remained dependent as their populations were suffering from the slave trade.\n\nThis trade of humans was incredibly profitable for the Europeans, perpetuating their success and \"rule\" of the seas. Immediately following the early 19th century, the southern U.S. population consisted of 37.5% slaves.\n\nAt the beginning of the 19th century, Europe still dominated as the core region of the world. France attempted to obtain European hegemony under the rule of Napoleon Bonaparte.\n\nIn 1871, Germany became united and established themselves as the leading industrial nation on the European mainland. Their desire to dominate the mainland helped them to become a core nation. After the First World War, Europe was decimated, and the position for new core nations was opening up. This culminated with the defeat of Nazi Germany in the Second World War, when Britain was forced to sacrifice its hegemony, allowing the United States and the Soviet Union to become world superpowers and major cores. The USSR lost its core status following its collapse in 1991.\nThe following are core according to Chase-Dunn, Kawano, Brewer (2000).\n\nAnd this is the core listing according to Babones (2005), who notes that this list is composed of countries that \"have been consistently classified into a single one of the three zones [core, semi-periphery or periphery] of the world economy over the entire 28-year study period\".\n\nThe World Systems Theory argues that a nation's future is decided by their stance in the global economy. A global capitalistic market demands the needs for wealthy (core) states and poor (periphery) states. Core states benefit from the hierarchical structure of international trade and labor. World systems theory follows the logic that international wars or multinational financial disputes can be explained as attempts to change a location within the global market for a specific state or groups of states; these changes can have the objective to gain more control over the global market (to become a core country), while causing another nation to lose control over the world market. As the two groups grew apart in power, world systems theorists to established another group, the semi-periphery, to act as the middle group.\n\nSemi-periphery countries usually surround the core countries both in a physical and fundamental sense. The semi-periphery countries act as the middle men between the core and the periphery countries - by giving the wealthy countries what they receive from the poor countries. The periphery countries are the poorer countries usually specializing in farming and have access natural resources - which the core countries use to profit from.\n\nIn order for a country to remain a core or to become a core, possible investors must be kept in mind when nation's policies are planned. Core countries change with time due to many different factors including changes in geographic favoritism and regional affluence. Alterations in financing plans by companies will also play a part as they change to react to the continuously evolving world market.\n\nIn order for a country to be considered a core country nominee, the country must possess an independent, stable government and potential for growth in the global market and advances in technology. Although these three factors will not completely decide where a company chooses to invest – they do play extremely large roles in such decisions. A main key to becoming or remaining a core is determined by the country's government policies to encourage funding from outside.\n\nThe main function of the core countries is to command and financially benefit from the world system better than the rest of the world. Core countries could also be viewed as the capitalist class while the periphery countries could be viewed as a disordered working class. In a capitalism-driven market, core countries exchange goods with the poor nations at an unequal rate greatly in favor of the core countries.\n\nThe periphery countries’ purpose is to provide agricultural and natural resources along with the lower division of labor for larger corporations of semi-periphery and core countries. As a result of the lower priced division of labor and natural resources available, the core nations’ companies buy these products for a relatively low cost and then sell them for much higher. The periphery countries only receive low amounts of money for what they sell and must pay higher prices for anything they buy from outside their own region. Because of this continuous order, periphery countries can never earn enough to cover the costs of their imports while setting aside money to invest in better technologies. Core countries support this pattern by giving loans to the poor regions for specific investments in a raw material or type of agriculture, rather than help such regions establish themselves and balance out the world market.\n\nA disadvantage to core nations is to remain a member of the core grouping, the government must retain or create new policies that encourage investments to keep in their country and not relocate. This can make it difficult for governments to change national standards that may sacrifice high profits.\n\nAn example of a change that capitalism does not favor is the abolition of slavery. During the early industrialization and growth of America, exports produced by slaves played a huge role in making businesses the most profit. Such movements to abolish slavery and spread equality caused an internal war within the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "41216691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41216691", "title": "David Vanderpool", "text": "David Vanderpool\n\nDavid Vanderpool (born February 18, 1960) is an American medical missionary and the CEO and founder of Live Beyond, which has provided medical, spiritual and logistical support to disaster ridden countries.\n\nVanderpool's work is unusual in that he combines his medical training with an explicit effort to convert his patients to Christianity.\n\nVanderpool was born in Dallas, Texas, graduated from St. Mark's School of Texas, and received his undergraduate degree from Abilene Christian University in 1982. He then attended the School of Medicine at Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center. After medical school, Vanderpool completed two surgical residencies at Baylor University Medical Center where he trained as a vascular surgeon.\n\nVanderpool wife, Laurie, is a speaker for Women's Retreats and Bible Studies, and speaks frequently for Down Syndrome organizations.\n\nVanderpool remained in Texas after residency and practiced as a vascular surgeon before moving to Brentwood, Tennessee in 2001 and opening his private practice Lave MD in 2003.\n\nDr. Vanderpool created Lave MD to act as both a medical facility and a spa. \nAfter the establishment of his international organization in 2005, Dr. Vanderpool used much of Lave MD's proceeds to fund the organization's efforts abroad.\n\nIn 2005, after Hurricane Katrina hit the southeastern part of the United States, Dr. Vanderpool delivered healthcare across the Mississippi Coast out of a trailer. His goal was to provide as much free healthcare as possible while the medical infrastructure could recover. Months later, Dr. Vanderpool established his organization, Medical Mobile Disaster Relief, as a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization with goals to provide disaster relief through medical clinics, clean water projects, and micro-finance projects to areas hit by disasters. \nVanderpool and the Mobile Medical Disaster Relief team began working in Mozambique in 2006. His goal was to provide healthcare to the indigenous people of the country in addition to enhancing the economy by implementing micro-finance projects among widows living in the communities. By 2008, Dr. Vanderpool teamed up with the Belmont School of Nursing to construct a nursing curriculum that could teach the Mozambique women to be self-sufficient in caring for themselves and their children.\n\nVanderpool and his Mobile Medical Disaster Relief partnered with PACODEP (Partners in Community Development) in Ghana in order to provide medical care, educate the locals on water purification and distribute water purifiers. PACODEP works to free enslaved children who are trafficked through Ghana for purposes of fishing work. Dr. Vanderpool has also partnered with local hospitals in Ghana in order to provide free invasive surgeries to these rescued children.\n\nDr. Vanderpool partnered with Mission Lazarus in 2009 to build a sustainable medical clinic in Cedeño, Honduras. Given sufficient medical supplies and equipment, Vanderpool allowed Mission Lazarus to take over the clinic and provision of healthcare for the people of Cedeño.\n\nDr. Vanderpool shifted his focus in the aftermath of the earthquake that devastated the entire country of Haiti in 2010. In 2010, Vanderpool officially changed the name of his organization from Mobile Medical Disaster Relief to Live Beyond with a stated mission to be \"an organization that chooses to Live Beyond...ourselves, our culture, our borders and this life so that others can Live Beyond…disease, hunger, poverty and despair.\"\n\nThe initial aid Vanderpool and his team brought to Haiti was primarily mobile medical care to relieve the thousands devastated and injured by the earthquake. Since then however, Vanderpool has grounded his missionary work in Thomazeau, Haiti where his organization began building a base. Vanderpool continued to provide free medical care, establishing a surgical hospital and clinic. In addition, clean water projects, orphanages, and other widow and orphan advocacy projects were begun.\n\nDr. Vanderpool is a Christian, who combines religion and the spread of his faith with his medical work. In Haiti, he has made it one of his objectives to bring Haiti away from its traditional voodoo culture and provide \"spiritual guidance\" to the Haitians in the role of Christianity, with the belief that Christianity will lead to a better Haiti. Prior to moving to Haiti, each medical outreach trip made by Vanderpool and other Live Beyond participants included prayer and Christian ministry along with healthcare to the voodoo priests, island chiefs, idol worshipers and the sick and dying in Haiti. On the Live Beyond site, Vanderpool's religious impact since being in Haiti has been characterized as leading to the baptism of dozens, the saving of tribes through \"Bibles being read in their own languages\" and \"the Kingdom is being expanded.\" Dr. Vanderpool promotes religious missionary work in tandem with his medical relief and sustainable development efforts. A worship center is being built in Thomazeau, Haiti and monthly mission trips are promoted and scheduled for Americans to travel to Thomazeau and volunteer.\n\n"}
{"id": "50816353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50816353", "title": "Environmental globalization", "text": "Environmental globalization\n\nEnvironmental globalization refers to the internationally coordinated practices and regulations (often in the form of international treaties) regarding environmental protection. An example of environmental globalization would be the series of International Tropical Timber Agreement treaties (1983, 1994, 2006), establishing International Tropical Timber Organization and promoting sustainable management of tropical forests. Environmental globalization is usually supported by non-governmental organizations and governments of developed countries, but opposed by governments of developing countries which see pro-environmental initiatives as hindering their economic development.\n\nKarl S. Zimmerer defined it as \"the increased role of globally organized management institutions, knowledge systems and monitoring, and coordinated strategies aimed at resource, energy, and conservation issues.\" Alan Grainger in turn wrote that it can be understood as \"an increasing spatial uniformity and contentedness in regular environmental management practices\". Steven Yearley has referred to this concept as \"globalization of environmental concern\". Grainger also cited a study by Clark (2000), which he noted was an early treatment of the concept, and distinguished three aspects of environmental globalization: \"global flows of energy, materials and organisms; formulation and global acceptance of ideas about global environment; and environmental governance\" (a growing web of institutions concerned with global environment).\n\nEnvironmental globalization is related to economic globalization, as economic development on a global scale has environmental impacts on such scale, which is of concern to numerous organizations and individuals. While economic globalization has environmental impacts, those impacts should not be confused with the concept of environmental globalization. In some regards, environmental globalization is in direct opposition to economic globalization, particularly when the latter is described as encouraging trade, and the former, as promoting pro-environment initiatives that are an impediment to trade. For that reason, an environmental activist might be opposed to economic globalization, but advocate environmental globalization.\n\nGrainger has discussed that environmental globalization in the context of international agreements on pro-environmental initiatives. According to him, precursors to modern environmental globalization can be found in the colonial era scientific forestry (research into how to create and restore forests). Modern initiatives contributing to environmental globalization include the 1972 United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, came from the World Bank 1980s requirements that development projects need to protect indigenous peoples and conserve biodiversity. Other examples of such initiative include treaties such as the series of International Tropical Timber Agreement treaties (1983, 1994, 2006). Therefore, unlike other main forms of globalization economic, political and cultural which were already strong in the 19th century, environmental globalization is a more recent phenomena, one that begun in earnest only in the later half of the 20th century. Similarly, Steven Yearley states that it was around that time that the environmental movement started to organize on the international scale focus on the global dimension of the issues (the first Earth Day was celebrated on 1970).\n\nAccording to Grainger, environmental globalization (in the form of pro-environmental international initiatives) is usually supported by various non-governmental organizations and governments of developed countries, and opposed by governments of developing countries (Group of 77), which see pro-environmental initiatives as hindering their economic development. Governmental resistance to environmental globalization takes form or policy ambiguity (exemplified by countries which sign international pro-environmental treaties and pass domestic pro-environmental laws, but then proceed to not enforce them) and collective resistance in forums such as United Nations to projects that would introduce stronger regulations or new institutions policing environmental issues worldwide (such as opposition to the forest-protection agreement during the Earth Summit in 1992, which was eventually downgraded from a binding to a non-binding set of Forest Principles).\n\nWorld Trade Organization has also been criticized as focused on economic globalization (liberalizing trade) over concerns of environmental protection, which are seen as impeding the trade. Steven Yearley states that WTO should not be described as \"anti-environmental\", but its decisions have major impact on environment worldwide, and they are based primarily on economic concerns, with environmental concerns being given secondary weight.\n\n"}
{"id": "36060804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36060804", "title": "FIH World Rankings", "text": "FIH World Rankings\n\nThe FIH World Ranking is a ranking system for men's and women's national teams in field hockey. The teams of the member nations of International Hockey Federation (FIH), field hockey's world governing body, are ranked based on their game results. The rankings were introduced in October 2003.\n\nThe rankings were introduced to overcome the criticism of fixing when drawing the pools for each tournament. It also determines the quotas for tournaments such as the Olympic Games and also the World Cup.\n\nAll of the FIH-recognised, including qualifying and continental tournaments for last four years are included in ranking points calculation. However, the past results will be deducted by the percentage set by the FIH as shown by the tabulated below.\n\nFIH had set the total allocated points for continental tournament. However, a different percentage was set to differ the standard of regional field hockey. Currently, only Europe had full 100% points allocation for all classification while the others had only several finishers with full points allocation. Africa is the sole continent with neither men's or women's tournament had full points allocation.\n\n"}
{"id": "41916274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41916274", "title": "FISA Accountability and Privacy Protection Act of 2013", "text": "FISA Accountability and Privacy Protection Act of 2013\n\nThe FISA Accountability and Privacy Protection Act of 2013 is a bill sponsored by Sen. Patrick Leahy in the wake of the global surveillance disclosures of 2013. The bill proposes to limit government surveillance and other reforms of US surveillance. The bill has been compared to the USA Freedom Act in the House, also supported by Sen. Leahy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1508112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1508112", "title": "Four continents", "text": "Four continents\n\nEuropeans in the 16th century divided the world into four continents: Africa, America, Asia and Europe. Each of the four continents was seen to represent its quadrant of the world—Europe in the north, Asia in the east, Africa in the south, and America in the west. This division fit the Renaissance sensibilities of the time, which also divided the world into four seasons, four classical elements, four cardinal directions, four classical virtues, etc.\n\nThe four parts of the world or the four corners of the world refers to the Americas (the \"west\"), Europe (the \"north\"), Asia (the \"east\"), and Africa (the \"south\"). \n\nBefore the discovery of the New World a commonplace of classical and medieval geography had been the \"three parts\" in which, from Mediterranean and European perspectives, the world was divided: Europe, Asia and Africa. As Laurent de Premierfait, the pre-eminent French translator of Latin literature in the early fifteenth century, informed his readers:\nAsia is one of the three parts of the world, which the authors divide in Asia, Africa and Europe. Asia extends towards the Orient as far as the rising sun (\"devers le souleil levant\"), towards the south (\"midi\") it ends at the great sea, towards the occident it ends at our sea, and towards the north (\"septentrion\") it ends in the Maeotian marshes and the river named \"Thanaus\".\n\nFor Laurent's French readers, Asia ended at \"our sea\", the Mediterranean; Europeans were only dimly aware of the Ural Mountains, which divide Europe from Asia in the eyes of the modern geographer, and which represent the geological suture between two fragmentary continents, or cratons. Instead, the division between these continents in the European-centered picture was the Hellespont, which neatly separated Europe from Asia. From the European perspective, into the Age of Discovery, Asia began beyond the Hellespont with Asia Minor, where the Roman province of Asia had lain, and stretched away to unimaginably exotic and distant places— \"the Orient\".\n\nIn the sixteenth century America too was full of exotic promise: the \"New World\".\n\nIn 1603, Cesare Ripa published a book of emblems for the use of artists and artisans who might be called upon to depict allegorical figures. He covered an astonishingly wide variety of fields, and his work was reprinted many times. It was still being brought up-to-date in the 18th century. The illustrations reveal fixed Eurocentric perceptions of the nature of the \"four corners of the world.\" Ripa's \"Europe\" (\"illustration, left\") is the land of abundance (cornucopia) of kings and the pope, whose crowns and the papal tiara lie at her feet, and of cities.\n\n\"Africa\", by contrast (\"illustration, below right\") wears the elephant headdress (worn by rulers depicted on Hellenistic Bactrian coins) and is accompanied by a lion, the scorpion of the desert sands and Cleopatra's asps. \"Asia\" (\"illustration, right\"), the seat of Religion, carries a smoking censer as a camel takes its ease.\n\nAnd the iconic image of \"America\" (\"illustration, below left\") shows a Native American maiden in a feathered headdress, with bow and arrow. Perhaps she represents a fabled Amazon from the river that already carried the name.\n\nThe American millionaire philanthropist James Hazen Hyde, who inherited a majority share in Equitable Life Assurance Society, formed a collection of allegorical prints illustrating the Four Continents that are now at the New-York Historical Society; Hyde's drawings and a supporting collection of sets of porcelain table ornaments and other decorative arts illustrating the Four Continents were shared by various New York City museums.\nThe Renaissance associated one major river to each of the continents.\nThe Four Rivers theme appears for example in the Fontana dei Quattro Fiumi in the Piazza Navona in Rome.\n\nWith the confirmed discovery that Australia was an island continent, the theme of the \"Four Continents\" lost much of its drive, long before a sixth continent, Antarctica, was discovered. The iconography survived as the Four Corners of the World, however, generally in self-consciously classicizing contexts: for instance, in New York, in front of the Beaux-Arts Alexander Hamilton U.S. Custom House (1907), four sculptural groups by Daniel Chester French symbolize the \"Four Corners of the World.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19466135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19466135", "title": "General Bathymetric Chart of the Oceans", "text": "General Bathymetric Chart of the Oceans\n\nThe General Bathymetric Chart of the Oceans (GEBCO) is a publicly available bathymetric chart of the world's oceans. The project was conceived with the aim of preparing a global series of charts showing the general shape of the seafloor. Over the years it has become a reference map of the bathymetry of the world’s oceans for scientists and others.\n\nGEBCO operates under the joint auspices of the International Hydrographic Organization (IHO). and the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) of UNESCO. Its work is done by an international group of experts in seafloor mapping who develop a range of bathymetric data sets and data products.\n\nAlthough originally GEBCO published paper contour charts, today it has moved into the digital age and collects digital depths of the ocean from wherever they are available. GEBCO provides a range of bathymetric data sets and data products, including:\n\nThe grids are available to download from the British Oceanographic Data Centre (BODC) in the form of netCDF files, along with free software for displaying and accessing data in ASCII and netCDF. The grids can be used with the Generic Mapping Tools (GMT) system.\n\nThe GEBCO chart series was initiated in 1903 by an international group of geographers and oceanographers, under the leadership of Prince Albert I of Monaco. At that time there was an explosion of interest in the study of the natural world and this group recognized the importance of a set of maps describing the shape of the ocean floor. The first hundred years of the project were described in the book \"The History of GEBCO 1903-2003\" published by GITC in 2003. Nowadays GEBCO’s role has become increasingly important, due to the increased interest in the oceans for scientific research and for the exploitation and conservation of resources.\n\nSince 1903, five separate editions of paper, bathymetric contour charts covering the whole world have been produced. GEBCO is now maintained in digital form as the GEBCO Digital Atlas.\n\nThe Nippon Foundation of Japan has provided funding for GEBCO to train a new generation of scientists and hydrographers in ocean bathymetry. The 12-month course, leading to a Postgraduate Certificate in Ocean Bathymetry (PCOB), has been held at the University of New Hampshire, USA, since 2004. 60 GEBCO scholars from 31 different countries have completed the course and are supporting GEBCO programs.\n\n"}
{"id": "52207602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52207602", "title": "Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network", "text": "Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network\n\nThe Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network (GOARN) is a network composed of numerous technical and public health institutions, laboratories, NGOs, and other organizations that work to observe and respond to threatening epidemics. GOARN works closely with and under the World Health Organization (WHO), which is one of its most notable partners. Its goals are to: examine and study diseases, evaluate the risks that certain diseases pose, and improve international capability to deal with diseases.\n\nThe World Health Organization realized at the start of the 21st century that it did not have the resources required to adequately respond to and prevent epidemics around the world. Thus, a \"Framework for Global Outbreak and Response\" was created by the Department of Communicable Diseases Surveillance and Response, and Regional Offices. This framework was put then forth in a meeting in Geneva from April 26–28, 2000. In this meeting, which was attended by 121 representatives from 67 institutions, the decision was made to form GOARN to contribute resources, coordination, surveillance, and technical assistance towards combating diseases.\n\nIt was decided that GOARN would be directed by a steering committee made of 20 representatives of GOARN partners and an operational support team (OST) based in WHO. The steering committee oversees and plans the activities of GOARN, and the OST is composed of a minimum of 5–6 WHO staff. Task forces and groups were established to deal with specific issues. GOARN resources are primarily coordinated by the World Health Organization.\n\nThe WHO's guiding principles are to standardize \"epidemiological, laboratory, clinical management, research, communication, logistics, support, security, evacuation, and communication systems\" and coordinative international resources to support local efforts by GOARN partners to combat outbreaks. It also focuses on improving long term ability to provide technical assistance to affected areas.\n\nGOARN has grown to now have over 600 partners in the form of public health institutions, networks, laboratories, and United Nations and non-governmental organizations. Technical institutions, networks, and organizations that have the ability to improve GOARN's capabilities are eligible for partnership. Through its partners, GOARN is staffed by a variety of individuals who specialize in public health, such as \"doctors, nurses, infection control specialists, logisticians, laboratory specialists; communication, anthropology and social mobilization experts, emergency management and public health professionals among others.\"\n\nAs its biggest partner, WHO plays a large role in GOARN. Alongside coordinating its resources to combat outbreaks, WHO provides much of the staffing and assistance for GOARN, though as will be covered later, does not fund GOARN directly. Since the network is primarily led by the WHO, there is some uncertainty as to whether WHO should be considered a partner in GOARN or if the network should be considered a WHO initiative.\n\nAnother notable partner is the Center for Disease Control, which sends technical resources and staff to GOARN. The CDC also has a history of resource sharing and cooperation with WHO in order to combat disease.\n\nThe WHO does not directly fund GOARN. Instead, GOARN members and outside fundraising that is carried out each time there is a new incidence is used to support the GOARN response. The Nuclear Threat Initiative provides GOARN with US$500,000 as a revolving fund, meant to be used for quickly mobilizing response teams. This is known as the WHO-NTI Global Emergency Response Fund, and must be repaid after withdrawal. The GOARN is effective at operating from a fairly small budget.\n\nGOARN has responded to over 120 occurrences in 85 countries and has deployed over 2,300 experts into the field. Some examples of deployments are the SARS outbreak in Asia in 2003, Rift Valley fever, and the nipah virus around the Indian subcontinent.\n\nSince its creation, GOARN cooperated with various other organizations to control outbreaks and improve national capacity to respond to diseases. A brief history of GOARN's work against international diseases is as follows. In 2000–2003, GOARN primarily responded to outbreaks of diseases such as cholera, meningitis, and yellow fever in Africa. It supported field investigation and outbreak containment. In 2003, GOARN helped to deploy international teams and helped to coordinate the response against SARS. In 2004, the network was one of the first to deploy against H5N1 influenza. In April–July 2005, GOARN helped to control Marburg Hemorrhagic fever in Angola. It carried out some \"risk assessment and preparedness missions\" in 2006, along with some response to human bird flu. In 2008/2009, GOARN responded to cholera in Zimbabwe.\n\nGOARN played a role in containing the 2003 SARS outbreak in Asia. The network sent teams of experts in epidemiology, microbiology/virology, and infection control to Hanoi, Vietnam in March 14, 2003 and then Beijing China in March 25, 2003. GOARN assisted during this outbreak to not only study the outbreak and provide assistance, but also facilitate communication between the Department of Health (Hong Kong) and the WHO.\n\nEarliest signs of the outbreak in China were reported February 11–24, when multiple people were reported to contract the disease. WHO was notified February 28 and then directly notified GOARN March 13. The first members of a WHO/GOARN outbreak control team arrived in Hong Kong March 14, followed by another 5-person GOARN team 12 days later. This second team transitioned to Guangdong, where they investigated the earliest cases of SARS and conducted interviews with health staff. The outbreak was declared by WHO to be contained by July 5.\n\nWorldwide, GOARN carried out many of the operations for the initial response to SARS through the mobilization of field teams. Also through GOARN, the WHO developed many international networks to create tools and standards for containing the epidemic. These networks communicated data by teleconference and use of secure websites for sharing of information.\n\nBesides these networks and field teams, GOARN also assisted nations by directly providing assistance to affected areas and improving their capacity to respond to such threats in the future. GOARN's role in the outbreak was recognized by the World Health Assembly during the 56th Assembly in resolution WHA56.29.\n\nOn March 23, 2014, the first reports of Ebola in Guinea were reported by WHO's Regional Office in Africa. Five days later, the first GOARN team was sent to Guinea. This team found the situation to be quite severe and its findings were discussed in a press conference in Geneva April 8.\n\nIn the third week of April, WHO collaborated with GOARN to send a new medical team trained in infection prevention/control and intensive care to Guinea's principal hospital, Donka Hospital. Two weeks later, on May 5, WHO deployed experts, thirty three of whom were from GOARN, to West Africa to assist in the response to the outbreak. The outbreak was detected to have spread to Sierre Leone later in the month.\n\nOn June 23, a GOARN steering committee session sent a message to WHO requesting for WHO to lead the response more strongly because it was the only agency with the resources and staff to do so.\n\nOver the course of the outbreak, the network deployed 895 experts, including \"doctors, nurses, infection control specialists, logisticians, laboratory specialists; communication, anthropology and social mobilisation experts, emergency management and public health professionals.\" The network is still involved in the response to Ebola.\n\nIn Sierre Leone, GOARN has sent case management and laboratory experts from the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh to help train the response capacity of health care and laboratory workers case management and diagnosis.\n\nIn Northern Iraq, the Syrian Civil War displaced many refugees into the Kurdistan. The refugee camps suffer from poor sanitation, which has led to cholera outbreaks in the region in 2007 and 2012. GOARN, as per the request of the Ministry of Health of Iraq for support and training in outbreak response, deployed a multidisciplinary team of six experts to the Northern Iraqian Dohuk and Erbil camps to assist with assessing the risk of cholera and other diseases as well as assisting MoH to prepare for response to the diseases.\n\nGOARN supported countries and various other outbreak control organizations to fight against the H1N1 outbreak in the US and Mexico. The GOARN alert and request for assistance started in Mexico April 24, 2009. Over the course of the outbreak, GOARN helped the Pan American Health Organization coordinate and exchange information with the CDC and Public Health Agency of Canada. It was provided with support and training from the Regional Office for the Western Pacific Response so that it could support regional offices in Manila and carry out field missions in Malaysia and Mongolia. The network carried out a joint training course with the Regional Office for the Eastern Mediterranean in Cairo.\n\nAll in all, GOARN carried out 188 missions to 27 countries to strengthen international coordination between these organizations and to improve international capacity to respond to threats. Its activities consisted of assessment of the situation, communication between partners, infection control, laboratory diagnostic, and transportation of specimens.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1777495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1777495", "title": "Global change", "text": "Global change\n\nGlobal change refers to planetary-scale changes in the Earth system. The system consists of the land, oceans, atmosphere, polar regions, life, the planet's natural cycles and deep Earth processes. These constituent parts influence one another. The Earth system now includes human society, so global change also refers to large-scale changes in society.\n\nMore completely, the term \"global change\" encompasses: population, climate, the economy, resource use, energy development, transport, communication, land use and land cover, urbanization, globalization, atmospheric circulation, ocean circulation, the carbon cycle, the nitrogen cycle, the water cycle and other cycles, sea ice loss, sea-level rise, food webs, biological diversity, pollution, health, over fishing, and more.\n\nIn 1980, a group of scientists led by Swedish meteorologist Bert Bolin set up an international program called the World Climate Research Programme (WCRP), to determine whether the climate was changing, whether climate could be predicted and whether humans were in some way responsible for the change. The programme was sponsored by the World Meteorological Organization and the International Council for Science (ICSU). As time went on, there was a growing realisation that climate change was one part of a larger phenomenon, global change. In 1987, a team of researchers, led again by Bert Bolin, James McCarthy, Paul Crutzen, H. Oeschger and others, successfully argued for an international research programme to investigate global change. This programme, sponsored by ICSU, is the International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme (IGBP). The programme has eight projects investigating different parts of the Earth system and links between them.\n\nIGBP, WCRP and a third programme, the International Human Dimensions Programme (IHDP, founded in 1996), spearheaded a landmark science conference held in Amsterdam in 2001. The conference, \"Challenges of a Changing Earth: Global Change Open Science Conference\", led to the Amsterdam Declaration which stated, \"In addition to the threat of significant climate change, there is growing concern over the ever-increasing human modification of other aspects of the global environment and the consequent implications for human well-being. Basic goods and services supplied by the planetary life support system, such as food, water, clean air and an environment conducive to human health, are being affected increasingly by global change.\"\n\nThe declaration goes on to say, \"The international global change programmes urge governments, public and private institutions and people of the world to agree that an ethical framework for global stewardship and strategies for Earth System management are urgently needed.\"\n\nMany nations now have their own global change programmes and institutes, for example the US Global Change Research Program and the UK's Quantifying and Understanding the Earth System (QUEST) programme. And since the Amsterdam conference another international programme focusing on biodiversity has been set up, DIVERSITAS. These programmes form the Earth System Science Partnership.\n\nIn 2012, these international programmes held another major science conference in London, Planet Under Pressure: new knowledge towards solutions.\n\nIn the past, the main drivers of global change have been solar variation, plate tectonics, volcanism, proliferation and abatement of life, meteorite impact, resource depletion, changes in Earth's orbit around the sun and changes in the tilt of Earth on its axis. There is overwhelming evidence that now the main driver of planetary-scale change, or global change, is the growing human population's demand for energy, food, goods, services and information, and its disposal of its waste products. In the last 250 years, global change has caused climate change, widespread species extinctions, fish-stock collapse, desertification, ocean acidification, ozone depletion, pollution, and other large-scale shifts.\n\nScientists working on the International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme have said that Earth is now operating in a \"no analogue\" state. Measurements of Earth system processes, past and present, have led to the conclusion that the planet has moved well outside the range of natural variability in the last half million years at least. \"Homo sapiens\" have been around for about 200,000 years.\n\nWhat this means for the planet and society remains unclear. But, in the last 20 years there has been an enormous international research effort to understand global change and the Earth system. An aim of this research is to work out if there are planetary boundaries and are we approaching them. Scientists, international governmental organizations and lobbying organizations like World Wide Fund for Nature argue that current consumption levels, particularly in developed countries, are not sustainable because there is a very real danger they will push the planet into a new state. What this new state might look like is still being debated, but sea levels are likely to rise several meters, the pH of the oceans, a measure of its acidity, is likely to drop farther than it has in 20 million years, and global atmospheric and ocean circulations may shift markedly. The major cycles – carbon, nitrogen, sulfur, phosphorus, water – and other important parameters would alter, bringing drought to some places, floods to others. Governments will no longer be able to take for granted the relative environmental stability that has allowed human society to flourish and led to rapid globalization. Most of the population of the planet will be affected. The re-insurance industry is already taking measures to protect its interests and maximize profits as turbulent times approach.\n\nHumans have always altered their environment. The advent of agriculture around 10000 years ago led to a radical change in land use that still continues. But, the relatively small human population had little impact on a global scale until the start of the industrial revolution in 1750. This event, followed by the invention of the Haber-Bosch process in 1909, which allowed large-scale manufacture of fertilizers, led directly to rapid changes to many of the planet's most important physical, chemical and biological processes.\n\nThe 1950s marked a shift in gear: global change began accelerating. Between 1950 and 2010, the population more than doubled. In that time, rapid expansion of international trade coupled with upsurges in capital flows and new technologies, particularly information and communication technologies, led to national economies becoming more fully integrated. There was a tenfold increase in economic activity and the world's human population became more tightly connected than ever before. The period saw sixfold increases in water use and river damming. About 70 percent of the world's freshwater resource is now used for agriculture. This rises to 90 percent in India and China. Half of the Earth's land surface had now been domesticated. By 2010, urban population, for the first time, exceeded rural population. And there has been a fivefold increase in fertilizer use. Indeed, manufactured reactive nitrogen from fertilizer production and industry now exceeds global terrestrial production of reactive nitrogen. Without artificial fertilizers there would not be enough food to sustain a population of seven billion people.\n\nThese changes to the human sub-system have a direct influence on all components of the Earth system. The chemical composition of the atmosphere has changed significantly. Concentrations of important greenhouse gases, carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide are rising fast. Over Antarctica a large hole in the ozone layer appeared. Fisheries collapsed: most of the world's fisheries are now fully or over-exploited. Thirty percent of tropical rainforests disappeared.\n\nIn 2000, Nobel prize-winning scientist Paul Crutzen announced the scale of change is so great that in just 250 years, human society has pushed the planet into a new geological era: the Anthropocene. This name has stuck and there are calls for the Anthropocene to be adopted officially. If it is, it may be the shortest of all geological eras. Evidence suggests that if human activities continue to change components of the Earth system, which are all interlinked, this could heave the Earth system out of a one state and into a new state.\n\nGlobal change in a societal context encompasses social, cultural, technological, political, economic and legal change. Terms closely related to global change and society are globalization and global integration. Globalization began with long-distance trade and urbanism. The first record of long distance trading routes is in the third millennium BC. Sumerians in Mesopotamia traded with settlers in the Indus Valley, in modern-day India.\n\nSince 1750, but more significantly, since the 1950s, global integration has accelerated. This era has witnessed incredible global changes in communications, transportation, and computer technology. Ideas, cultures, people, goods, services and money move around the planet with ease. This new global interconnectedness and free flow of information has radically altered notions of other cultures, conflicts, religions and taboos. Now, social movements can and do form at a planetary scale.\n\nEvidence, if more were needed, of the link between social and environmental global change came with the 2008-2009 global financial crisis. The crisis pushed the planet's main economic powerhouses, the United States, Europe and much of Asia into recession. According to the Global Carbon Project, global atmospheric emissions of carbon dioxide fell from an annual growth rate of around 3.4% between 2000 and 2008, to a growth rate of about 2% in 2008.\n\nHumans are altering the planet's biogeochemical cycles in a largely unregulated way with limited knowledge of the consequences. Without steps to effectively manage the Earth system – the planet's physical, chemical, biological and social components – it is likely there will be severe impacts on people and ecosystems. Perhaps the largest concern is that a component of the Earth system, for example, an ocean circulation, the Amazon rainforest, or Arctic sea ice, will reach a tipping point and flip from its current state to another state: flowing to not flowing, rainforest to savanna, or ice to no ice. A domino effect could ensue with other components of the Earth system changing state rapidly.\n\nIntensive research over the last 20 years has shown that tipping points do exist in the Earth system, and wide-scale change can be rapid – a matter of decades. Potential tipping points have been identified and attempts have been made to quantify thresholds. But to date, the best efforts can only identify loosely defined \"planetary boundaries\" beyond which tipping points exist but their precise locations remain elusive.\n\nThere have been calls for a better way to manage the environment on a planetary scale, sometimes referred to as managing \"Earth's life support system\". The United Nations was formed to stop wars and provide a platform for dialogue between countries. It was not created to avoid major environmental catastrophe on regional or global scales. But several international environmental conventions exist under the UN, including the Framework Convention on Climate Change, Montreal Protocol, Convention to Combat Desertification, and Convention on Biological Diversity. Additionally, the UN has two bodies charged with coordinating environmental and development activities, the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).\n\nIn 2004, the IGBP published \"Global Change and the Earth System, a planet under pressure.\" The publication's executive summary concluded: \"An overall, comprehensive, internally consistent strategy for stewardship of the Earth system is required\". It stated that a research goal is to define and maintain a stable equilibrium in the global environment.\n\nIn 2007, France called for UNEP to be replaced by a new and more powerful organization called the \"United Nations Environment Organization\". The rationale was that UNEP's status as a \"programme\", rather than an \"organization\" in the tradition of the World Health Organization or the World Meteorological Organization, weakened it to the extent that it was no longer fit for purpose given current knowledge of the state of the planet.\n"}
{"id": "37159435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37159435", "title": "Global education", "text": "Global education\n\nGlobal education is a set of ideas taught to enhance one's perception of the world. It is taught within the curriculum where teachers integrate multiple dimensions, perspectives, and citizenships into everyday lessons. It began as an undertaking to restructure education and society in the 1960s and 1970s, through the initiatives of educationalists, NGOs and intergovernmental organizations. This global approach seeks to break an educational program that is stuck in subject knowledge and national culture, and instead, seeks to discover alternative motivations for education and alternate futures.\n\nIn Australia, it is perceived to enable young people to participate in shaping a better, shared future for the world. It emphasizes the unity and interdependence of human society, developing a sense of self and appreciation of cultural diversity, affirmation of social justice and human rights, as well as building peace and actions for a sustainable future at different times and places. This approach is also believed to promote positive values and prods students to take responsibility for their actions and see themselves as global citizens who can contribute to a more peaceful, just and sustainable world.\n\nUnited Kingdom:\n\nNetwork of Young Europeans:\n\nTokyo Global Engineering Corporation: \n\nThe National Education Association (NEA) recognizes Global Education to be a goal that educators strive to succeed in the classroom. The American association supports study abroad trips and teaching overseas for teachers to get a first hand experience of different cultures.\n\nUniversities in the United States are also expanding their study abroad programs to enhance greater interconnectedness and global economic interdependence. The Institute of International Education (IIE) is researching effective ways that higher education in the United States can grow and create quality study abroad programs within the curriculum.\n\nMany K-12 schools within the United States have adapted a Global Education Framework that was created for state wide implementation. Within this framework consist of six essential steps for a successful global education curriculum within each school:\n\nUniversities in the United States have recently been expanding on the degree programs relating to global education. Many universities offer Bachelor Degree programs and certifications in Global Education, M.S. degrees in Global and International Education, M.A. degrees in International Education, and doctorate degrees in International Education.\n\nPeople with a degree in International Education design, implement, manage, and evaluate multiple education programs within public and private primary and secondary schools, public and private higher education programs, national corporations, and cultural agencies. People in the job field can work at agencies across the world, within elite universities, and a variety of global education organizations.\n\nIn January 2016, the Institute of International Education (IIE) announced the winners at the annual IIE Andrew Heiskell Awards for Innovation on International Education. The Heiskell awards were created to promote and honor outstanding commitments conducted in international higher education. Categories of the awards include: Internationalizing the Campus, Study Abroad, International Partnerships, and Internationalizing the HBCU. These awards hope to bring public awareness to the benefits of international education.\n\nThe International Education Association of Australia (IEAA) awards professionals in the global education field for their outstanding contributions to international education in Australia by providing excellence and best practice. The International Education Association of Australia (IEAA) also supports the international education communities’ research, projects, journalism, publications, and more areas that contribute to the global perspectives in education.\n\nEvidence based practices have shown that literature can help children learn about global issues. By exploring diversity in text, connecting the literature to service learning and activism, promote critical thinking about themselves in the global community, and develop their global awareness with literacy elements. Literature introduced in the classroom can teach multiple skills that prepare for further learning within the global community.\n\nTechnology is a key provider in learning about globalization and participating in the global community. Technology can be used in the classroom to communicate around the world, establish global relationships, learn more about global current events, and developing global research. The advancements of technology will have a positive impact of global education in primary schools and higher education schools.\n\nService learning or local volunteer service work are included in conceptualized global citizenship programs. This approach is criticized because global relations are dramatically split into rich and poor, or oppressor and oppressed, respectively. Experiences of oppression are more complex than experiences of oppressing. Global citizenship education includes connecting nearby and worldwide issues and points of view and may incorporate such themes as human rights, social equity, and citizenship instruction, economic improvement, and globalization. Service learning can carry the possibility to recreate social disparities and advance, instead of dissipate, stereotypes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1940832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1940832", "title": "Global governance", "text": "Global governance\n\nGlobal governance or world governance is a movement towards political cooperation among transnational actors, aimed at negotiating responses to problems that affect more than one state or region. Institutions of global governance—the United Nations, the International Criminal Court, the World Bank, etc.—tend to have limited or demarcated power to enforce compliance. The modern question of world governance exists in the context of globalization and globalizing regimes of power: politically, economically and culturally. In response to the acceleration of worldwide interdependence, both between human societies and between humankind and the biosphere, the term \"global governance\" may name the process of designating laws, rules, or regulations intended for a global scale.\n\nGlobal governance is not a singular system. There is no \"world government\" but the many different regimes of global \"governance\" do have commonalities:\n\nThe term world governance is broadly used to designate all regulations intended for organization and centralization of human societies on a global scale. The Forum for a new World Governance defines world governance simply as \"collective management of the planet\".\n\nTraditionally, \"government\" has been associated with \"governing,\" or with political authority, institutions, and, ultimately, control. \"Governance\" denotes a process through which institutions coordinate and control independent social relations, and that have the ability to enforce, by force, their decisions. However, authors like James Rosenau have also used \"governance\" to denote the regulation of interdependent relations in the absence of an overarching political authority, such as in the international system. Some now speak of the development of \"global public policy\".\n\nAdil Najam, a scholar on the subject at the Pardee School of Global Studies, Boston University has defined global governance simply as \"the management of global processes in the absence of global government.\" According to Thomas G. Weiss, director of the Ralph Bunche Institute for International Studies at the Graduate Center (CUNY) and editor (2000–05) of the journal \"\", \"'Global governance'—which can be good, bad, or indifferent—refers to concrete cooperative problem-solving arrangements, many of which increasingly involve not only the United Nations of states but also 'other UNs,' namely international secretariats and other non-state actors.\" In other words, global governance refers to the way in which global affairs are managed.\n\nThe definition is flexible in scope, applying to general subjects such as global security and order or to specific documents and agreements such as the World Health Organization's Code on the Marketing of Breast Milk Substitutes. The definition applies whether the participation is bilateral (e.g. an agreement to regulate usage of a river flowing in two countries), function-specific (e.g. a commodity agreement), regional (e.g. the Treaty of Tlatelolco), or global (e.g. the Non-Proliferation Treaty). These \"cooperative problem-solving arrangements\" may be formal, taking the shape of laws or formally constituted institutions for a variety of actors (such as state authorities, intergovernmental organizations (IGOs), non-governmental organizations (NGOs), private sector entities, other civil society actors, and individuals) to manage collective affairs. They may also be informal (as in the case of practices or guidelines) or ad hoc entities (as in the case of coalitions).\n\nHowever, a single organization may take the nominal lead on an issue, for example the World Trade Organization (WTO) in world trade affairs. Therefore, global governance is thought to be an international process of consensus-forming which generates guidelines and agreements that affect national governments and international corporations. Examples of such consensus would include WHO policies on health issues.\n\nIn short, global governance may be defined as \"the complex of formal and informal institutions, mechanisms, relationships, and processes between and among states, markets, citizens and organizations, both inter- and non-governmental, through which collective interests on the global plane are articulated, Duties, obligations and privileges are established, and differences are mediated through educated professionals.\"\n\nTitus Alexander, author of \"Unravelling Global Apartheid, an Overview of World Politics\", has described the current institutions of global governance as a system of global apartheid, with numerous parallels with minority rule in the formal and informal structures of South Africa before 1991.\n\nThe dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991 marked the end of a long period of international history based on a policy of balance of powers. Since this historic event, the planet has entered a phase of geostrategic breakdown. The national-security model, for example, while still in place for most governments, is gradually giving way to an emerging collective conscience that extends beyond the restricted framework it represents.\n\nThe post-Cold War world of the 1990s saw a new paradigm emerge based on a number of issues:\n\n\nGlobal governance can be roughly divided into four stages:\n\nWorld authorities including international organizations and corporations achieve deference to their agenda through different means. Authority can derive from institutional status, expertise, moral authority, capacity, or perceived competence.\n\nIn its initial phase, world governance was able to draw on themes inherited from geopolitics and the theory of international relations, such as peace, defense, geostrategy, diplomatic relations, and trade relations. But as globalization progresses and the number of interdependences increases, the global level is also highly relevant to a far wider range of subjects. Following are a number of examples.\n\n\"The crisis brought about by the accelerated pace and the probably irreversible character of the effect of human activities on nature requires collective answers from governments and citizens. Nature ignores political and social barriers, and the global dimension of the crisis cancels the effects of any action initiated unilaterally by state governments or sectoral institutions, however powerful they may be. Climate change, ocean and air pollution, nuclear risks and those related to genetic manipulation, the reduction and extinction of resources and biodiversity, and above all a development model that remains largely unquestioned globally are all among the various manifestations of this accelerated and probably irreversible effect.\n\nThis effect is the factor, in the framework of globalization, that most challenges a system of states competing with each other to the exclusion of all others: among the different fields of global governance, environmental management is the most wanting in urgent answers to the crisis in the form of collective actions by the whole of the human community. At the same time, these actions should help to model and strengthen the progressive building of this community.\"\n\nProposals in this area have discussed the issue of how collective environmental action is possible. Many multilateral, environment-related agreements have been forged in the past 30 years, but their implementation remains difficult. There is also some discussion on the possibility of setting up an international organization that would centralize all the issues related to international environmental protection, such as the proposed World Environment Organization (WEO). The United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) could play this role, but it is a small-scale organization with a limited mandate. The question has given rise to two opposite views: the European Union, especially France and Germany, along with a number of NGOs, is in favor of creating a WEO; the United Kingdom, the USA, and most developing countries prefer opting for voluntary initiatives.\n\nThe International Institute for Sustainable Development proposes a \"reform agenda\" for global environmental governance. The main argument is that there seems to exist an unspoken but powerful consensus on the essential objectives of a system of global environmental governance. These goals would require top-quality leadership, a strong environmental policy based on knowledge, effective cohesion and coordination, good management of the institutions constituting the environmental governance system, and spreading environmental concerns and actions to other areas of international policy and action.\n\nThe focus of environmental issues shifted to climate change from 1992 onwards. Due to the transboundary nature of climate change, various calls have been made for a World Environment Organisation (WEO) (sometimes referred to as a Global Environment Organisation) to tackle this global problem on a global scale. At present, a single worldwide governing body with the powers to develop and enforce environmental policy does not exist. The idea for the creation of a WEO was discussed thirty years ago but is receiving fresh attention in the light of arguably disappointing outcomes from recent, ‘environmental mega-conferences’(e.g.Rio Summit and Earth Summit 2002).\n\nInternational environmental organisations do exist. The United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP), created in 1972, coordinates the environmental activity of countries in the UN. UNEP and similar international environmental organisations are seen as not up to the task. They are criticised as being institutionally weak, fragmented, lacking in standing and providing non-optimal environmental protection. It has been stated that the current decentralised, poorly funded and strictly intergovernmental regime for global environmental issues is sub-standard. However, the creation of a WEO may threaten to undermine some of the more effective aspects of contemporary global environmental governance; notably its fragmented nature, from which flexibility stems. This also allows responses to be more effective and links to be forged across different domains. Even though the environment and climate change are framed as global issues, Levin states that ‘it is precisely at this level that government institutions are least effective and trust most delicate’ while Oberthur and Gehring argue that it would offer little more than institutional restructuring for its own sake.\n\nMany proposals for the creation of a WEO have emerged from the trade and environment debate. It has been argued that instead of creating a WEO to safeguard the environment, environmental issues should be directly incorporated into the World Trade Organization (WTO). The WTO has “had success in integrating trade agreements and opening up markets because it is able to apply legal pressure to nation states and resolve disputes”. Greece and Germany are currently in discussion about the possibility of solar energy being used to repay some of Greece’s debt after their economy crashed in 2010. This exchange of resources, if it is accepted, is an example of increased international cooperation and an instance where the WTO could embrace energy trade agreements. If the future holds similar trade agreements, then an environmental branch of the WTO would surely be necessary. However critics of a WTO/WEO arrangement say that this would neither concentrate on more directly addressing underlying market failures, nor greatly improve rule-making.\n\nThe creation of a new agency, whether it be linked to the WTO or not, has now been endorsed by Renato Ruggiero, the former head of the World Trade Organization (WTO), as well as by the new WTO director-designate, Supachai Panitchpakdi. The debate over a global institutional framework for environmental issues will undoubtedly rumble on but at present there is little support for any one proposal.\n\nThe 2008 financial crisis may have undermined faith that laissez-faire capitalism will correct all serious financial malfunctioning on its own, as well as belief in the presumed independence of the economy from politics. It has been stated that, lacking in transparency and far from democratic, international financial institutions may be incapable of handling financial collapses. There are many who believe free-market capitalism may be incapable of forming the economic policy of a stable society, as it has been theorised that it can exacerbate inequalities.\n\nNonetheless, the debate on the potential failings of the system has led the academic world to seek solutions. According to Tubiana and Severino, \"refocusing the doctrine of international cooperation on the concept of public goods offers the possibility . . . of breaking the deadlock in international negotiations on development, with the perception of shared interests breathing new life into an international solidarity that is running out of steam.\"\n\nJoseph Stiglitz argues that a number of global public goods should be produced and supplied to the populations, but are not, and that a number of global externalities should be taken into consideration, but are not. On the other hand, he contends, the international stage is often used to find solutions to completely unrelated problems under the protection of opacity and secrecy, which would be impossible in a national democratic framework.\n\nOn the subject of international trade, Susan George states that \". . . in a rational world, it would be possible to construct a trading system serving the needs of people in both North and South. . . . Under such a system, crushing third world debt and the devastating structural adjustment policies applied by the World Bank and the IMF would have been unthinkable, although the system would not have abolished capitalism.\"\n\nBuilding a responsible world governance that would make it possible to adapt the political organization of society to globalization implies establishing a democratic political legitimacy at every level: local, national, regional and global.\n\nObtaining this legitimacy requires rethinking and reforming, all at the same time:\n\nThe political aspect of world governance is discussed in greater detail in the section Problems of World Governance and Principles of Governance\n\nArmed conflicts have changed in form and intensity since the Berlin wall came down in 1989. The events of 9/11, the wars in Afghanistan and in Iraq, and repeated terrorist attacks all show that conflicts can repercuss well beyond the belligerents directly involved. The major powers and especially the United States, have used war as a means of resolving conflicts and may well continue to do so. If many in the United States believe that fundamentalist Muslim networks are likely to continue to launch attacks, in Europe nationalist movements have proved to be the most persistent terrorist threat. The Global War on Terrorism arguably presents a form of emerging global governance in the sphere of security with the United States leading cooperation among the Western states, non-Western nations and international institutions. Beyer argues that participation in this form of 'hegemonic governance' is caused both by a shared identity and ideology with the US, as well as cost-benefit considerations. Pesawar school attack 2014 is a big challenge to us. Militants from the Pakistani Taliban have attacked an army-run school in Peshawar, killing 141 people, 132 of them children, the military say.\n\nAt the same time, civil wars continue to break out across the world, particularly in areas where civil and human rights are not respected, such as Central and Eastern Africa and the Middle East. These and other regions remain deeply entrenched in permanent crises, hampered by authoritarian regimes, many of them being supported by the United States, reducing entire swathes of the population to wretched living conditions. The wars and conflicts we are faced with have a variety of causes: economic inequality, social conflict, religious sectarianism, Western imperialism, colonial legacies, disputes over territory and over control of basic resources such as water or land. They are all illustrations a deep-rooted crisis of world governance.\n\nThe resulting bellicose climate imbues international relations with competitive nationalism and contributes, in rich and poor countries alike, to increasing military budgets, siphoning off huge sums of public money to the benefit of the arms industry and military-oriented scientific innovation, hence fueling global insecurity. Of these enormous sums, a fraction would be enough to provide a permanent solution for the basic needs of the planet's population hence practically eliminating the causes of war and terrorism.\n\nAndrée Michel argues that the arms race is not only proceeding with greater vigor, it is the surest means for Western countries to maintain their hegemony over countries of the South. Following the break-up of the Eastern bloc countries, she maintains, a strategy for the manipulation of the masses was set up with a permanent invention of an enemy (currently incarnated by Iraq, Iran, Libya, Syria, and North Korea) and by kindling fear and hate of others to justify perpetuating the Military–industrial complex and arms sales. The author also recalls that the \"Big Five\" at the UN who have the veto right are responsible for 85% of arms sales around the world.\n\nProposals for the governance of peace, security, and conflict resolution begin by addressing prevention of the causes of conflicts, whether economic, social, religious, political, or territorial. This requires assigning more resources to improving people's living conditions—health, accommodation, food, and work—and to education, including education in the values of peace, social justice, and unity and diversity as two sides of the same coin representing the global village.\n\nResources for peace could be obtained by regulating, or even reducing military budgets, which have done nothing but rise in the past recent years. This process could go hand in hand with plans for global disarmament and the conversion of arms industries, applied proportionally to all countries, including the major powers. Unfortunately, the warlike climate of the last decade has served to relegate all plans for global disarmament, even in civil-society debates, and to pigeonhole them as a long-term goal or even a Utopian vision. This is definitely a setback for the cause of peace and for humankind, but it is far from being a permanent obstacle.\n\nInternational institutions also have a role to play in resolving armed conflicts. Small international rapid deployment units could intervene in these with an exclusive mandate granted by a reformed and democratic United Nations system or by relevant regional authorities such as the European Union. These units could be formed specifically for each conflict, using armies from several countries as was the case when the UNIFIL was reinforced during the 2006 Lebanon War. On the other hand, no national army would be authorized to intervene unilaterally outside its territory without a UN or regional mandate.\n\nAnother issue that is worth addressing concerns the legitimate conditions for the use of force and conduct during war. Jean-Réné Bachelet offers an answer with the conceptualization of a military ethics corresponding to the need for a \"principle of humanity.\" The author defines this principle as follows: \"All human beings, whatever their race, nationality, gender, age, opinion, or religion, belong to one same humanity, and every individual has an inalienable right to respect for his life, integrity, and dignity.\"\n\nThe World Trade Organization's (WTO) agenda of liberalizing public goods and services are related to culture, science, education, health, living organisms, information, and communication. This plan has been only partially offset by the alter-globalization movement, starting with the events that took place at the 1999 Seattle meeting, and on a totally different and probably far more influential scale in the medium and long term, by the astounding explosion of collaborative practices on the Internet. However, lacking political and widespread citizen support as well as sufficient resources, civil society has not so far been able to develop and disseminate alternative plans for society as a whole on a global scale, even though plenty of proposals and initiatives have been developed, some more successful than others, to build a fairer, more responsible, and more solidarity-based world in all of these areas.\n\nAbove all, each country tries to impose their values and collective preferences within international institutions such like WTO or UNESCO, particularly in the Medias sector. This is an excellent opportunity to promote their soft power, for instance with the promotion of the cinema\n\nAs far as science is concerned, \"[r]esearch increasingly bows to the needs of financial markets, turning competence and knowledge into commodities, making employment flexible and informal, and establishing contracts based on goals and profits for the benefit of private interests in compliance with the competition principle. The directions that research has taken in the past two decades and the changes it has undergone have drastically removed it from its initial mission (producing competence and knowledge, maintaining independence) with no questioning of its current and future missions. Despite the progress, or perhaps even as its consequence, humankind continues to face critical problems: poverty and hunger are yet to be vanquished, nuclear arms are proliferating, environmental disasters are on the rise, social injustice is growing, and so on.\n\nNeoliberal commercialization of the commons favors the interests of pharmaceutical companies instead of the patients', of food-processing companies instead of the farmers' and consumers'. Public research policies have done nothing but support this process of economic profitability, where research results are increasingly judged by the financial markets. The system of systematically patenting knowledge and living organisms is thus being imposed throughout the planet through the 1994 WTO agreements on intellectual property. Research in many areas is now being directed by private companies.\"\n\nOn the global level, \"[i]nstitutions dominating a specific sector also, at every level, present the risk of reliance on technical bodies that use their own references and deliberate in an isolated environment. This process can be observed with the 'community of patents' that promotes the patenting of living organisms, as well as with authorities controlling nuclear energy. This inward-looking approach is all the more dangerous that communities of experts are, in all complex technical and legal spheres, increasingly dominated by the major economic organizations that finance research and development.\"\n\nOn the other hand, several innovative experiments have emerged in the sphere of science, such as: conscience clauses and citizens' panels as a tool for democratizing the production system: science shops and community-based research. Politically committed scientists are also increasingly organizing at the global level.\n\nAs far as education is concerned, the effect of commoditization can be seen in the serious tightening of education budgets, which affects the quality of general education as a public service. The Global Future Online report reminds us that \". . . at the half-way point towards 2015 \"(author's note: the deadline for the Millennium Goals)\", the gaps are daunting: 80 million children (44 million of them girls) are out of school, with marginalized groups (26 million disabled and 30 million conflict-affected children) continuing to be excluded. And while universal access is critical, it must be coupled with improved learning outcomes—in particular, children achieving the basic literacy, numeracy and life skills essential for poverty reduction.\"\n\nIn addition to making the current educational system available universally, there is also a call to improve the system and adapt it to the speed of changes in a complex and unpredictable world. On this point, Edgar Morin asserts that we must \"[r]ethink our way of organizing knowledge. This means breaking down the traditional barriers between disciplines and designing new ways to reconnect that which has been torn apart.\" The UNESCO report drawn up by Morin contains \"seven principles for education of the future\": detecting the error and illusion that have always parasitized the human spirit and human behavior; making knowledge relevant, i.e. a way of thinking that makes distinctions and connections; teaching the human condition; teaching terrestrial identity; facing human and scientific uncertainties and teaching strategies to deal with them; teaching understanding of the self and of others, and an ethics for humankind.\n\nThe exponential growth of new technologies, the Internet in particular, has gone hand in hand with the development over the last decade of a global community producing and exchanging goods. This development is permanently altering the shape of the entertainment, publishing, and music and media industries, among others. It is also influencing the social behavior of increasing numbers of people, along with the way in which institutions, businesses, and civil society are organized. Peer-to-peer communities and collective knowledge-building projects such as Wikipedia have involved millions of users around the world. There are even more innovative initiatives, such as alternatives to private copyright such as Creative Commons, cyber democracy practices, and a real possibility of developing them on the sectoral, regional, and global levels.\n\nRegional players, whether regional conglomerates such as Mercosur and the European Union, or major countries seen as key regional players such as China, the United States, and India, are taking a growing interest in world governance. Examples of discussion of this issue can be found in the works of: Martina Timmermann \"et al.\", \"Institutionalizing Northeast Asia: Regional Steps toward Global Governance\"; Douglas Lewis, \"Global Governance and the Quest for Justice - Volume I: International and Regional Organizations\"; Olav Schram Stokke, \"Examining the Consequences of International Regimes,\" which discusses Northern, or Arctic region building in the context of international relations; Jeffery Hart and Joan Edelman Spero, \"Globalization and Global Governance in the 21st Century,\" which discusses the push of countries such as Mexico, Brazil, India, China, Taiwan, and South Korea, \"important regional players\" seeking \"a seat at the table of global decision-making\"; Dr. Frank Altemöller, “International Trade: Challenges for Regional and Global Governance: A comparison between Regional Integration Models in Eastern Europe and Africa – and the role of the WTO”, and many others.\n\nInterdependence among countries and regions hardly being refutable today, regional integration is increasingly seen not only as a process in itself, but also in its relation to the rest of the world, sometimes turning questions like \"What can the world bring to my country or region?\" into \"What can my country or region bring to the rest of the world?\" Following are a few examples of how regional players are dealing with these questions.\n\nOften seen as a problem to be solved rather than a people or region with an opinion to express on international policy, Africans and Africa draw on a philosophical tradition of community and social solidarity that can serve as inspiration to the rest of the world and contribute to building world governance. One example is given by Sabelo J. Ndlovu-Gathseni when he reminds us of the relevance of the Ubuntu concept, which stresses the interdependence of human beings.\n\nAfrican civil society has thus begun to draw up proposals for governance of the continent, which factor in all of the dimensions: local, African, and global. Examples include proposals by the network \"Dialogues sur la gouvernance en Afrique\" for \"the construction of a local legitimate governance,\" state reform \"capable of meeting the continent's development challenges,\" and \"effective regional governance to put an end to Africa's marginalization.\"\n\nForeign-policy proposals announced by President Barack Obama include restoring the Global Poverty Act, which aims to contribute to meeting the UN Millennium Development Goals to reduce by half the world population living on less than a dollar a day by 2015. Foreign aid is expected to double to 50 billion dollars. The money will be used to help build educated and healthy communities, reduce poverty and improve the population's health.\n\nIn terms of international institutions, The White House Web site advocates reform of the World Bank and the IMF, without going into any detail.\n\nBelow are further points in the Obama-Biden plan for foreign policy directly related to world governance:\n\nThe 21st century has seen the arrival of a new and diverse generation of left-wing governments in Latin America. This has opened the door to initiatives to launch political and governance renewal. A number of these initiatives are significant for the way they redefine the role of the state by drawing on citizen participation, and can thus serve as a model for a future world governance built first and foremost on the voice of the people. The constituent assemblies in Ecuador and Bolivia are fundamental examples of this phenomenon.\n\nIn Ecuador, social and indigenous movements were behind the discussions that began in 1990 on setting up a constituent assembly. In the wake of Rafael Correa's arrival at the head of the country in November 2006, widespread popular action with the slogan \"que se vayan todos\" (let them all go away) succeeded in getting all the political parties of congress to accept a convocation for a referendum on setting up the assembly.\n\nIn April 2007, Rafael Correa's government organized a consultation with the people to approve setting up a constituent assembly. Once it was approved, 130 members of the assembly were elected in September, including 100 provincial members, 24 national members and 6 for migrants in Europe, Latin America and the USA. The assembly was officially established in November. Assembly members belonged to traditional political parties as well as the new social movements. In July 2008, the assembly completed the text for the new constitution and in September 2008 there was a referendum to approve it. Approval for the new text won out, with 63.9% of votes for compared to 28.1% of votes against and a 24.3% abstention rate.\n\nThe new constitution establishes the rule of law on economic, social, cultural and environmental rights (ESCER). It transforms the legal model of the social state subject to the rule of law into a \"constitution of guaranteed well-being\" (\"Constitución del bienestar garantizado\") inspired by the ancestral community ideology of \"good living\" propounded by the Quechuas of the past, as well as by 21st century socialist ideology. The constitution promotes the concept of food sovereignty by establishing a protectionist system that favors domestic production and trade. It also develops a model of public aid for education, health, infrastructures and other services.\n\nIn addition, it adds to the three traditional powers, a fourth power called the Council of Citizen Participation and Social Control, made up of former constitutional control bodies and social movements, and mandated to assess whether public policies are constitutional or not.\n\nThe new Bolivian constitution was approved on 25 January 2009 by referendum, with 61.4% votes in favor, 38.6% against and a 90.2% turnout. The proposed constitution was prepared by a constituent assembly that did not only reflect the interests of political parties and the elite, but also represented the indigenous peoples and social movements. As in Ecuador, the proclamation of a constituent assembly was demanded by the people, starting in 1990 at a gathering of indigenous peoples from the entire country, continuing with the indigenous marches in the early 2000s and then with the Program Unity Pact (\"Pacto de Unidad Programático\") established by family farmers and indigenous people in September 2004 in Santa Cruz.\n\nThe constitution recognizes the autonomy of indigenous peoples, the existence of a specific indigenous legal system, exclusive ownership of forest resources by each community and a quota of indigenous members of parliament. It grants autonomy to counties, which have the right to manage their natural resources and elect their representatives directly. The \"latifundio\" system has been outlawed, with maximum ownership of 5,000 hectares allowed per person. Access to water and sanitation are covered by the constitution as human rights that the state has to guarantee, as well as other basic services such as electricity, gas, postal services, and telecommunications that can be provided by either the state or contracting companies. The new constitution also establishes a social and community economic model made up of public, private, and social organizations, and cooperatives. It guarantees private initiative and freedom of enterprise, and assigns public organizations the task of managing natural resources and related processes as well as developing public services covered by the constitution. National and cooperative investment is favored over private and international investment.\nThe \"unitary plurinational\" state of Bolivia has 36 official indigenous languages along with Spanish. Natural resources belong to the people and are administered by the state. The form of democracy in place is no longer considered as exclusively representative and/or based on parties. Thus, \"the people deliberate and exercise government via their representatives and the constituent assembly, the citizen legislative initiative and the referendum . . .\" and \"popular representation is exercised via the political parties, citizen groups, and indigenous peoples.\" This way, \"political parties, and/or citizen groups and/or indigenous peoples can present candidates directly for the offices of president, vice-president, senator, house representative, constituent-assembly member, councilor, mayor, and municipal agent. The same conditions apply legally to all. . . .\"\n\nAlso in Latin America: \"Amazonia . . . is an enormous biodiversity reservoir and a major climate-regulation agent for the planet but is being ravaged and deteriorated at an accelerated pace; it is a territory almost entirely devoid of governance, but also a breeding place of grassroots organization initiatives.\". \"Amazonia can be the fertile field of a true school of 'good' governance if it is looked after as a common and valuable good, first by Brazilians (65% of Amazonia is within Brazilian borders) and the people of the South American countries surrounding it, but also by all the Earth's inhabitants.\"\nAccordingly, \"[f]rom a world-governance perspective, [Amazonia] is in a way an enormous laboratory. Among other things, Amazonia enables a detailed examination of the negative effects of productivism and of the different forms of environmental packaging it can hide behind, including 'sustainable development.' Galloping urbanization, Human Rights violations, the many different types of conflicts (14 different types of conflicts have been identified within the hundreds of cases observed in Amazonia), protection of indigenous populations and their active participation in local governance: these are among the many Amazonian challenges also affecting the planet as a whole, not to mention the environment. The hosts of local initiatives, including among the indigenous populations, are however what may be most interesting in Amazonia in that they testify to the real, concrete possibility of a different form of organization that combines a healthy local economy, good social cohesion, and a true model of sustainable development—this time not disguised as something else. All of this makes Amazonia 'a territory of solutions.'\"\n\nAccording to Arnaud Blin, the Amazonian problem helps to define certain fundamental questions on the future of humankind. First, there is the question of social justice: \"[H]ow do we build a new model of civilization that promotes social justice? How do we set up a new social architecture that allows us to live together?\" The author goes on to refer to concepts such as the concept of \"people's territory \" or even \"life territory\" rooted in the indigenous tradition and serving to challenge private property and social injustice. He then suggests that the emerging concept of the \"responsibility to protect,\" following up on the \"right of humanitarian intervention\" and until now used to try to protect populations endangered by civil wars, could also be applied to populations threatened by economic predation and to environmental protection.\n\nThe growing interest in world governance in Asia represents an alternative approach to official messages, dominated by states' nationalist visions. An initiative to develop proposals for world governance took place in Shanghai in 2006, attended by young people from every continent. The initiative produced ideas and projects that can be classified as two types: the first and more traditional type, covering the creation of a number of new institutions such as an International Emissions Organization, and a second more innovative type based on organizing network-based systems. For example, a system of cooperative control on a worldwide level among states and self-organization of civil society into networks using new technologies, a process that should serve to set up a \"Global Calling-for-Help Center\" or a new model based on citizens who communicate freely, share information, hold discussions, and seek consensus-based solutions. They would use the Internet and the media, working within several types of organizations: universities, NGOs, local volunteers and civil-society groups.\n\nGiven the demographic importance of the continent, the development of discussion on governance and practices in Asia at the regional level, as well as global-level proposals, will be decisive in the years ahead in the strengthening of global dialog among all sorts of stakeholders, a dialog that should produce a fairer world order.(See Kishore Mahbubani).\n\nAccording to Michel Rocard, Europe does not have a shared vision, but a collective history that allows Europeans to opt for projects for gradual political construction such as the European Union. Drawing on this observation, Rocard conceives of a European perspective that supports the development of three strategies for constructing world governance: reforming the UN, drawing up international treaties to serve as the main source of global regulations, and \"the progressive penetration of the international scene by justice.\"\n\nRocard considers that there are a number of \"great questions of the present days\" including recognition by all nations of the International Criminal Court, the option of an international police force authorized to arrest international criminals, and the institution of judicial procedures to deal with tax havens, massively polluting activities, and states supporting terrorist activities. He also outlines \"new problems\" that should foster debate in the years to come on questions such as a project for a Declaration of Interdependence, how to re-equilibrate world trade and WTO activities, and how to create world regulations for managing collective goods (air, drinking water, oil, etc.) and services (education, health, etc.).\n\nMartin Ortega similarly suggests that the European Union should make a more substantial contribution to global governance, particularly through concerted action in international bodies. European states, for instance, should reach an agreement on the reform of the United Nations Security Council.\n\nIn 2011, the European Strategy and Policy Analysis System (ESPAS), an inter-institutional pilot project of the European Union which aims to assist EU policy formulation through the identification and critical analysis of long-term global trends, highlighted the importance of expanding global governance over the next 20 years.\n\nIt is too soon to give a general account of the view of world-governance stakeholders, although interest in world governance is on the rise on the regional level, and we will certainly see different types of stakeholders and social sectors working to varying degrees at the international level and taking a stand on the issue in the years to come.\n\nThe World Parliamentary Forum, open to members of parliament from all nations and held every year at the same time as the World Social Forum, drew up a declaration at the sixth forum in Caracas in 2006. The declaration contains a series of proposals that express participants' opinion on the changes referred to.\n\nThe European Commission referred to global governance in its White Paper on European Governance. It contends that the search for better global governance draws on the same set of shared challenges humanity is currently facing. These challenges can be summed up by a series of goals: sustainable development, security, peace and equity (in the sense of \"fairness\").\n\nThe freedom of thought enjoyed by non-state stakeholders enables them to formulate truly alternative ideas on world-governance issues, but they have taken little or no advantage of this opportunity.\n\nPierre Calame believes that \"[n]on-state actors have always played an essential role in global regulation, but their role will grow considerably in this, the beginning of the twenty-first Century . . . Non-state actors play a key role in world governance in different domains . . . To better understand and develop the non-state actors' role, it should be studied in conjunction with the general principles of governance.\" \"Non-state actors, due to their vocation, size, flexibility, methods of organization and action, interact with states in an equal manner; however this does not mean that their action is better adapted.\"\n\nOne alternative idea encapsulated by many not-for-profit organisations relates to ideas in the 'Human Potential Movement' and might be summarised as a mission statement along these lines: 'To create an accepted framework for all humankind, that is self-regulating and which enables every person to achieve their fullest potential in harmony with the world and its place in existence.'\n\nSince the Rio Earth Summit in 1992, references to the universal collective of humanity have begun using the term 'humankind' rather than 'mankind', given the gender neutral quality of the former.\n\n'Self-regulation' is meant to invoke the concept of regulation which includes rule-making such as laws, and related ideas e.g. legal doctrine as well as other frameworks. However its scope is wider than this and intended to encompass cybernetics which allows for the study of regulation in as many varied contexts as possible from the regulation of gene expression to the Press Complaints Commission for example.\n\nSince 2005, religious leaders from a diverse array of faith traditions have engaged in dialogue with G8 leaders around issues of global governance and world risk. Drawing on the cultural capital of diverse religious traditions, they seek to strengthen democratic norms by influencing political leaders to include the interests of the most vulnerable when they make their decisions. Some have argued that religion is a key to transforming or fixing global governance.\n\nSeveral stakeholders have produced lists of proposals for a new world governance that is fairer, more responsible, solidarity-based, interconnected and respectful of the planet's diversity. Some examples are given below.\n\nJoseph E. Stiglitz proposes a list of reforms related to the internal organization of international institutions and their external role in the framework of global-governance architecture. He also deals with global taxation, the management of global resources and the environment, the production and protection of global knowledge, and the need for a global legal infrastructure.\n\nA number of other proposals are contained in the World Governance Proposal Paper: giving concrete expression to the principle of responsibility; granting civil society greater involvement in drawing up and implementing international regulations; granting national parliaments greater involvement in drawing up and implementing international regulations; re-equilibrating trade mechanisms and adopting regulations to benefit the southern hemisphere; speeding up the institution of regional bodies; extending and specifying the concept of the commons; redefining proposal and decision-making powers in order to reform the United Nations; developing independent observation, early-warning, and assessment systems; diversifying and stabilizing the basis for financing international collective action; and engaging in a wide-reaching process of consultation, a new Bretton Woods for the United Nations.\n\nThis list provides more examples of proposals:\n\nDr. Rajesh Tandon, president of the FIM (Montreal International Forum) and of PRIA (Participatory Research in Asia), prepared a framework document entitled \"Democratization of Global Governance for Global Democracy: Civil Society Visions and Strategies (G05) conference.\" He used the document to present five principles that could provide a basis for civil society actions: \"Global institutions and agenda should be subjected to democratic political accountability.\"\n\nVijaya Ramachandran, Enrique Rueda-Sabater and Robin Kraft also define principles for representation of nations and populations in the system of global governance. They propose a \"Two Percent Club\" that would provide for direct representation of nations with at least two percent of global population or global GDP; other nations would be represented within international fora through regional blocs.\n\nIn the light of the unclear meaning of the term \"global governance\" as a concept in international politics, some authors have proposed defining it not in substantive, but in disciplinary and methodological terms. For these authors, global governance is better understood as an analytical concept or optic that provides a specific perspective on world politics different from that of conventional international relations theory. Thomas G. Weiss and Rorden Wilkinson have even argued that global governance has the capacity to overcome some of the fragmentation of international relations as a discipline particularly when understood as a set of questions about the governance of world orders.\n\nSome universities, including those offering courses in international relations, have begun to establish degree programmes in global governance.\n\nThere are those who believe that world architecture depends on establishing a system of world governance. However, the equation is currently becoming far more complicated: Whereas the process used to be about regulating and limiting the individual power of states to avoid disturbing or overturning the status quo, the issue for today's world governance is to have a collective influence on the world's destiny by establishing a system for regulating the many interactions that lie beyond the province of state action. The political homogenization of the planet that has followed the advent of what is known as liberal democracy in its many forms should make it easier to establish a world governance system that goes beyond market laissez-faire and the democratic peace originally formulated by Immanuel Kant, which constitutes a sort of geopolitical laissez-faire.\n\nAnother view regarding the establishment of global governance is based on the difficulties to achieve equitable development at the world scale. \"To secure for all human beings in all parts of the world the conditions allowing a decent and meaningful life requires enormous human energies and far-reaching changes in policies. The task is all the more demanding as the world faces numerous other problems, each related to or even part of the development challenge, each similarly pressing, and each calling for the same urgent attention. But, as Arnold Toynbee has said, 'Our age is the first generation since the dawn of history in which mankind dares to believe it practical to make the benefits of civilization available to the whole human race'.\"\n\nBecause of the heterogeneity of preferences, which are enduring despite globalization, are often perceived as an implacable homogenization process. Americans and Europeans provide a good example of this point: on some issues they have differing common grounds in which the division between the public and private spheres still exist. Tolerance for inequalities and the growing demand for redistribution, attitudes toward risk, and over property rights vs human rights, set the stage. In certain cases, globalization even serves to accentuate differences rather than as a force for homogenization. Responsibility must play its part with respect to regional and International governments, when balancing the needs of its citizenry.\n\nWith the growing emergence of a global civic awareness, comes opposition to globalization and its effects. A rapidly growing number of movements and organizations have taken the debate to the international level. Although it may have limitations, this trend is one response to the increasing importance of world issues, that effect the planet.\n\nPierre Jacquet, Jean Pisani-Ferry, and Laurence Tubiana argue that \"[t]o ensure that decisions taken for international integration are sustainable, it is important that populations see the benefits, that states agree on their goals and that the institutions governing the process are seen as legitimate. These three conditions are only partially being met. Taklya\"\n\nThe authors refer to a \"crisis of purpose\" and international institutions suffering from \"imbalance\" and inadequacy. They believe that for these institutions, \"a gap has been created between the nature of the problems that need tackling and an institutional architecture which does not reflect the hierarchy of today's problems. For example, the environment has become a subject of major concern and central negotiation, but it does not have the institutional support that is compatible with its importance.\"\n\nGlobal governance is not world government, and even less democratic globalization. In fact, global governance would not be necessary, were there a world government. Domestic governments have monopolies on the use of force—the power of enforcement. Global governance refers to the political interaction that is required to solve problems that affect more than one state or region when there is no power to enforce compliance. Problems arise, and networks of actors are constructed to deal with them in the absence of an international analogue to a domestic government. This system has been termed disaggregated sovereignty.\n\nImproved global problem solving need not involve the establishment of additional powerful formal global institutions. It does involve building consensus on norms and practices. One such area, currently under construction, is the development and improvement of accountability mechanisms. For example, the UN Global Compact brings together companies, UN agencies, labor organizations, and civil society to support universal environmental and social principles. Participation is entirely voluntary, and there is no enforcement of the principles by an outside regulatory body. Companies adhere to these practices both because they make economic sense, and because stakeholders, especially shareholders, can monitor their compliance easily. Mechanisms such as the Global Compact can improve the ability of affected individuals and populations to hold companies accountable. However, corporations participating in the UN Global Compact have been criticized for their merely minimal standards, the absence of sanction-and-control measures, their lack of commitment to social and ecological standards, minimal acceptance among corporations around the world, and the high cost involved in reporting annually to small and medium-sized business\n\nBitcoin & Beyond: Blockchains, Globalization, and Global Governance workshop brings together an interdisciplinary group of researchers to examine the implications that blockchains pose for globalization and global governance.\n\nOne effect of globalization is the increasing regulation of businesses in the global marketplace. Jan Aart Scholte asserts, however, that these changes are inadequate to meet the needs: \"Along with the general intensified globalization of social relations in contemporary history has come an unprecedented expansion of regulatory apparatuses that cover planetary jurisdictions and constituencies. On the whole, however, this global governance remains weak relative to pressing current needs for global public policy. Shortfalls in moral standing, legal foundations, material delivery, democratic credentials and charismatic leadership have together generated large legitimacy deficits in existing global regimes.\"\n\nProposals and initiatives have been developed by various sources to set up networks and institutions operating on a global scale: political parties, unions, regional authorities, and members of parliament in sovereign states.\n\nOne of the conditions for building a world democratic governance should be the development of platforms for citizen dialogue on the legal formulation of world governance and the harmonization of objectives.\n\nThis legal formulation could take the form of a Global Constitution. According to Pierre Calame and Gustavo Marin, \"[a] Global Constitution resulting from a process for the institution of a global community will act as the common reference for establishing the order of rights and duties applicable to United Nations agencies and to the other multilateral institutions, such as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, and the World Trade Organization.\" As for formulating objectives, the necessary but insufficient ambition of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals, which aim to safeguard humankind and the planet, and the huge difficulties in implementing them, illustrates the inadequacy of institutional initiatives that do not have popular support for having failed to invite citizens to take part in the elaboration process.\n\nFurthermore, the Global Constitution \"must clearly express a limited number of overall objectives that are to be the basis of global governance and are to guide the common action of the U.N. agencies and the multilateral institutions, where the specific role of each of these is subordinated to the pursuit of these common objectives.\"\n\nCalame proposes the following objectives:\n\nIs the UN capable of taking on the heavy responsibility of managing the planet's serious problems? More specifically, can the UN reform itself in such a way as to be able to meet this challenge? At a time when the financial crisis of 2008 is raising the same questions posed by the climate disasters of previous years regarding the unpredictable consequences of disastrous human management, can international financial institutions be reformed in such a way as to go back to their original task, which was to provide financial help to countries in need?\n\nLack of political will and citizen involvement at the international level has also brought about the submission of international institutions to the \"neoliberal\" agenda, particularly financial institutions such as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the World Trade Organization (WTO). Pierre Calame gives an account of this development, while Joseph E. Stiglitz points out that the need for international institutions like the IMF, the World Bank, and the WTO has never been so great, but people's trust in them has never been so low.\n\nOne of the key aspects of the United Nations reform is the problem of the representativeness of the General Assembly. The Assembly operates on the principle of \"one state, one vote,\" so that states of hugely varying sizes have the same effect on the vote, which distorts representativeness and results in a major loss of credibility. Accordingly, \"the General Assembly has lost any real capacity to influence. This means that the mechanisms for action and consultation organized by rich countries have the leading role.\"\n\nGustave Massiah advocates defining and implementing a radical reform of the UN. The author proposes building new foundations that can provide the basis for global democracy and the creation of a Global Social Contract, rooted in the respect and protection of civil, political, economic, social, and cultural rights, as well as in the recognition of the strategic role of international law.\n\nThere is the jurisdictional gap, between the increasing need for global governance in many areas - such as health - and the lack of an authority with the power, or jurisdiction, to take action.\nMoreover, the gap of incentive between the need for international cooperation and the motivation to undertake it. The incentive gap is said to be closing as globalization provides increasing impetus for countries to cooperate. However, there are concerns that, as Africa lags further behind economically, its influence on global governance processes will diminish. At last, the participation gap, which refers to the fact that international cooperation remains primarily the affair of governments, leaving civil society groups on the fringes of policy-making. On the other hand, globalization of communication is facilitating the development of global civil society movements.\n\nInadequate global institutions, agreements or networks as well as political and national interests may impede global governance and lead to failures. Such are the consequence of ineffective global governance processes. Qin calls it a necessity to \"reconstruct ideas for effective global governance and sustainable world order, which should include the principles of pluralism, partnership, and participation\" for a change to this phenomenon. The 2012 Global Risks Report places global governance failure at the center of gravity in its geopolitical category.\n\nStudies of global governance are conducted at several academic institutions such as the LSE Department of International Relations (with a previous institution LSE Global Governance closed as a formal research centre of the LSE on 31 July 2011), the Leuven Centre for Global Governance Studies, the Global Governance Programme at the European University Institute, and the Center for Global Governance at Columbia Law School.\n\nJournals dedicated to the studies of global governance include the Chinese Journal of Global Governance, the Global Policy Journal at Durham University, , and Kosmos Journal for Global Transformation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46260828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46260828", "title": "Global silver trade from the 16th to 18th centuries", "text": "Global silver trade from the 16th to 18th centuries\n\nThe global silver trade between the Americas and Europe from the sixteenth to nineteenth centuries was a spillover of the Columbian Exchange which had a profound effect on the world economy. In fact, many scholars consider the silver trade to mark the beginning of a genuinely global economy, with one historian noting that silver \"went round the world and made the world go round.\" Although global, much of that silver ended up in the hands of the Chinese, as they accepted it as a form of currency. In addition to the global economic changes the silver trade engendered, it also put into motion a wide array of political transformations in the early modern era. \"New World mines,\" concluded several prominent historians \"supported the Spanish empire,\" acting as a linchpin of the Spanish economy.\n\nSpaniards at the time of the Age of Exploration discovered vast amounts of silver, much of which was from the Potosí silver mines, to fuel their trade economy. Potosí's deposits were rich and Spanish American silver mines were the world's cheapest sources of it. The Spanish acquired the silver, minting it into the peso de ocho (a currency) to then use it as a means of purchase; that currency was so widespread that even the United States accepted it as valid until the Coinage Act of 1857. As the Spanish need for silver increased, new innovations for more efficient extraction of silver were developed, such as the amalgamation method of using mercury to extract silver from ore.\n\nIn the two centuries that followed the discovery of Potosí, the Spanish silver mines in the Americas produced 40,000 tons of silver. Altogether, more than 150,000 tons of silver were shipped from Potosí by the end of the 18th century. From 1500 to 1800, Mexico and Peru produced about 80% of the world's silver with 30% of it eventually ending up in China (largely because of British merchants who used it to purchase exotic Chinese commodities). In the late 16th and early 17th century, Japan was also exporting heavily into China and the foreign trade at large.\n\nAs has been demonstrated, China dominated silver imports. The market value of silver in the Ming territory was double its value elsewhere, which provided great arbitrage profit for the Europeans and Japanese. The abundance of silver in China made it easy for the country to mint it into coinage. That process was so widespread that local Chinese government officials would demand taxes to be paid in silver to the point that silver eventually backed all of China's economy.\n\nThe world's first paper money (\"flying money\") was invented by the Chinese and they needed some commodity to back it. Traditional coins were useful, but the amount of coins needed for large purchases could be bulky and dangerous to transport. That problem was solved when the Chinese created small pieces of paper with pictures of the coin printed on them. By the nature of their geography, China had no real amount of precious metals of their own to back the paper money they invented. Because the Spaniards didn't find gold but did find copious amounts of silver, the Spaniards and the rest of Europe used this silver to purchase the commodities of choice from China, solving both of their problems.\n\nA result of the Spanish colonization of the Americas was the discovery, production, and trade of precious metals. The Spanish, along with other European nations, had a great desire for Chinese goods such as silk and porcelain. The Europeans did not have any goods or commodities which China desired, so they traded silver to make up for their trade deficit. The two most important mining colonies of the Spanish Empire were Peru and Mexico, who were estimated to have provided one-hundred thousand tons of silver from the mid 16th Century to the end of the colonial period. The richest, and most productive mine in the Americas was that of Potosí in what is modern day Bolivia. The richest camp in Mexico was in the city of Zacatecas, however the production of this mine was far less than that of Potosi.\n\nMore simplistic native mining techniques dominated American mining for the early part of the 16th Century. Mining in the Americas became formally industrialized when the process of mercury amalgamation became popularized. Mercury amalgamation was invented by a Spaniard in central Mexico in the 1550s. Historians dispute what individual was the first to invent the process, however most agree that it was a Spaniard. Mercury was the one of the highest costs of production for the Americas, since much of it had to be shipped. The ratio of Mercury to silver produced was about two to one. Furthermore, German miners introduced the stamp mill and lead smelting in the 1530s. Gunpowder was often used to blast of large holes to create the mine shafts, although there were not many deep shafts. Potosí had the most amount of ore, however it was lower quality than that of Mexico.\n\nMining production in the Americas largely depended on native labor in both Mexico and Peru. In Mexico, many of the natives worked as wage laborers by the middle of the 17th Century. However, the labor system known as the repartimiento still existed in some places. Silver production in Mexico was relatively cheap when compared to that of Peru, and the general trend of Mexican labor systems was that towards waged labor. In Peru mines, the mit'a system was a dominant form of native labor subjection, although waged laborers worked on the mines as well. Natives under the mit'a system were paid much less, and this was necessary for the production of silver to continue in Peru where costs were relatively high.\n\nThe ultimate destination for the mass amounts of silver produced in the Americas and Japan was China. Silver from the Americas flowed mostly across the Atlantic and made its way to the far east. A popular route was around the Cape of Good Hope into the east, and sometimes it came over land. Major outposts for the silver trade were located in Southeast Asian countries, such as the Philippines. The city of Manilla served as a primary outpost of the exchange of goods between the Americas, Japan, and China. However, there is a large amount of silver that crossed across the Pacific Ocean directly from the Americas as well. There are not many records of the amount of silver which crossed the Pacific due to it being discouraged by the Spanish monarchy, so estimates highly vary.\n\nSilver also found its way across other parts of the world as well. India and Europe both received a fair amount of silver. This silver was often locally traded for other commodities, such as gold or crops. In India, silver flowed from the south to the north, and gold flowed the opposite way. Often silver and gold were manufactured into jewelry or hoarded as treasure.\n\nChina was the ultimate destination in which silver would flow towards. In exchange, the Chinese traded their popular goods such as silk and porcelain. China had a high demand for silver due to its shift from paper money to coins in the early period of the Ming Dynasty. The Ming paper currency eventually failed due to self-imposed inflation along with an inability to stop the production of counterfeit bills. The Ming attempted to produce copper coins as a new form of currency, but production was inconsistent. Hence silver became of high value because it was a valid currency that could be processed abroad. The bimetallic ratio of silver to gold was about two to one, which meant that European and Japanese merchants made a large amount of profit. In the 1640s, the bimetallic ratios in China converged with the rest of the world, before experiencing another population boom. The new population boom was a product of the introduction of New World crops into China, mainly sweet potatoes, which could be more easily grown. By this time, the silver mines in Japan were largely depleted and the New World became China's primary source for silver.\n\nInitially, Japan served as China's primary source for silver in the 16th Century. In exchange for silver, China would provide Japan with silk and gold. Japan and China did not directly trade with each other, due to political tensions. This meant that European entities and countries, such as the Dutch and Portuguese served as a middle man between the two countries.\n\nIn the famed \"The Wealth of Nations,\" Adam Smith noted the sheer force and great reach of the global silver trade. He was impressed by its market value but more intrigued with the way this single item of commerce brought together new and old worlds i.e. the Americas and China. Although China acted as the cog running the wheel of global trade, Japan's huge contribution of silver exports to China were critical to the world economy and China's liquidity and success with the commodity. Historians posit Europeans would have been left out of world trade, and China may have fallen prey to conquest by settlers of the Americas if not for Japanese silver mining. Silver was paramount to East Asia's introduction into the global trade market. Under the Ming and Qing empires, China hoarded silver to boost its economy and increase its trading power.\n\nMany historians argue that silver was responsible for the birth of global economics and trade. According to this view, global trade commenced in 1571 when Manila was founded and became the first trading post linking America and Asia due to the expansive and profitable silver trade. In fact, research shows the amount of silver traveling from Manila to China was approximately three million pesos or 94,000 kilograms in the early 1600s.\n\nThe rarity of silver production was seen as an opportunity for China to control the currency's value and support its own national currency. Silver was one of the only accepted trade items from Europeans and its value in China was astronomical compared to rest of the world. In fact, its value was twice that of Spain in the 16th and 17th centuries. Between 1600 and 1800 China received 100 tons of silver on average per year. A large populace near the Lower Yangzte averaged a hundreds of taels of silver per household in the late 16th century.\n\nSilver even played a large role when defending Toyotomi Hideyoshi's attemptive take over of Ming ruled Joseon Korea. The Ming Ministiry of War sent approximately 140,000 liang of silver to its soldiers and required provinces to provide silver as tax for the war effort as well. In the sixteenth century, the daimyos of Southwest Japan hoped for unhinged global trade but were stopped due to Ming China trade policies. Still, Japan became a player in the global economy via frequent Ming merchant ships arriving to extract Japan's abundance of silver and exchange goods. Japan increased its wealth through successful trilateral trade with Portugal and China as Japan now had Chinese goods to offer the Portuguese who had silver mines of their own. Founder of the Ming China dynasty, Hongwu, actually sought to eliminate silver from the market due to his fear of inflation which he previously experienced in the Yuan dynasty. His attempt involved imposing harsh limits on silver mining to stop its flow into the market and subsequently replaced it with baochao or paper money. However, the currency never popularized and silver proved its mainstay as a global currency.\n\nDespite some restrictions, silver continued to drive trade through its popularity in Europe. This, combined with a high British demand for Chinese tea, created chronic trade deficits for European governments, which were forced to risk silver deficits to supply merchants in Asia. As supplies of silver decreased in Europe, Europeans had less ability to purchase highly coveted Chinese goods. Merchants were no longer able to sustain the China trade through profits made by selling Chinese goods in the West and were forced to take bullion out of circulation in Europe to buy goods in China.\n\nIn the 19th century, American merchants began to introduce opium to Chinese markets. The demand for opium rose rapidly and was so profitable that Chinese opium dealers began to seek out more suppliers of the drug, thus inaugurating the opium trade; one merchant declared that Opium \"is like gold. It can sell any time.\" From 1804 to 1820, a period when the Qing Dynasty needed to finance the suppression of the White Lotus Rebellion, Chinese merchants were soon exporting silver to pay for opium rather than Europeans paying for Chinese goods with the precious metal.\n\nThe Qing imperial court debated whether and how to end the opium trade, eventually settling on regulations on consumption. That measure, however, resulted in an increase in drug smuggling by Europeans and Chinese traders. In 1810, the Daoguang Emperor issued an edict concerning the matter, declaring, \"Opium has a harm. Opium is a poison, undermining our good customs and morality. Its use is prohibited by law.\" Following a debate at court in 1836 on whether to legalize the drug or crack down on its use, the emperor decided on the latter. An upright official, Commissioner Lin Zexu led the campaign against opium as a kind of \"drug czar.\" The British, offended by the seizure of their property in opium, sent a large naval expedition to China to end the restrictive conditions under which they had long traded with that country. Thus began the first Opium War, in which Britain's industrialized military might was proven in China's rout. The Treaty of Nanking, which ended the war in 1842 largely on British terms, imposed numerous restrictions on Chinese sovereignty and opened five ports to European traders.\n\n"}
{"id": "2400074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2400074", "title": "Global studies", "text": "Global studies\n\nGlobal studies is the interdisciplinary study of political, economic, legal, ecological and cultural interconnectedness. Predominant subjects are politics, economics and law on an international level. Global studies is oriented around the study of globalization as it relates to intercontinental politics, the global economy, international law, market relations, the movement of people and resources, global communications, the effect of human activity on the environment, and many more topics. Global studies is often used to map global change and is both micro and macro in scope. The Cambridge English Dictionary defines global studies as \"the study of political, economic, and social situations in the world\".\n\nGlobal studies tackles the aforementioned topics by examining global power structures influenced by perspectives such as Orientalism and Eurocentrism. Global studies is distinguished from international studies by its broader focus – international studies is only one aspect of global studies. In cases such as international studies or international relations, the concept of 'national' confines the meaning of those fields of study. By comparison, global studies has a broader reach, from the global to the local.\n\nThe development of global studies in secondary and tertiary education is arguably a product of globalization, and its consequent results on the international community. In the late 20th century, an unprecedented rise in communications technologies and computerization occurred around the world, again enhancing the processes of globalization: “it is a shift in our very life circumstances ... the speed of change is closely allied to the growth of communication, and development in information and communication technologies have been exponential ... globalization is a fact of life from which we cannot retreat.”. As a result of this constantly changing global community, education providers began to see a need for the introduction of global studies into secondary school curricula (i.e. introduction of global issues through already existing subjects), and to create global studies degrees for tertiary students (i.e. sole degrees with a global focus).\n\nAccording to Jan Nederveen Pieterse, Mellichamp Professor of Global Studies and Sociology at The University of California, Santa Barbara:The first Global Studies conference took place at the University of Illinois Chicago in 2008; the 2009 conference was held in Dubai on the theme Views from Dubai: The Gulf and Globalization. The 2010 conference was in Busan, South Korea under the heading Global Rebalancing: East Asia and Globalization; the 2011 conference took place in Rio de Janeiro on Emerging societies and Emancipation; the 2012 conference was at Moscow University on the theme of Eurasia and Globalization: Complexity and Global studies; and the 2013 conference took place in New Delhi on the theme of Social Development in South Asia.The Global Studies Journal was founded in 2008 and is \"devoted to mapping and interpreting new trends and patterns in globalization\".\n\nThere can be much confusion about the use of the terms, \"global studies\" and \"international studies.\"\n\nThey are at times used interchangeably and differences in meaning are not evident, however, both disciplines are concerned with political, social and cultural issues, with the main focus of study being placed on international community interaction. However, subtle distinctions can be made between the two phrases. International studies generally looks at exchanges between states, multilateral or bilateral agreements, diplomacy and how issues are handled between two or more states. Global studies, in contrast, focuses on globally shared issues.\n\nIt has also been suggested that there are left wing and right wing connotations to each phrase, international studies being preferred by the right wing (i.e. relations between states) and global studies preferred by the left (i.e. issues affecting all global citizens).\n\nThe terms have also been described as such:\n\nInternational studies might be called the grandfather of global education. It often includes the study of countries, world religions, languages and international relations ... (global studies) is centred on the concept of connectedness – recognizing local/ global connections, the commonalities all humans share, and how understanding how national borders have become practically irrelevant for many global actors.\n\nFive defining characteristics of global studies were identified by scholars at the first annual meeting of the Global Studies Consortium in Tokyo in 2008:\n\nThe field of global studies revolves around the impacts of globalization and the growing interdependence of states, economies, societies, cultures, and people. This necessitates that students are well versed and capable of critical analysis when it comes to global issues. Some of the most pressing issues in global studies are national security and diplomacy, effective citizenship in a participatory democracy, global competitiveness in a world market and the desire to enter the aid and development sector.\n\nThe first major funding for international education was the 1966 International Education Act in the US. It provided funding to institutions of higher education to create and strengthen international studies programs. Created at the time of the Cold War, this act stressed the need for all citizens (with a focus on USA citizens) to understand global issues in order to build skills for diplomacy.”The importance of diplomacy as a driving force for political development is well known and understood. It is of great importance as a long term instrument for conflict prevention.”\n\nThe development of issues and crisis on a global scale such as international terrorism, climate change and environmental degradation, pandemics (such as ebola), and the Great Recession have convinced policymakers of the importance of global studies and international education to national security and diplomacy.\n\nA second motivation for global studies is facilitating a better understanding of the global marketplace. Many international companies have identified the need for a workforce that has the skills to work cross-culturally and identify and serve the needs of a global market. Some international companies, such as Microsoft, have taken the lead in convening policymakers and key stakeholders to demand additional investment in education. The US state and federal governments have also placed global studies as a key priority for preparing a competitive workforce. Furthermore, in 2002 the Australian federal government (through its development body AusAID) used some of its funding to introduce a ‘Global Education Program.’ This program aims to increase understanding of development and international issues among Australian students. It provides teachers with professional development opportunities with NGOs and thorough curriculum support. The program “informs and encourages teachers to introduce students to global issues in a classroom setting.” Higher education institutions have closely followed with integrating international studies across disciplines. It is rare to find a leading business school without an international focus.\n\nA third motivation for global studies is the creation of an effective citizenry. In the US, the National Council of Social Studies states that the purpose of social studies is to “teach students the content knowledge, intellectual skills, and civic values necessary for fulfilling the duties of citizenship in a participatory democracy.” A key goal of the NCSS is “global education”. As globalization causes the lines between national and international to become blurred, it becomes increasingly important for citizens to understand global relationships. The creation of effective Global citizenship results in people who are willing to, and have the capacity to become involved in local and global issues. In the UK, local government research conducted in the surrounding areas of London has found that citizens must have the opportunity to become involved and then possess the skill, knowledge and confidence to take part. The outcomes are often very positive, leading to an improvement in services, better quality of democratic participation and community education. \nTo achieve effective citizenship, students must be educated in ways that engage and place emphasis on the importance of global issues. By studying a subject such as global studies, students can gain the knowledge required to become effective citizens.\n\nSome critical scholars note that beyond content, students must be taught \"global cognition\" in order to truly understand global perspectives. These scholars believe that in order to fully understand world issues, students must recognize that their perspective is not necessarily shared by others and understand the social forces that influence their views. These perspectives encourage engagement with new promises and threats for the promotion of human rights, social justice, and political participation.\n\nBy 2006, the international development sector had expanded exponentially, with the “NGO sector now being the 8th largest economy in the world ... employing nearly 19 million paid workers.\" Financing health projects used to be the biggest issue in global aid, but private and public organizations like the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation have helped overcome such problems. The issue now is making sure that the money is used in a proper manner to help those in need of the primary essentials of life. Studying global studies may lead to involvement in the aid and development sector in multiple ways. These can include working in post-conflict or natural disaster zones, improving public services in developing communities (health, education, infrastructure, agriculture) or aiding private sector growth through business and market models. Through studying global studies, students can be equipped with cross cultural knowledge, field experience and an awareness of global issues. Many students are now studying global studies in order to enter this sector.\n\nLearning outcomes for global studies vary depending on the institutes curriculum and students individual focuses. Although, introductory courses are designed to cover a wide range of topics in a single semester, students are expected to delve into a specific phenomenon or area of study for their academic career. there are some generic outcomes that students are expected to develop over the duration of study. These include, but are not limited to:\n\nGlobal studies scholars are eligible for a myriad of professions, tackling political, social, and economic issues on an international scale that work to improve the human condition.\n\n\nUniversity of Cape Town\nhttps://www.news.uct.ac.za/article/-2010-12-06-global-studies-programme-gives-students-larger-perspective\n\nHamline University, Saint Paul\nHofstra University\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41227810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41227810", "title": "Global surveillance by category", "text": "Global surveillance by category\n\nThis is a category of disclosures related to global surveillance.\n\n\nThe following table describes what is known about the below SIGINT Activity Designators (SIGADs). It is not presumed to be complete.\n\n\"Note: SIGADs not otherwise designated are presumed to operate under the legal authority of Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act (FAA)\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) is the main British intelligence agency responsible for providing signals intelligence (SIGINT) and information assurance to the British government and armed forces.\n\n\n\nIn cryptography, encryption is the process of encoding information in such a way that eavesdroppers or hackers cannot read it, but that authorized parties can. According to Snowden's recommendations published by \"The Guardian Edward\" in September 2013, properly implemented strong crypto systems were among the few things which one can rely on. However, endpoint security is often too weak to prevent the NSA from finding ways around it.\n\nIn September 2013, it was reported by the press that a number of countries deemed by the US and its allies to be rogue states, such as Syria, Iran and North Korea, had successfully evaded U.S. government surveillance by constructing secret bunkers deep below the Earth's surface.\n\nChina's underground megaproject, the 816 Nuclear Military Plant in Chongqing (now declassified and opened to tourists), was reported to be \"most worrying\" for the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency.\n\nLibya evaded surveillance by building \"hardened and buried\" bunkers at least 40 feet below ground level.\n\n"}
{"id": "21874341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21874341", "title": "ITF Rankings", "text": "ITF Rankings\n\nThe ITF Rankings are the current rankings of national teams by the International Tennis Federation in both men's and women's tennis. The ITF produces two sets of rankings—the ITF Davis Cup Nations Ranking for male national teams, and the ITF Fed Cup Nations Ranking for female national teams. Both sets of rankings measure the success of all nations participating in both competitions.\n\nThe ITF Davis Cup Nations Ranking was launched at the end of 2001 and the ITF Fed Cup Nations Ranking was introduced a year later. Both rankings are updated following every World Group round and are used for seeding the highest ranked teams in the draws for each group in the competitions' structures.\n\nThe ITF Davis Cup and Fed Cup rankings are based in a rolling four year cumulative system. However, the points total for each nation is calculated following a weighted sum formula, in which recent results are weighted more heavily. After each World Group round, the ranking period adjusts, and points earned in the last year period have a weighting factor of 100% in the points total. At the same time, the weighting factor for the points earned until the same round in the previous three years is reduced to 75% (for points earned one to two years ago), 50% (for points earned two to three years ago) and 25% (for points earned three to four years ago).\n\nRanking points are awarded only to the winning nation of a competition tie at every round. Victories in World Group rounds are worth more points than those in Zone Groups, and ties at the later rounds of the competition are progressively worth more points. Bonus points are also awarded for a nation that defeats a higher-ranked nation, but only if the latter nation is ranked in the top 64 for the Davis Cup, or in the top 75 for the Fed Cup. Unique to the Davis Cup, there is an additional bonus for a nation that wins a tie in the opponent's home ground: a 25% bonus is added to the total of round points and ranking bonus points (if any). At the Fed Cup only, nations that win by walkover are awarded round points but no bonus points, and no points are awarded for consolation events.\n\nThe current ranking points and bonus points distribution tables for the Davis Cup are shown below:\n\n\nThe current ranking points and bonus points distribution tables for the Fed Cup are shown below:\n\n"}
{"id": "4426463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4426463", "title": "Indian Century", "text": "Indian Century\n\nThe Indian Century (or India's Century) is the possibility that the 21st century will be dominated by India, similarly to how the 20th century is often called the American Century, and the 19th century as Pax Britannica (British Peace). The phrase is used particularly in the assertion that the economy of India could overtake the economy of the United States and economy of China as the largest national economy in the world, a position it held from 1 to 1500 A.D. and in 1700 A.D.\n\nIndia has created North–South Transport Corridor as an alternative to One Belt, One Road policy initiative of China (PRC), to link in with Iran, Russia, the Caucasus, and Central Asia. In 2017, India and Japan joined together to form Asia-Africa Growth Corridor, to better integrate the economies of South, Southeast, and East Asia with Oceania and Africa.\n\nAccording to the report named \"Indian Century: Defining India's Place in a Rapidly Changing Global Economy\" by IBM Institute for Business Value, India is predicted to be among the world’s highest-growth nations over the coming years.\n\nOne of the key factors includes its populous democracy. As per United Nations report, India will overtake China to become the world's most populous nation by 2022.\n\nEconomists and Researchers at Harvard University have projected India’s 7% projected annual growth rate through 2024 would continue to put it ahead of China, making India the fastest growing economy in the world. In 2017, Center for International Development at Harvard University, published a research study, projecting that India has emerged as the economic pole of global growth by surpassing China and is expected to maintain its lead over the coming decade.\n\nIndia is generally considered an emerging power due to its large and stable population, and its rapidly growing economic and military sectors.\n\n"}
{"id": "14832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14832", "title": "Intergovernmental organization", "text": "Intergovernmental organization\n\nAn intergovernmental organization or international governmental organisation (IGO) is an organization composed primarily of sovereign states (referred to as \"member states\"), or of other intergovernmental organizations. Intergovernmental organizations are called international organizations, although that term may also include international non-governmental organization such as international nonprofit organizations or multinational corporations.\nIntergovernmental organizations are an important aspect of public international law. IGOs are established by a treaty that acts as a charter creating the group. Treaties are formed when lawful representatives (governments) of several states go through a ratification process, providing the IGO with an international legal personality.\n\nIntergovernmental organizations in a legal sense should be distinguished from simple groupings or coalitions of states, such as the G8 or the Quartet. Such groups or associations have not been founded by a constituent document and exist only as task groups.\n\nIntergovernmental organizations must also be distinguished from treaties. Many treaties (such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, or the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade before the establishment of the World Trade Organization) do not establish an organization and instead rely purely on the parties for their administration becoming legally recognized as an \"ad hoc\" commission. Other treaties have established an administrative apparatus which was not deemed to have been granted international legal personality.\n\nIntergovernmental organizations differ in function, membership, and membership criteria. They have various goals and scopes, often outlined in the treaty or charter. Some IGOs developed to fulfill a need for a neutral forum for debate or negotiation to resolve disputes. Others developed to carry out mutual interests with unified aims to preserve peace through conflict resolution and better international relations, promote international cooperation on matters such as environmental protection, to promote human rights, to promote social development (education, health care), to render humanitarian aid, and to economic development. Some are more general in scope (the United Nations) while others may have subject-specific missions (such as Interpol or the International Organization for Standardization and other standards organizations). Common types include:\n\nOrganization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).\n\nMission\n\n\nMembership\n\n193 Member States. Membership is \"...open to all other peace-loving states which accept the obligations contained in the present Charter and, in the judgment of the Organization, are able and willing to carry out these obligations.\"\n\nMission\n\n\"The Parties to this Treaty reaffirm their faith in the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and their desire to live in peace with all people and all governments. They are determined to safeguard the freedom, common heritage and civilization of their peoples, founded on the principles of democracy, individual liberty and the rule of law. They seek to promote stability and well-being in the North Atlantic area.\nThey are resolved to unite their efforts for collective defense and for the preservation of peace and security. They therefore agree to this North Atlantic Treaty.\"\n\nMembership\n\n\"NATO is an Alliance that consists of 29 independent member countries.\"\n\nMission\n\n\nMission\n\nThe Islamic Development Bank is an international financial institution established in pursuance of the Declaration of Intent issued by the Conference of Finance Ministers of Muslim Countries held in Jeddah in Dhul Q'adah 1393H, corresponding to December 1973. The Inaugural Meeting of the Board of Governors took place in Rajab 1395H, corresponding to July 1975, and the Bank was formally opened on 15 Shawwal 1395H corresponding to 20 October 1975. \n\nMembership\n\n188 member countries made up of government-owned organizations.\n\nINBAR evolved from an informal network of bamboo and rattan researchers set up in 1984 by the International Development Research Centre (IDRC) of Canada. In 1993 the network was formalized under its present name, but remained a project of IDRC. Work to launch INBAR as an independent organization started in 1995, and was completed in 1997 when INBAR became an independent organization with its headquarters in Beijing, China – the first intergovernmental organization to be headquartered in the People's Republic.\nMembership and structure\n\nMembership\n\n42 member countries make up this organisation.\n\nWhile treaties, alliances, and multilateral conferences had existed for centuries, IGOs only began to be established in the 19th century. Among the first were the Central Commission for Navigation on the Rhine, initiated in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars, and the International Telegraph Union (the future International Telecommunication Union), which was founded by the signing of the International Telegraph Convention by 20 countries in May 1865. Of notable significance was the emergence of the League of Nations following World War One, designed as an institution to foster collective security in order to sustain peace.\n\nHeld and McGrew (2002) counted thousands of IGOs worldwide, and this number continues to rise. This increase may be attributed to globalization, which increases and encourages the cooperation among and within states. Globalization has also provided easier means for IGO growth, as a result of increased international relations. This is seen economically, politically, militarily, as well as on the domestic level. Economically, IGOs gain material and non-material resources for economic prosperity. IGOs also provide more political stability within the state and among differing states. Military alliances are also formed by establishing common standards in order to ensure security of the members to ward off outside threats. Lastly, the formation has encouraged autocratic states to develop into democracies in order to form an effective and internal government.\n\nThere are several different reasons a state may choose membership in an intergovernmental organization. But there are also reasons membership may be rejected. These reasons are explored in the sections below.\n\nReasons for participation:\nReasons for rejecting membership:\n\nIntergovernmental organizations are provided with privileges and immunities that are intended to ensure their independent and effective functioning. They are specified in the treaties that give rise to the organization (such as the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations and the Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal Court), which are normally supplemented by further multinational agreements and national regulations (for example the International Organizations Immunities Act in the United States). The organizations are thereby immune from the jurisdiction of national courts.\n\nRather than by national jurisdiction, legal accountability is intended to be ensured by legal mechanisms that are internal to the intergovernmental organization itself and access to administrative tribunals. In the course of many court cases where private parties tried to pursue claims against international organizations, there has been a gradual realization that alternate means of dispute settlement are required, as states have fundamental human rights obligations to provide plaintiffs with access to court in view of their right to a fair trial. Otherwise, the organizations' immunities may be put in question in national and international courts. Some organizations hold proceedings before tribunals relating to their organization to be confidential, and in some instances have threatened disciplinary action should an employee disclose any of the relevant information. Such confidentiality has been criticized as a lack of transparency.\n\nThe immunities also extend to employment law. In this regard, immunity from national jurisdiction necessitates that reasonable alternative means are available to effectively protect employees' rights; in this context, a first instance Dutch court considered an estimated duration of proceedings before the Administrative Tribunal of the International Labour Organization of 15 years to be too long.\n\nThese are some of the strengths and weaknesses of IGOs:\n\nStrengths:\n\nWeaknesses:\n\nThey can be deemed unfair as countries with a higher percentage voting power have the right to veto any decision that is not in their favor, leaving the smaller countries powerless.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "104718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104718", "title": "International broadcasting", "text": "International broadcasting\n\nInternational broadcasting is broadcasting that is deliberately aimed at a foreign, rather than a domestic, audience. It usually is broadcast by means of longwave, mediumwave, or (more usually) shortwave radio, but in recent years has also used direct satellite broadcasting and the internet as means of reaching audiences.\n\nAlthough radio and television programs do travel outside national borders, in many cases reception by foreigners is accidental. However, for purposes of propaganda, transmitting religious beliefs, keeping in touch with colonies or expatriates, education, improving trade, increasing national prestige, or promoting tourism and goodwill, broadcasting services have operated external services since the 1920s.\n\nInternational broadcasting, in a limited extent, began during World War I, when German and British stations broadcast press communiqués using Morse code. With the severing of Germany's undersea cables, the wireless telegraph station in Nauen was the country's sole means of long-distance communication.\n\nThe US Navy Radio Service radio station in New Brunswick, Canada, transmitted the 'Fourteen Points' by wireless to Nauen in 1917. In turn, Nauen station broadcast the news of the abdication of Kaiser Wilhelm II on November 10, 1918.\n\nGuglielmo Marconi pioneered the use of short wave radio for long distance transmissions in the early 1920s. Using a system of parabolic reflector antennae, Marconi's assistant, Charles Samuel Franklin, rigged up a large antenna at Poldhu Wireless Station, Cornwall, running on 25 kW of power. In June and July 1923, wireless transmissions were completed during nights on 97 meters from Poldhu to Marconi's yacht \"Elettra\" in the Cape Verde Islands. High speed shortwave telegraphy circuits were then installed from London to Australia, India, South Africa and Canada as the main element of the Imperial Wireless Chain from 1926.\n\nThe Dutch began conducting experiments in the shortwave frequencies in 1925 from Eindhoven. The radio station PCJJ began the first international broadcasting on March 11, 1927 with programmes in Dutch for colonies in the Dutch West Indies and Dutch East Indies and in German, Spanish and English for the rest of the world. The popular Happy Station show was inaugurated in 1928.\n\nIn 1927, Marconi also turned his attention toward long distance broadcasting on shortwave. His first such broadcasts took place to commemorate Armistice Day in the same year. He continued running a regular international broadcast that was picked up around the world, with programming from the 2LO station, then run by the BBC. The success of this operation caught the BBC's attention, and rented out a shortwave transmitting station in Chelmsford, with the callsign G5SW, to Marconi. The BBC Empire Service was finally inaugurated on December 19, 1932, with transmissions aimed towards Australia and New Zealand.\n\nOther notable early international broadcasters included Vatican Radio (February 12, 1931), Radio Moscow, the official service of the Soviet Union (this has since been renamed the Voice of Russia, following the collapse of the Soviet Union). Clarence W. Jones started transmitting on Christmas Day, 1931 from Christian missionary radio station HCJB in Quito, Ecuador. Broadcasting in South Asia was launched in 1925 in Ceylon - Radio Ceylon, now the Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation is the oldest in the region.\nShortwave broadcasting from Nauen in Germany to the USA, Central and South America, and the Far East began in 1926. A second station, Zeesen, was added in 1931. In January 1932, the German Reichspost assumed control of the Nauen station and added to its shortwave and longwave capacity. Once Adolf Hitler assumed power in 1933, shortwave, under the \"Auslandsrundfunk\" (Foreign Radio Section), was regarded as a vital element of Nazi propaganda.\n\nGerman shortwave hours were increased from two hours a day to 18 per day, and eventually twelve languages were broadcast on a 24-hour basis, including English. A 100 kilowatt transmitter and antenna complex was built at Zeesen, near Berlin. Specialty target programming to the United States began in 1933, to South Africa, South America, and East Asia in 1934, and South Asia and Central America in 1938. German propaganda was organized under Joseph Goebbels, and played a key role in the German annexation of Austria and the Munich Crisis of 1938.\n\nIn 1936, the International Radio Union recognized Vatican Radio as a \"special case\" and authorized its broadcasting without any geographical limits. On December 25, 1937, a Telefunken 25-kW transmitter and two directional antennas were added. Vatican Radio broadcast over 10 frequencies.\n\nDuring the Spanish Civil War, the Nationalist forces received a powerful Telefunken transmitter as a gift of Nazi Germany to aid their propaganda efforts, and until 1943 Radio Nacional de España collaborated with the Axis powers to retransmit in Spanish news from the official radio stations of Germany and Italy.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Russian, German, British, and Italian international broadcasting services expanded. In 1942, the United States initiated its international broadcasting service, the Voice of America. In the Pacific theater, General Douglas MacArthur used shortwave radio to keep in touch with the citizens of the Japanese-occupied Philippine Islands.\n\nSeveral announcers who became well known in their countries included British Union of Fascists member William Joyce, who was one of the two \"Lord Haw-Haw\"s; Frenchmen Paul Ferdonnet and André Olbrecht, called \"the traitors of [Radio] Stuttgart\"; and Americans Frederick William Kaltenbach, \"Lord Hee-Haw\", and Mildred Gillars, one of the two announcers called \"Axis Sally\". Listeners to German programs often tuned in for curiosity's sake—at one time, German radio had half a million listeners in the U.S.--but most of them soon lost interest. Japan had \"Tokyo Rose\", who broadcast Japanese propaganda in English, along with American music to help ensure listeners.\n\nDuring World War II, Vatican Radio's news broadcasts were banned in Germany. During the war, the radio service operated in four languages.\n\nThe British launched Radio SEAC from Colombo, Ceylon (Sri Lanka) during World War II. The station broadcast radio programs to the allied armed forces across the region from their headquarters in Ceylon.\n\nFollowing the war and German partition, each Germany developed its own international broadcasting station: Deutsche Welle, using studios in Cologne, West Germany, and Radio Berlin International (RBI) in East Germany. RBI's broadcasts ceased shortly before the reunification of Germany on October 3, 1990, and Deutsche Welle took over its transmitters and frequencies.\n\nThe Cold War led to increased international broadcasting (and jamming), as Communist and non-Communist states attempted to influence each other's domestic population. Some of the most prominent Western broadcasters were the Voice of America, the BBC World Service, and the (covertly) CIA-backed Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. The Soviet Union's most prominent service was Radio Moscow (now the Voice of Russia) and China used Radio Peking (then Radio Beijing, now China Radio International). In addition to the U.S.-Soviet cold war, the Chinese-Russian border dispute led to an increase of the numbers of transmitters aimed at the two nations, and the development of new techniques such as playing tapes backwards for reel-to-reel recorders.\n\nWest Germany resumed regular shortwave broadcasts using Deutsche Welle on May 3, 1953. Its Julich transmitter site began operation in 1956, with eleven 100-kW Telefunken transmitters. The Wertachtal site was authorized in 1972 and began with four 500-kW transmitters. By 1989, there were 15 transmitters, four of which relayed the Voice of America. Meanwhile, in East Germany, the Nauen site began transmitting Radio DDR, later Radio Berlin International, on October 15, 1959.\nIn addition to these states, international broadcast services grew in Europe and the Middle East. Under the presidency of Gamal Nasser, Egyptian transmitters covered the Arab world; Israel's service, Kol Yisrael, served both to present the Israeli point of view to the world and to serve the Jewish diaspora, particularly behind the Iron Curtain.\n\nRadio RSA, as part of the South African Broadcasting Corporation, was established in 1966 to promote the image of South Africa internationally and reduce criticism of apartheid. It continued in 1992, when the post-apartheid government renamed it Channel Africa.\n\nIronically, the isolationist Albania under Enver Hoxha, virtually a hermit kingdom, became one of the most prolific international broadcasters during the latter decades of the Cold War, with Radio Tirana one of the top five broadcasters in terms of hours of programming produced.\n\nEstimated total programme hours per week of some external broadcasters\nAt the end of the Cold War, many international broadcasters cut back on hours and foreign languages broadcast, or reemphasized other language services. For example, in 1984, Radio Canada International broadcast in English, French, German, Spanish, Czech/Slovak, Hungarian, Polish, Russian, and Ukrainian. In 2005, RCI broadcast in English, Chinese, Arabic, Russian, and Spanish. There is a bigger trend towards TV (e.g. BBC World News, NHK World, CCTV-9) and news websites. Some services, such as Swiss Radio International, left shortwave altogether and exist in Internet form. In addition, new standards, such as Digital Radio Mondiale, are being introduced, as well as sending programs over the Web to be played back later, as \"podcasts\".\n\nInternational broadcasting using the traditional audio-only method will not cease any time soon due to its cost efficiencies. However, international broadcasting via television is considered more strategically important at least since the early 2000s.\n\nThe BBC World Service was the first broadcaster to consider setting up a satellite television news and information channel as far back as 1976, but ceded being the first to CNN (that had primary access to Canada soon after launch). The defunct BBC World Service Antigua Relay Station was built in 1976, but its setup costs were not known to have been part of the BBCWS decision processes at the time.\n\nIn the early 1990s, many international (as well as domestic) 24-hour news and information channels launched as part of the post-Cold War prosperity bubble. There was another burst of global news channels launching in the late 2000s as part the developing world trying to catch up with the developed world in this area.\n\nBroadcasters in one country have several reasons to reach out to an audience in other countries. The examples given below are not meant to be exhaustive, but are illustrative.\n\nOne clear reason is for ideological, or propaganda reasons. Many government-owned stations portray their nation in a positive, non-threatening way. This could be to encourage business investment and/or tourism to the nation. Another reason is to combat a negative image produced by other nations or internal dissidents, or insurgents. Radio RSA, the broadcasting arm of the apartheid South African government, is an example of this. A third reason is to promote the ideology of the broadcaster. For example, a program on Radio Moscow from the 1960s to the 1980s was \"What is Communism?\"\n\nA second reason is to advance a nation's foreign policy interests and agenda by disseminating its views on international affairs or on the events in particular parts of the world. During the Cold War the American Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty and Indian Radio AIR were founded to broadcast news from \"behind the Iron Curtain\" that was otherwise being censored and promote dissent and occasionally, to disseminate disinformation. Currently the US operates similar services aimed at Cuba and the People's Republic of China.\n\nThe BBC World Service, the Voice of America, All India Radio and other western broadcasters have emphasized news broadcasts, particularly to countries that are experiencing repression or civil unrest and whose populations are unable to obtain news from non-government sources. In the case of emergencies, a nation may broadcast special programs overseas to inform listeners what is occurring. During Iraqi missile strikes on Israel during the 1991 Gulf War, Kol Israel relayed its domestic service on its shortwave service.\n\nBesides ideological reasons, many stations are run by religious broadcasters and are used to provide religious education, religious music, or worship service programs. For example, Vatican Radio, established in 1931, broadcasts such programs. Another station, such as HCJB or Trans World Radio will carry brokered programming from evangelists. In the case of the Broadcasting Services of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, both governmental and religious programming is provided.\n\nStations also broadcast to international audiences for cultural reasons. Often a station has an official mandate to keep expatriates in touch with the home country. Many broadcasters often relay their national domestic service on shortwave for that reason. Other reasons include teaching a foreign language, such as Radio Exterior de España's Spanish class, \"Un idioma sin fronteras\", or the Voice of America's broadcasts in Special English. In the case of major broadcasters such as the BBC World Service or Radio Australia, there is also an educational outreach.\n\nAn additional reason for international broadcasting is to maintain contact with a country's citizens travelling abroad or expatriates who have emigrated and share news from home as well as cultural programming. This role of external shortwave broadcasting has declined as advances in communications have allowed expatriates to read news from home and listen and watch to domestic broadcasts in their own language via the internet and satellite. A number of international services such as the original BBC Empire Service, Radio Netherlands, France's Poste Colonial (now Radio France International) and others were founded in part with the goal of helping draw overseas empires closer to the mother country and provide closer cultural and communication connections between the home country and its colonies, a role that became largely obsolete due to decolonization.\n\n\nBecause of this many broadcasters are discovering they can reach a wider audience through other methods (particularly the internet and satellite television) and are cutting back on (or even entirely dropping) shortwave.\n\nAn international broadcaster has several options for reaching a foreign audience:\n\nAn international broadcaster such as the BBC, Radio France International or Germany's Deutsche Welle, may use all the above methods. Several international broadcasters, such as Swiss Radio International, have abandoned shortwave broadcasting altogether, relying on Internet transmissions only. Others, such as the BBC World Service, have abandoned shortwave transmissions to North America, relying on local relays, the Internet, and satellite transmissions\n\nMost radio receivers in the world receive the mediumwave band (530 kHz to 1710 kHz), which at night is capable of reliable reception from 150 to 2,500 km distance from a transmitter. Mediumwave is used heavily all over the world for international broadcasting on a formal and informal basis.\n\nIn addition, many receivers used in Europe and Russia can receive the longwave broadcast band (150 to 280 kHz), which provides reliable long-distance communications over continental distances.\n\nShortwave receivers are capable of receiving shortwave transmissions (2,000 to 30,000 kHz or 2 to 30 MHz). Depending on time of day, season of year, solar weather and Earth's geomagnetic field, a signal might reach around the world.\n\nIn previous decades shortwave (and sometimes high-powered mediumwave) transmission was regarded as the main (and often the \"only\") way in which broadcasters could reach an international audience. In recent years the proliferation of technologies such as satellite broadcasting, the Internet, and rebroadcasts of programming on AM and FM within target nations has meant that this is no longer necessarily the case.\n\nTransmitter output power has increased since 1920. Higher transmitter powers do guarantee better reception in the target area. Higher transmitter power in most cases counteracts the lesser effects of jamming.\n\nInternational stations generally use special directional antennas to aim the signal toward the intended audience and increase the effective power in that direction. Use of such antennas for international broadcasting began in the mid-1930s and became prominent by the 1950s. By using antennas which focus most of their energy in one direction, a modern station may achieve the equivalent, in that direction, of tens of millions of watts of radio power.\n\nSome international broadcasters have become available via Digital Audio Broadcasting (DAB) in Europe in the 1990s, and in a similar limited way in the Americas via in-band FM (IBOC) DAB systems in the US in the 2000s. This is a popular method to reach listeners in cars that would otherwise not be accessible during that part of the day. However, in terms of the global international broadcasting audience the DAB listener base is very small—one can assume that it is less than 2% of the listener base globally.\n\nInternational broadcasting via 24 hour TV news channels has its origins in North America in the early 1980s. CNN technically was the first 24-hour international news channel as it was made available in Canada soon after launch. The BBC World Service considered setting up a global TV news channel as far back as 1975, but abandoned the idea for internal reasons.\n\nNotwithstanding a large number of international 24-hour television news and information broadcasters, the television percentage of viewers is still fairly small when compared to global radio listener numbers.\n\nThe rural populations of Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia (as well as East Asia) have radio listener bases that are far larger than the largest international TV broadcaster could hope for, yet they could be considered underserved since the end of the Cold War (when these regions had more radio broadcasts targeted at them).\n\nMany international television broadcasters (as well as domestic television broadcasters) have set up accounts on streaming video sites like YouTube to allow their news and information broadcasts to be globally distributed. The viewer numbers for these sites may seem huge. Cable, TVRO and terrestrial television broadcasters probably have 100 to 1,000 times larger audiences for their international broadcasting content.\n\nInternational broadcasters known to maintain their own streaming video sites (not authoritative):\n\n\nMany international broadcasters (television or radio) can reach \"unreachable\" audiences via email and RSS feeds. This is not at all unusual, as the first commonly agreed international broadcast was a Morse Code telegram transmitted from US President Wilson to the German Kaiser (mid-1918) via a high powered longwave transmitter on the US East Coast (this important event in international broadcasting history was described in depth in the IEEE \"The History of International Broadcasting\" first volume). As Morse Code is considered to be a data format, with email and RSS merely being refinements of the technology it can be said that international broadcasting has a deep relationship with modern-day datacasting.\n\nThe reach of RSS and email for international broadcasters is not really known that well, especially considering that emails get forwarded. The numbers for active RSS and email audiences are probably 5 to 20 times larger than for streaming video. It may take into the 2010s to get meaningful numbers with respect to the size of these audiences for assorted technical reasons related to the RSS and email technologies.\n\nEmail and RSS feeds can traverse telecommunications barriers that streaming video cannot, thus the larger expected audience numbers. The global economic downturn of 2008-2009 will probably increase the email and RSS audience sizes as fewer people will be able to afford high speed internet connections in North America, Western Europe and the Asia-Pacific regions.\n\nAn international broadcaster may have the technical means of reaching a foreign audience, but unless the foreign audience has a reason to listen, the effectiveness of the broadcaster is in question.\n\nOne of the most common foreign audiences consists of expatriates, who cannot listen to radio or watch television programs from home. Another common audience is radio hobbyists, who attempt to listen to as many countries as possible and obtain verification cards or letters (\"QSLs\"). These audiences send letters and in response few radio stations write them back. These kind of Listeners often take part in weekly and monthly quizzes and contests started by many radio stations. A third audience consists of journalists, government officials, and key businesspersons, who exert a disproportionate influence on a state's foreign or economic policy.\n\nA fourth, but less publicized audience, consists of intelligence officers and agents who monitor broadcasts for both open-source intelligence clues to the broadcasting state's policies and for hidden messages to foreign agents operating in the receiving country. The BBC started its monitoring service in Caversham, Reading in 1936 (now BBC Monitoring). In the United States, the DNI Open Source Center (formerly the Central Intelligence Agency's Foreign Broadcast Information Service) provides the same service. Copies of OSC/FBIS reports can be found in many U.S. libraries that serve as government depositories. In addition, a number of hobbyists listen and report \"spook\" transmissions.\n\nWithout these four audiences, international broadcasters face difficulty in getting funding. In 2001, for example, the BBC World Service stopped transmitting shortwave broadcasts to North America, and other international broadcasters, such as YLE Radio Finland, stopped certain foreign-language programs.\n\nHowever, international broadcasting has been successful when a country does not provide programming wanted by a wide segment of the population. In the 1960s, when there was no BBC service playing rock and roll, Radio Television Luxembourg (RTL) broadcast rock and roll, including bands such as the Beatles, into the United Kingdom. Similar programming came from an unlicensed, or \"pirate\" station, Radio Caroline, which broadcast from a ship in the international waters of the North Sea.\n\nIn many cases, governments do not want their citizens listening to international broadcasters. In Nazi Germany, a major propaganda campaign, backed by law and prison sentences, attempted to discourage Germans from listening to such stations. The practice was made illegal in 1939. In addition, the German government sold a cheap, 76-Reichsmark \"People's Receiver\", as well as an even cheaper 35-Reichsmark receiver, that could not pick up distant signals well.\n\nThe idea was copied by Stalin's Soviet Union, which had a nearly identical copy manufactured in the Tesla factory in Czechoslovakia.\nIn North Korea, all receivers are sold with fixed frequencies, tuned to local stations.\n\nThe most common method of preventing reception is jamming, or broadcasting a signal on the same frequencies as the international broadcaster. Germany jammed the BBC European service during the Second World War. Russian and Eastern European jammers were aimed against Radio Free Europe, other Western broadcasters, and against Chinese broadcasters during the nadir of Sino-Soviet relations. In 2002, the Cuban government jammed the Voice of America's Radio Martí program and the Chinese government jammed Radio Free Asia, Voice of America, Radio Taiwan International as well broadcasts made by adherents of Falun Gong.\n\nNorth Korea restricts most people to a single fixed frequency mediumwave receiver; those who met political requirements and whose work absolutely required familiarity with events abroad were allowed shortwave receivers. Another method of reaching people with government radio programming, but not foreign programming, is the use of radio broadcasting by direct broadcasting to loudspeakers.\nDavid Jackson, director of the Voice of America, noted \"The North Korean government doesn't jam us, but they try to keep people from listening through intimidation or worse. But people figure out ways to listen despite the odds. They're very resourceful.\"\n\nYet another method of preventing reception involves moving a domestic station to the frequency used by the international broadcaster. During the Batista government of Cuba, and during the Castro years, Cuban medium-wave stations broadcast on the frequencies of popular South Florida stations. In October 2002, Iraq changed frequencies of two stations to block the Voice of America's Radio Sawa program.\n\nJamming can be defeated by using very efficient transmitting antennas, carefully choosing the transmitted frequency, changing transmitted frequency often, using single sideband, and properly aiming the receiving antenna.\n\nFor a list of international broadcasters, see List of international broadcasters.\n\n\nGraef 2005<br>\nGraef, Robert. \"Bicycling to Amersfoort: A World War II Memoir\". 2005, iUniverse. \n\nHorwitz 2001<br>\nHorwitz, Robert Britt. \"Communication and Democratic Reform in South Africa\". 2001, Cambridge University Press .\n\nHughes and Mann 2002<br>\nHughes, Matthew, and Chris Mann. \"Inside Hitler's Germany: Life Under the Third Reich\". 2002, Brassey's. \n\nLevillain 2002<br>\nLevillain, Philippe. \"The Papacy: An Encyclopedia\". Translated by John O'Malley. Routledge, 2002. \n\nMartin 2006<br>\nMartin, Bradley K. \"Under the Loving Care of the Fatherly Leader: North Korea and the Kim Dynasty\". 2006, Macmillan. \n\nWood 2000<br>\nWood, James. \"History of International Broadcasting\". 2000, IET. \n\n"}
{"id": "126844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=126844", "title": "Internationalization and localization", "text": "Internationalization and localization\n\nIn computing, internationalization and localization are means of adapting computer software to different languages, regional differences and technical requirements of a target locale. Internationalization is the process of designing a software application so that it can be adapted to various languages and regions without engineering changes. Localization is the process of adapting internationalized software for a specific region or language by translating text and adding locale-specific components. Localization (which is potentially performed multiple times, for different locales) uses the infrastructure or flexibility provided by internationalization (which is ideally performed only once, or as an integral part of ongoing development).\n\nThe terms are frequently abbreviated to the numeronyms i18n (where \"18\" stands for the number of letters between the first \"i\" and the last \"n\" in the word \"internationalization\", a usage coined at Digital Equipment Corporation in the 1970s or 1980s) and \"L10n\" for \"localization\", due to the length of the words.\n\nSome companies, like IBM and Sun Microsystems, use the term \"globalization\", \"g11n\", for the combination of internationalization and localization. Also known as \"glocalization\" (a portmanteau of \"globalization\" and \"localization\").\n\nMicrosoft defines internationalization as a combination of world-readiness and localization. World-readiness is a developer task, which enables a product to be used with multiple scripts and cultures (globalization) and separating user interface resources in a localizable format (localizability, abbreviated to \"L12y\").\n\nHewlett-Packard and HP-UX created a system called \"National Language Support\" or \"Native Language Support\" (NLS) to produce localizable software.\n\nAccording to \"Software without frontiers\", the design aspects to consider when internationalizing a product are \"data encoding, data and documentation, software construction, hardware device support, user interaction\"; while the key design areas to consider when making a fully internationalized product from scratch are \"user interaction, algorithm design and data formats, software services, documentation\".\n\nTranslation is typically the most time-consuming component of language localization. This may involve:\n\nComputer software can encounter differences above and beyond straightforward translation of words and phrases, because computer programs can generate content dynamically. These differences may need to be taken into account by the internationalization process in preparation for translation. Many of these differences are so regular that a conversion between languages can be easily automated. The Common Locale Data Repository by Unicode provides a collection of such differences. Its data is used by major operating systems, including Microsoft Windows, macOS and Debian, and by major Internet companies or projects such as Google and the Wikimedia Foundation. Examples of such differences include:\n\nDifferent countries have different economic conventions, including variations in:\nIn particular, the United States and Europe differ in most of these cases. Other areas often follow one of these.\n\nSpecific third-party services, such as online maps, weather reports, or payment service providers, might not be available worldwide from the same carriers, or at all.\n\nTime zones vary across the world, and this must be taken into account if a product originally only interacted with people in a single time zone. For internationalization, UTC is often used internally and then converted into a local time zone for display purposes.\n\nDifferent countries have different legal requirements, meaning for example:\n\nLocalization also may take into account differences in culture, such as:\n\nIn order to \"internationalize\" a product, it is important to look at a variety of markets that the product will foreseeably enter.\n\nDetails such as field length for street addresses, unique format for the address, ability to make the postal code field optional to address countries that do not have postal codes or the state field for countries that do not have states, plus the introduction of new registration flows that adhere to local laws are just some of the examples that make internationalization a complex project.\n\nA broader approach takes into account cultural factors regarding for example the adaptation of the business process logic or the inclusion of individual cultural (behavioral) aspects.\n\nAlready in the 1990s, companies such as Bull used machine translation (Systran) in large scale, for all their translation activity: human translators handled pre-editing (making the input machine-readable) and post-editing.\n\nBoth in re-engineering an existing software or designing a new internationalized software, the first step of internationalization is to split each potentially locale-dependent part (whether code, text or data) into a separate module. Each module can then either rely on a standard library/dependency or be independently replaced as needed for each locale.\n\nThe current prevailing practice is for applications to place text in resource strings which are loaded during program execution as needed. These strings, stored in resource files, are relatively easy to translate. Programs are often built to reference resource libraries depending on the selected locale data.\n\nThe storage for translatable and translated strings is sometimes called a message catalog as the strings are called messages. The catalog generally comprises a set of files in a specific localization format and a standard library to handle said format. One software library and format that aids this is gettext.\n\nThus to get an application to support multiple languages one would design the application to select the relevant language resource file at runtime. The code required to manage data entry verification and many other locale-sensitive data types also must support differing locale requirements. Modern development systems and operating systems include sophisticated libraries for international support of these types, see also Standard locale data above.\n\nMany localization issues (e.g. writing direction, text sorting) require more profound changes in the software than text translation. For example, OpenOffice.org achieves this with compilation switches.\n\nA globalization method includes, after planning, three implementation steps: internationalization, localization and quality assurance.\n\nTo some degree (e.g. for quality assurance), development teams include someone who handles the basic/central stages of the process which then enable all the others. Such persons typically understand foreign languages and cultures and have some technical background. Specialized technical writers are required to construct a culturally appropriate syntax for potentially complicated concepts, coupled with engineering resources to deploy and test the localization elements.\n\nOnce properly internationalized, software can rely on more decentralized models for localization: free and open source software usually rely on self-localization by end-users and volunteers, sometimes organized in teams. The KDE3 project, for example, has been translated into over 100 languages; MediaWiki in 270 languages, of which 100 mostly complete .\n\nWhen translating existing text to other languages, it is difficult to maintain the parallel versions of texts throughout the life of the product. For instance, if a message displayed to the user is modified, all of the translated versions must be changed.\n\nIn a commercial setting, the benefit from localization is access to more markets. In the early 1980s, Lotus 1-2-3 took two years to separate program code and text and lost the market lead in Europe over Microsoft Multiplan. MicroPro found that using an Austrian translator for the West German market caused its WordStar documentation to, an executive said, not \"have the tone it should have had\".\n\nHowever, there are considerable costs involved, which go far beyond engineering. Further, business operations must adapt to manage the production, storage and distribution of multiple discrete localized products, which are often being sold in completely different currencies, regulatory environments and tax regimes.\n\nFinally, sales, marketing and technical support must also facilitate their own operations in the new languages, in order to support customers for the localized products. Particularly for relatively small language populations, it may thus never be economically viable to offer a localized product. Even where large language populations could justify localization for a given product, and a product's internal structure already permits localization, a given software developer or publisher may lack the size and sophistication to manage the ancillary functions associated with operating in multiple locales.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "343555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=343555", "title": "Interval signal", "text": "Interval signal\n\nAn interval signal, or tuning signal, is a characteristic sound or musical phrase used in international broadcasting, numbers stations, and by some domestic broadcasters, played before commencement or during breaks in transmission, but most commonly between programmes in different languages. It serves several purposes:\n\nThe practice began in Europe in the 1920s and 1930s and was carried over into shortwave broadcasts. The use of interval signals has declined with the advent of digital tuning systems, but has not vanished. Interval signals were not required on commercial channels in the USA, where jingles were used as identification.\n\n « \\relative c { g4 g4. e8 g f d g a8. g16 g2 \\fermata \\bar \"|.\"\n } \\\\ \\relative c\" {\\partial 4 \n\n\n\nClassical Radio Station WQXR-FM in New York City, during its ownership by The New York Times Company, played different variations of a classical infused gong with the ID read at the same time as \"The Classical Station of the New York Times, WQXR, New York (And WQXR.com 2000-2009) \n\nNumbers stations are often named after their interval signals, such as The Lincolnshire Poacher or Magnetic Fields after \"Magnetic Fields Part 1\" by Jean-Michel Jarre.\n\n"}
{"id": "33064684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33064684", "title": "List of research institutes in Seattle", "text": "List of research institutes in Seattle\n\nResearch institutes in Seattle include universities, corporations, nonprofit organizations, and other research groups doing research in Seattle.\n\n"}
{"id": "27784030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27784030", "title": "Media Network", "text": "Media Network\n\nMedia Network was the name of a weekly radio programme broadcast on Radio Netherlands Worldwide from 7 May 1981 until 26 October 2000. When the programme began the station was known as Radio Nederland, but was renamed Radio Netherlands shortly thereafter. The programme concentrated on communications topics with particular reference to international shortwave broadcasting, but also went on to cover mediumwave and longwave, television, satellite, internet, reviews of shortwave receivers and other electronic devices. It was produced and presented by Jonathan Marks. In the course of 1994, he was joined by colleague Diana Janssen, who was working as a media researcher at the station, who co-hosted the show until shortly before its end. Media Network ran for over 1000 editions.\n\nJonathan Marks, a British radio producer arrived in the Netherlands in August 1980. He had previously freelanced for Radio Austria International in the period 1976-1980 and briefly for the World Radio Club programme running on the BBC World Service. He was hired as the fifth host of the Radio Nederland \"DX Jukebox\" programme, a technical show that had been running on the English service since the 1958. His first show was broadcast on 7 August 1980. The content of \"DX Jukebox\" also revolved around shortwave broadcasting, giving information on schedules for various other stations as well as a variety of details on improving reception. As the name suggested, a portion of the show was devoted to music.\n\nMarks decided that the show needed to be updated to reflect a new era. Fewer listeners were building their own radios. The music was shortened and a name change was also planned for the middle of 1981, with Media Network being the name suggested by Roger Broadbent, a colleague producer. Audience reactions suggested a demand for a new style of programme to be not just about when and on what frequency one could listen to a given station on shortwave, but also about \"why\" one should listen.\n\nDuring the early 1980s, a time when international telephony was still of a potentially mediocre sound quality (making it unsuitable for shortwave broadcasts), Media Network went against the established wisdom and made extensive use of the telephone. Calls were made to the show's various contributors. On many occasions where telephone quality was deemed too poor for broadcast, a tape recording was made at both ends of the line, then the person with whom Marks was speaking would post the tape to the Netherlands. The two recordings were subsequently edited together resulting in a conversation with much better sound quality.\n\nOver the years the show had many regular contributors who provided valuable information on stations that went on or off the air, radio propagation conditions, new communications technology and the development of digital formats such as DAT, CD and DVD. Listeners were also encouraged to telephone an answer line and leave their comments and questions. These messages became an integral part of the programme.\n\nThe show prided itself on being less predictable than its predecessor by reporting from international conferences, compiling thematic documentaries and organising its own research surveys into radio related publications and receivers. On some occasions, the reviews of receivers conducted by the show had an influence on the manufacturers who later contacted Media Network for advice on improving their products. \n\nSpecials covered historic events as conveyed by the media, such as the first Gulf War, the Falklands War and propaganda during World War II and in more recent conflicts. There were also many DXpeditions or media safari documentaries to profile stations in different parts of the world (e.g. South Africa, Argentina, Australia, New Zealand, Bonaire).\n\nAfter Diana Janssen left the show in September, 2000 to pursue another career with Forrester Research, Jonathan Marks (who was also employed as Radio Netherlands' Director of Programmes) made the decision to end the show. He cited the increasingly demanding task of fulfilling a corporate role at Radio Netherlands combined with producing a show of a \"high standard that we strive for and you deserve\". The four editions that followed were replays of popular specials with a finale on 26 October 2000. The editorship of the program was handed over to Andy Sennitt (a frequent contributor also working at Radio Netherlands) who continued the brand as a weblog until 24 March 2012, shortly before Sennitt retired. The Media Network blog has now been removed from the Radio Netherlands Worldwide site. A copy is available at archive.org. No new material or comments will be published there. The Media News aspects of that site have been transferred to the Critical Distance blog, edited by Jonathan Marks. This is a non-commercial venture.\n\nIn February, 2010, Jonathan Marks, now an independent media strategist, launched a project called the Media Network Vintage Vault which allows the general public to download studio quality editions in Mp3 format. As of July 2015, over 460 editions have been digitized and made available free of charge. Some other programmes made by Jonathan Marks have also been uploaded to the same website, such as \"Marks on Mechanics\" and \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to DXing\", a comedic spoof of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy which had shortwave radio as its basis.\n\n"}
{"id": "41311298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41311298", "title": "Medical Service Ministries", "text": "Medical Service Ministries\n\nToday, Medical Service Ministries (since 1992) is a trust organization that provides support via grants to Christian mission affiliated applicants who are looking to further their specializations in courses such as community health and tropical medicine.\nPrior to 1992, Medical Service Ministries was known as the Missionary School of Medicine (1903-1992) and provided homeopathic training to Christian missionaries who found that they were ill-equipped to help themselves and others in a tropical climate. MSM was formed through the collaborative efforts of the London Homeopathic Hospital and the British Homeopathic Association in 1903. \nWhile class size was always relatively small, the 1990s showed particularly small class size. This spurred the Missionary School of Medicine to be renamed Medical Service Ministries in 1992. The implications behind the word “missionary” were thought to be driving students away. However, the increasing cost of running the school coupled with the demands brought on by qualifications required by many developing countries at this time caused MSM to close the school portion of the organization (1996) in order to become strictly a trust fund for funding applicants supported by Christian communities/organizations.\n\nDuring the 19th century, many missionaries sought to expand trade and spread the Christian gospel in the developing British colonies. However, many found that they were ill-equipped in the tropical climate; many missionaries and their families became ill. Due to this lack of medical knowledge, many missionaries returned to England to receive first aid training at the end of the 19th century.\nAs a supporter of the newly formed British Homeopathic Association, the London Homeopathic Hospital was one such place that offered to train missionaries in first aid. The British Homeopathic Association’s Educational Committee ran these trainings in partnership with the London Homeopathic Hospital. Lectures were offered in both basic medicine and surgery.\nFinding increased interest from returning missionaries, in the autumn of 1903, the Missionary School of Medicine was opened at the London Homeopathic Hospital to accommodate the training. Upon its opening, Dr. Edwin A. Neatby became the first Dean of the Missionary School of Medicine, presiding over the 24 students enrolled in the school’s first class.\n\nThe Missionary School of Medicine was organized with a President, and a general council. There were additionally a treasurer and a warden, responsible for both running the school day-to-day and teaching nursing procedures,\n\nPresidents of the school include Edwin A. Neatby (beginning in 1903), H. Dodd (beginning in 1952), and Kathleen Priestman (serving from 1981-1991).\n\nJohn Weir was a notable treasurer for the Missionary School of Medicine due to his contributions to the formation of the school’s endowment fund. Wardens that served at the school include:\n\nThe teaching staff included homeopathic physicians experienced in tropical medicine and other specialties. M Some of the teaching staff and their subjects include:\n\nThe teaching program was delivered over the course of three terms. Early course offerings included lectures in basic medicine and surgery, and later expanded to the other medical areas, as well as to Homeopathic pharmacy\nThe goal of the curriculum was to enable missionaries to care for themselves, their families, and others when abroad and when there was no additional medical aid available.\n\nLectures were held at The Wellcome Museum as well as at the London Homeopathic Hospital. The London Homeopathic Hospital also allowed students at their clinics and to study there. Further, St. John’s Ambulance Association taught first aid at the school.\n\nUpon graduation from the school, graduates received both homeopathic remedies and certificates. The remedies were donated by homeopathic pharmacies that were involved in teaching at the school, and were given to the graduates to take with them on their missions.\n\nIn the early 1900s, the “Scholarship Fund” was formed by Reverend Omri Jenkins. It was hoped that an endowment fund could be created from this to cover costs of running the school. The treasurer was responsible for overseeing this fund. Treasurer John Weir was particularly successful in gathering donations for the fund, attracting funds through private connections.\n\nIn addition to these funds, student fees were used to help cover the cost of running the school. Since student fees were kept low, they never could fully cover the cost of running the school. Here is a progression of the student fees at the school:\n\nMost students were sponsored by the Missionary Societies that sent them abroad. MSM students were supported by 115 different Societies.\n\nMany different countries were represented in MSM. From the 1960s to the 1970s, students came from England, Japan, Norway, Germany, and Korea. In the 1980s, students also came from Angola, the Netherlands, Indonesia, South America, Finland, India, Kenya, Spain, Sri Lanka, and Switzerland.\n\nIn the first 50 years of the school, class sizes ranged from 20-30 students. In later years, class sizes were much less, averaging to about 10 students or less per class.\n\nUpon graduating from the school, many graduates went abroad to serve in places including Africa, Japan, South America, India, and Iceland. Supported by home churches and mission organizations, many graduates set up clinics in the places where they served. Often, the clinics and Mission hospitals in which MSM graduates worked formed the basic network for the development of healthcare in many countries.\n\n\"Main articles: Homeopathy\n\nHomeopathy and natural medicine were the focus of the studies of the students at MSM.\n\nTwo main principles guide the use of medicine in homeopathy: the Similia Principle and the Dose. The Similia Principle states that a substance that can cause a symptom complex in a healthy person can be used to treat similar symptoms in a sick person. The Dose states that the quantity of medicine used should be the smallest possible to affect a cure and should not be repeated as long as improvement lasts. \nIn addition, MSM focused on the use of natural medicine. Natural medicine seeks to combine the advantages of both traditional and modern medicine. Traditional medicine refers to the use of knowledge of the use of locally grown plants coupled with an understanding of the language and culture of local villages. Modern medicine refers to the use of drugs that are regulated and produced to a high standard. Through combining these two types of medicine, natural medicine seeks to develop a new culturally appropriate and cost effective health service.\n\nIn 1925, the London Homeopathic Hospital found that it needed the study room it lent to MSM as a place for it to train its own nurses. As a result, the school moved from London Homeopathic Hospital to 2 Powis Place, where it remained until it closed in 1996.\n\nIn 1936, John Weir (treasurer), stated the aims of the Missionary School of Medicine:\n\nWhile class size was always relatively small, the 1990s showed particularly small class size. Leaders in the school assumed that lack of interest could be attributed to the implications of the word “missionary” in modern day culture. As a result, the Missionary School of Medicine was renamed Medical Service Ministries in 1992. One goal of the renaming was to attract more students to take their 10-week summer courses. However, as class size did not show a significant improvement, the school closed in 1996.\n\nThe 1990s showed a major development in the health ministries of emerging nations, like Africa. As a result, these developing nations requested that those offering medical treatment have required registered qualifications. In order to provide academically recognized qualifications, Medical Service Ministries found that it would have to merge with a university. However, since class sizes were so small and the cost to run the school was only increasing, Medical Service Ministries decided to discontinue training in 1996.\n\nWhen the school closed, investment income was transferred to the Scholarship Fund, reducing administration costs. As a result, with the work of the Administrator of Trust, Mrs. Glennis Powling, Medical Service Ministries was able to make its financial resources available to fund applicants traveling elsewhere.\n\nAs a grant-making trust, Medical Service Ministries provides grants to candidates undertaking specialist training in these areas:\n\nIn addition, MSM generally considers funding applicants who are primary healthcare trainers or workers in impoverished areas of underdeveloped countries. Further, applicants must show evidence of sponsorship or support of a Christian mission or local community.\n\nOne example of a trust fund applicant success story can be found in Tamara Filmer, a missionary working in rural, undeveloped Nepal. Filmer writes:\n\n\"“With MSM’s assistance I was able to attend training in logistics and management regarding pharmaceuticals. In December 2012, I travelled from the mid-west of Nepal to India’s capital, Delhi, to attend a two-week course entitled “International Procurement and Supply Chain Management”. I walked away with a suitcase of information and resources! ... I want to thank Medical Service Ministries and their supporters for the funding that enabled me to attend this course. On our missionary living allowance, it just wouldn’t have been possible to afford the course, so I am grateful for this opportunity.”\"\n\nThe current mission statement of Medical Service Ministries is as follows:\n\n\"“To encourage full-time Christian workers in the UK and elsewhere to prepare for Personal and Community Healthcare work in the developing world, in association with Christian organizations, and to witness to their faith in obedience to Christ’s command to preach and heal. Funding is available for approved healthcare candidates.”\"\n\nRecently retired treasurer, Brian Weller, shows that this mission statement is alive in the everyday actions of MSM and its leadership when he states:\n\"“It is my belief that overseas Christian service in response to Our Lord’s commission to preach and heal calls for continued effort and support, and will not lack His supply as we rise to the challenge. Our vision is to make healthcare accessible and to raise standards. It will continue to be achieved through individuals called by God to play their part here at home and overseas.”\"\n"}
{"id": "28822519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28822519", "title": "National Commission for the Observance of World Population Year 1974", "text": "National Commission for the Observance of World Population Year 1974\n\nNational Commission for the Observance of World Population Year 1974 - the United Nations observed 1974 as \"World Population Year\". President Richard Nixon established the National Commission to aid U.S. participation in this United Nations observance. Neither the Commission nor any of its members participated in the August 1975 international conference held in Bucharest, Romania.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26482249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26482249", "title": "Neo-nationalism", "text": "Neo-nationalism\n\nNeo-nationalism or new nationalism is a type of nationalism that rose in the mid-2010s in Europe and North America and to some degree in other regions. It is associated with several positions, such as right-wing populism, anti-globalization, nativism, protectionism, opposition to immigration, opposition to Islam and Muslims and Euroscepticism where applicable. According to one scholar, \"nationalist resistance to global liberalism turned out to be the most influential force in Western politics\" in 2016. Particularly notable expressions of new nationalism include the United Kingdom European Union membership referendum and the election of Donald Trump as the 45th President of the United States.\n\nWriting for \"Politico\", Michael Hirsh described new nationalism as \"a bitter populist rejection of the status quo that global elites have imposed on the international system since the Cold War ended, and which lower-income voters have decided—understandably—is unfair.\" Michael Brendan Dougherty wrote in \"The Week\" that new nationalism is a \"broad nativist revolt\" against post-Cold War politics long \"characterized by an orthodoxy of free trade, nurturing the service economy, neoliberal trading arrangements, and liberalized immigration policies.\"\n\n\"The Economist\" wrote in November 2016 that \"new nationalists are riding high on promises to close borders and restore societies to a past homogeneity.\" Clarence Page wrote in the \"Las Vegas Sun\" that \"a new neo-tribal nationalism has boiled up in European politics and to a lesser degree in the United States since the global economic meltdown of 2008,\" and Ryan Cooper in \"The Week\" and researchers with the Centre for Economic Policy Research have linked 21st-century right-wing populism to the Great Recession. According to Harvard political theorist Yascha Mounk, \"economic stagnation among lower- and middle-class whites [has been] a main driver for nationalism's rise around the globe.\" According to religion scholar Mark L. Movesian, new nationalism \"sets the nation-state against supranational, liberal regimes like the EU or NAFTA, and local customs and traditions, including religious traditions, against alien, outside trends.\"\n\nDavid Brog and Yoram Hazony wrote in \"National Review\" that some conservatives view the new nationalism associated with Brexit and Donald Trump as a betrayal of conservative ideology while they see it as a \"return\". According to conservative commentator Jonah Goldberg, the nationalism associated with Trump is \"really little more than a brand name for generic white identity politics.\"\n\nWriting for \"The Week\", Damon Linker called the idea of neo-nationalism being racist \"nonsense\" and went on to say that \"the tendency of progressives to describe it as nothing but 'racism, Islamophobia, and xenophobia'—is the desire to delegitimize any particularistic attachment or form of solidarity, be it national, linguistic, religious, territorial, or ethnic.\"\n\nRegarding new nationalism, \"The Economist\" said that \"Mr Trump needs to realise that his policies will unfold in the context of other countries’ jealous nationalism,\" and called nationalism itself a \"slippery concept\" that is \"easy to manipulate\". They also repeatedly contrasted ethnic nationalism and civic nationalism and implied new nationalism could become \"angry\" and difficult to control, citing Chinese nationalism as an example.\n\nThe President-elect of Brazil, Jair Bolsonaro (assumes office in 2019) of the country's Social Liberal Party has been described as a leading new nationalist.\n\nThe President of Mexico Andrés Manuel López Obrador (assumed office in 2018) of the country`s National Regeneration Movement has been decribed as a leading new nationalist.\n\nChina's paramount leader Xi Jinping's (assumed office in 2012) concept of \"Chinese Dream\" has been described as an expression of new nationalism.\n\nEgyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi (assumed office in 2014), has been described as a new nationalist.\n\nThe Hong Kong nationalism evolved from the localist movement in Hong Kong stresses the distinct Hong Kong identity as opposed to Chinese national identity promoted by the Beijing government and its growing encroachment on the city's management of its own political, economic and social affairs. The localist rhetorics, often mix with the nation's right to self-determination as well as anti-immigration stances against mainland immigrants and tourists, preserving local identity and culture similar to the Western new nationalism.\n\nHungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán (assumed office in 2010), the leader of the ruling Fidesz party, has been described as a new nationalist.\n\nIndian Prime Minister Narendra Modi (assumed office in 2014) and his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have been referred to as new nationalist. Modi is a member of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), a right-wing paramilitary organisation aligned with the BJP, which has also been said to advocate a new nationalist ideology.\n\nYogi Adityanath, Chief Minister of the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh (assumed office in 2017), has also been identified as a new nationalist. He has been touted as a future Prime Minister of the country.\n\nItalian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte (assumed office in 2018), head of the populist coalition Government of Change, and in particular Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister and the League's leader Matteo Salvini, were often described as new nationalists. Salvini has been described by some media outlets as the most powerful politician in the country, and a \"de facto prime minister\".\n\nGiorgia Meloni, the leader of Brothers of Italy, a party supporting the government on a case-by-case basis, has also been described as a new nationalist.\n\nThe 63rd and current Prime Minister Shinzō Abe (assumed office in 2012), a member of the right-wing organisation Nippon Kaigi, has promoted ideas of new nationalism, as does the Liberal Democratic Party of Japan, which he leads.\n\nPhilippine President Rodrigo Duterte (assumed office in 2016) has been described as a new nationalist.\n\nThe sixth and current President of Poland Andrzej Duda (assumed office in August 2015) is regularly cited as being a leading figure in the new nationalist movement within Poland. Furthermore, the ruling Law and Justice party, led by Jarosław Kaczyński, promoted nationalist views to win an outright majority in the national elections of 2015 (a feat never before accomplished). Despite not holding a government office, Kaczyński has been described as the figure who makes the \"final call\" on all major political issues in Poland.\n\nPresident of Russia Vladimir Putin (second President of Russia from 2000 to 2008 and fourth President of Russia from 2012) has been labelled a new nationalist. Putin has been described by Hirsh as \"the harbinger of this new global nationalism\". Charles Clover, the Moscow bureau chief of the \"Financial Times\" from 2008 to 2013, wrote a book in 2016 titled \"Black Wind, White Snow: The Rise of Russia's New Nationalism\".\n\nIn 2014, Mustafa Akyol wrote of a new \"brand of Turkish neonationalism\" promoted by Justice and Development Party (AKP), the country's ruling party, the leader of which is President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan (assumed office in 2014).\n\nDevlet Bahçeli, the leader of the Nationalist Movement Party (MHP), has been described as creating a \"new nationalist front\" by forming the People's Alliance with Erdoğan's AKP in 2018. The MHP is affiliated with the Grey Wolves paramilitary organisation, which Erdoğan has also expressed support for.\n\nThe 23 June 2016 referendum in the United Kingdom to leave the European Union (\"Brexit\") has been described as a milestone of new nationalism. Owen Matthews noted similarities in motives for support of the Brexit movement and Trump. He wrote in \"Newsweek\" that supporters of both are motivated by \"a yearning to control immigration, reverse globalization and restore national greatness by disengaging from the wide, threatening world\".\n\nMatt O'Brien wrote of the Brexit as \"the most shocking success for the new nationalism sweeping the Western world\". Leaders of the Brexit campaign, such as Nigel Farage, the leader of the eurosceptic UK Independence Party; former London Mayor Boris Johnson; Vote Leave Co-Convenor Michael Gove; former Brexit Secretary David Davis; and European Research Group chairman Jacob Rees-Mogg, have been called \"new nationalists\".\n\nDonald Trump's rise to the Republican candidacy was widely described as a sign of growing new nationalism in the United States. A \"Chicago Sun-Times\" editorial on the day of the inauguration of Donald Trump called him \"our new nationalist president\". The appointment of Steve Bannon, the executive of Breitbart News (associated with the alt-right), was described by one analyst as arousal of a \"new world order, driven by patriotism and a fierce urge to look after your own, a neo-nationalism that endlessly smears Muslims and strives to turn back the clock on free trade and globalization, a world where military might counts for far more than diplomacy and compromise\".\n\nIn the wake of Trump's election, U.S. Senator Marco Rubio has called for a \"new nationalism\" to oppose “economic elitism that has replaced a commitment to the dignity of work with a blind faith in financial markets and that views America simply as an economy instead of a nation.\"\n\nThe following politicians have all been described in some way as being new nationalists:\n\n\nThe following parties have all been described in some way as being new nationalist parties:\n\n"}
{"id": "57302964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57302964", "title": "New Age Orientalism", "text": "New Age Orientalism\n\nNew Age Orientalism describes a modern, Western perception of Tibet, and other Asian majority countries. The term was coined by, Tibetologist Donald Swell Lopez Jr., who specializes in Western discourse on Tibet. A tibetologist is a person who studies tibetology, the study of things related to Tibet, including its history, religion, language, politics and the collection of Tibetan articles of historical, cultural and religious significance. Tibet is a historical region covering much of the Tibetan Plateau in Central Asia. It is the traditional homeland of the Tibetan people as well as some other ethnic groups such as Monpa, Qiang, and Lhoba peoples and is now also inhabited by considerable numbers of Han Chinese and Hui people.\n\nDr. Donald S. Lopez Jr. studied the depiction of Tibet in Western academic writing throughout history. He found that, before the New Age movement, the depiction of Tibet was often cynical and derogatory. The demeaning features that define Orientalism, characterized the portrayal of Tibet, before the emergence of New Age Orientalism.\n\nIn line with the logic of opposites, members of Western academia stressed their superiority (particularly regarding their academic abilities) and used this as a justification to patronize the Orient. With the modern period came Colonialism, when new knowledge of the Eastern world sparked western scholars to write about foreign histories, cultures, and traditions, despite having a sparse and incomplete understanding of them. The Western world, a majority of which was engaging in colonialism, considered The Eastern world to be incapable of representing itself due to its non-western mechanisms of knowledge. The colonial philosophy of manifest destiny led western scholars to believe that they had a more civilized and valuable way of expression, and so western academics took it upon themselves to document societies, such as Tibet, from their perspectives. Often described as 'backward' or 'incapable,' particularly in self-governance, such portrayals helped to fuel racist and white supremacist beliefs of Asian peoples across the west. Such western scholars considered both China and Tibet to be “Oriental Despotisms,” to which the politically organized and colonizing Western world was meant to civilize. \n\nManifest destiny, along with larger ideologies of racism and white supremacy, were used as a method of justifying imperialism and colonialism. When control of Tibet was taken by western forces for periods of time, western understandings of self-superiority helped to fuel the sense of entitlement, which explained such colonial violence.\n\nHowever, western powers never fully succeeded in gaining imperial control of Tibet, despite Britain and Russia's considerable military efforts. According to a western-centric understanding, Tibet never modernized, refusing to adopt European-style education systems or norms. Throughout the course of the 19th and 20th century, Tibet remained inaccessible to Western powers, and was therefore predominantly portrayed as isolated, closed, and uncivilized.\n\nEmbedded in the New Age movement, New Age Orientalism describes the positive Western perception of old Tibet (before the Chinese invasion 1950 and Tibetan diaspora 1959). This portrayal of Tibet in the modern Western Societies, has been criticized for romanticizing old Tibetan reality and neglecting negative aspects of its society, such as, violence or the clerical, feudal structure. It is, therefore, seen as a construct of Western fantasy, rather than a depiction of reality. \n\nNew Age Orientalism, subsequently, describes the orientalist perception of Tibet, in which Tibet is no longer depreciated but, rather, romanticized. It is based on the tradition of continued Romantic Orientalism, “in which the ‘West’ perceives some lack within itself and fantasizes that the answer, through a process of projection, is to be found somewhere in the ‘East.'\" In this manner, the four characteristics of Orientalism persist with slight variation. The logic of opposites, now relates to the old Tibet and China. Tibet is no longer perceived as an antiquated, \"oriental despotism,\" but as a Shangri-La -- positive, holy, pristine, and pure, which is perceived as incorrupt, since it was never dominated by the West. The Chinese constitute the opposite, as the evil, subhuman force invading the land of peaceful, devoted inhabitants. The old Tibetan culture seems removed from time and history.\n\nThis allows the West to aggrandize themselves as rescuers of Tibet and Tibetan Buddhism (see 'Free Tibet' movement), whereas, Tibetans are depicted as helpless and voiceless. Ultimately, the West again finds itself in a patronizing position, representing another culture.\n\nThe romanticized picture of Tibet has, partly, been constructed and reflected by popular culture. Hollywood movies such as Seven years in Tibet, Kundun, and Little Buddha, were found to draw a romanticized image of Tibet, and hold up the Western rescue paradigm, in line with the play of opposites, between China and Tibet. Furthermore, publications surrounding the 'Free Tibet' movement have been categorized as New Age Orientalism. The constructed fantasies of a Shangri-La Tibet, are found to reflect back on the Western struggles, within their own national identity, as well as, pitfalls of globalization.\n\nIn academic literature, the concept of New Age Orientalism, originally relating to Tibet, has been expanded and applied to other cultures and religions, such as Hinduism. The discourse and perception on Ayurveda, for instance, has been categorized as New Age Orientalism.\n\nDr. Donald Lopez's concept of New Age Orientalism, has been criticized for placing too much weight on the impact and power of Orientalism, and viewing Tibet as a closed totality, removed from history. Alternatives to Orientalism are not considered. Moreover, the concept has been criticized for neglecting the Tibetan struggle under the Chinese occupation, in addition to not covering negative Oriental pictures of Old Tibet as feudal and antiquated to their fullest extent.\n"}
{"id": "42780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42780", "title": "Nordic Council", "text": "Nordic Council\n\nThe Nordic Council is the official body for formal inter-parliamentary co-operation among the Nordic countries. Formed in 1952, it has 87 representatives from Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden as well as from the autonomous areas of the Faroe Islands, Greenland, and the Åland Islands. The representatives are members of parliament in their respective countries or areas and are elected by those parliaments. The Council holds ordinary sessions each year in October/November and usually one extra session per year with a specific theme.\n\nIn 1971, the Nordic Council of Ministers, an intergovernmental forum, was established to complement the Council. The official and working languages of both the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers are Danish, Norwegian, and Swedish, which comprise the first language of around 80% of the region's population and learned as a foreign language by the remaining 20%.\n\nThe Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers are involved in various forms of cooperation with neighbouring areas, amongst them being the Baltic Assembly and the Benelux, as well as Russia and Schleswig-Holstein.\n\nDuring World War II, Denmark and Norway were occupied by Germany; Finland was under assault by the Soviet Union; while Sweden, though neutral, still felt the war's effects. Following the war, the Nordic countries pursued the idea of a Scandinavian defence union to ensure their mutual defence. However, Finland, due to its Paasikivi-Kekkonen policy of neutrality and FCMA treaty with the USSR, could not participate.\n\nIt was proposed that the Nordic countries would unify their foreign policy and defence, remain neutral in the event of a conflict and not ally with NATO, which some were planning at the time. The United States, keen on getting access to bases in Scandinavia and believing the Nordic countries incapable of defending themselves, stated it would not ensure military support for Scandinavia if they did not join NATO. As Denmark and Norway sought US aid for their post-war reconstruction, the project collapsed, with Denmark, Norway and Iceland joining NATO.\n\nFurther Nordic co-operation, such as an economic customs union, also failed. This led Danish Prime Minister Hans Hedtoft to propose, in 1951, a consultative inter-parliamentary body. This proposal was agreed by Denmark, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden in 1952. The Council's first session was held in the Danish Parliament on 13 February 1953 and it elected Hans Hedtoft as its president. When Finnish-Soviet relations thawed following the death of Joseph Stalin, Finland joined the council in 1955.\n\nOn 2 July 1954, the Nordic labour market was created and in 1958, building upon a 1952 passport-free travel area, the Nordic Passport Union was created. These two measures helped ensure Nordic citizens' free movement around the area. A Nordic Convention on Social Security was implemented in 1955. There were also plans for a single market but they were abandoned in 1959 shortly before Denmark, Norway, and Sweden joined the European Free Trade Area (EFTA). Finland became an associated member of EFTA in 1961 and Denmark and Norway applied to join the European Economic Community (EEC).\n\nThis move towards the EEC led to desire for a formal Nordic treaty. The Treaty of Helsinki outlined the workings of the Council and came into force on 24 March 1962. Further advancements on Nordic cooperation were made in the following years: a Nordic School of Public Health, a Nordic Cultural Fund, and Nordic House in Reykjavík were created. Danish Prime Minister Hilmar Baunsgaard proposed full economic cooperation (\"Nordek\") in 1968. Nordek was agreed in 1970, but Finland then backtracked, stating that its ties with the Soviet Union meant it could not form close economic ties with potential members of the EEC (Denmark and Norway). Nordek was then abandoned.\n\nAs a consequence, Denmark and Norway applied to join the EEC and the Nordic Council of Ministers was set up in 1971 to ensure continued Nordic cooperation. In 1970 representatives of the Faroe Islands and Åland were allowed to take part in the Nordic Council as part of the Danish and Finnish delegations. Norway turned down EEC membership in 1972 while Denmark acted as a bridge builder between the EEC and the Nordics. Also in 1973, although it did not opt for full membership of the EEC, Finland negotiated a free trade treaty with the EEC that in practice removed customs duties from 1977 on, although there were transition periods up to 1985 for some products. Sweden did not apply due to its non-alliance policy, which was aimed at preserving neutrality. Greenland subsequently left the EEC and has since sought a more active role in circumpolar affairs.\n\nIn the 1970s, the Nordic Council founded the Nordic Industrial Fund, Nordtest and the Nordic Investment Bank. The Council's remit was also expanded to include environmental protection and, in order to clean up the pollution in the Baltic Sea and the North Atlantic, a joint energy network was established. The Nordic Science Policy Council was set up in 1983 and, in 1984, representatives from Greenland were allowed to join the Danish delegation.\n\nFollowing the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, the Nordic Council began to cooperate more with the Baltic states and new Baltic Sea organisations. Sweden and Finland joined the European Union (EU), the EEC's successor, in 1995. Norway had also applied, but once again voted against membership. However, Norway and Iceland did join the European Economic Area (EEA) which integrated them economically with the EU. The Nordic Passport Union was also subsumed into the EU's Schengen Area in 1996.\n\nThe Nordic Council became more outward-looking, to the Arctic, Baltic, Europe, and Canada. The Øresund Bridge linking Sweden and Denmark led to a large amount of cross-border travel, which in turn led to further efforts to reduce barriers. However, the initially envisioned tasks and functions of the Nordic Council have become partially dormant due to the significant overlap with the EU and EEA. In 2008 Iceland began EU membership talks, but decided to annul these in 2015.\n\nThe Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers have a particular focus on strengthening the Nordic language community; the main focus of their work to promote language understanding in the Nordic countries is on children and young people's understanding of written and oral Danish, Norwegian, and Swedish, the three mutually intelligible Scandinavian languages. Representatives of the Council have the ability to issue proposals in their own languages, and official documents are translated to cater to all five of the major Nordic languages. Discussions for bringing Finnish and Icelandic into equal footing with the three other languages has been proposed.\n\nThe Nordic Council consists of 87 representatives, elected from its members' parliaments and reflecting the relative representation of the political parties in those parliaments. It holds its main session in the autumn, while a so-called \"theme session\" is arranged in the spring. Each of the national delegations has its own secretariat in the national parliament. The autonomous territoriesGreenland, the Faroe Islands and Ålandalso have Nordic secretariats.\n\nThe Nordic Council uses the three Continental Scandinavian languages (Danish, Norwegian, and Swedish) as its official working languages, but also publishes material in Finnish, Icelandic, and English for information purposes. The council refers to Danish, Norwegian, and Swedish collectively as Scandinavian and considers them to be different forms of the same language forming a common language community. Since 1987, under the Nordic Language Convention, citizens of the Nordic countries have the opportunity to use their native language when interacting with official bodies in other Nordic countries without being liable to any interpretation or translation costs. The Convention covers visits to hospitals, job centres, the police and social security offices. The languages included are Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, Finnish, and Icelandic.\n\nThe Council does not have any formal power on its own, but each government has to implement any decisions through its national legislature. With Denmark, Norway, and Iceland being members of NATO and Finland and Sweden being neutral, the Nordic Council has not been involved in any military cooperation.\n\nThe original Nordic Council concentrates on inter-parliamentary cooperation. The \"Nordic Council of Ministers\", founded in 1971, is responsible for inter-governmental cooperation. Prime Ministers have ultimate responsibility but this is usually delegated to the Minister for Nordic Cooperation and the Nordic Committee for Co-operation, which co-ordinates the day-to-day work. The autonomous territories have the same representation as states.\n\n\nThe Nordic Council and the Council of Ministers have their headquarters in Copenhagen and various installations in each separate country, as well as many offices in neighbouring countries. The headquarters are located at Ved Stranden No. 18, close to Slotsholmen.\n\nThe Nordic Council has 8 members, 5 sovereign states and 3 self-governing regions.\n\nIn accordance with § 13 of the Rules of Procedure for the Nordic Council the Sámi Parliamentary Council is the only institution with observer status with the Nordic Council. In accordance with § 14, the Nordic Youth Council has the status of \"guest\" on a permanent basis, and the Presidium \"may invite representatives of popularly elected bodies and other persons to a session and grant them speaking rights\" as guests. According to the council, \"within the last couple of years, guests from other international and Nordic organisations have been able to take part in the debates at the Sessions. Visitors from the Baltic States and Northwest Russia are those who mostly take up this opportunity. Guests who have a connection to the theme under discussion are invited to the Theme Session.\"\n\nThe Nordic Council of Ministers has established four \"Offices outside the Nordic Region\", namely in all the Baltic states – Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania – and the German state of Schleswig-Holstein. The offices form part of the secretariat of the Nordic Council of Ministers; according to the Council of Ministers their primary mission is to promote cooperation between the Nordic countries and the Baltic states and to promote the Nordic countries in cooperation with their embassies within the Baltic states.\n\nThe Nordic Council and the Council of Ministers define Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Russia as \"Adjacent Areas\" and has formal cooperation with them under the Adjacent Areas policies framework; in recent years the cooperation has focused increasingly on Russia.\n\nThe Nordic Council had historically been a strong supporter of Baltic independence from the Soviet Union. During the move towards independence in the Baltic States in 1991, Denmark and Iceland pressed for the Observer Status in the Nordic Council for the then-nonsovereign Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. The move in 1991 was opposed by Norway and Finland. The move was heavily opposed by the Soviet Union, accusing the Nordic Council of getting involved in its internal affairs. In the same year, the Nordic Council refused to give observer status for the three, at the time nonsovereign, Baltic states.\n\nWhile the Nordic Council rejected the Baltic states' application for formal observer status, the council nevertheless has extensive cooperation on different levels with all neighbouring countries, including the Baltic states and Germany, especially the state of Schleswig-Holstein. Representatives of Schleswig-Holstein were present as informal guests during a session for the first time in 2016. The state has historical ties to Denmark and cross-border cooperation with Denmark and has a Danish minority population. As parliamentary representatives from Schleswig-Holstein, a member of the South Schleswig Voter Federation and a member of the Social Democrats with ties to the Danish minority were elected. \n\nThe Sámi political structures long desired formal representation in the Nordic Council's structures, and were eventually granted observer status through the Sámi Parliamentary Council. In addition, representatives of the Sámi people are de facto included in activities touching upon their interests. In addition, the Faroe Islands have expressed their wishes for full membership in the Nordic Council instead of the current associate membership.\n\nRecently, three of the members of the Nordic Council (Sweden, Denmark and Finland, all EU-member states), the Baltic Assembly and the Benelux sought intensifying cooperation in the Digital Single Market, as well as discussing social matters, the Economic and Monetary Union of the European Union, the European migrant crisis and defense cooperation. Relations with Russia, Turkey and the United Kingdom was also on the agenda.\n\nSome desire the Nordic Council's promotion of Nordic cooperation to go much further than at present. If the states of Iceland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland were to merge in such an integration as some desire, it would command a gross domestic product of US$1.60 trillion, making it the twelfth largest economy in the world, larger than that of Australia, Spain, Mexico or South Korea. Gunnar Wetterberg, a Swedish historian and economist, wrote a book entered into the Nordic Council's year book that proposes the creation of a Nordic Federation from the Council in a few decades.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50561434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50561434", "title": "Participatory poverty assessment", "text": "Participatory poverty assessment\n\nParticipatory poverty assessment (PPA) is the approach to analyzing and reducing poverty by incorporating the views of the poor. PPAs attempt to better understand the poor, to give the poor more influence over decisions that affect their lives, and to increase effectiveness of poverty reduction policies. PPAs are seen as complements to traditional household surveys by helping to interpret survey results, and aim to capture the experiences of the poor by being more open-ended.\n\nBefore the 1990s, household-survey approaches were the main way to measure poverty. This shifted to participatory activities in the 1990s after critiques of these traditional methods.\n\nThe term \"participatory poverty assessment\" was coined within the World Bank in 1992, and was seen as a participatory form of poverty assessments (PAs, i.e. survey-based approaches).\n\nEarly experiences of PPAs were in sub-Saharan Africa in the early 1990s.\n\nBy 1998, 43 PPAs had been conducted: 28 in Africa, 6 in Latin America, 5 in Eastern Europe, and 4 in Asia.\n\nEarly PPAs focused most on making higher quality information available to policy makers, rather than seeing the poor as itself being involved in the process of reducing poverty.\n\nLater in the 1990s, \"second generation\" PPAs appeared, which tried to allow the poor to influence policy decisions.\n\nAs of 2012, the World Bank's Voices of the Poor is the largest PPA ever to have been conducted.\n\nBoth PPAs and traditional surveys contain both quantitative and qualitative information, as well as \"subjective\" and \"objective\" parts, so this is not necessarily a distinguishing feature of PPAs. Rather:\n\nPPAs are also distinguished from anthropological studies because the latter analyze few communities in depth, whereas PPAs analyze various communities of a country. PPAs also focus on policy decisions (which anthropological studies don't need to).\n\nWithin PPAs, various methodologies exist. Some PPAs use more than one methodology.\n\n\nPPAs can last from several weeks to several months.\n\nVarious organizations have used PPAs as part of their work.\n\n\nIn addition, \"secondary stakeholders\" (i.e. organizations that do not conduct PPAs directly, but participate in PPAs) such as UNICEF, various NGOs (e.g. Save the Children and Oxfam), academic institutions, etc., have also participated in PPAs.\n\nParticipatory poverty assessments confirmed the multidimensional nature of poverty (i.e. that the poor deal not just with lack of money, but with various problems like lack of resources, poor health, physical violence, social isolation, etc.) that was seen from traditional household questionnaire-based methods. PPAs have also been able to access information that was not obtained in household surveys by building trust. For instance PPAs have obtained information on sensitive topics such as child prostitution, drug use, and domestic violence in relation to poverty.\n\nIn Zambia, PPAs discovered that the timing of school fees caused economic stress for households, so new legislation to change this timing was proposed.\n\nIn Niger, a PPA found that the poor see education only as a seventh priority for poverty reduction due to \"the concern that what children learn had little relevance to getting people out of poverty\". As a result of this PPA, food security was prioritized.\n\nPPAs have also informed World Bank's World Development Reports.\n\n"}
{"id": "33863280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33863280", "title": "Pathogens and Global Health", "text": "Pathogens and Global Health\n\nPathogens and Global Health is a peer-reviewed medical journal published by Maney Publishing. It covers tropical diseases, including their microbiology, epidemiology and molecular biology, as well as medical entomology, HIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis. The editor-in-chief is Andrea Crisanti (Imperial College London).\n\nThe journal was established by Sir Ronald Ross in 1906 as \"Annals of Tropical Medicine and Parasitology\" to share the results of the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine's research and field expeditions. In May 2011, the journal was purchased by Maney Publishing, obtaining its current title in 2012, reflecting a broader focus including the biology, immunology, genetics, treatment, and control of pathogens of medical relevance beyond a regional definition.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2014 impact factor of 1.656.\n\n"}
{"id": "1406031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1406031", "title": "People's history", "text": "People's history\n\nA people's history, or history from below, is a type of historical narrative which attempts to account for historical events from the perspective of common people rather than leaders. There is an emphasis on disenfranchised, the oppressed, the poor, the nonconformists, and otherwise marginal groups. The authors are typically on the left and have a Marxist model in mind, as in the approach of the History Workshop movement in Britain in the 1960s.\n\nLucien Febvre first used the phrase \"histoire vue d'en bas et non d'en haut\" (history seen from below and not from above) in 1932 when praising Albert Mathiez for seeking to tell the \"histoire des masses et non de vedettes\" (history of the masses and not of starlets). It was also used in the title of A. L. Morton's 1938 book, \"A People's History of England\". Yet it was E. P. Thompson's essay \"History from Below\" in \"The Times Literary Supplement\" (1966) which brought the phrase to the forefront of historiography from the 1970s. It was popularized among non-historians by Howard Zinn's 1980 book, \"A People's History of the United States\".\n\nGuy Beiner has pointed out that \"the Neo-Marxist flag-bearers of history from below have at times resorted to idealized and insufficiently sophisticated notions of ‘the people’, unduly ascribing to them innate progressive values\".\n\nA people's history is the history as the story of mass movements and of the outsiders. Individuals not included in the past in other type of writing about history are part of history-from-below theory's primary focus, which includes the disenfranchised, the oppressed, the poor, the nonconformists, the subaltern and the otherwise forgotten people. This theory also usually focuses on events occurring in the fullness of time, or when an overwhelming wave of smaller events cause certain developments to occur.\n\nThis revisionist approach to writing history is in direct opposition to methods which tend to emphasize single great figures in history, referred to as the Great Man theory; it argues that the driving factor of history is the daily life of ordinary people, their social status and profession. These are the factors that \"push and pull\" on opinions and allow for trends to develop, as opposed to great people introducing ideas or initiating events.\n\nIn his book \"A People's History of the United States\", Howard Zinn wrote: \"The history of any country, presented as the history of a family, conceals fierce conflicts of interest (sometimes exploding, most often repressed) between conquerors and conquered, masters and slaves, capitalists and workers, dominators and dominated in race and sex. And in such a world of conflict, a world of victims and executioners, it is the job of thinking people, as Albert Camus suggested, not to be on the side of the executioners.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24458151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24458151", "title": "Planetary boundaries", "text": "Planetary boundaries\n\nPlanetary boundaries is a concept involving Earth system processes which contain environmental boundaries, proposed in 2009 by a group of Earth system and environmental scientists led by Johan Rockström from the Stockholm Resilience Centre and Will Steffen from the Australian National University. The group wanted to define a \"safe operating space for humanity\" for the international community, including governments at all levels, international organizations, civil society, the scientific community and the private sector, as a precondition for sustainable development. The framework is based on scientific evidence that human actions since the Industrial Revolution have become the main driver of global environmental change. \n\nAccording to the paradigm, \"transgressing one or more planetary boundaries may be deleterious or even catastrophic due to the risk of crossing thresholds that will trigger non-linear, abrupt environmental change within continental-to planetary-scale systems.\" The Earth system process boundaries mark the safe zone for the planet to the extent that they are not crossed. As of 2009, two boundaries have already been crossed, while others are in imminent danger of being crossed.\n\nIn 2009, a group of Earth system and environmental scientists led by Johan Rockström from the Stockholm Resilience Centre and Will Steffen from the Australian National University collaborated with 26 leading academics, including Nobel laureate Paul Crutzen, Goddard Institute for Space Studies climate scientist James Hansen and the German Chancellor's chief climate adviser Hans Joachim Schellnhuber and identified nine \"planetary life support systems\" essential for human survival, attempting to quantify how far seven of these systems had been pushed already. They estimated how much further humans can go before planetary habitability is threatened. \nEstimates indicated that three of these boundaries—climate change, biodiversity loss, and the biogeochemical flow boundary—appear to have been crossed. The boundaries were \"rough, first estimates only, surrounded by large uncertainties and knowledge gaps\" which interact in complex ways that are not yet well understood. Boundaries were defined to help define a \"safe space for human development\", which was an improvement on approaches aiming at minimizing human impacts on the planet. The 2009 report was presented to the General Assembly of the Club of Rome in Amsterdam. An edited summary of the report was published as the featured article in a special 2009 edition of \"Nature\". \nalongside invited critical commentary from leading academics like Nobel laureate Mario J. Molina and biologist Cristián Samper.\n\nIn 2015, a second paper was published in \"Science\" to update the Planetary Boundaries concept and findings were presented at the World Economic Forum in Davos, January 2015.\n\nA 2018 study, co-authored by Rockström, calls into question the international agreement to limit warming to 2 degrees above pre-industrial temperatures set forth in the Paris Agreement. The scientists raise the possibility that even if greenhouse gas emissions are substantially reduced to limit warming to 2 degrees, that might be the \"threshold\" at which self-reinforcing climate feedbacks add additional warming until the climate system stabilizes in a hothouse climate state. This would make parts of the world uninhabitable, raise sea levels by up to , and raise temperatures by to levels that are higher than any interglacial period in the past 1.2 million years. Rockström notes that whether this would occur \"is one of the most existential questions in science.\" Study author Katherine Richardson stresses, \"We note that the Earth has never in its history had a quasi-stable state that is around 2 °C warmer than the preindustrial and suggest that there is substantial risk that the system, itself, will ‘want’ to continue warming because of all of these other processes – even if we stop emissions. This implies not only reducing emissions but much more.”\n\nThe idea that our planet has limits, including the burden placed upon it by human activities, has been around for some time. In 1972, \"The Limits to Growth\" was published. It presented a model in which five variables: world population, industrialization, pollution, food production, and resources depletion, are examined, and considered to grow exponentially, whereas the ability of technology to increase resources availability is only linear. Subsequently, the report was widely dismissed, particularly by economists and businessmen, and it has often been claimed that history has proved the projections to be incorrect. In 2008, Graham Turner from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) published \"A comparison of \"The Limits to Growth\" with thirty years of reality\". Turner found that the observed historical data from 1970 to 2000 closely matches the simulated results of the \"standard run\" limits of growth model for almost all the outputs reported. \"The comparison is well within uncertainty bounds of nearly all the data in terms of both magnitude and the trends over time.\" Turner also examined a number of reports, particularly by economists, which over the years have purported to discredit the limits-to-growth model. Turner says these reports are flawed, and reflect misunderstandings about the model. In 2010, Nørgård, Peet and Ragnarsdóttir called the book a \"pioneering report\", and said that it \"has withstood the test of time and, indeed, has only become more relevant.\"\n\"Our Common Future\" was published in 1987 by United Nations' World Commission on Environment and Development. It tried to recapture the spirit of the Stockholm Conference. Its aim was to interlock the concepts of development and environment for future political discussions. It introduced the famous definition for sustainable development:\n\nOf a different kind is the approach made by James Lovelock. In the 1970s he and microbiologist Lynn Margulis presented the Gaia theory or hypothesis, that states that all organisms and their inorganic surroundings on Earth are integrated into a single self-regulating system. The system has the ability to react to perturbations or deviations, much like a living organism adjusts its regulation mechanisms to accommodate environmental changes such as temperature (homeostasis). Nevertheless, this capacity has limits. For instance, when a living organism is subjected to a temperature that is lower or higher than its living range, it can perish because its regulating mechanism cannot make the necessary adjustments. Similarly the Earth may not be able to react to large deviations in critical parameters. In his book \"The Revenge of Gaia\", he affirms that the destruction of rainforests and biodiversity, compounded with the increase of greenhouse gases made by humans, is producing global warming.\n\nThe Holocene began about 10,000 years ago. It is the current interglacial period, and it has proven to be a relatively stable environment of the Earth. There have been natural environmental fluctuations during the Holocene, but the key atmospheric and biogeochemical parameters have been relatively stable. This stability and resilience has allowed agriculture to develop and complex societies to thrive. According to Rockström \"et al.\", we \"have now become so dependent on those investments for our way of life, and how we have organized society, technologies, and economies around them, that we must take the range within which Earth System processes varied in the Holocene as a scientific reference point for a desirable planetary state.\"\n\nSince the industrial revolution, according to Paul Crutzen, Will Steffen and others, the planet has entered a new epoch, the Anthropocene. In the Anthropocene, humans have become the main agents of change to the Earth system. There have been well publicized scientific warnings about risks in the areas of climate change and stratospheric ozone. However, other biophysical processes are also important. For example, since the advent of the Anthropocene, the rate at which species are being extinguished has increased over 100 times, and humans are now the driving force altering global river flows as well as water vapor flows from the land surface. Continuing pressure on the Earth's biophysical systems from human activities raises concerns that further pressure could be destabilizing, and precipitate sudden or irreversible changes to the environment. According to Rockström et al., \"Up to 30% of all mammal, bird, and amphibian species will be threatened with extinction this century.\" It is difficult to address the issue, because the predominant paradigms of social and economic development are largely indifferent to the looming possibilities of large scale environmental disasters triggered by humans. Legal boundaries can help keep human activities in check, but are only as effective as the political will to make and enforce them.\n\nThresholds and boundaries\n\nThe \"threshold\", or climatological tipping point, is the value at which a very small increment for the control variable (like CO) produces a large, possibly catastrophic, change in the response variable (global warming).\n\nThe threshold points are difficult to locate, because the Earth System is very complex. Instead of defining the threshold value, the study establishes a range, and the threshold is supposed to lie inside it. The lower end of that range is defined as the \"boundary\". Therefore, it defines a safe space, in the sense that as long as we are below the boundary, we are below the threshold value. If the boundary is crossed, we enter into a danger zone.\n\nThe proposed framework lays the groundwork for shifting approach to governance and management, away from the essentially sectoral analyses of limits to growth aimed at minimizing negative externalities, toward the estimation of the safe space for human development. Planetary boundaries define, as it were, the boundaries of the \"planetary playing field\" for humanity if major human-induced environmental change on a global scale is to be avoided\n\nTransgressing one or more planetary boundaries may be highly damaging or even catastrophic, due to the risk of crossing thresholds that trigger non-linear, abrupt environmental change within continental- to planetary-scale systems. The 2009 study identified nine planetary boundaries and, drawing on current scientific understanding, the researchers proposed quantifications for seven of them. These seven are climate change (CO concentration in the atmosphere < 350 ppm and/or a maximum change of +1 W/m in radiative forcing); ocean acidification (mean surface seawater saturation state with respect to aragonite ≥ 80% of pre-industrial levels); stratospheric ozone (less than 5% reduction in total atmospheric O from a pre-industrial level of 290 Dobson Units); biogeochemical nitrogen (N) cycle (limit industrial and agricultural fixation of N to 35 Tg N/yr) and phosphorus (P) cycle (annual P inflow to oceans not to exceed 10 times the natural background weathering of P); global freshwater use (< 4000 km/yr of consumptive use of runoff resources); land system change (< 15% of the ice-free land surface under cropland); and the rate at which biological diversity is lost (annual rate of < 10 extinctions per million species). The two additional planetary boundaries for which the group had not yet been able to determine a boundary level are chemical pollution and atmospheric aerosol loading.\n\nChristopher Field, director of the Carnegie Institution's Department of Global Ecology, is impressed: \"This kind of work is critically important. Overall, this is an impressive attempt to define a safety zone.\" But the conservation biologist Stuart Pimm is not impressed: \"I don’t think this is in any way a useful way of thinking about things... The notion of a single boundary is just devoid of serious content. In what way is an extinction rate 10 times the background rate acceptable?\" and the environmental policy analyst Bill Clark thinks: \"Tipping points in the earth system are dense, unpredictable... and unlikely to be avoidable through early warning indicators. It follows that... 'safe operating spaces' and 'planetary boundaries' are thus highly suspect and potentially the new 'opiates'.\"\n\nThe biogeochemist William Schlesinger queries whether thresholds are a good idea for pollutions at all. He thinks waiting until we near some suggested limit will just permit us to continue to a point where it is too late. \"Management based on thresholds, although attractive in its simplicity, allows pernicious, slow and diffuse degradation to persist nearly indefinitely.\"\n\nThe hydrologist David Molden thinks planetary boundaries are a welcome new approach in the 'limits to growth' debate. \"As a scientific organizing principle, the concept has many strengths ... the numbers are important because they provide targets for policymakers, giving a clear indication of the magnitude and direction of change. They also provide benchmarks and direction for science. As we improve our understanding of Earth processes and complex inter-relationships, these benchmarks can and will be updated ... we now have a tool we can use to help us think more deeply—and urgently—about planetary limits and the critical actions we have to take.\"\n\nThe ocean chemist Peter Brewer queries whether it is \"truly useful to create a list of environmental limits without serious plans for how they may be achieved ... they may become just another stick to beat citizens with. Disruption of the global nitrogen cycle is one clear example: it is likely that a large fraction of people on Earth would not be alive today without the artificial production of fertilizer. How can such ethical and economic issues be matched with a simple call to set limits? ... food is not optional.\"\n\nThe environment advisor Steve Bass says the \"description of planetary boundaries is a sound idea. We need to know how to live within the unusually stable conditions of our present Holocene period and not do anything that causes irreversible environmental change ... Their paper has profound implications for future governance systems, offering some of the 'wiring' needed to link governance of national and global economies with governance of the environment and natural resources. The planetary boundaries concept should enable policymakers to understand more clearly that, like human rights and representative government, environmental change knows no borders.\"\n\nThe climate change policy advisor Adele Morris thinks that price-based policies are also needed to avoid political and economic thresholds. \"Staying within a 'safe operating space' will require staying within all the relevant boundaries, including the electorate’s willingness to pay.\"\n\nIn their report (2012) entitled \"Resilient People, Resilient Planet: A future worth choosing\", The High-level Panel on Global Sustainability called for bold global efforts, \"including launching a major global scientific initiative, to strengthen the interface between science and policy. We must define, through science, what scientists refer to as \"planetary boundaries\", \"environmental thresholds\" and \"tipping points\".\"\n\nIn 2011, at their second meeting, the High-level Panel on Global Sustainability of the United Nations had incorporated the concept of planetary boundaries into their framework, stating that their goal was: \"To eradicate poverty and reduce inequality, make growth inclusive, and production and consumption more sustainable while combating climate change and respecting the range of other planetary boundaries.\"\n\nElsewhere in their proceedings, panel members have expressed reservations about the political effectiveness of using the concept of \"planetary boundaries\": \"Planetary boundaries are still an evolving concept that should be used with caution [...] The planetary boundaries question can be divisive as it can be perceived as a tool of the \"North\" to tell the \"South\" not to follow the resource intensive and environmentally destructive development pathway that rich countries took themselves... This language is unacceptable to most of the developing countries as they fear that an emphasis on boundaries would place unacceptable brakes on poor countries.\"\n\nHowever, the concept is routinely used in the proceedings of the United Nations, and in the \"UN Daily News\". For example, the UNEP Executive Director Achim Steiner states that the challenge of agriculture is to \"feed a growing global population without pushing humanity's footprint beyond planetary boundaries.\" The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) Yearbook 2010 also repeated Rockström's message, conceptually linking it with ecosystem management and environmental governance indicators.\n\nThe planetary boundaries concept is also used in proceedings by the European Commission, and was referred to in the European Environment Agency synthesis report \"The European environment – state and outlook 2010\".\n\nRadiative forcing is a measure of the difference between the incoming radiation energy and the outgoing radiation energy acting across the boundary of the earth. Positive radiative forcing results in warming. From the start of the industrial revolution in 1750 to 2005, the increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide has led to a positive radiative forcing, averaging about 1.66 W/m².\n\nThe climate scientist Myles Allen thinks setting \"a limit on long-term atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations merely distracts from the much more immediate challenge of limiting warming to 2 °C.\" He says the concentration of carbon dioxide is not a control variable we can \"meaningfully claim to control\", and he questions whether keeping carbon dioxide levels below 350 ppm will avoid more than 2 °C of warming.\n\nAdele Morris, policy director, Climate and Energy Economics Project, Brookings Institution, makes a criticism from the economical-political point of view. She puts emphasis in choosing policies that minimize costs and preserve consensus. She favors a system of green-house gas emissions tax, and emissions trading, as ways to prevent global warming. She thinks that too-ambitious objectives, like the boundary limit on CO, may discourage such actions.\n\nAccording to the biologist Cristián Samper, a \" boundary that expresses the probability of families of species disappearing over time would better reflect our potential impacts on the future of life on Earth.\"\n\nThe conservation ecologist Gretchen Daily claims that \"it is time to confront the hard truth that traditional approaches to conservation, taken alone, are doomed to fail. Nature reserves are too small, too few, too isolated and too subject to change to support more than a tiny fraction of Earth’s biodiversity. The challenge is to make conservation attractive—from economic and cultural perspectives. We cannot go on treating nature like an all-you-can-eat buffet. We depend on nature for food security, clean water, climate stability, seafood, timber, and other biological and physical services. To maintain these benefits, we need not just remote reserves but places everywhere—more like 'ecosystem service stations.' A few pioneers are integrating conservation and human development. The Costa Rican government is paying landowners for ecosystem services from tropical forests, including carbon offsets, hydropower production, biodiversity conservation and scenic beauty. China is investing $100 billion in \"ecocompensation,\" including innovative policy and finance mechanisms that reward conservation and restoration. The country is also creating \"ecosystem function conservation areas\" that make up 18 percent of its land area. Colombia and South Africa have made dramatic policy changes, too. Three advances would help the rest of the world scale such models of success. One: new science and tools to value and account for natural capital, in biophysical, economic and other terms [...] Two: compelling demonstrations of such tools in resource policy. Three: cooperation among governments, development organizations, corporations and communities to help nations build more durable economies while also maintaining critical ecosystem services.\"\n\nSince the industrial revolution, the Earth's nitrogen cycle has been disturbed even more than the carbon cycle. \"Human activities now convert more nitrogen from the atmosphere into reactive forms than all of the Earth´s terrestrial processes combined. Much of this new reactive nitrogen pollutes waterways and coastal zones, is emitted back to the atmosphere in changed forms, or accumulates in the terrestrial biosphere.\" Only a small part of the fertilizers applied in agriculture is used by plants. Most of the nitrogen and phosphorus ends up in rivers, lakes and the sea, where excess amounts stress aquatic ecosystems. For example, fertilizer which discharges from rivers into the Gulf of Mexico has damaged shrimp fisheries because of hypoxia.\n\nThe biogeochemist William Schlesinger thinks waiting until we near some suggested limit for nitrogen deposition and other pollutions will just permit us to continue to a point where it is too late. He says the boundary suggested for phosphorus is not sustainable, and would exhaust the known phosphorus reserves in less than 200 years.\n\nWith regard to nitrogen, the biogeochemist and ecosystem scientist Robert Howarth says: \"Human activity has greatly altered the flow of nitrogen across the globe. The single largest contributor is fertilizer use. But the burning of fossil fuels actually dominates the problem in some regions, such as the northeastern U.S. The solution in that case is to conserve energy and use it more efficiently. Hybrid vehicles are another excellent fix; their nitrogen emissions are significantly less than traditional vehicles because their engines turn off while the vehicle is stopped. (Emissions from conventional vehicles actually rise when the engine is idling.) Nitrogen emissions from U.S. power plants could be greatly reduced, too, if plants that predate the Clean Air Act and its amendments were required to comply; these plants pollute far out of proportion to the amount of electricity they produce.\n\nIn agriculture, many farmers could use less fertilizer, and the reductions in crop yields would be small or nonexistent. Runoff from corn fields is particularly avoidable because corn’s roots penetrate only the top few inches of soil and assimilate nutrients for only two months of the year. In addition, nitrogen losses can be reduced by 30 percent or more if farmers plant winter cover crops, such as rye or wheat, which can help the soil hold nitrogen. These crops also increase carbon sequestration in soils, mitigating climate change. Better yet is to grow perennial plants such as grasses rather than corn; nitrogen losses are many times lower. Nitrogen pollution from concentrated animal feeding operations (CAFOs) is a huge problem.\n\nAs recently as the 1970s, most animals were fed local crops, and the animals’ wastes were returned to the fields as fertilizer. Today most U.S. animals are fed crops grown hundreds of miles away, making it “uneconomical” to return the manure. The solution? Require CAFO owners to treat their wastes, just as municipalities must do with human wastes. Further, if we ate less meat, less waste would be generated and less synthetic fertilizer would be needed to grow animal feed. Eating meat from animals that are range-fed on perennial grasses would be ideal. The explosive growth in the production of ethanol as a biofuel is greatly aggravating nitrogen pollution. Several studies have suggested that if mandated U.S. ethanol targets are met, the amount of nitrogen flowing down the Mississippi River and fueling the Gulf of Mexico dead zone may increase by 30 to 40 percent. The best alternative would be to forgo the production of ethanol from corn. If the country wants to rely on biofuels, it should instead grow grasses and trees and burn these to co-generate heat and electricity; nitrogen pollution and greenhouse gas emissions would be much lower.\"\n\nWith regard to phosphorus, the ocean engineer David Vaccari says that the most sustainable environmental flow of phosphorus \"would be the natural flux: seven million metric tons per year (Mt/yr). To hit that mark yet satisfy our usage of 22 Mt/yr, we would have to recycle or reuse 72 percent of our phosphorus [...] The flow could be reduced with existing technologies... [lowering] the loss to waterways from 22 to 8.25 Mt/yr, not very much above the natural flux.\"\n\nPeak phosphorus is a concept to describe the point in time at which the maximum global phosphorus production rate is reached. Phosphorus is a scarce finite resource on earth and means of production other than mining are unavailable because of its non-gaseous environmental cycle. According to some researchers, Earth's phosphorus reserves are expected to be completely depleted in 50–100 years and peak phosphorus to be reached in approximately 2030.\n\nSurface ocean acidity has increased thirty percent since the industrial revolution. About one quarter of the additional carbon dioxide generated by humans is dissolved in the oceans, where it forms carbonic acid. This acidity inhibits the ability of corals, shellfish and plankton to build shells and skeletons. Knock-on effects could have serious consequences for fish stocks. This boundary is clearly interconnected with the climate change boundaries, since the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is also the underlying control variable for the ocean acidification boundary.\n\nThe ocean chemist Peter Brewer thinks \"ocean acidification has impacts other than simple changes in pH, and these may need boundaries too.\"\n\nThe marine chemist Scott Doney thinks \"the main tactics are raising energy efficiency, switching to renewable and nuclear power, protecting forests and exploring carbon sequestration technologies. Regionally, nutrient runoff to coastal waters not only creates dead zones but also amplifies acidification. The excess nutrients cause more phytoplankton to grow, and as they die the added CO2 from their decay acidifies the water. We have to be smarter about how we fertilize fields and lawns and treat livestock manure and sewage ... Locally, acidic water could be buffered with limestone or chemical bases produced electrochemically from seawater and rocks. More practical may be protecting specific shellfish beds and aquaculture fisheries. Larval mollusks such as clams and oysters appear to be more susceptible to acidification than adults, and recycling old clamshells into the mud may help buffer pH and provide better substrate for larval attachment. The drop in ocean pH is expected to accelerate in coming decades, so marine ecosystems will have to adapt. We can enhance their chances for success by reducing other insults such as water pollution and overfishing, making them better able to withstand some acidification while we transition away from a fossil-fuel energy economy.\"\n\nAcross the planet, forests, wetlands and other vegetation types are being converted to agricultural and other land uses, impacting freshwater, carbon and other cycles, and reducing biodiversity.\n\nThe environment advisor Steve Bass says research tells us that \"the sustainability of land use depends less on percentages and more on other factors. For example, the environmental impact of 15 per cent coverage by intensively farmed cropland in large blocks will be significantly different from that of 15 per cent of land farmed in more sustainable ways, integrated into the landscape. The boundary of 15 per cent land-use change is, in practice, a premature policy guideline that dilutes the authors' overall scientific proposition. Instead, the authors might want to consider a limit on soil degradation or soil loss. This would be a more valid and useful indicator of the state of terrestrial health.\"\n\nThe Earth systems scientist Eric Lambin thinks that \"intensive agriculture should be concentrated on land that has the best potential for high-yield crops ... We can avoid losing the best agricultural land by controlling land degradation, freshwater depletion and urban sprawl. This step will require zoning and the adoption of more efficient agricultural practices, especially in developing countries. The need for farmland can be lessened, too, by decreasing waste along the food distribution chain, encouraging slower population growth, ensuring more equitable food distribution worldwide and significantly reducing meat consumption in rich countries.\"\n\nHuman pressures on global freshwater systems are having dramatic effects. The freshwater cycle is another boundary significantly affected by climate change. Freshwater resources, such as lakes and aquifers, are usually renewable resources which naturally recharge (the term fossil water is sometimes used to describe aquifers which don't recharge). Overexploitation occurs if a water resource is mined or extracted at a rate that exceeds the recharge rate. Recharge usually comes from area streams, rivers and lakes. Forests enhance the recharge of aquifers in some locales, although generally forests are a major source of aquifer depletion. Depleted aquifers can become polluted with contaminants such as nitrates, or permanently damaged through subsidence or through saline intrusion from the ocean. This turns much of the world's underground water and lakes into finite resources with peak usage debates similar to oil. Though Hubbert's original analysis did not apply to renewable resources, their overexploitation can result in a Hubbert-like peak. A modified Hubbert curve applies to any resource that can be harvested faster than it can be replaced.\n\nThe hydrologist Peter Gleick comments: \"Few rational observers deny the need for boundaries to freshwater use. More controversial is defining where those limits are or what steps to take to constrain ourselves within them. Another way to describe these boundaries is the concept of peak water. Three different ideas are useful. 'Peak renewable' water limits are the total renewable flows in a watershed. Many of the world's major rivers are already approaching this threshold—when evaporation and consumption surpass natural replenishment from precipitation and other sources. 'Peak nonrenewable' limits apply where human use of water far exceeds natural recharge rates, such as in fossil groundwater basins of the Great Plains, Libya, India, northern China and parts of California's Central Valley. 'Peak ecological' water is the idea that for any hydrological system, increasing withdrawals eventually reach the point where any additional economic benefit of taking the water is outweighed by the additional ecological destruction that causes. Although it is difficult to quantify this point accurately, we have clearly passed the point of peak ecological water in many basins around the world where huge damage has occurred ... The good news is that the potential for savings, without hurting human health or economic productivity, is vast. Improvements in water-use efficiency are possible in every sector. More food can be grown with less water (and less water contamination) by shifting from conventional flood irrigation to drip and precision sprinklers, along with more accurately monitoring and managing soil moisture. Conventional power plants can change from water cooling to dry cooling, and more energy can be generated by sources that use extremely little water, such as photovoltaics and wind.\"\n\nThe hydrologist David Molden says \"a global limit on water consumption is necessary, but the suggested planetary boundary of 4,000 cubic kilometres per year is too generous.\"\n\nThe stratospheric ozone layer protectively filters ultraviolet radiation (UV) from the Sun, which would otherwise damage biological systems. The actions taken after the Montreal Protocol appeared to be keeping the planet within a safe boundary. However, in 2011, according to a paper published in \"Nature\", the boundary was unexpectedly pushed in the Arctic; \"... the fraction of the Arctic vortex in March with total ozone less than 275 Dobson units (DU) is typically near zero, but reached nearly 45%\".\n\nThe Nobel laureate in chemistry, Mario Molina, says \"five per cent is a reasonable limit for acceptable ozone depletion, but it doesn't represent a tipping point\".\n\nThe physicist David Fahey says that as a result of the Montreal Protocol \"stratospheric ozone depletion will largely reverse by 2100. The gain has relied, in part, on intermediate substitutes, notably hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), and the growing use of compounds that cause no depletion, such as hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). Ongoing success depends on several steps:\n\"The two panels will also have to evaluate climate change and ozone recovery together. Climate change affects ozone abundance by altering the chemical composition and dynamics of the stratosphere, and compounds such as HCFCs and HFCs are greenhouse gases. For example, the large projected demand for HFCs could significantly contribute to climate change.\"\n\nAerosol particles in the atmosphere impact the health of humans and influence monsoon and global atmospheric circulation systems. Some aerosols produce clouds which cool the Earth by reflecting sunlight back to space, while others, like soot, produce thin clouds in the upper stratosphere which behave like a greenhouse, warming the Earth. On balance, anthropogenic aerosols probably produce a net negative radiative forcing (cooling influence). Worldwide each year, aerosol particles result in about 800,000 premature deaths. Aerosol loading is sufficiently important to be included among the planetary boundaries, but it is not yet clear whether an appropriate safe threshold measure can be identified.\n\nSome chemicals, such as persistent organic pollutants, heavy metals and radionuclides, have potentially irreversible additive and synergic effects on biological organisms, reducing fertility and resulting in permanent genetic damage. Sublethal uptakes are drastically reducing marine bird and mammal populations. This boundary seems important, although it is hard to quantify.\n\nA Bayesian emulator for persistent organic pollutants has been developed which can potentially be used to quantify the boundaries for chemical pollution. To date, critical exposure levels of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) above which mass mortality events of marine mammals are likely to occur, have been proposed as a chemical pollution planetary boundary.\n\nA planetary boundary may interact in a manner that changes the safe operating level of other boundaries. Rockström \"et al.\" 2009 did not analyze such interactions, but they suggested that many of these interactions will reduce rather than expand the proposed boundary levels.\n\nFor example, the land use boundary could shift downward if the freshwater boundary is breached, causing lands to become arid and unavailable for agriculture. At a regional level, water resources may decline in Asia if deforestation continues in the Amazon. Such considerations suggest the need for \"extreme caution in approaching or transgressing any individual planetary boundaries.\"\n\nAnother example has to do with coral reefs and marine ecosystems. In 2009, showed that, since 1990, calcification in the reefs of the Great Barrier that they examined decreased at a rate unprecedented over the last 400 years (14% in less than 20 years). Their evidence suggests that the increasing temperature stress and the declining ocean saturation state of aragonite is making it difficult for reef corals to deposit calcium carbonate. explored how multiple stressors, such as increased nutrient loads and fishing pressure, move corals into less desirable ecosystem states. showed that ocean acidification will significantly change the distribution and abundance of a whole range of marine life, particularly species \"that build skeletons, shells, and tests of biogenic calcium carbonate. \"Increasing temperatures, surface UV radiation levels and ocean acidity all stress marine biota, and the combination of these stresses may well cause perturbations in the abundance and diversity of marine biological systems that go well beyond the effects of a single stressor acting alone.\"\n\nIn 2012 Kate Raworth from Oxfam noted the Rockstrom concept does not take human population growth into account. She suggested social boundaries should be incorporated into the planetary boundary structure, such as jobs, education, food, access to water, health services and energy and to accommodate an environmentally safe space compatible with poverty eradication and \"rights for all\". Within planetary limits and an equitable social foundation lies a doughnut shaped area which is the area where there is a \"safe and just space for humanity to thrive in\".\n\nIn 2012, Steven Running suggested a tenth boundary, the annual net global primary production of all terrestrial plants, as an easily determinable measure integrating many variables that will give \"a clear signal about the health of ecosystems\".\n\nThe United Nations secretary general Ban Ki-moon endorsed the concept of planetary boundaries on 16 March 2012, when he presented the key points of the report of his High Level Panel on Global Sustainability to an informal plenary of the UN General Assembly. Ban stated: \"The Panel’s vision is to eradicate poverty and reduce inequality, to make growth inclusive and production and consumption more sustainable, while combating climate change and respecting a range of other planetary boundaries.\" The concept was incorporated into the so-called \"zero draft\" of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development to be convened in Rio de Janeiro 20–22 June 2012. However, the use of the concept was subsequently withdrawn from the text of the conference, \"partly due to concerns from some poorer countries that its adoption could lead to the sidelining of poverty reduction and economic development. It is also, say observers, because the idea is simply too new to be officially adopted, and needed to be challenged, weathered and chewed over to test its robustness before standing a chance of being internationally accepted at UN negotiations.\"\n\nThe planetary boundary framework was updated in 2015. It was suggested that three of the boundaries (including climate change) might push the Earth system into a new state if crossed; these also strongly influence the remaining boundaries. In the paper, the framework is developed to make it more applicable at the regional scale.\n\nHuman activities related to agriculture and nutrition globally contribute to the transgression of four out of nine planetary boundaries. Surplus nutrient flows (N, P) into aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems are of highest importance, followed by excessive land-system change and biodiversity loss. Whereas in the case of biodiversity loss, P cycle and land-system change, the transgression is in the zone of uncertainty—indicating an increasing risk (yellow circle in the figure), the N boundary related to agriculture is more than 200% transgressed—indicating a high risk (red marked circle in the figure).\n\n\n\n\n----\n\n\n"}
{"id": "362605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=362605", "title": "Poa pratensis", "text": "Poa pratensis\n\nPoa pratensis, commonly known as Kentucky bluegrass (or blue grass), smooth meadow-grass, or common meadow-grass, is a perennial species of grass native to practically all of Europe, northern Asia and the mountains of Algeria and Morocco. Although the species is spread over all of the cool, humid parts of the U.S., it is not native to North America. The Spanish brought the seeds of Kentucky bluegrass to the New World in mixtures with other grasses. \"Poa pratensis\" forms a valuable pasture plant, characteristic of well-drained, fertile soil. It is also used for making lawns in parks and gardens and is common in cool moist climates like the northeastern United States. When found on native grasslands in Canada, however, it is considered an unwelcome exotic plant, and is indicative of a disturbed and degraded landscape.\n\n\"Poa pratensis\" was one of the many species described by Carl Linnaeus in his landmark work \"Species Plantarum\" in 1753. \"Poa\" is Greek for fodder and \"pratensis\" is derived from \"pratum\", the Latin for meadow. The name Kentucky bluegrass derives from its flower heads, which are blue when the plant is allowed to grow to its natural height of .\n\n\"Poa pratensis\" is the type species of the grass family Poaceae.\n\nThere are two ill-defined subspecies:\n\n\"Poa pratensis\" is a herbaceous perennial plant tall. The leaves have boat-shaped tips, narrowly linear, up to long and broad, smooth or slightly roughened, with a rounded to truncate ligule long. The conical panicle is long, with 3 to 5 branches in the basal whorls; the oval spikelets are long with 2 to 5 florets, and are purplish-green or grey. They are in flower from May to July, compared to annual meadowgrass (\"Poa annua\") which is in flower for eight months of the year. \"Poa pratensis\" has a fairly prominent mid-vein (center of the blade).\n\nThe ligule is extremely short and square ended, making a contrast with annual meadowgrass (\"Poa annua\") and rough meadowgrass (\"Poa trivialis\") in which it is silvery and pointed. The Kentucky bluegrass is a dark green/blue compared to the apple-green color of \"Poa annua\" and \"Poa trivialis\".\n\nThe rootstock is creeping, with runners (rhizomes). The broad, blunt leaves tend to spread at the base, forming close mats.\n\nThis species is among the food plants of the caterpillars of the meadow brown (\"Maniola jurtina\") and gatekeeper (\"Pyronia tithonus\") butterflies; the common sun beetle (\"Amara aenea\") (adults feed on the developing seeds), \"Eupelix cuspidata\" of the leafhopper family, and \"Myrmus miriformis\", a grassbug (feeds on young blades and developing seeds).\n\nSince the 1950s and early 1960s, 90% of Kentucky bluegrass seed in the United States has been produced on specialist farms in Idaho, Oregon and Washington.\n\nDuring the 1990s botanists began experimenting with hybrids of \"Poa pratensis\" and Texas bluegrass (\"P. arachnifera\"), with the goal of creating a drought and heat-resistant lawn grass.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41809901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41809901", "title": "Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board report on mass surveillance", "text": "Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board report on mass surveillance\n\nThe Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board report on mass surveillance was issued in January 2014 in light of the global surveillance disclosures of 2013, recommending the US end bulk data collection.\n\nThe Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board was first chartered under the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004. The role of the board is to provide advice and review of whether adequate supervision, guidelines, and oversight exist and to \"continually review\" regulations, policies, procedures, and information sharing practices to ensure privacy and civil liberties considerations are protected. To carry out these roles, the board does not have subpoena power, but is able to request subpoenas subject to the U.S. Attorney General's discretion \"to protect sensitive law enforcement or counterterrorism information or ongoing operations.\" The U.S. Director of National Intelligence also has the power to override requests \"to protect the national security interests of the United States\"\n\nA report by former members of the 9/11 commission in December 2005 noted there was \"little urgency\" in creation of the board, whose first meeting was in 2006. It was initially composed of a chair, vice chair, and three other members. As these members served at the pleasure of the President, \"Critics... maintained that the board appeared to be a presidential appendage, devoid of the capability to exercise independent judgment and assessment or to provide impartial findings and recommendations\", according to the Congressional Research Service. Subsequently member Lanny Davis resigned in protest over the board's lack of independence, citing \"extensive redlining by Administration officials of the board's first report to Congress\" that was accepted by the other members. The board was then reconstituted under the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 (H.R. 1), beginning in January 2008, as an independent agency with appointments subject to Senate confirmation. Four members of the board were nominated by President Barack Obama in 2011, and confirmed by the Senate in August 2012. Board chairman David Medine was finally confirmed in May 2013 in the wake of the Snowden disclosures in a party-line vote with 53 Democrats supporting and 45 Republicans opposing.\n\nThe Board's report follows a series of highly publicized leaks about the operations of the global surveillance program conducted by the National Security Agency in the United States working with a number of other countries (see Five Eyes). While the program's nominal focus was on foreign nationals, the disclosures also revealed the large-scale surveillance of communications by United States citizens. These leaks were largely the work of Edward Snowden, a Booz Allen Hamilton employee with access to a wide range of top secret documents. Publications of the documents by \"The Washington Post\" and \"The Guardian\" began in June 2013.\n\nOn January 23, 2014, the board released its report, recommending the US end bulk data collection. Instead federal agencies would be able to obtain phone and other records under court orders in cases containing an individualized suspicion of wrongdoing. But there would be no storehouse, private or public, of telephone data beyond what the phone companies keep in the course of their normal business activities. The report concluded that the program \"lacks a viable legal foundation\". It concluded \"we see little evidence that the unique capabilities provided by the NSA's bulk collection of telephone records actually have yielded material counterterrorism results that could not have been achieved without the NSA's Section 215 program.\" The report concluded: “Cessation of the program would eliminate the privacy and civil liberties concerns associated with bulk collection without unduly hampering the government’s efforts, while ensuring that any governmental requests for telephone calling records are tailored to the needs of specific investigations.”\n\nThe report called for a \"Special Advocate\" to be involved in some cases before the FISA court judge. The Board also contained the recommendation to release future and past FISC decisions “that involve novel interpretations of FISA or other significant questions of law, technology or compliance.”\n\nThe report also recommended against an alternate proposal, which President Barack Obama had ordered Attorney General Eric Holder to formulate within 60 days, which would force third parties including telephone companies to conduct data retention. The panel's majority spokesman said this was due to cost and legal exposure for the companies involved, and that it was not an \"easy out\".\n\nSen. Ron Wyden, a senior member of the intelligence committee and long-time critic of the programs, released a statement in reaction to the report. Said Wyden: \"The privacy board's findings closely mirror many of the criticisms made by surveillance reform advocates. The bulk collection program was built on a murky legal foundation that raises many constitutional questions and has been proven to be an ineffective tool for collecting unique intelligence information. Moreover, as the board wrote in its report, a program where the government collects the telephone records of millions of law-abiding Americans 'fundamentally shifts the balance of power between the state and its citizens.' The board goes on to say that with the government's 'powers of compulsion and criminal prosecution,' collection of data on its own citizens 'poses unique threats to privacy,' and is expected to have a 'chilling effect on the free exercise of speech and association.'\"\n\nAsked by Patrick Mächler to what extent the report will have an impact, Edward Snowden stated: I don’t see how Congress could ignore it, as it makes it clear there is no reason at all to maintain the 215 program. Let me quote from the official report:\n\n“Cessation of the program would eliminate the privacy and civil liberties concerns associated with bulk collection without unduly hampering the government’s efforts, while ensuring that any governmental requests for telephone calling records are tailored to the needs of specific investigations.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42863440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42863440", "title": "Pulse vaccination strategy", "text": "Pulse vaccination strategy\n\nThe pulse vaccination strategy is a method used to eradicate an epidemic by repeatedly vaccinating a group at risk, over a defined age range, until the spread of the pathogen has been stopped. It is most commonly used during measles and polio epidemics to quickly stop the spread and contain the outbreak.\n\nWhere T= time units is a constant fraction p of susceptible subjects vaccinated in a relatively short time. This yields the differential equations for the susceptible and vaccinated subjects as\n\nFurther, by setting , one obtains that the dynamics of the susceptible subjects is given by:\n\nand that the eradication condition is:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10220861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10220861", "title": "Reception report", "text": "Reception report\n\nA reception report is a means by which radio stations (usually short- and medium-wave broadcasters) receive detailed feedback from their listeners about the quality and content of their broadcasts. A reception report consists of several pieces of information which help the station verify that the report confirms coverage of their transmission, and usually include the following information:\n\n\nThe listener's location relative to the station is also useful; this indicates how well the station's transmitter is performing and in which direction(s) its antenna is beaming the signal. The station also evaluates a reception report in light of the listener's receiver and antenna. Upon receipt of a correct report, a broadcaster sometimes issues a letter or postcard (known as a QSL card) to the sender, thanking them and confirming that the details are correct. \"QSL\" is part of the amateur radio Q code, meaning \"I acknowledge receipt\". One aspect of DXing is collecting QSL cards and letters from stations heard (similar to a birdwatcher's \"life list\"). QSLing a radio station involves writing an accurate reception report, mailing it to the station and awaiting a reply. Since QSLing is a voluntary act on the station's part, several techniques are used to improve a listener's success rate.\n\nStation engineers and other personnel are primarily interested in whether or not their station is heard, and how well; therefore, a complete and accurate reception report (whether by postal or e-mail) is generally appreciated. To begin, report the frequency, date and time the station was heard. For medium-wave (AM) stations, the time should be that of the time zone in which the station is located. Thus, if a listener hears stations from the Eastern time zone of North America (such as Ontario and New York), EST or EDT should be given (depending on the time of year). Stations in the Central time zone (such as Chicago) use CST or CDT, which is one hour earlier than Eastern time. If a listener is uncertain of the time zone, they should clearly indicate their local time or even better use UTC\n\nIt is helpful to jot down programming as it is heard. Useful details include:\n\n\nThe purpose of providing this information is to prove to the station that you heard their program and not that of another station. The more detail a listener can provide, the better the chance of eliciting a QSL. Include information, also, about how well the signal was received. For medium-wave reports, an indication of signal strength and any interference (co- or adjacent-channel interference, with identity of interfering station if possible) is usually sufficient. International shortwave broadcasters are familiar with the SINPO code:\n\n\nEach letter receives a value between 5 and 1, where 5 is the best and 1 the worst. Many shortwave listeners (known as \"program listeners\") desire nothing more than music and news from a broadcaster; however, for DXers a QSL collection is tangible proof of what they have heard. Some listeners use pre-printed forms if they are unfamiliar with the language spoken by station personnel. While major international broadcasters have not required return postage for a QSL, the growing popularity of e-mailed reception reports and e-QSLs has largely eliminated the necessity for international reply coupons (IRCs), mint stamps from the verifying station's country or \"green stamps\" (US dollar bills).\n"}
{"id": "26692723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26692723", "title": "Study of global communication", "text": "Study of global communication\n\nGlobal communication is the term used to describe ways to connect, share, relate and mobilize across geographic, political, economic, social and cultural divides. It redefines soft and hard power as well as information power and diplomacy in ways not considered by traditional theories of international relations. \n\nGlobal Communication implies a transfer of knowledge and ideas from centers of power to peripheries and the imposition of a new intercultural hegemony by means of the \"soft power\" of global news and entertainment.\n\nThe study of global communication is an interdisciplinary field that studies the continuous flows of information used in transferring values, opinions, knowledge, culture across boundaries. \n\nWith the end of the twentieth century and the turn of a new millennium, the global arena and the field of international communication were undergoing significant changes. Some authors started to use the term global communication because it goes beyond the bounds of individual states and emphasizes communication between and among peoples across borders and, importantly, the rise of transnational media corporations.\n\nInternational communication traditionally refers to communication between and among nation-states and connotes issues of national sovereignty, control of national information resources, and the supremacy of national governments.\n\nNevertheless, earlier International communication theories have failed to develop models or research agendas that match the reality of the contemporary role of global communication . The old theories only explain part of the global picture and the theories of modernization, dependency, and cultural imperialism have failed to satisfactorily explain global communication.\n\nThe term \"global\", implies a declining role of the state and state sovereignty. As a term, \"international\" has within it notions of bilateral or multilateral decisions. \"Global\" could be seen as an aspiration, also as a fear, of the weakening of the state. In addition, global may imply something more pervasive, more geographically inclusive than international. \n\nThe study of global communication increased dramatically after World War II due to military considerations coupled with their economic and political implications. Earlier attempts at theorizing have failed to develop models or research agendas that match the reality of the contemporary role of global communication .\n\nMore global communication research was written in the decade from 1945–1955; most of the research of the 1950s dealt with propaganda and the cold war. By 1970, global communication research had grown to include a great variety of subjects, especially comparative mass communication systems, communication and national development and propaganda and public opinion.\n\nFrom the point of view of global communication scholars, previous theories of modernization, dependency, and cultural imperialism have failed to satisfactorily explain global communication. The old theories only explain part of the global picture.\n\nThe emergence of global communication technologies may be considered the origin of the field of global communication in the nineteenth century. Numerous technical advances such as the creation of a new major global communication phenomenon, convergence, digital environments and the internet are some of the major engines driving the change from international communication to global communication.\n\nWith the collapse of the Soviet Union, the shadow of Cold War has lifted to reveal shifting political, economic, and cultural alliances and conflicts. The increasing importance of these currents, especially in the cultural sphere, demands a reconsideration of the nature of the international communication field within the rubric of international relations.\n\nThree key players are usually recognized as the founders of the international news agencies. In 1835, Charles-Louis Havas created the world's first news agency; In 1849, Bernhard Wolff started publishing stock market news and daily reports from Paris, London, Amsterdam, and Frankfurt; In 1849, Paul Julius Freiherr von Reuter established his own commercial service, the Reuter agency, and organized a worldwide exchange of news in 1870.\n\nIn 1859, Reuter, Havas and the German Wolff agency reached an agreement to exchange news from all over the world, which was known as the League of Allied Agencies, or the \" Ring Combination\". In 1848, American News Agency Associated Press was founded and was formally admitted into the \"Ring Combination\" in 1887.\n\nThere are some major factors that point to the growing importance of global communication in the world of the twenty-first century:\n\n\n\nTranscultural Political Economy is a concept that is presented in Global Communications by Paula Chakravartty and Yeuzhi Zhao. This concept looks at global communications and media studies in three major areas: global flows of information and culture, decentralizing the conceptual parameters of global information and media studies, and the normative debates in global communications in the context of neoliberalism. Transcultural Political Economy is a multidisciplinary study that focuses on the tensions between political economy and cultural studies. It \"integrate[s] institutional and cultural analyzes and address urgent questions in global communications in the context of economic integration, empire formation, and the tensions associated with adapting new privatized technologies, neoliberalized and globalized institutional structures, and hybrid cultural forms and practices\". Transcultural Political Economy addresses the issues surrounding the practice of neoliberalism and its creation of unequal power structures within the world system. \nGlobalization theory was popularized in the 1990s as a model for understanding global communication. The concept of globalization inspired a number of theories from various schools of thought in communication studies that each emphasize different aspects of globalization. Many globalization theories highlight actors in the business sector as leaders in the processes of global integration. Transnationalizing business is often celebrated as progression toward a more interconnected world. Globalization theories are often associated with theories of modernity. Some scholars view globalization as the social, political, economic, and cultural integration of societies into a capitalist system; Others see globalization as a successor to modernity, while some see it as an iteration of imperialism. Some question the usefulness and legitimacy of globalization theory, arguing that it does not adequately conceptualize current international relations or function as a lens through which to examine everyday events. Many scholars criticize globalization theories as overzealous toward and unrealistic about the extent of global integration. Some scholars criticize social theorists for offering opinions and predictions based on theory with little practical evidence. In contrast, some scholars work to dispute the pessimistic views of globalization theory.\n\nWorld-system theory is a macro-sociological perspective that seeks to explain the dynamics of the \"capitalist world economy\" as a \"total social system\". A world-system is what Wallerstein terms a \"world-economy\", integrated through the market rather than a political centre, in which two or more regions are interdependent with respect to necessities like food, fuel, and two or more polities compete for domination without the emergence of one single centre forever. World-system theory was first articulated by Immanuel Wallerstein. There are three major sources of the world-system theory which conceived by Wallerstein: the Annales school's general methodology, Marx's focus on accumulation process and competitive class struggles and so on, and dependence theory's neo-Marxist explanation of development processes.\n\nReferring to the transnational division of labor, world-system divides the world into core countries, peripheral countries, semi-peripheral countries and external areas. The core countries usually developed a strong central governments, extensive bureaucracies and large mercenary armies, which permit the local bourgeoisie to obtain control over international commerce and extract capital surpluses from the trade for benefits. The peripheral countries often lack strong central governments or been controlled by core countries, they export raw materials and rely on coercive labor practices. Semi-peripheries which served as buffers between the core and the peripheries. They retain limited but declining access to international banking and the production of high-cost high-quality manufactured goods.[3] External areas such as Russia maintain their own economic systems, they want to remain outside the modern world economy.\n\nThe theory of modernization was developed by Daniel Lerner (1958) in the \"Passing of traditional society.\" Lerner's description of \"modernised\" is an individual having the ability to be empathetic and being able to see oneself in another person's situation. This concept has come from the transition of traditional societies to modern societies, where modern societies is distinctively industrial, urban, literate, and participant. This theory looks at development in a linear fashion, concluding that nations need to develop into a modern society to make it a sustainable and flourishing nation. Developing modernized societies include technological advancement, and developing media sectors to help create a participatory culture. \n\"See also:\" Post-structuralism, imperialism, modernity,\n\nPost-colonialism is a theoretical approach to looking at literature that examines the colonizer-colonized experience. It deals with the adaptation of formerly colonized nations and their development in cultural, political, economical aspects. Some Notable theoreticians include: Frantz Fanon, Edward Said, Gayatri Spivak, R Siva Kumar, Dipesh Chakrabarty, Derek Gregory.\n\nCultural imperialism is a mighty civilization exerts culture influence over another. Less economically prominent cultures often import culture from Western countries, which have the economic means to produce a majority of the world's cultural media, mostly via the global transmission of media. The weak civilization adopts the mighty civilization's customs, philosophies, worldviews and general ways of life. The theoretical foundations of the academic study of cultural imperialism mostly come from Michel Foucault's concept of biopower, governmentality and Edward Saïd's concept of Post-colonialism, which theories see cultural imperialism as the cultural legacy of colonialism or forms of Western hegemony. Media effect study which integrated with political-economy traditional is the core argument of cultural imperialism. There are two opposite effects of media study. The negative one is that Western media imposes socio-political conflicts to the developing country and the latter one's resistance to the media effects to preserve their traditional cultural identities. The positive effects are the issues of the process of civilization such as women's right or racial equality with exposing to Western media. Now the term of cultural imperialism usually refers to America's global culture expansion to the rest of world, which include brand name products, video media, fast food and so on.\n\nCommunication for Development (C4D) is a praxis oriented aspect of global communication studies that approaches global development with a focus on action and participation for social change enacted through communication systems. C4D underlines \"voice, citizenship and collective action\" as central values that promote citizen-led development where the visiting party provides guidance rather than direction within the host community. C4D often incorporates bottom-up theories of social change with the aim to create sustainable change which is believed to be more likely to occur if the efforts are planned, implemented, and sustained by community members themselves. Some development workers and academics suggest that a shared definition of communication for development should be clarified, because disagreement within the field can detract from the characteristics that most scholars view as central to current development, including participatory action research (PAR). Many C4D projects revolve around media systems as a central site for social change, which differentiates C4D from other approaches to development. Theories behind C4D highlight that development projects should be contextually situated and that communication technology will affect different types of social change accordingly.\n\nGlobal media studies is a field of media study in a global scope. Media study deals with the content, history and effects of media. Media study often draws on theories and methods from the disciplines of cultural studies, rhetoric, philosophy, communication studies, feminist theory, political economy and sociology. Among these study approaches, political economic analysis is non-ignorable in understanding the current media and communication developments. But the political economic research has become more resilient because of stronger empirical studies, and the potential connections to policy-making and alternative praxis.\n\nEach country has its own distinct media ecosystem. The media of mainland China is state-run, so the political subjects are under the strict regulations set by the government while other areas such as sports, finance, and increasingly lucrative entertainment industry face less regulation from government. Canada has a well-developed media sector, but the mass media is threatened by the direct outcome of American economic and cultural imperialism which hinder the form of Canada's media identity. Many of the media in America are controlled by large for-profit corporations who reap revenues from advertisings, subscriptions and the sale of copyrighted materials. Currently, six corporations (Comcast, The Walt Disney Company, News Corporation, Time Warner, Viacom and CBS Corporation) have controlled roughly 90% of the America media. Such successes come from the policies of the federal government or the tendency to natural monopolies in the industry.\n\nImmanuel Wallerstein's world system theory develops a basic framework to understand global power shifts in the rise of the modern world. Wallerstein proposes four different categories: core, semi-periphery, periphery, and external, in terms of different region's relative position in the world system. The core regions are the ones that benefited the most from the capitalist world economy, such as England and France. The peripheral areas relied on and exported raw materials to the core, such as Eastern Europe and Latin America. The semi-peripheries are either core regions in decline or peripheries attempting to improve their relative position in the world system, such as Portugal and Spain. The external areas managed to remain outside the modern world economy, such as Russia.\n\nThere are two basic types of global power shifts in the 21st century. One is traditional power transition amongst states, which follows Wallerstein's world system theory. For instance, the global power shifts from the West to the East since the rise of Asia. The other is power diffusion, the way that power move from states to non-states actors. For instance, \"climate change, drug trade, financial flows, pandemics, all these things that cross borders outsider the control of governments.\"\n\nPublic sphere theory, attributed to Jurgen Habermas, is a theory that in its basic premise conceives of democratic governments as those that can stand criticism that comes from public spheres. Public spheres are places, physical or imagined, where people discuss any kind of topic, particularly topics of a societal or political nature. Global public sphere is, therefore, a public that is made of people from across the globe, who come together to discuss and act on issues that concern them. The concept of global public sphere is linked to the shift of public sphere, from restricted to nation-state, to made of individuals and groups connected across as well as within borders.\n\nSince Plato, it can be argued that philosophers have been thinking about versions of a common space for all people to debate in; however, a global public sphere that can fit the description above began to appear much later. In the second half of the 20th century, the legacy of World War II and technological advancements created a new sense of the global and started the economic and political phenomena that we now call globalization. This includes the expansion of humankind into space, which gave individuals the sense of a global unity, the growth of satellite technology, which allowed for people across the globe to view the same television channels, and the internet, which can provide access to an unprecedented amount of information and spaces to connect with other people.\n\nThe term \"culture industry\" appeared in the post-war period. At that time, culture and industry were argued to be opposites. Cultural industries\" are also referred to as the \"Creative industries.\n\nIn the present day, there remain different interpretations of culture as an industry. For some, cultural industries are simply those industries that produce cultural goods and services.\n\nIn the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the cultural industries are regarded as those industries that \"combine the creation, production and commercialization of contents which are intangible and cultural in nature. These contents are typically protected by copyright and they can take the form of goods or services\". According to UNESCO, an essential part of cultural industries is that they are \"central in promoting and maintaining cultural diversity and in ensuring democratic access to culture\". \"Cultural industries\" combines the cultural and economic, which gives the cultural industries a distinctive profile.\n\nIn France, the \"cultural industries\" have recently been defined as a set of economic activities that combine the functions of conception, creation and production of culture with more industrial functions in the large-scale manufacture and commercialization cultural products.\n\nIn Canada, economic activities involved in the preservation of heritage are also included in the definition of culture.\n\nSince the rise of the cultural industries has occurred simultaneously with economic globalization, cultural industries have close connections with globalization and global communication.\n\nHerbert Schiller argued that the 'entertainment, communications and information (ECI) complex were having a direct impact on culture and human consciousness. As Schiller argued, the result of transnational corporate expansion is the perpetuation of cultural imperialism, defined as \"the sum of the processes by which a society is brought into the modern world system and how its dominating stratum is attracted, pressured, forced, and sometimes bribed into shaping social institutions to correspond to, or even promote, the values and structures of the dominating centre of the system\".\n\nThe second wave of transnational corporate expansion, which began in the 1970s with the emergence of Export Processing Zones in developing countries, is focused on the development of global production networks. This process was described as a \"new international division of labour\" (NIDL) by the German political economists Frӧbel et al. (1980).\n\nErnst and Kim have argued that GPNs are changing the nature of the multinational corporation itself, from \"stand alone overseas investment projects, to \"global network flagships\" that integrate their dispersed supply, knowledge and customer bases into global and regional production networks\", entailing a shift from top-down hierarchical models of corporate control to increasingly networked and collective forms of organization.\n\nThe largest firms in media and media-related industries have a very high international profile. Global media empires such as Disney, News Corporation, Time-Warner and Viacom-CBS now derive 25-45 per cent of their revenues outside of the United States.\n\nIt is often argued that the global media are dominated by a small number of powerful media conglomerates. Herman and McChesney (1997) argued that the global media were \"dominated by three or four dozen large transnational corporations (TNCs) with fewer than ten mostly US-based media conglomerates towering over the global market.\" Similarly, Manfred Steger has observed that \" to a very large extent, the global cultural flows of our time are generated and directed by global media empires that rely on powerful communication technologies to spread their message.\" He also argued that during the last two decades, a few very large TNCs would come to dominate the global market for entertainment, news, television, and film.\n\nDiaspora is often confused with exodus. Diasporas are minority groups that have a sense of connection with a larger community outside of the borders they currently inhabit, and through diasporic media create a sense of a larger identity and community, whether imagined or real. In scholarly work about diaspora in communication studies, the view of nation and culture as interchangeable terms is no longer prevalent. Stuart Hall theorized of hybridity, which he distinguished from \"old style pluralism\", \"nomadic voyaging of the postmodern\", and \"global homogenization\". Hybridity is the retention of an original identity and strong ties to an original country and tradition, but with the understanding that there is no unchanged, ideal nation of the past that they can return to. To be hybrid is to also adapt to a new culture and tradition without simply assimilating in it, but rather negotiating a place between the \"original\" and \"new\" cultures. In Communication studies, diaspora is discussed as the identity that unifies people across time and space, sometimes existing in physical spaces and other times existing in imagined 'non-spaces'. However, it has been argued that the concept of 'diaspora' implies ethnic homogeneity and essentializes identity to only ethnicity. One of the most cited and well-known works in the field of diasporic media is Hamid Naficy's work on exiled Iranian Americans' creation of cable television in the United States.\n\nDiasporic media refer to media that address the needs of particular ethnic, religious, and/or linguistic groups that live in multicultural settings . Diasporic media can be in the diaspora's traditional language or in another language, and they can include news or media from the \"origin\" country or they can contain the diaspora's local news or media. Diasporic media can be created in radio, television, film, music, in newspapers, magazines, and other publishing, as well as online. It can be argued that the development and spread of satellite television is an instrumental element of the growth of diasporic media today. Satellite television allowed migrants to access the news and popular culture from their homeland, as well as allowing people who speak the same language to access the same channels that might be produced outside of the \"homeland\"\n\nContemporary studies of diaspora show that diasporic media are part of the change in the tendency Immanuel Wallerstein described in his world systems theory. The world systems theory postulates that much of the flow of people in the world has been from the 'periphery', or economically-developing states, towards the centre; which are often metropolitan, economically-wealthy states that grew their wealth in colonialist entrepreneurship. However, contrary to the movement of people, the flow of information (including media products), has tended to be from the centre to the periphery.\n\nThe advancement of media and technology have played the pivotal role in process of globalization and global communication. Cable television, ISDN, digitalization, direct broadcast satellites as well as the Internet have created a situation where vast amounts of information can be transferred around the globe in a matter of seconds.\n\nDuring the early 20th century, telegraph, telephony, and radio started the process of global communication. As media technologies developed intensely, they were thought to create, in Marshall McLuhan’ s famous words, a ‘‘global village.’’ The launch of Sputnik, the world’ s first artificial satellite, on October 4, 1957, marked the beginning of technologies that would further interconnect the world. The first live global television broadcast occurred when Neil Armstrong stepped onto the moon in July 1969. In November 1972, pay TV caused expansion of cable when Service Electric offered Home Box Office over its cable system. By 2000, over direct broadcast satellite, a household could receive channels from all over the world. Now with the World Wide Web, smart phones, tablet devices, smart televisions and other digital media devices, billions of people are now able to access media content that was once tied to particular communications media (print, broadcast) or platforms (newspapers, magazines, radio, television, cinema).\n\nJustice in communication studies includes, but is not limited to, the concern with democratic process and fostering democratic publics . Jurgen Habermas theorized of public sphere (in \"The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere\") as the space that is created whenever matters of common concern are discussed between the state and civil society. Thus, public sphere includes not only the media, but also public protest in the form of marches, demonstrations, et cetera. There are, however, critiques of political economy in whose view it is impossible to work within the current system to produce democratic publics. Such a critique is that produced by Karl Marx, who saw institutions such as parliament, the state, the 'acceptable' public sphere, economic enterprises, and so on as structurally produced and perpetuated by a capitalist system, and thus they can not be mobilized to change it. In such a system, there can only be illusory justice, which is fair only within the logic of the system. This illusion of justice is produced through dominating ideology.\n\nAnother issue of justice in communication studies is the question of decolonizing research methods and theoretical discourse . The idea of decolonizing research comes from a rejection of the functionalist approach, which assumed that research can be conducted in a vacuum, free of ideology or the researcher's biases. This approach assumed cultures to be unchanging, homogenous, and isolated from each other. The purpose of decolonizing research and discourse is to 'uncloak' research as an unbiased power structure, and produce research that is more self-aware. The approach in decolonizing research methods attempts to create methodologies that treat the people in the study as participants or partners, rather than subjects - which is a term that in itself carries strong connotations of colonialism. Decolonizing research also involves moving away from Eurocentric models that are assumed to work anywhere else, and instead to create work that is more useful in local contexts. Decolonial approaches specifically seek to produce knowledge about the mechanisms and effects of colonialism. These approaches allow former subjects to 'talk back', which is a reflection of independent agency, on the colonizer's own terms of research, rather than to be 'given' a voice, which is an unequal power structure.\n\n"}
{"id": "27247561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27247561", "title": "Tanks of the U.S. in the World Wars", "text": "Tanks of the U.S. in the World Wars\n\nAs the American army did not have tanks of its own, the French two-man Renault FT Light Tank was used by US in the later stages of World War I. It was cheap and well-suited for mass production, and in addition to its traversable turret another innovative feature of the FT was its engine located at the rear. This pattern, with the gun located in a mounted turret and rear engine, became the standard for most succeeding tanks across the world even to this day.\n\nThe M1917 was a US tank accepted by the army in October 1918 and is primarily based on the plans of the French Renault FT. The crew, a driver and gunner, were separated from the engine by a bulkhead. Steel idler wheels replaced the wooden idlers fitted to French examples. Approximately 64 of the M1917 were built before the end of World War I and 10 were sent to Europe, but too late to be used in combat. After the war Van Dorn Iron Works, the Maxwell Motor Company, and the C.L. Best Tractor Company created 950 more. 374 had cannons and 526 had machine guns and 50 were signal (radio) tanks. A later modification, the M1917A1, was a lengthened, rebuilt, updated version compared to the French one, having a 100 hp Franklin engine and an electric self-starter rather than a crank starter.\n\nU.S. troops also used the British Heavy Tanks Mk V and Mk V* (pronounced \"Mark Five\" and \"Mark Five Star\"). A battalion trained in England and saw action in France in the last six weeks of the War. On a small number of occasions, U.S. troops were supported by tank units of the French Army operating Schneider and Saint-Chamond machines.\n\nMarmon-Herrington tanks that could not be delivered because of the fall of the Dutch East Indies were taken over by the US. The CTLS-4TAC and -4TAY tanks were redesignated Light Tank T14 and T16 respectively. They were used for training, some were used in Alaska and by the US Marines. The CTLS-4TAC has the turret offset to the left, the CTLS-4TAY to the right.\n\nThe Stuart was an upgrade of the M2 Light Tank.\n\nThe initial upgrade was designated the M3 Stuart and had thicker armor, modified suspension and a 37mm mm gun. Production of the M3 and later the M5 Stuart started in March 1941 and continued until October 1943 with a total of 25,000 produced.\n\nAn upgrade of the M3, which was initially called M4 but later redesignated the M5, was developed with improved engines and produced through 1942. The M5 featured a redesigned hull and driver's hatches moved to the top. The M5 gradually replaced the M3 in production from 1942 and was in turn succeeded by the Light Tank M24 in 1944.\n\nThe British Army was the first to use the M3 in combat. In November 1941, some 170 Stuarts took part in Operation Crusader, with poor results.\n\nAlthough the high losses suffered by Stuart-equipped units during the operation had more to do with better tactics and training of the enemy than superiority of enemy tanks in the North African campaign, the operation revealed that the M3 had several technical faults. Mentioned in the British complaints were the 37 mm gun, a limited range and poor internal layout. The two-man turret crew was a significant weakness, and some British units tried to fight with three-man turret crews. Crews liked its high speed and mechanical reliability.\n\nFrom the summer of 1942, when enough US medium tanks had been received, the British usually kept Stuarts out of tank-to-tank combat. M3s, M3A3s, and M5s continued in British service until the end of the war, but British armor units had a smaller proportion of these light tanks than US units.\n\nThe other major Lend-Lease recipient of the M3, the Soviet Union, was even less happy with the tank, considering it undergunned, underarmored, likely to catch fire, and too sensitive to fuel quality. The narrow tracks were highly unsuited to operation in winter conditions, as they resulted in high ground pressures that sunk the tank. However, the Stuart was superior to early-war Soviet light tanks such as the T-60, which were often underpowered and possessed even lighter armament than the Stuart. In 1943, the Red Army tried out the M5 and decided that the upgraded design wasn't much better than the M3. Being less desperate than in 1941, the Soviets turned down an American offer to supply the M5. M3s continued in Red Army service at least until 1944.\n\nIn US Army service, the M3 first saw combat in the Philippines. Two battalions, comprising the Provisional Tank Group fought in the Bataan peninsula campaign. When the American army joined the North African Campaign in late 1942, Stuart units still formed a large part of its armor strength.\n\nAfter the disastrous Battle of the Kasserine Pass the US quickly disbanding most of their light tank battalions and subordinating the Stuarts to medium tank battalions performing the traditional cavalry missions of scouting and screening. For the rest of the war, most US tank battalions had three companies of M4 Shermans and one company of M3s or M5/M5A1s.\n\nIn the European theater, Allied light tanks had to be given cavalry and infantry fire support roles since their main cannon armament could not compete with heavier enemy AFVs. However, the Stuart was still effective in combat in the Pacific Theater, as Japanese tanks were both relatively rare and were generally much weaker than even Allied light tanks. Japanese infantrymen were poorly equipped with anti-tank weapons and tended to attack tanks using close-assault tactics. In this environment, the Stuart was only moderately more vulnerable than medium tanks. In addition, the poor terrain and roads common to the theatre were unsuitable for the much heavier M4 medium tanks, and so initially, only light armor could be deployed. Heavier M4s were eventually brought to overcome heavily entrenched positions, though the Stuart continued to serve in a combat capacity until the end of the war.\n\nThe US liquidated its Stuarts when it got sufficient numbers of M24 Chaffees but the tank remained in service until the end of the war and well after. In addition to the United States, United Kingdom and Soviet Union, who were the primary users, it was also used by France and China.\n\nIn April 1943 the government started work on the M24 Chaffee, designated Light Tank T24 as a replacement for the M3/M5 Stuart after the original replacement, the M7, was rejected in March. Every effort was made to keep the weight of the vehicle under 20 tons. The armor was kept light, and a lightweight 75 mm gun was developed. The design also featured wider tracks and torsion bar suspension. It had relatively low silhouette and a three-man turret. In mid-October the first pilot vehicle was delivered and production began in 1944 under the designation Light Tank M24. 4,730 were produced by the time production was stopped in August 1945.\n\nThe first thirty-four M24s reached Europe in November 1944 and were issued to the U.S. 2nd Cavalry Group (Mechanized) in France. These were then issued to F Company, 2nd Cavalry Reconnaissance Battalion and F Company, 42nd Cavalry Reconnaissance Battalion which each received seventeen M24s. During the Battle of the Bulge in December 1944, these units and their new tanks were rushed to the southern sector; two of the M24s were detached to serve with the 740th Tank Battalion of the U.S. First Army.\n\nThe M24 started to enter widespread issue in December 1944 but they were slow in reaching the front-line combat units. By the end of the war many armored divisions were still mainly equipped with the M5. Some armored divisions did not receive their first M24s until the war was over.\n\nReports were generally positive. Crews liked the improved off-road performance and reliability, but were most appreciative of the 75 mm main gun, as a vast improvement over the 37 mm. The M24 was still not up to the challenge of fighting tanks, however, the bigger gun at least gave it a chance to defend itself. Its light armor made it vulnerable in tank vs. tank actions.\n\nThe M24s contribution to winning the war was insignificant, as too few arrived too late to replace the M5s of the armored divisions.\n\nThe U.S. Army designed the M4 as a replacement for the M3 Medium. The designated goals were to produce a fast, dependable medium tank able to support infantry, provide breakthrough striking capacity, and defeat any tank currently in use by the Axis nations. In April 1941 the U.S. Armored Force Board chose the simplest of five designs. Known as the T6, the design was a modified M3 hull and chassis, carrying a newly designed turret mounting the Lee's main gun. This became the Sherman.\n\nThe prototype M4 was completed in September 1941. The T6 became standardized as the M4, and production after modifications began in October 1941.\n\nThe U.S. Army had seven main sub-designations for M4 variants during the production period: M4, M4A1, M4A2, M4A3, M4A4, M4A5, and M4A6. These designations were manufactured concurrently at different locations.\n\nWhile most Shermans ran on gasoline, the M4A2 and M4A6 had diesel engines: the M4A2 with a pair of GMC 6-71 straight six engines, the M4A6 a Caterpillar RD1820 radial. These, plus the M4A4 which used the Chrysler A57 multibank engine, were mostly supplied to Allied countries under Lend-Lease. \"M4\" can refer specifically to the initial sub-type with its Continental radial engine, or generically, to the entire family of seven Sherman sub-types, depending on context. Many details of production, shape, strength, and performance improved throughout production without a change to the tank's basic model number; more durable suspension units, safer \"wet\" (W) ammunition stowage, and stronger armor arrangements, such as the M4 Composite, which had a cast front hull section mated to a welded rear hull. British nomenclature differed from that employed by the U.S.\n\nEarly Shermans mounted a 75 mm medium-velocity general-purpose gun. Although Ordnance began work on the Medium Tank T20 as a Sherman replacement, ultimately the Army decided to minimize production disruption by incorporating elements of other tank designs into Sherman production. Later M4A1, M4A2, and M4A3 models received the larger T23 turret, with a high-velocity 76 mm gun M1, which reduced the number of HE and smoke rounds carried and increased the number of anti-tank rounds. Later, the M4 and M4A3 were factory-produced with a 105 mm howitzer and a new distinctive mantlet in the original turret. The first standard-production 76 mm gun Sherman was an M4A1, accepted in January 1944, and the first standard-production 105 mm howitzer Sherman was an M4 accepted in February 1944.\n\nIn June–July 1944, the Army accepted a limited run of 254 M4A3E2 \"Jumbo\" Shermans, which had very thick armor, and the 75 mm gun in a new, heavier T23-style turret, in order to assault fortifications. The M4A3 was the first to be factory-produced with the HVSS (horizontal volute spring suspension) suspension with wider tracks to distribute weight, and the smooth ride of the HVSS with its experimental E8 designation led to the nickname \"Easy Eight\" for Shermans so equipped. Both the Americans and the British developed a wide array of special attachments for the Sherman; few saw combat, and most remained experimental. Those which saw action included the bulldozer blade for Sherman dozer tanks, Duplex Drive for \"swimming\" Sherman tanks, R3 flame thrower for \"Zippo\" flame tanks, and the T34 60-tube \"Calliope\" 4.5\" rocket launcher for the Sherman turret. The British variants (DD's and mine flails) were among \"Hobart's Funnies,\" named after their commander, Percy Hobart of the 79th Armoured Division. \n\nThe M4 Sherman's basic chassis was used for all the sundry roles of a modern mechanized force: roughly 50,000 Sherman tanks, plus thousands more derivative vehicles under different model numbers. These included M32 and M74 \"tow truck\"-style recovery tanks with winches, booms, and an 81 mm mortar for smoke screens; M34 (from M32B1) and M35 (from M10A1) artillery prime movers; M7B1, M12, M40, and M43 self-propelled artillery; and the M10 and M36 tank destroyers.\n\nThe M4 Sherman served with the U.S. Army and Marine Corps during World War II. The U.S. also supplied large numbers to the various Allied countries. Shermans were used during the war by British and Commonwealth armies, the Soviet Union's Red Army, Free French forces, the Polish army in exile, China's National Revolutionary Army, and Brazil's Expeditionary Force.\n\nThe U.S. Marine Corps used the diesel M4A2 and gasoline-powered M4A3 in the Pacific. However, the Chief of the Army's Armored Force, Lt. Gen. Jacob L. Devers, ordered that no diesel-engined Sherman tanks be used by the Army outside the Zone of Interior (the continental U.S.). The U.S. Army used all types for either training or testing within the United States, but intended the M4A2 and M4A4 to be the primary Lend-Lease exports.\n\nThe M4A1 Sherman first saw combat at the Second Battle of El Alamein in October 1942 with the British 8th Army. The first U.S. Shermans in battle were M4A1s in Operation \"Torch\" the next month. At this time, Shermans successfully engaged German Panzer IIIs with long barreled 50mm L60 guns, and Panzer IVs with short barreled 75 mm L24 guns. Additional M4 and M4A1s replaced M3 Lees in U.S. tank battalions over the course of the North African campaigns. However, by June 1944, most German tanks were up-gunned and 75 mm Shermans were outgunned. The M4 and M4A1 were the main types in U.S. units until late 1944, when the Army began replacing them with the preferred M4A3 with its more powerful engine. Some M4s and M4A1s continued in U.S. service for the rest of the war.\n\nThe first Sherman to enter combat with the 76 mm gun (July 1944) was the M4A1, closely followed by the M4A3. By the end of the war, half the U.S. Army Shermans in Europe had the 76 mm gun. The first HVSS Sherman to see combat was the M4A3E8(76)W in December 1944. The M4A3E8 (76)W was arguably the best of the US Sherman tanks.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Encyclopaedia of Tanks and Armoured Fighting Vehicles; Published in 2007 by Amber Books Ltd.\n"}
{"id": "30896817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30896817", "title": "Targeting (international health)", "text": "Targeting (international health)\n\nTargeting, a commonly used technique in international health and public health, develops a specialized health intervention approach for a specific group of people. This group of people may be identified by various factors, including geography, race/ethnicity, age, health issues, etc. Taking into account characteristics the group members share in common, only one version of program materials is used in a targeted health intervention and the intervention materials show features that the targeted population subgroup members prefer.\n\nThe idea of targeting was adapted from marketing. Target marketing tries to define a subgroup of people with shared characteristics (such as liking of certain product features) as the right group of consumers for a particular product or service. Adopting the same principle, targeted health interventions identify a group of people who are particular vulnerable to certain health risks, intervene to address their health risks and in turn, improve their health. \nFrom early to mid-1980s, most health information was mass-produced for undifferentiated audience in the form of brochures, pamphlets, and booklets. As people are increasingly aware of different characteristics within mass audiences, behavioral scientists began to develop different versions of materials for diverse population subgroups in order for health campaigns to be cost effective while still reaching large number of audiences. Scholars have suggested that compared to generic interventions which do not take into consideration the audience characteristics, targeting strategy can be more effective for health interventions.\n\nTargeting as an intervention strategy is now widely used in the health fields and has been found to help promote behavioral change. The level of audience specificity in targeting can vary significantly, ranging from one single broad factor (e.g. interventions targeting women), to combined factors. For example, Gomez, Tan, Keegan, and Clarke (2007) identified South Asians in the U.S. who were less than age 50 and were unemployed or non-citizens as potential population subgroup for targeted mammogram utilization intervention.\n\nTargeted health interventions have adopted different audience factors, including age (e.g. older smokers), race/ethnicity (e.g. African-Americans), socioeconomic status (e.g. low-income women), professions (e.g. health providers), health status (e.g. pregnant women and women with children, sensation-seeking adolescents).\n\nTargeting has been widely used in international health interventions and was found to be effective in promoting behavioral change.\n\nAhmed, Petzold, Kabir, and Tomson (2006) identified the problem in Bangladesh that there was not enough usage of formal health services among the ultra poor population. In order to promote greater use of these health services, Ahmed and colleagues carried out a health intervention in Bangladesh targeting ultra poor households in rural areas in order to change their health-seeking behavior. The intervention provided ultra poor households with money for household activities (e.g. raising livestock, vegetables farming) to increase their income. In addition, it provided 18 months of supports, such as skill training (e.g. vegetable cultivation) and counseling information on health services, to make sure that the targeted people were able to make full use of the money and had the resources to use the health services if they chose to. This targeted intervention was found to be effective that it decreased the amount of self-care and increased the use of professional health care among the targeted population.\n\nIn another intervention, Lowndes, Alary, Labbe, et al. (2007) targeted male clients of female sex workers in Benin, West Africa, in order to reduce the male clients' risky sexual behavior and HIV/STI rates. During this peer-education intervention, trained health educators approached male clients at prostitution venues at night, discussed with them HIV and STI transmission risks, educated them about proper condom use, and distributed condoms. Although HIV prevalence remained unchanged, the intervention effectively affected knowledge and there was an increase in the condom use rate among the targeted population.\n\nDespite its effectiveness in promoting behavioral change, targeting strategy should be used with caution and with careful considerations of ethics. Kass (2001) suggested that interventions targeting already vulnerable segments of the population may face certain ethical challenges. Potential burden and harm in these health programs may include risks to privacy and confidentiality, risks to liberty and self-determination, and risks to justice. Subgroups who are targeted in interventions take most of the burden from the process (for example, their privacy may be intruded) while the benefits resulted from the health interventions are for the general public (e.g. improvements in mortality). Kass posed the question whether the unequal distribution of burden and benefits is ethical.\nMoreover, the evidence of intervention effectiveness may not be strong enough at times. Thus it may not be known for sure whether the benefits the targeted audience may gain from the intervention will outweigh the harms they will be put in. Hence, health experts face another ethical dilemma.\n\nKass further pointed out that targeting may create stigma that some segments of the population are more vulnerable to certain diseases, which might result in social harms, such as psychological distress and discrimination. For example, although the HIV interventions targeting male clients of female sex workers in Benin contributed to HIV prevention, one possible stigma that it may create is that male clients of female sex workers are high risk population of HIV infection. This stigma may create anxiety and panic among the targeted population. On the other hand, if a subgroup were never targeted in interventions, they may not believe that they are at the risk of diseases. People who were not targeted in HIV interventions, e.g. people with regular sex partners, may perceive themselves as not at the risk of HIV infection and hence continue engaging in risky sexual behaviors.\n\nGiven the above discussed ethical dilemma that targeted health interventions may face, Kass suggested that, if health programs and health resources are going to be unequally allocated (e.g. targeting ethnic minority groups), they should be done with caution and be based on strong intervention effectiveness evidences.\n\nWhile Kreuter and Skinner's (2000) definition of targeting \"the development of a single intervention approach for a defined population subgroup that takes into account characteristics shared by the subgroups' members\" is now widely accepted in international health, targeting was defined in a few different ways.\n\nIt is important to understand the concept of tailoring in order to capture the idea of targeting, as interventions using targeting strategy were mislabeled as tailoring in some health interventions. Pasick (1997)defined tailoring as \"the adaptation of interventions to best fit the relevant needs and characteristics of a specified target population\". Eakin and colleagues described tailoring as \"a process of producing a video whose content and characters are adapted for or designed to appeal to a particular target population\". Both statements would now be considered as a more appropriate definition of \"targeting\" according to Kreuter and Skinner (2000). The distinction between targeting and tailoring is that targeting is to design information for a defined population subgroup while tailoring is to develop interventions for one specific person based on the individual characteristics.\n\nAnother competing definition of targeting was developed by Rimal and Adkin (2003). They stated that both targeting and tailoring should follow the audience segmentation process, which is to divide audience into highly homogeneous clusters. They distinguish targeting and tailoring by suggesting that targeting is the selection of communication channel for the health campaign while tailoring is about message design.\n\nDespite the wide acceptance of the Kreuter and Skinner (2000) definition, Rimer (2000 pointed out that, although some \"tailored\" intervention would now be appropriately labeled as \"targeted\" intervention, these published projects are out there and the article titles remain as \"tailored\", which might create confusion. Rimer suggested that precision of language is important in order to avoid confusion. For people who are trying to understand targeting and tailoring, it is important to keep in mind the inconsistent labeling of targeting and tailoring in earlier published articles and to make critical judgments when reading.\n\n"}
{"id": "50293718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50293718", "title": "Timeline of deworming", "text": "Timeline of deworming\n\nThis is a timeline of deworming, and specifically mass deworming.\n\n"}
{"id": "544484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=544484", "title": "Trade justice", "text": "Trade justice\n\nTrade justice is a campaign by non-governmental organisations, plus efforts by other actors, to change the rules and practices of world trade in order to promote fairness. These organizations include consumer groups, trade unions, faith groups, aid agencies and environmental groups.\n\nThe organizations campaigning for trade justice posit this concept in opposition to free trade, the advocates of which often also claim pro-poor outcomes. Trade justice advocates argue that truly free trade does not and will never exist, and that governmental policies on trade should be in the public interest, rather than the interest of wealthy entities who try to influence trade negotiation to benefit their individual interests. Advocates of trade justice argue that growing inequity and serious gaps in social justice, and the global export of terrorism, are symptoms of an economic system that permits harms to be exported to other countries, while importing their goods. They point to extinction, deforestation, social unrest, as consequences of globalisation, and in particular of an \"unfair\" globalisation. In the past, the responses sought by critics of the international trade system included various penalties on \"unfair\" goods. This argument generally made little headway against the long-term movement towards free trade; imposition of penalties for \"dumping\" was sometimes motivated by domestic political reasons such as the United States imposition of steel tariffs in 2001).\n\nToday, the trade justice movement concentrates more on the abolition of agricultural subsidies and dumping, and to a much lesser extent on offsetting penalties on \"unfair\" goods. Indeed, although there are many who are still critical of free trade in general, there is a trend towards campaigning against what is seen as hypocrisy by developed countries in using protectionism against the poorest countries, especially in agricultural products, while requiring them to leave their own producers without protection.\n\nThe Trade Justice Movement in the UK was the first formal coalition of groups to use the term \"trade justice\" (partly because in the UK, \"fair trade\" usually refers to Fairtrade certification and is a consumer model of change rather than an overtly political movement calling for government action). The term trade justice has been widely adopted internationally by campaign groups, for example by the over 100 national platforms of the Global Call to Action Against Poverty where it is one of the four main demands. In many countries \"fair trade\" is used as well as or instead of \"trade justice\".\n\nThe global institutions that are most often targeted in trade justice campaigns against the alleged injustices of the current international trade system are the World Trade Organization (WTO), the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank (WB). Campaigners also lobby their own governments with the intention of creating pressure on them to prioritise poverty reduction when making international trade rules. In trading blocs such as the European Union (EU), the campaigns seek to influence policy across a number of member state governments.\n\n\"Trade Justice\" and \"Fair Trade\" were originally used by those supporting social justice and the alleviation of the intense poverty found in many developing nations. They contrasted \"fair trade\" with 'unfair' international trade practices. It is associated particularly with labour unions and environmentalists, in their criticism of disparities between the protections for capital versus those for labour and the environment. The use of the term has expanded beyond campaigns to reform current trading practices, and the major institutions such as the World Trade Organization which embody them. Now it has become a movement to allow consumers to choose \"not\" to participate in these practices. Fairtrade labelling or \"Fairtrade certification\" allows consumers to identify goods especially commodities such as coffee, that meet certain agreed standards of fairness.\n\nAcademics such as Thomas Alured Faunce argue that the insertion of a constructive ambiguity such as valuing innovation in bilateral trade agreements (and then according normative and ongoing lobbying power to such textual negotiating truces by formally linking them with non-violation nullification of benefits provisions) may undermine democratic sovereignty with regard to construction of domestic policy, particularly in areas such as the environment and public health. This view is strenuously contested by trade law officials and many domestic policy makers.\n\n\"The mostly widely referred to demand of trade justice campaigners is access to the markets of developed countries or rich countries. When developing countries export to developed country markets, they often face tariff barriers that can be as much as four times higher than those encountered by developed countries. Poverty claims that those barriers cost poor countries $100 billion a year – twice as much as they receive in aid.\"\n\nMost trade justice campaigners focus in some way on the agricultural subsidies of rich countries that make it difficult for farmers in poor countries to compete. For example, they argue that the European Union's agricultural export subsidies encourage overproduction of goods such as tomatoes or sugar, which are then sold cheaply or 'dumped' in poor countries. Local farmers cannot sell their goods as cheaply and go out of business.\n\nThe campaign points to the treatment of agriculture at the WTO, which has institutionalised these injustices. In the few instances where developing countries have used the complex and expensive WTO process to declare subsidies (e.g. US cotton subsidies) excessive, developed countries ignore these rulings, which the WTO itself does not enforce. Recently rich countries have begun to talk about cutting export subsidies, but they often demand greater access to poor country markets in return.\n\nThe term \"trade justice\" emphasizes that even if the playing field were level, instead of tilted against developing countries, the poorest developing countries in particular would still struggle to gain from trade if forced to trade under free trade terms. This is because of their overwhelming lack of competitiveness – poor countries do not have huge stocks of exports waiting to be shipped to rich countries, instead most small farmers want to be able to sell their goods locally.\n\n"}
{"id": "28503451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28503451", "title": "Transnational organization", "text": "Transnational organization\n\nTransnational organization is a term used in scholarly literature. It refers to international organizations (usually, international nongovernmental organizations) that \"transcend\" the idea of a nation-state.\n\nThe distinction between an international and a transnational organization is unclear and has been criticized by some scholars (ex. Colás, 2002).\n\nTransnational relations have been defined as “contacts, coalitions, and interactions across state boundaries that are not controlled by the central foreign policy organs of governments.” Examples of transnational entities are “multinational business enterprises and revolutionary movements; trade unions and scientific networks; international air transport cartels and communications activities in outer space.” Transnational social movements are “the broad tendencies that often manifest themselves in particular International Non-Governmental Organizations (INGOs).” Examples of transnational social movements include human rights, women’s, peace, labor, green, or student movements manifested in Amnesty International, the Peace Brigades International, the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions, etc. A further definition: “An organization is \"transnational\" rather than \"national\" if it carries on significant centrally-directed operations in the territory of two or more nation-states. Similarly, an organization will be called \"international\" rather than \"national\" only if the control of the organization is explicitly shared among representatives of two or more nationalities. And an organization is \"multinational\" rather than \"national\" only if people from two or more nationalities participate significantly in its operation.” “Transnational organizations are designed to facilitate the pursuit of a single interest within many national units.” \n\n\n"}
{"id": "7316054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7316054", "title": "Turkey's membership of international organizations", "text": "Turkey's membership of international organizations\n\nTurkey is a founding member of the United Nations, the Organisation of the Islamic Conference (now the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation), the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, a member state of the Council of Europe since 1949, and of NATO since 1952. Since 2005, Turkey is in accession negotiations with the European Union, having been an associate member since 1963. Turkey is also a member of the G20 industrial nations which brings together the 20 largest economies of the world.\n\nTurkey entered NATO in 1952 and serves as the organization's vital eastern anchor, controlling the straits leading from the Black Sea to the Mediterranean and sharing a border with Syria, Iraq, and Iran. A NATO headquarters is located in İzmir, and the United States has maintained air forces at a Turkish base called Incirlik that is located near the Mediterranean city of Adana. Due to the 2016–17 Turkish purges and Turkey's turn to authoritarianism some consider expelling Turkey from NATO.\n\nTurkey is also member of the World Trade Organization (WTO). It has signed free trade agreements with the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), Israel, and many other countries. In 1992, Turkey and 10 other regional nations formed the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Business Council to expand regional trade and economic cooperation.\n\nIn December 2000 Turkey became an observer state of the Association of Caribbean States (ACS).\n\n"}
{"id": "52634767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52634767", "title": "United Regions / Forum of Regional Governments and Global Associations of Regions", "text": "United Regions / Forum of Regional Governments and Global Associations of Regions\n\nThe United Regions Organization / Forum of Regional Governments and Global Associations of Regions (ORU Fogar) is an international organization, which aims to bring together regions from all over the world and represents them before other international organizations in order to boost a global policy of balanced development and territorial cohesion.\n\nThe Organization's main objective is to seek the regions' recognition as major players in global governance. ORU Fogar defends that states' decentralization power towards other actors accelerates development; consequently fostering democracy by the proximity between these new actors and the citizens. ORU Fogar promotes a model based on a strong regional government, with legally recognized capabilities and competences and also budgets in compliance with those competences. Amongst its members, ORU Fogar has important European and Latin American regions, as well as regional governments from Africa and Asia.\n\nThe organization acts according to two approaches:\n\nORU Fogar's founding objectives can be wrapped up into three main topics: To raise the voice of regions before all of the international bodies, through the association of regions from all over the world in order to work together for development; to defend a new global governance where regions have a relevant role in encouraging the participation of regional governments in the creation of new policies and work for regions in order for national governments to take into account the regional dimensión and cultural diversity, through the promotion of competitiveness and regional growth, but always trying to follow a sustainable development and respect for climate approach.\n\nFacing the new global situation, regions gathered to achieve a coordinated response to the current challenges in a worldwide association. That meeting was named \"Forum of Regional Governments and Global Associations of Regions (FOGAR)\", held in Cape Town, South Africa, in August 2007. It was conducted on the basis of the \"Declaration of the Regions on their participation in the governance of globalization\" signed in Marseille, PACA, France, on the occasion of the first international convention for a regional approach to development. Seventeen networks of regions from all continents were the founders of the Organization, with a representation of more than 900 subnational governments. Since July 2010, membership in ORU Fogar is also opened to regions and federated states individually.\n\nThe General Assembly is the body of the Organization with the highest level of decision-making power. It is in charge of defining the approaches of the Organization as well as deciding over the actions that will have to be carried on. All the members of the Organization shall meet up in ordinary session once a year.\n\nThe Executive Bureau is devoted to direct and manage the actions of the Organization, always being backed by the General Secretariat. The Executive Bureau meets up twice a year.\n\nSome of the basic functions of the Bureau are: To propose the Organization's political vias and to carry them out, coordinate the work among the different members and commissions that can be created from such members, to supervise the General Secretariat's work and the financial management, and to establish the internal regulations which would be passed at the General Assembly.\n\nPresident: Abdessamad Sekkal, President of the Rabat-Salé-Kénitra regional council (Morocco), was elected as ORU Fogar's President at the General Assembly held in Quito (Ecuador) on 16 October 2016. He represents the United Regions Organization and is in charge of calling the General Assembly and the Bureau's meetings.\n\nVice President: Laurent Wauquiez, President of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes regional council (France) and Vice President of the International Association of Francophone Regions (ARF) was elected as 2nd Vice President of ORU Fogar at the General Assembly held in Quito (Ecuador) on 16 October 2016. He represents the Organization in the absence of the President.\n\nSecretary General: Carles Llorens Vila was appointed as Secretary General of ORU at the VI Summit of Regional Governments on 1 September 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "1692789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1692789", "title": "Voice of America Bethany Relay Station", "text": "Voice of America Bethany Relay Station\n\nThe Voice of America's Bethany Relay Station was located in Butler County, Ohio's Union Township about 25 miles (40 km) north of Cincinnati, adjacent to the transmitter site of WLW. Starting in 1944 during World War II it transmitted American radio programming abroad on shortwave frequencies, using 200,000-watt transmitters built by Crosley engineers under the direction of R.J. Rockwell. The site was developed to provide 'fallback' transmission facilities inland and away from the East Coast, where transmitters were located in Massachusetts, on Long Island in New York, and in New Jersey, all close to the ocean, subject to attack from German submarines or other invading forces.\n\nProgramming originated from studios in New York until 1954, when VOA headquarters moved to Washington.\n\nThe station operated until 1994. The facility took its name from the Liberty Township community of Bethany, which was about two miles north of the facility.\n\nIn 1943, the United States government bought nearly all of Section 12 of Township 3, Range 2 of the Symmes Purchase, the northeasternmost section of Union Township. From Hazel Beckley, 170 acres (688,000 m²) were purchased; from Philip Condon, 143 acres (579,000 m²); from Lola Gray Coy, 100 acres (405,000 m²); from John Miller, 69 acres (279,000 m²); and from Suzie Steinman, 142 acres (575,000 m²). The site was chosen for its elevation and its shallow bedrock and is today bounded by Tylersville Road on the south, Cox Road to the west, Liberty Way to the north, and Butler-Warren Road.\n\nThe transmitters were built by Powel Crosley Jr.'s Crosley Broadcasting Corporation about one mile west of the company's tower for WLW-AM in Mason. The Office of War Information began broadcasting in July 1944 and Adolf Hitler is said to have denounced the \"Cincinnati liars\". Following the war, with the OWI abolished, the facility was taken over by the State Department in 1945. It became part of the newly created United States Information Agency in 1953. The Crosley Broadcasting Corporation operated the facility for the government until November 1963, when the Voice of America assumed direct control.\n\nAt its peak the facility had six transmitters broadcasting with 250 kW and two transmitting with 50 kW.\n\nThe facility was closed on November 14, 1994; because of changing technologies, the transmissions shifted to satellites. The towers were brought down from December 1997 to February 1998.\n\nMost of the land was turned over to the county and township for use as a park.\n\nPart in the southwest corner was sold to developers who have erected a shopping center called the Voice of America Centre.\n\nThe Miami University Voice of America Learning Center opened on the site in January 2009.\n\nThe 30,000 sq. ft. former Bethany Station building at 8070 Tylersville Road is being transformed into the National Voice of America Museum of Broadcasting, a historical center about the history of The Voice of America, radio and television.\n\nUsing a blueprint developed by Jack Rouse Associates, the facility features displays and interactive experiences that relate the story of the Voice of America and incorporate other related collections from Media Heritage and the Gray History of Wireless Museum in Cincinnati.\n\nDisplays include the radio station control room, re-creations of radio and television studios from the 1920s through the present, Old-time radio memorabilia and from the early days of television, and displays about area pioneers in the development of radio technology.\n\nAn amateur radio club West Chester Amateur Radio Association, also operates a station using the callsign WC8VOA. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "6629974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6629974", "title": "WHO Collaborating Centres", "text": "WHO Collaborating Centres\n\nWorld Health Organization Collaborating Centres are institutions such as research institutes, parts of universities or academies from \"over 700 institutions in 80 countries\" that work with WHO in disciplines such as occupational health, food safety, and communicable disease prevention. The participating institutions partner with WHO to perform research, provide training, or offer other services in furthering the WHO health agenda. These partners are designated by the WHO director-general as a part of a collaborative network. By using networks of established organizations, WHO is able to strengthen the scientific validity of its work and lower the costs of research.\n\nThe World Health Organization has established networks related to a variety of health topics. For example, WHO has put in place centres focused on organ transplants, hearing loss prevention, hepatitis, leprosy, ethics, and maternal health. To move the work forward, WHO has numerous designated centres in each inhabited continent. The network of centres for reference and research on influenza draws upon resources from Japan, the United States, the United Kingdom, and Australia. The network of WHO collaborating centres in occupational health is chaired by Dr. John Howard, director of the U.S. National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, and contains more than 60 designated organizations from across the globe.\n"}
{"id": "5934618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5934618", "title": "World Population Day", "text": "World Population Day\n\nWorld Population day is an annual event, observed on July 11 every year, which seeks to raise awareness of global population issues. The event was established by the Governing Council of the United Nations Development Programme in 1989. It was inspired by the public interest in Five Billion Day on July 11, 1987, the approximate date on which the world's population reached five billion people. World Population Day aims to increase people's awareness on various population issues such as the importance of family planning, gender equality, poverty, maternal health and human rights.\n\nThe day was suggested by Dr KC Zachariah in which population reaches Five Billion when he worked as Sr Demographer at World Bank.\n\nWhile press interest and general awareness in the global population surges only at the increments of whole billions of people, the world population increases annually by 100 million approximately every 14 months. The world population reached 7,400,000,000 on February 6, 2016; the world population had reached 7,500,000,000 at around 16:21 on April 24, 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "142735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142735", "title": "World war", "text": "World war\n\nA world war is a large-scale war which affects the whole world directly or indirectly. World wars span multiple countries on multiple continents or just two countries, with battles fought in many theaters. While a variety of global conflicts have been subjectively deemed \"world wars\", such as the Cold War and the War on Terror, the term is widely and usually accepted only as it is retrospectively applied to two major international conflicts that occurred during the 20th century: World War I (1914–1918) and World War II (1939–1945).\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" cited the first known usage in the English language to a Scottish newspaper: the \"People's Journal\" in 1848: \"A war among the great powers is now necessarily a world-war.\" The term \"world war\" had been used in 1850 by Karl Marx and his associate, Friedrich Engels, in \"The Class Struggles in France\". Rasmus B. Anderson in 1889 described an episode in Teutonic mythology as a “world war” (Swedish: \"världskrig\"), justifying this description by a line in an Old Norse epic poem, \"Völuspá: folcvig fyrst i heimi\" (\"The first great war in the world\".) German writer August Wilhelm Otto Niemann had used the term \"world war\" in the title of his anti-British novel, \"Der Weltkrieg: Deutsche Träume\" (\"The World War: German Dreams\") in 1904, published in English as \"The Coming Conquest of England\".\n\nIn English, the term \"First World War\" had been used by Charles à Court Repington, as a title for his memoirs (published in 1920); he had noted his discussion on the matter with a Major Johnstone of Harvard University in his diary entry of September 10, 1918.\n\nThe term \"World War I\" was coined by \"Time\" magazine on page 28b of its June 12, 1939 issue. In the same article, on page 32, the term \"World War II\" was first used speculatively to describe the upcoming war. The first use for the actual war came in its issue of September 11, 1939. One week earlier, on September 4, the day after France and the United Kingdom declared war on Germany, the Danish newspaper \"Kristeligt Dagblad\" used the term on its front page, saying \"The Second World War broke out yesterday at 11 a.m.\"\n\nSpeculative fiction authors had been noting the concept of a Second World War in 1919 and 1920, when Milo Hastings wrote his dystopian novel, \"City of Endless Night\".\nOther languages have also adopted the \"world war\" terminology, for example; in French: \"world war\" is translated as \"guerre mondiale\", in German: \"Weltkrieg\" (which, prior to the war, had been used in the more abstract meaning of a global conflict), in Italian: \"guerra mondiale\", in Spanish and Portuguese: \"guerra mundial\", in Danish and Norwegian: \"verdenskrig\", and in Russian: \"мировая война\" (\"mirovaya voyna\".)\n\nIt occurred from 1914 to 1918 and in terms of human technological history, the scale of World War I was enabled by the technological advances of the second industrial revolution and the resulting globalization that allowed global power projection and mass production of military hardware. Wars on such a scale have not been repeated since the onset of the Atomic Age and the resulting danger of mutually-assured destruction. It had been recognized that the complex system of opposing alliances (the German, Austro-Hungarian, and Ottoman Empires against the British, Russian, and French Empires) was likely to lead to a worldwide conflict if a war broke out. Due to this fact, a very minute conflict between two countries had the potential to set off a domino effect of alliances, triggering a world war. The fact that the powers involved had large overseas empires virtually guaranteed that such a war would be worldwide, as the colonies' resources would be a crucial strategic factor. The same strategic considerations also ensured that the combatants would strike at each other's colonies, thus spreading the wars far more widely than those of pre-Columbian times.\n\nWar crimes were perpetrated in World War I. Chemical weapons were used in the First World War despite the Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907 having outlawed the use of such weapons in warfare. The Ottoman Empire was responsible for the Armenian genocide, the death of over one million Armenians during the First World War.\n\nThe Second World War occurred from 1939 to 1945 and is the only conflict in which atomic bombs have been used. Hiroshima and Nagasaki, in Japan, were devastated by atomic bombs dropped by the United States. Nazi Germany was responsible for genocides, most notably the Holocaust, the killing of six million Jews. The United States, the Soviet Union, and Canada deported and interned minority groups within their own borders, and largely because of the conflict, many ethnic Germans were later expelled from Eastern Europe. Japan was responsible for attacking neutral nations without a declaration of war, such as the bombing of Pearl Harbor. It is also known for its brutal treatment and killing of Allied prisoners of war and the inhabitants of Asia. It also used Asians as forced laborers and was responsible for the Nanking massacre where 250,000 civilians in the city were brutally murdered by Japanese troops. Non-combatants suffered at least as badly as or worse than combatants, and the distinction between combatants and non-combatants was often blurred by belligerents of total war in both conflicts.\n\nThe outcome of World War II had a profound effect on the course of world history. The old European empires either collapsed or were dismantled as a direct result of the wars' crushing costs and, in some cases, their fall was due to the defeat of imperial powers. The United States became firmly established as the dominant global superpower, along with its ideological foe, the Soviet Union, in close competition. The two superpowers exerted political influence over most of the world's nation-states for decades after the end of the Second World War. The modern international security, economic, and diplomatic system was created in the aftermath of the wars.\n\nInstitutions such as the United Nations were established to collectivize international affairs, with the explicit goal of preventing another outbreak of general war. The wars had also greatly changed the course of daily life. Technologies developed during wartime had a profound effect on peacetime life as well, such as by advances in jet aircraft, penicillin, nuclear energy, and electronic computers.\n\nSince the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki during the Second World War, there has been a widespread and prolonged fear of a potential Third World War between nuclear-armed powers. The Third World War is generally considered a successor to the Second World War and is often suggested to become a nuclear war, devastating in nature and likely much more violent than the First World War and the Second World War combined; in 1947, Albert Einstein commented that \"I know not with what weapons World War III will be fought, but World War IV will be fought with sticks and stones.\" It has been anticipated and planned for by military and civil authorities and has been explored in fiction in many countries. Concepts have ranged from purely-conventional scenarios, to limited use of nuclear weapons, to the complete destruction of the planet's surface.\n\nVarious former government officials, politicians, authors, and military leaders (including the following people: James Woolsey Alexandre de Marenches, Eliot Cohen, and Subcomandante Marcos) have attempted to apply the labels of the “Third World War” and “Fourth World War” to various past and present global wars since the closing of the Second World War, for example, the Cold War and the War on Terror, respectively. Among these are former American, French, and Mexican government officials, military leaders, politicians, and authors: Despite their efforts, none of these wars are commonly deemed world wars.\n\nWars described by some historians as \"World War Zero\" include the Seven Years' War and the onset of the Late Bronze Age collapse.\n\nThe Second Congo War (1998–2003) involved nine nations and led to ongoing low-level warfare despite an official peace and the first democratic elections in 2006. It has often been referred to as \"Africa's World War\". During the early-21st century the Syrian Civil War and the Iraqi Civil War and their worldwide spillovers are sometimes described as proxy wars waged between the United States and Russia, which led some commentators to characterize the situation as a \"proto-world war\" with nearly a dozen countries embroiled in two overlapping conflicts.\n\nThe two world wars of the 20th century had caused unprecedented casualties and destruction across the theaters of conflict. There have been several wars that occurred with as many or more deaths than in the First World War (16,563,868 — 40,000,000), including:\n\nThere have been numerous wars spanning two or more continents throughout history, including:\n\n\n"}
