{"id": "14517800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14517800", "title": "Anti-nuclear movement in Australia", "text": "Anti-nuclear movement in Australia\n\nNuclear weapons testing, uranium mining and export, and nuclear power have often been the subject of public debate in Australia, and the anti-nuclear movement in Australia has a long history. Its origins date back to the 1972–73 debate over French nuclear testing in the Pacific and the 1976–77 debate about uranium mining in Australia.\n\nSeveral groups specifically concerned with nuclear issues were established in the mid-1970s, including the Movement Against Uranium Mining and Campaign Against Nuclear Energy (CANE), cooperating with other environmental groups such as Friends of the Earth and the Australian Conservation Foundation. The movement suffered a setback in 1983 when the newly elected Labor Government failed to implement its stated policy of stopping uranium mining. But by the late 1980s, the price of uranium had fallen, the costs of nuclear power had risen, and the anti-nuclear movement seemed to have won its case; CANE was disbanded in 1988.\n\nAbout 2003, proponents of nuclear power advocated it as a solution to global warming and the Australian government began taking an interest. Anti-nuclear campaigners and some scientists in Australia argued that nuclear power could not significantly substitute for other power sources, and that uranium mining itself could become a significant source of greenhouse gas emissions.\n\nAs of 2015, Australia has no nuclear power stations and five uranium mines, four of which are located in South Australia. Olympic Dam (Roxby Downs) is a large underground mine, Beverley, Four Mile and Honeymoon are in-situ leach mines and Ranger in an open pit mine in the Northern Territory. Uranium mined in Australia is mainly for export. Australia has no nuclear weapons or nuclear-powered vessels.\n\nIn 1952 the Australian Government established the Rum Jungle Uranium Mine 85 kilometres south of Darwin. Local aboriginal communities were not consulted and the mine site became an environmental disaster.\n\nAlso in 1952, the Liberal Government passed legislation, the \"Defence (Special Undertakings) Act 1952\", which allowed the British Government access to remote parts of Australia to undertake atmospheric nuclear weapons tests. The general public were largely unaware of the risks from the testing program, stemming from official secrecy about the testing program and the remote locations of the test sites. But as the \"Ban the Bomb\" movement gathered momentum in Western societies throughout the 1950s, so too did opposition to the British tests in Australia. An opinion poll taken in 1957 showed 49 per cent of the Australian public were opposed to the tests and only 39 per cent in favour.\n\nIn 1963, Australia was one of the first signatories to a Partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. In 1964, Peace Marches which featured \"Ban the bomb\" placards, were held in several Australian capital cities.\n\nIn 1969, a 500 MW nuclear power plant was proposed for the Jervis Bay Territory, 200 km south of Sydney. A local opposition campaign began, and the South Coast Trades and Labour Council (covering workers in the region) announced that it would refuse to build the reactor. Some environmental studies and site works were completed, and two rounds of tenders were called and evaluated, but in 1971 the Australian government decided not to proceed with the project, citing economic reasons.\n\nThe 1972–73 debate over French nuclear testing in the Pacific mobilised several groups, including some trade unions. In 1972 the International Court of Justice in a case launched by Australia and New Zealand, and advocated by Dr Helen Caldicott, ordered that the French cease atmospheric nuclear testing at Mururoa atoll. In 1973 Australia's concerns saw it as a champion and an early adopter of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and around this time, the Government ratified the Seabed Arms Control Treaty. Shortly after this, the Government negotiated with the International Atomic Energy Agency to put in safeguards to ensure Australia could mine and export nuclear material but not breach the intent of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.\n\nIn 1974 and 1975 concern came to focus on uranium mining in Australia and several Friends of the Earth groups were formed. The Australian Conservation Foundation also began voicing concern about uranium mining and supporting the activities of the grass-roots organisations. Concern about the environmental effects of uranium mining was a significant factor and poor management of waste at an early uranium mine, Rum Jungle, led it to become a significant pollution problem in the 1970s. The Australian anti-nuclear movement also acquired initial impetus from notable individuals who publicly voiced nuclear concerns, such as nuclear scientists Richard Temple and Rob Robotham, and poets Dorothy Green and Judith Wright.\n\nIn 1975, Moss Cass, Minister for the Environment and Conservation, led parliamentarians and ALP branch members in expressing concerns about the effects of uranium mining. A key concern was the adverse effect that uranium mining would have on the northern Aboriginal people. Cass said: \"nuclear energy creates the most dangerous, insidious and persistent waste products, ever experienced on the planet\".\n\nThe years 1976 and 1977 saw uranium mining become a major political issue, with the Ranger Inquiry (Fox) report opening up a public debate about uranium mining. Several groups specifically concerned with nuclear issues were established, including the Movement Against Uranium Mining (founded in 1976) and Campaign Against Nuclear Energy (formed in South Australia in 1976), cooperating with other environmental groups such as Friends of the Earth (which came to Australia in 1975) and the Australian Conservation Foundation (formed in 1975).\n\nIn November and December 1976, 7,000 people marched through the streets of Australian cities, protesting against uranium mining. The Uranium Moratorium group was formed and it called for a five-year moratorium on uranium mining. In April 1977 the first national demonstration co-ordinated by the Uranium Moratorium brought around 15,000 demonstrators into the streets of Melbourne, 5,000 in Sydney, and smaller numbers elsewhere. A National signature campaign attracted over 250,000 signatures calling for a five-year moratorium. In August, another demonstration brought 50,000 people out nationally and the opposition to uranium mining looked like a potential political force.\n\nIn 1977, the National Conference of the Australian Labor Party (ALP) passed a motion in favour of an indefinite moratorium on uranium mining, and the anti-nuclear movement acted to support the Labor Party and help it regain office. However, a setback for the movement occurred in 1982 when another ALP conference overturned its anti-uranium policy in favour of a \"one mine policy\". After the ALP won power in 1983, its 1984 National Conference voted in favour of a \"Three mine policy\". This referred to the then three existing uranium mines in Australia, Nabarlek, Ranger and Roxby Downs/Olympic Dam, and articulated ALP support for pre-existing mines and contracts, but opposition to any new mining.\n\nIn 1977-78, the West Australian Government, under the leadership of Charles Court, announced plans for a nuclear power reactor near Perth. 1977 was seen as the year of mass mobilization in WA, with 300 at the first anti-nuclear demonstration to 9,000 at the third protest in the inner city of Perth. Despite public protest, the WA Government selected a first site for a nuclear reactor in 1979 at Wilbinga, 70 kilometres north of Perth. Court predicted that at least another 20 nuclear power plants would be needed by the end of the century to meet rapidly growing power demand, but all of this never eventuated.\n\nFrom the late 1970s, a number of agreements were signed enabling the potential peaceful export (and import) of nuclear material:\nThese International agreements created a market for Australia to mine and export uranium.\n\nBetween 1979 and 1984, the majority of what is now Kakadu National Park was created, surrounding but not including the Ranger uranium mine. Tension between mining and conservation values led to long running controversy around mining in the Park region.\n\nThe two themes for the 1980 Hiroshima Day march and rally in Sydney, sponsored by the Movement Against Uranium Mining (MAUM), were: \"Keep uranium in the ground\" and \"No to nuclear war.\" Later that year, the Sydney city council officially proclaimed Sydney nuclear-free, in an action similar to that taken by many other local councils throughout Australia.\n\nIn the 1980s, academic critics (such as Jim Falk) discussed the \"deadly connection\" between uranium mining, nuclear reactors and nuclear weapons, linking Australia's nuclear policy to nuclear proliferation and the \"plutonium economy\".\n\nIn the 1980s, Australia experienced a significant growth of nuclear disarmament activism: \n\nOn Palm Sunday 1982, an estimated 100,000 Australians participated in anti-nuclear rallies in the nation's biggest cities. Growing year by year, the rallies drew 350,000 participants in 1985. The movement focused on halting Australia's uranium mining and exports, abolishing nuclear weapons, removing foreign military bases from Australia's soil, and creating a nuclear-free Pacific. Public opinion surveys found that about half of Australians opposed uranium mining and export, as well as the visits of U.S. nuclear warships, that 72 percent thought the use of nuclear weapons could never be justified, and that 80 percent favoured building a nuclear-free world. \nThe Nuclear Disarmament Party won a Senate seat in 1984, but soon faded from the political scene. The years of the Hawke-Keating ALP governments (1983–1996) were characterised by an \"uneasy standoff in the uranium debate\". The ALP acknowledged community feeling against uranium mining but was reluctant to move against the industry.\n\nThe 1986 Palm Sunday anti-nuclear rallies drew 250,000 people. In Melbourne, the seamen's union boycotted the arrival of foreign nuclear warships.\n\nAustralia's only nuclear energy education facility, the former School of Nuclear Engineering at the University of New South Wales, closed in 1986.\n\nBy the late 1980s, the price of uranium had fallen, and the costs of nuclear power had risen, and the anti-nuclear movement seemed to have won its case. The Campaign Against Nuclear Energy disbanded itself in 1988, two years after the Chernobyl Disaster.\n\nThe government policy preventing new uranium mines continued into the 1990s, despite occasional reviews and debate. Following protest marches in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane during 1998, a proposed mine at Jabiluka was blocked.\n\nAlso in 1998, there was a proposal from an international consortium, Pangea Resources, to establish a nuclear waste dump in Western Australia. The plan, to store 20 per cent of the world's spent nuclear fuel and weapons material, was \"publicly condemned and abandoned\".\n\nIn 2000, the Ranger Uranium Mine in the Northern Territory and the Roxby Downs/Olympic Dam mine in South Australia continued to operate, but Nabarlek Uranium Mine had closed. A third uranium mine, Beverley Uranium Mine in SA, was also operating. Several advanced projects, such as Honeymoon in SA, Jabiluka in the Northern Territory and Yeelirrie in WA were on hold because of political and indigenous opposition.\nIn May 2000 there was an anti-nuclear demonstration at the Beverley Uranium Mine, which involved about 100 protesters. Ten of the protesters were mistreated by police and were later awarded more than $700,000 in damages from the South Australian government.\n\nFollowing the McClelland Royal Commission, a large clean-up was completed in outback South Australia in 2000, after nuclear testing at Maralinga during the 1950s contaminated the region. The cleanup lasted three years, and cost over A$100 million, but there was controversy over the methods used and success of the operation.\n\nOn 17 December 2001, 46 Greenpeace activists occupied the Lucas Heights facility to protest the construction of a second research reactor. Protestors gained access to the grounds, the HIFAR reactor, the high-level radioactive waste store and the radio tower. Their protest highlighted the security and environmental risks of the production of nuclear materials and the shipment of radioactive waste from the facility.\n\nAs uranium prices began rising from about 2003, proponents of nuclear power advocated it as a solution to global warming and the Australian government began taking an interest. However, in June 2005, the Senate passed a motion opposing nuclear power for Australia. Then, in November 2006, the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Industry and Resources released a pro-nuclear report into Australia's uranium. In late 2006 and early 2007, then Prime Minister John Howard made widely reported statements in favour of nuclear power, on environmental grounds.\n\nFaced with these proposals to examine nuclear power as a possible response to climate change, anti-nuclear campaigners and scientists in Australia emphasised claims that nuclear power could not significantly substitute for other power sources, and that uranium mining itself could become a significant source of greenhouse gas emissions. Anti-nuclear campaigns were given added impetus by public concern about the sites for possible reactors: fears exploited by anti-nuclear power political parties in the lead-up to a national election in 2007.\n\nThe Rudd Labor government elected in 2007 opposed nuclear power for Australia. The anti-nuclear movement continues to be active in Australia, opposing expansion of existing uranium mines, lobbying against the development of nuclear power in Australia, and criticising proposals for nuclear waste disposal sites, the main candidate being Muckaty station in the Northern Territory.\n\nBy April 2009, construction had begun on South Australia's third uranium mine— the Honeymoon Uranium Mine. In October 2009, the Australian government was continuing to plan for a nuclear waste dump in the Northern Territory. However, there was opposition from indigenous people, the NT government, and wider NT community. In November 2009, about 100 anti-nuclear protesters assembled outside the Alice Springs parliamentary sittings, urging the Northern Territory Government not to approve a nearby uranium mine site.\n\nAs of 2016, Australia has no nuclear power stations and the former Gillard Labor government was opposed to nuclear power for Australia. Australia has three operating uranium mines at Olympic Dam (Roxby) and Beverley – both in South Australia's north – and at Ranger in the Northern Territory. Australia has no nuclear weapons. Australia operates a research reactor which produces medical radioisotopes at OPAL.\n\nAs of early April 2010, more than 200 environmentalists and indigenous people gathered in Tennant Creek to oppose a radioactive waste dump being built on Muckaty Station in the Northern Territory.\n\nWestern Australia has a significant share of the Australia's uranium reserves, but between 2002 and 2008, a statewide ban on uranium mining was in force. The ban was lifted when the Liberal Party was voted into power in the state and, as of 2010, many companies are exploring for uranium in Western Australia. One of the industry's major players, the mining company BHP Billiton, planned to develop the Yeelirrie uranium project in a 17 billion dollar project. Two other projects in Western Australia are further advanced then BHP's Yeelirrie, these being the Lake Way uranium project, which is pursued by Toro Energy, and the Lake Maitland uranium project, pursued by Mega Uranium. But it is unlikely that any new projects will enter active development until the market improves. As of 2013 uranium prices are very low.\nAs of late 2010, there are calls for Australians to debate whether the nation should adopt nuclear power as part of its energy mix. Nuclear power is seen to be \"a divisive issue that can arouse deep passions among those for and against\".\n\nFollowing the March 2011 Fukushima nuclear emergency in Japan, where three nuclear reactors were damaged by explosions, Ian Lowe sees the nuclear power option as being risky and unworkable for Australia. Lowe says nuclear power is too expensive, with insurmountable problems associated with waste disposal and weapons proliferation. It is also not a fast enough response to address climate change. Lowe advocates renewable energy which is \"quicker, less expensive and less dangerous than nuclear\".\n\nNuclear reactors are banned in Queensland and Tasmania. Uranium mining was previously prohibited in New South Wales under the Uranium Prohibition Act of 1986, however in 2012 Premier Barry O'Farrell amended the legislation to allow prospecting and mining of uranium in that State.\n\nIn December 2011, the sale of uranium to India was a contentious issue. MPs clashed over the issue and protesters were marched from Sydney's convention centre before Prime Minister Julia Gillard's motion to remove a party ban on uranium sales to India was narrowly supported 206 votes to 185. Long-time anti-nuclear campaigner Peter Garrett MP spoke against the motion.\n\nIn March 2012, hundreds of anti-nuclear demonstrators converged on the Australian headquarters of global mining giants BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto. The 500-strong march through southern Melbourne called for an end to uranium mining in Australia, and included speeches and performances by representatives of the expatriate Japanese community as well as Australia's Indigenous communities, who are concerned about the effects of uranium mining near tribal lands. There were also events in Sydney.\n\nA site within Muckaty Station was considered for Australia's low-level and intermediate-level radioactive waste storage and disposal facility. However, the plan was withdrawn following a High Court hearing, and one of the seven clans of traditional owners of Muckaty Station, the Ngapa clan, served papers on the Northern Land Council over the way the process was handled. \n\nMore than 400 people joined a \"Lizard's Revenge march\" to the Olympic Dam site in July 2012. The anti-nuclear activists, including Elder Kevin Buzzacott, protested against the mine expansion and the uranium industry. They say the company and the government have put short-term economic gain ahead of environmental and health concerns. Organiser Nectaria Calan said police harassed protesters, demanding identification and controlling access to and from their campsite. In August 2012, BHP Billiton announced that the expansion was being postponed indefinitely pending investigation of a \"new and cheaper design\".\n\nHistorically, many prospective Australian uranium mines have been constrained by active antinuclear opposition, but state governments have now approved mine development in Western Australia and Queensland. But it is unlikely that any new projects will enter active development until the market improves. As of 2013 uranium prices are very low. Cameco placed the Kintyre project on hold until market prices improve and Paladin has stated that its project proposals (Bigrlyi, Angela/Pamela, Manyingee, Oobagooma, and Valhalla/Skal) need higher uranium market prices before they can proceed. Toro wants to take the Wiluna proposal to the development phase, but has not been successful in attracting equity investors. When market prices go up again, so that mine development is justified, most projects would need at least five years to proceed to production.\n\nIn 2013, Prime Minister Tony Abbott supported nuclear power, saying: \"nuclear power is the only proven way of generating the base load power Australia needed without producing carbon pollution\". Abbott's Coalition’s Resources and Energy policy says \"the Coalition will formalise the agreement to sell uranium to India\". In 2016 under Malcolm Turnbull, both Australian political parties opened the door for uranium exports to India, with trade potentially starting in 2017.\n\nIn 2015, South Australian Premier Jay Weatherill announced that a Royal Commission would be held to investigate the state's role in the nuclear fuel cycle. South Australia is currently home to four of Australia's five uranium mines, and the possibility of the state developing nuclear power generation, enrichment and waste storage facilities have previously proven to be contentious issues. The Royal Commission comes at a time of economic contraction for South Australia, which is suffering from job losses in mining and manufacturing sectors. Immediately following the announcement of the Royal Commission, emeritus Prof. Ian Lowe suggested that the current inquiry risks retreading old ground already covered by several previous public inquiries and proposals for nuclear industrialisation. Lowe referred to the 2006 UMPNER review's finding that substantial government subsidies would be required to support nuclear industrial development in Australia, and the 1976-78 Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry (Fox Report), which drew attention to the problems of nuclear weapons proliferation and nuclear waste. On 17 April 2015, Lowe was selected as one of five members of the Nuclear Fuel Cycle Royal Commission Expert Advisory Committee.\n\nThe case against nuclear power and uranium mining in Australia has been concerned with the environmental, political, economic, social and cultural impacts of nuclear energy; with the shortcomings of nuclear power as an energy source; and with presenting a sustainable energy strategy. The most prominent adverse impact of nuclear power is seen to be its potential contribution towards proliferation of nuclear weapons. For example, the 1976 Ranger Inquiry report stated that \"The nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to an increased risk of nuclear war. This is the most serious hazard associated with the industry\".\n\nThe health risks associated with nuclear materials have also featured prominently in Australian anti-nuclear campaigns. This has been the case worldwide because of accidents like the Chernobyl disaster, but Australian concerns have also involved specific local factors such as controversy over the health effects of nuclear testing in Australia and the South Pacific, and the emergence of prominent anti-nuclear campaigners Helen Caldicott and Tilman Ruff, who are medical practitioners.\n\nThe economics of nuclear power has been a factor in anti-nuclear campaigns, with critics arguing that such power is uneconomical in Australia, particularly given the country's abundance of coal resources.\n\nAccording to the anti-nuclear movement, most of the problems with nuclear power today are much the same as in the 1970s. Nuclear reactor accidents still occur and there is no convincing solution to the problem of long-lived radioactive waste. Nuclear weapons proliferation continues to occur, notably in Pakistan and North Korea, building on facilities and expertise from civilian nuclear operations. The alternatives to nuclear power, efficient energy use and renewable energy (especially wind power), have been further developed and commercialised.\n\nA 2009 poll conducted by the Uranium Information Centre found that Australians in the 40 to 55 years age group are the \"most trenchantly opposed to nuclear power\". This generation was raised during the Cold War, experienced the anti-nuclear movement of the 1970s, witnessed the 1979 partial meltdown of the Three Mile Island reactor in the USA, and the 1986 Chernobyl disaster. It was the generation which was also subject to cultural influences including feature films such as the \"nuclear industry conspiracies\" \"The China Syndrome\" and \"Silkwood\" and the apocalyptic \"Dr Strangelove\". Younger people are \"less resistant\" to the idea of nuclear power in Australia. Analysis of opinion polls from 2012 shows a \"significant decrease in favourable views of nuclear power\" following the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.\n\nIndigenous land owners have consistently opposed uranium mining and have spoken out about the adverse impact it has on their communities. The British nuclear tests at Maralinga were found to have left significant radiation hazards in land given back to the Maralinga Tjarutja people, and the issue continues to cause indigenous opposition.\n\nThere are several prominent Australians who have publicly expressed anti-nuclear views:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16594692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16594692", "title": "Aonach", "text": "Aonach\n\nAn Aonach or Óenach was an ancient Irish public national assembly called upon the death of a king, queen, notable sage or warrior as part of ancestor worship practices. As well as the entertainment, the óenach was an occasion on which kings and notables met under truce and where laws were pronounced and confirmed.\n\nThe Aonach had three functions; honoring the dead, proclaiming laws, and funeral games and festivities to entertain. The first function took between one and three days depending on the importance of the deceased, guests would sing mourning chants called the \"Guba\" after which druids would improvise songs in memory of the dead called a \"Cepóg\". The dead would then be burnt on a funeral pyre. The second function would then be carried out by the Ollamh Érenn, giving out laws to the people via bards and druids and culminating in the igniting of another massive fire. The custom of rejoicing after a funeral was then enshrined in the \"Cuiteach Fuait\", games of mental and physical ability accompanied by a large market for traders. \n\nThe most notable fair, that held under the auspices of the High King of Ireland and the Uí Néill, was the \"Óenach Tailten\" or \"Tailteann Games\", which is given prehistoric origins by medieval writers. This was held at Teltown, in modern County Meath, as late as 1770. The compilers of the Irish annals considered violence and disorders at this óenach, or the failure of the incumbent High King to hold the fair, to be of note. The Irish Free State held revivals of the Tailteann Games from 1924 to 1932. \n\nOther important assemblies included that of Tlachtga, held on the Hill of Ward at Samhain, that of Carman, held in County Wexford, that of Uisnech, held at Beltane and that of Raigne in Osraige. Not all had pagan calendrical associations. The \"Óenach Colmáin\", probably held at Lynally, was named for Saint Elo Colman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8239144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8239144", "title": "Asilomar Conference on Recombinant DNA", "text": "Asilomar Conference on Recombinant DNA\n\nThe Asilomar Conference on Recombinant DNA was an influential conference organized by Paul Berg to discuss the potential biohazards and regulation of biotechnology, held in February 1975 at a conference center at Asilomar State Beach. A group of about 140 professionals (primarily biologists, but also including lawyers and physicians) participated in the conference to draw up voluntary guidelines to ensure the safety of recombinant DNA technology. The conference also placed scientific research more into the public domain, and can be seen as applying a version of the precautionary principle.\n\nThe effects of these guidelines are still being felt through the biotechnology industry and the participation of the general public in scientific discourse. Due to potential safety hazards, scientists worldwide had halted experiments using recombinant DNA technology, which entailed combining DNAs from different organisms. After the establishment of the guidelines during the conference, scientists continued with their research, which increased fundamental knowledge about biology and the public's interest in biomedical research.\n\nRecombinant DNA technology arose as a result of advances in biology that began in the 1950s and 60’s. During these decades, a tradition of merging the structural, biochemical and informational approaches to the central problems of classical genetics became more apparent. Two main underlying concepts of this tradition were that genes consisted of DNA and that DNA encoded information that determined the processes of replication and protein synthesis. These concepts were embodied in the model of DNA produced through the combined efforts of James Watson, Francis Crick,and Rosalind Franklin. Further research on the Watson-Crick model yielded theoretical advances that were reflected in new capacities to manipulate DNA. One of these capacities was recombinant DNA technology.\n\nThis technology entails the joining of DNA from different species and the subsequent insertion of the hybrid DNA into a host cell. One of the first individuals to develop recombinant DNA technology was a biochemist at Stanford by the name of Paul Berg. In his experimental design in 1974, he cleaved (cut into fragments) the monkey virus SV40. He then cleaved the double helix of another virus; an antibacterial agent known as bacteriophage lambda. In the third step, he fastened DNA from the SV40 to DNA from the bacteriophage lambda. The final step involved placing the mutant genetic material into a laboratory strain of the E. coli bacterium. This last step, however, was not completed in the original experiment.\n\nBerg did not complete his final step due to the pleas of several fellow investigators who feared the biohazards associated with the last step. The SV40 was known to cause cancer tumors to develop in mice. Additionally, the E. coli bacterium (although not the strain used by Berg) inhabited the human intestinal tract. For these reasons, the other investigators feared that the final step would create cloned SV40 DNA that might escape into the environment and infect laboratory workers. These workers could then become cancer victims.\n\nConcern about this potential biohazard, along with others, caused a group of leading researchers to send a letter to the president of the National Academy of Science (NAS). In this letter, they requested that he appoint an ad hoc committee to study the bio-safety ramifications of this new technology. This committee, called the Committee on Recombinant DNA molecules of the National Academy of Science, U.S.A., held in 1974, concluded that an international conference was necessary to resolve the issue and that until that time, scientists should halt experiments involving recombinant DNA technology.\n\nThe Asilomar Conference on Recombinant DNA took place at the Asilomar Conference Center on California's Monterey Peninsula in 1975. The main goal of the conference was to address the biohazards presented by recombinant DNA technology. During the conference, the principles guiding the recommendations for how to conduct experiments using this technology safely were established. The first principle for dealing with potential risks was that containment should be made an essential consideration in the experimental design. A second principle was that the effectiveness of the containment should match the estimated risk as closely as possible.\n\nThe conference also suggested the use of biological barriers to limit the spread of recombinant DNA. Such biological barriers included fastidious bacterial hosts that were unable to survive in natural environments. Other barriers were nontransmissible and equally fastidious vectors (plasmids, bacteriophages, or other viruses) that were able to grow in only specified hosts.\n\nIn addition to biological barriers, the conference advocated the use of additional safety factors. One such safety factor was physical containment, exemplified by the use of hoods or where applicable, limited access or negative pressure laboratories. Another factor was the strict adherence to good microbiological practices, which would limit the escape of organisms from the experimental situation. Additionally, the education and training of all personnel involved in the experiments would be essential to effective containment measures.\n\nThe Asilomar Conference also gave recommendations for matching the types of containment necessary for different types of experiments. These recommendations were based on the different levels of risk associated with the experiment, which would require different levels of containment. These levels were minimal, low, moderate and high risk. The minimal risk level of containment was intended for experiments in which the biohazards could be accurately assessed and were expected to be minimal. Low risk containment was appropriate for experiments that generated novel biotypes but where the available information indicated that the recombinant DNA could not either alter appreciably the ecological behavior of the recipient species, increase significantly its pathogenicity or prevent effective treatments of any resulting infections. The moderate risk level of containment was intended for experiments in which there was a probability of generating an agent with a significant potential for pathogenicity or ecological disruption. High-risk containment was intended for experiments in which the potential for ecological disruption or pathogenicity of the modified organism could be severe and thereby pose a serious biohazard to laboratory personnel or to the public. These levels of containments, along with the previously mentioned safety measures, formed the basis for the guidelines used by investigators in future experiments that involved the construction and propagation of recombinant DNA molecules using DNA from prokaryotes, bacteriophages and other plasmids, animal viruses and eukaryotes.\n\nFor prokaryotes, bacteriophages and other plasmids, experiments could be performed in minimal risk containment facilities when the construction of recombinant DNA molecules and their propagation involved prokaryotic agents that were known to exchange genetic information naturally. For experiments involving the creation and propagation of recombinant DNA molecules from DNAs of species that ordinarily did not exchange genetic information and generate novel biotypes, the experiments were to be performed in at least in a low risk containment facility. If the experiment increased the pathogenicity of the recipient species or result in new metabolic pathways in species, then moderate or high-risk containment facilities were to be used. In experiments where the range of resistance of established human pathogens to therapeutically useful antibiotics or disinfectants was extended, the experiments were to be undertaken only in moderate or high-risk containment facilities.\n\nWhen working with animal viruses, experiments that involved the linkage of viral genomes or genome segments to prokaryotic vectors and their propagation in prokaryotic cells were to be conducted only with vector-host systems that had demonstrated restricted growth capabilities outside the laboratory and in moderate risk containment facilities. As safer vector-host systems became available, such experiments could be performed in low risk facilities. In experiments designed to introduce or propagate DNA from non-viral or other low risk agents in animal cells, only low risk animal DNA could be used as vectors and the manipulations were to be confined to moderate risk containment facilities.\n\nWith eukaryotes, attempts to clone segments of DNA using recombinant DNA technology from warm-blooded vertebrates genomes were to be performed only with vector-host systems that had demonstrably restricted growth capabilities outside the laboratory and in a moderate risk containment facility. This was because they potentially contained cryptic viral genomes that were potentially pathogenic to humans. However, unless the organism made a dangerous product, recombinant DNAs from cold-blooded vertebrates and all other lower eukaryotes could be constructed and propagated with the safest vector-host system available in low risk containment facilities. Additionally, purified DNA from any source that performed known functions and was judged to be non-toxic could be cloned with available vectors in low risk containment facilities.\n\nIn addition to regulating the experiments that were conducted, the guidelines also forbade the performance of other experiments. One such experiment was the cloning of recombinant DNAs derived from highly pathogenic organisms. In addition, neither the cloning of DNA containing toxin genes, nor large scale experiments using recombinant DNAs that were able to make products that were potentially harmful to humans, animals or plants were allowed under the guidelines. These experiments were banned because the potential biohazards could not be contained by the then current safety precautions.\n\nThe participants of the Asilomar Conference also endeavored to bring science into the domain of the general public, with a possible motivation being the Watergate scandal. The scandal resulted from a bungled break-in at the Watergate hotel, which served as the Democratic National Committee headquarters in 1972. Two years after the burglary, taped evidence was discovered that indicated that President Nixon had discussed a cover-up a week after it. Three days following the release of the tape, Nixon resigned from his presidential office. This event focused the nation's attention on the problem of government secrecy fostering illegal and immoral behavior and it has been suggested by the political scientist, Ira H. Carmen, that this motivated the scientists at the Asilomar Conference to bring science into the public eye to ensure that they would not be accused of a cover-up. Additionally, according to Dr. Berg and Dr. Singer, by being forthright, scientists avoided restrictive legislation due to the development of a consensus on how they were to conduct their research.\n\nBringing science into the public eye also coincided with the rapid rate at which recombinant DNA technology entered the industrial world. Because of the practical applications of the technology, funding for research using it started coming more from the private sector and less from the public sector. In addition, many molecular biologists who once confined themselves to academia, developed ties with private industry as equity owners, corporate executives and consultants. This led to the creation of a biotechnology industry, although during this time, public debates occur over the hazards of recombinant DNA. These debates were eventually won over by scientists who stated that the hazards were exaggerated and that the research could be conducted safely. Such was seen in the Ascot report, found in the Federal Register in March 1978. This report emphasized that the hazards of recombinant DNA to the general community were small to the point that they were of no practical consequence to the general public. For this reason, along with high economic pressures for industrial development and a more supportive political environment that existed after 1979, research and industry based on recombinant DNA continued to expand.\n\nYears after the conference, people ascribed a large amount of significance to it. According to Paul Berg and Maxine Singer in 1995, the conference marked the beginning of an exceptional era for both science and the public discussion of science policy. The guidelines devised by the conference enabled scientists to conduct experiments with recombinant DNA technology, which by 1995 dominated biological research. This research, in turn, increased knowledge about fundamental life processes, such as the cell cycle. Additionally, the conference along with public debates on recombinant DNA, increased public interest in biomedical research and molecular genetics. For this reason, by 1995, genetics and its vocabulary had become a part of the daily press and television news. This, in turn, stimulated knowledgeable public discussion about some of the social, political and environmental issues that emerged from genetic medicine and the use of genetically modified plants in agriculture. Another significant outcome of the conference was the precedent it set about how to respond to changes in scientific knowledge. According to the conference, the proper response to new scientific knowledge was to develop guidelines that governed how to regulate it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "643854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=643854", "title": "Bourgeois nationalism", "text": "Bourgeois nationalism\n\nIn Marxism, bourgeois nationalism is the practice by the ruling classes of deliberately dividing people by nationality, race, ethnicity, or religion, so as to distract them from initiating class warfare. It is seen as a divide and conquer strategy used by the ruling classes to prevent the working class from uniting against them (hence the Marxist slogan, \"Workers of all countries, unite!\").\n\nAfter the October Revolution, the Bolshevik government based its nationalities policy (korenization) on the principles of Marxist–Leninist ideology. According to these principles, all nations should disappear with time, and nationalism was considered a bourgeois ideology.\n\nIn his Report on the 50th anniversary of the formation of the USSR, Leonid Brezhnev emphasized: \"That is why Communists and all fighters for socialism believe that the main aspect of the national question is unification of the working people, regardless of their national origin, in the common battle against every type of oppression, and for a new social system which rules out exploitation of the working people.\"\n\n\"Bourgeois nationalism\" as a concept was discussed in China by Liu Shaoqi as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "30320952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30320952", "title": "Branding national myths and symbols", "text": "Branding national myths and symbols\n\nBranding national myths and symbols (BNMS) is a field of research focusing on branding and marketing of a nation's myths and symbols. The research blends the theories of marketing, cultural communications, sociology, public relations, and semiotics. The awareness of a nation’s (or a collective group’s) internal myths and symbols may result in raising cultural relations between nations, according to this theory. The use dates from before the 1990, and field of study dates from about 2000, but was not given this moniker by a scholar until 2009.\n\nThe principles of BNMS are related to, but are different from Nation branding. The main difference between two principles is that nation branding is primarily concerned with raising the global image of a nation for better economic return, while BNMS is concerned with the revealing and demonstrating the meanings behind a nation’s internal myths and symbols. In other words, nation branding is the selling or promotion of the external identity of a nation, while BNMS is the revealing of their internal identity, either for its own citizens to believe in, or to achieve better global relations between nations. According to the theory, each national myth and symbol has its own hidden meanings that may reinforce these misunderstandings between nations.\n\nExamples of BNMS include changing the symbols on currency, a national anthem (see, \"e.g.\", National Anthem Project by the United States), and advertising in political campaigns.\n\nA national myth is an inspiring narrative or anecdote about a nation's past. Such myths often serve as an important national symbol and affirm a set of national values. A national myth may sometimes take the form of a national epic, part of the nation's civil religion, a legend or fictionalized narrative, which has been elevated to serious mythological, symbolical and esteemed level so as to be true to the nation. It might simply over-dramatize true incidents, omit important historical details, or add details for which there is no evidence; or it might simply be a fictional story that no one takes to be true literally, but contains a symbolic meaning for the nation.\n\nThe national folklore of many nations includes a founding myth, which may involve a struggle against colonialism or a war of independence. National myths serve many social and political purposes, such as state-sponsored propaganda, or of inspiring civic virtue and self-sacrifice.\n\nIn some cases, the meaning of the national myth may become disputed among different parts of the population, such as majority and minority groups, which makes \"branding\" and \"advertising\" of the national myth necessary.\n\nThe World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) has conducted a number of symposia on the protection of folklore, \"i.e.\", \"traditional cultural expressions\", with the goal of preventing their \"misappropriation\" by branding, patenting, trademarking, or copyright by other persons.\n\nA recent, clear example as of 2011 is the use of \"Greco-Roman symbols merged into Christianity\" on the Euro note. Many nations have put their national ideas on their money \"via branding national myths and symbols.\" The image of the crowning Charlemagne is on a Euro note, because he is \"accepted as the Father of Europe and thereby of the EU, with buildings and rooms named after him.\" The accepted \"symbol for EU culture ... symbolises a Doric column ...\" but does not necessarily represent Europe’s other cultures (Norse, etc.). Ultimately, Europe is based on the myth of the demi-god \"Europa\" and many of its symbols are based on ancient Greek art forms. If Turkey joined the EU, the current images could be a source of conflict:\nAnother example from 2011 is that of Japan's self-branding of its scientific expertise, which fell apart after the earthquake and tsunami that March, followed by the nuclear accidents. In the \"New York Times\", Mitsuyoshi Numano wrote, \"It even begins to appear that Japan’s vaunted scientific and technical prowess has taken on the character of a kind of myth, and that myth has deluded the nation’s politicians and business leaders.\"\n\nJonathan Rose first wrote about this concept in 2000, in which he claimed that Canada has had \"an unholy alliance between advertising agencies and political parties\" since the formation of the Confederation in 1867.\n\nIn a 2003 article, Rose wrote that national myths and symbols reinforce and create a \"community and binding [its citizens]. These myths are not judged on their veracity but rather [on] their metaphorical and symbolic meaning.\" Rose maintained that the messages within these \"created\" myths are disseminated and ultimately maintained through its \"civil society from its institutions, public policies and government\". His prototypical study was on the Canadian government's creation of national myths in the 1980s and 1990s. Rose pointed out what was unique (in the 1980s) several major points:\n\n\"Branding National Myths and Symbols\" was first coined in 2009 by Turkish-Australian scholar Hatice Sitki, who proposed in \"Myths, Symbols and Branding: Turkish National Identity and the EU\", that these long-existing myths keep us from truly understanding and working with the \"other\". Sitki proposes that cultural misunderstanding will continue between nations until they understand one another’s cultural myths and symbols. Sitki explains in the \"Cyclical Formula \"Us/Other+Other\"\", how Turkey and the European Union can benefit by accepting that they have, and continue, to play a \"triple role\" to one another.\n\n\"BNMS\" argues that collective groups such as the EU do not need to be \"branded\" in order to improve their economic value. Rather, they need to be branded to achieve their cultural goal of moving from a \"poly-cultural\" society to becoming a \"multicultural\" society. One way for this to be achieved is for nations to realise and work with the hidden meanings of their myths and symbols. Vijay Prashad proposes that the concept of polyculturalism is a way to combat anti-racism. Prashad defines poly cultures as a \"provisional concept grounded in antiracism, rather than in diversity...\" Roger Hewitt takes a different approach to how peoples with different languages can understand each other. Hewitt argues that the concept of polyculturalism is \"not intrinsically equal.\"\n\nThe \"national myths\" used in \"Masterpiece Theatre\" lead to \"strengthen[ing] imperial attitudes\", according to a 2009 book about the spate of Victorian British novels made in films from the 1980s through the 21st Century, and sources it cited.\n\nElizabeth Hafkin Pleck argues that the \"invented tradition ... of Kwanzaa\" was equivalent to the American Indian challenge to \"the National myth of inclusion of Thanksgiving...\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44560541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44560541", "title": "Communication ethics", "text": "Communication ethics\n\nCommunication ethics is the notion that an individual's or group's behavior are governed by their morals which in turn affects communication. Generally speaking communication ethics deals with the moral good present in any form of human communication. This includes interpersonal communication, mass mediated communication, and digital communication.\n\nCommunication ethics concerns not only the individual, but is of great concern to businesses, corporations, and professional entities. A business with unethical communication practices is not as effective as one with ethical communication practices. For example, a business with unethical communication practices may withhold evidence that it is harming the environment or breaking a law through a lack of transparence; while a business with ethical communication practices will immediately press a release to the affected parties. In this example, transparency makes the business more effective because it notifies its clients, prospective or established, providers/suppliers, or other affiliates of the potential environmental hazard or law violation. In other words, in this example, transparency will encourage trust and good faith, that the effective business will not conceal what is in the interest of its audience. For the sake of counterexample, there may be a time when censorship is the more effective business practice: take the case of trade secrets, when a design method or management tactic is not openly revealed in the name of competitive advantage; or when terms of agreement/use that a business may have with a service provider forbids transparency. In the latter counterexample, a business may use social media to advertise, but the social media service provider may limit the conduct of its users. Here, if the business considers social media to be a valuable service to achieve its advertising, it may have to censor its product or service to preserve its agreement with the social media provider.\n\nCommunication ethics is also a division of the NCA (National Communication Association) which was established by Western Michigan University in 1985, as well the NCA has adopted a Credo for Ethical Communication.\nThe Communication Ethics Conference has been held every year for the last 13 years, and has various speakers from Communication Studies backgrounds.\n\n\nEthical communication encompasses being honest in all communitcations, keeping confidential information confidential,and not discussing the personal or business situations of others in public or in front of a third party\n"}
{"id": "586834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=586834", "title": "Community service", "text": "Community service\n\nCommunity service is a non-paying job performed by one person or a group of people for the benefit of the community or its institutions. Community service is distinct from volunteering, since it is not always performed on a voluntary basis. Personal benefits may be realized, but it may be performed for a variety of reasons including citizenship requirements, a substitution of criminal justice sanctions, requirements of a school or class, and requisites for receipt of certain benefits.\n\nCommunity service is a non-paying job performed by one person or a group of people for the benefit of the community or its institutions. Community service is distinct from volunteering, since it is not always performed on a voluntary basis. It may be performed for a variety of reasons.\n\nSome educational jurisdictions in the United States require students to perform community service hours to graduate from high school. In some high schools in Washington, for example, students must finish 200 hours of community service to get a diploma. Some school districts in Washington, including Seattle Public Schools, differentiate between community service and \"service learning,\" requiring students to demonstrate that their work has contributed to their education. If a student in high school is taking an AVID course, community service is often needed. Whether American public schools could require volunteer hours for high school graduation was challenged in \"Immediato v. Rye Neck School District\", but the court found no violation.\n\nMany other high schools do not require community service hours for graduation, but still see an impressive number of students get involved in their community. For example, in Palo Alto, California, students at Palo Alto High School log about 45,000 hours of community service every year. As a result, the school's College and Career Center awards about 250–300 students the President's Volunteer Service Award every year for their hard work.\n\nThough not technically considered a requirement, many colleges include community service as an unofficial requirement for acceptance. However, some colleges prefer work experience over community service, and some require that their students also continue community service for some specific number of hours to graduate. Some schools also offer unique “community service” courses, awarding credit to students who complete a certain number of community service hours. Some academic honor societies, along with some fraternities and sororities in North America, require community service to join and others require each member to continue doing community service.\n\nMany student organizations exist for the purpose of community service, the largest of which is Alpha Phi Omega. Community service projects are also done by sororities and fraternities.\n\nBeginning in the 1980s, colleges began using service-learning as a pedagogy. A partnership of college presidents began in 1985 with the initiative of boosting community service in their colleges. This alliance called Campus Compact, led the way for many other schools to adopt service-learning courses and activities.\n\nService-learning courses vary widely in time span, quality, and in the balance of “service” and “learning” stressed in the course. A typical service-learning course, however, has these factors in common:\nReflection is sometimes symbolized by the hyphen in the term “service-learning” to indicate that it has a central role in learning by serving. Reflection is simply a scheduled consideration of one’s own experiences and thoughts. This can take many forms, including journals, blogs, and discussions.\n\nService-learning courses present learning the material in context, meaning that students often learn effectively and tend to apply what was learned. As the book \"Where’s the Learning in Service-Learning?\" notes, “Students engaged in service-learning are engaged in authentic situations; they get to know real people whose lives are affected by these issues… As a result, they have lots of questions—real questions that they want to have answered.\" Thus, students are interested and motivated to learn the materials to resolve their questions.\n\nCommunity service learning strives to connect or re-connect students with serving their community after they finish their course. It creates a bridge for the lack of community service found among college-age people in the United States.\n\nThe one serving may be able to take something away from the experience and be able to use any newfound knowledge or interpersonal discoveries to improve their future servitude and the people around them. To gain the most from community service requires balancing learning with serving. Learning and serving at the same time improves a student's community while teaching life lessons and building character.\n\nCommunity service-learning is “about leadership development as well as traditional information and skill acquisition.” Therefore, the combination of people doing service and learning at the same time teaches them how to be effective and, more importantly, how to be effective about what is important to them. It improves their overall experience and application opportunities they gain from it. By adding service to learning, and balancing the two, community service can become more than just the simple act of serving. It takes small steps to create big change and this is what service-learning hopes to achieve. By being a classroom, a hands-on learning experience, and an opportunity to change the community, people are able to not only serve, but impact themselves as well.\n\nFor community service-learning to be properly applied and understood, one must start with a good definition of service-learning. According to Fayetteville State University, “Service learning is a process of involving students in community service activities combined with facilitated means for applying the experience to their academic and personal development. It is a form of experiential education aimed at enhancing and enriching student learning in course material. When compared to other forms of experiential learning like internships and cooperative education, it is similar in that it is student-centered, hands-on and directly applicable to the curriculum.”\n\nProfessor Freddy Cardoza defined Community Service-Learning as “Service learning is a Pedogogy (or a specific teaching-learning approach) that has few lectures, and is a more interactive hand's on educational strategy which provides students with instruction while leading them through meaningful community service experiences and engaging them in personal reflection on those experiences in order to build character and to teach problem-solving skills and civic responsibility.” Professor Cardoza stressed that it was important for a student take some time and reflect on what they are experiencing, seeing, doing, and what problems they are encountering and how they are going to apply what they have been learning to solve these problems. In other words, service-learning aims to link the personal and interpersonal development with cognitive development, as well as equipping the student with critical knowledge to help them understand the world.\n\nCharacter.org defines Service-Learning this way: \"Service learning is different than community service in several key ways. Service learning includes student leadership, reflective and academic components, and chances for celebration once the service activity has been successfully completed. Students reflect on community needs, ways to help, and once their service has been completed, they can internalise how their efforts have helped, while learning more about academics such as geography, math, or science.\"\n\nFrom these definitions, we can come up with our own definition of Community Service-Learning: \"A teaching method that takes what is taught in a classroom and equips the student to apply that knowledge in real world situations, while equipping them to take their place in the world, become better citizens, and to be active social and economic problem solvers.\"\n\nPeople convicted of a crime may be required to perform community service or to work for agencies in the sentencing jurisdiction either entirely or partially as a substitution of other judicial remedies and sanctions, such as incarceration or fines. For instance, a fine may be reduced in exchange for a prescribed number of hours of community service. The court may allow the defendant to choose their community service, which must then be documented by \"credible agencies,\" such as non-profit organizations, or may mandate a specific service.\n\nSometimes the sentencing is specifically targeted to the defendant's crime, for example, a litterer may have to clean a park or roadside, or a drunk driver might appear before school groups to explain why drunk driving is a crime. Also, a sentence allowing for a broader choice may prohibit certain services that the offender would reasonably be expected to perform anyway; for example, a convicted lawyer might be specifically prohibited from counting \"pro bono\" legal service.\n\nSome employers involve their staff in some kind of community service programming, such as with the United Way of America. This may be completely voluntary or a condition of employment, or anything in between.\n\nIn addition, approximately 40% of Fortune 500 companies offer volunteer grant programs where companies provide monetary donations to nonprofit organizations in recognition of their employee's volunteerism (Ex. $500 volunteer grant after 25 hours of community service).\n\nCommunity service in the United States is often similar to that in Canada. In Europe and Australia, community service is an option for many criminal sentences as an alternative to incarceration. In the United Kingdom, community service is now officially referred to by the Home Office as more straightforward \"compulsory unpaid work\". Compulsory unpaid work includes up to 300 hours of activities, such as conservation work, cleaning up graffiti, or working with a charity. The Howard League for Penal Reform (the world's oldest prison reform organization) is a prominent advocate for increased community sentencing to reduce prison population and improve rehabilitation.\n\nStarting in 2010, Danish High School students receive a special diploma if they complete at least 20 hours of voluntary work.\n\nThe International Baccalaureate program formerly required 50 hours of community service, together with a written reflection on the service performed, to fulfill the requirement of 150 hours of CAS (Creativity, Action, Service) and receive an IB Diploma.\n\nFlorence Nightingale exercised the entrepreneurship trait of nursing to help improve the unstable conditions of hospitals during the mid 1800s. Her tasks compiled of planning ahead at what needed to be different and how she was going to attempt to change things for the better, acting upon the ideas she came up with, and finally leaving behind a notebook of ideas and recommendations to help the next generation prevent the same disaster of extremely high death rates from happening again. Not only did she organize fundraisers to raise money for the hospital and arrange more stable living conditions to improve the health of the soldiers in the hospital, but she also removed people who were lapsed at their job and delegated tasks to more capable people, sometimes having to do the work herself. She grew up with the desire to help people or anything that needed a hand. Her love for aid and service to others grew when she got older and despite her lack of support from her family she pursued her dream and sacrificed her life for other people. She was not afraid to do the hard things if she knew it was going to make things better or as Niccolò Machiavelli puts it, “[T]here is nothing more difficult to carry out, nor more doubtful of success, nor more dangerous to handle, than to initiate a new order of things…” Florence Nightingale is quoted as writing “The first thought I can remember, and the last was nursing work.” She served a specific group of people and benefited the public—which is community service.\n\nMany institutions require and/or give incentive to students or employees alike to volunteer their time to community service programs. From volunteering to participating in such charity events like walks or runs, institutes continue the practice or requiring their employees or students to grow in camaraderie while giving back to various communities. Many institutions also provide opportunities for employees and students to work together, and most student groups participate in their own form of community service. Each is unique in its own right; all are incredibly popular with employees; and in all of these programs, human resources plays an integral role. One such program, Johns Hopkins University, under the leadership of Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels and the chief executive officer of Baltimore City Schools, the university’s human resources and community affairs departments worked with the school system to develop the Johns Hopkins Takes Time for Schools program in 2009, launching it on March 3, 2010. The program is a service partnership aimed at providing support and assistance to Baltimore City Schools (BCS) while providing faculty and staff an avenue for community service, offering their talents to the city’s youth and improving the administrative and educational capacities of the area’s school system. Some institutes even give their students or employees a guaranteed number of days or weeks of leave for certain acceptable community service programs. One example is East Carolina University, which gives 24 hours of community service leave for full-time employees per year as an incentive and compensation for community service.\n\nBeyond required community service, some religious groups emphasize serving one’s community. These groups and churches reach out by holding Vacation Bible Schools for children, hosting Red Cross blood drives, having fall carnivals, or offering free meals. Through these services, churches are able to benefit neighborhoods and families. Some churches create non-profit organizations that can help the public. Crisis pregnancy centers are often run by religious groups to promote pro-life values in local families. To meet impoverished people’s needs, some churches provide a food pantry or start a homeless shelter. Also, certain churches provide day care so that busy parents can work.\n\nChristianity, the foundation of thousands of service organizations, holds many strong beliefs about community service. Christians view serving in one’s church and community as a way of showing God’s unconditional love. According to the Christian Bible, 1 Peter 4:10–11 (NIV) says:\n\n\"“Each of you should use whatever gift you have received to serve others, as faithful stewards of God’s grace in its various forms. If anyone speaks, they should do so as one who speaks the very words of God. If anyone serves, they should do so with the strength God provides, so that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ. To him be the glory and the power for ever and ever. Amen.”\"\n\nThese verses are the basis for Christian belief in outreach using one’s abilities, which they believe are given by God. According to Dr. Freddy Cardoza, a teacher at biblical Biola University, Christians are called to serve people because all people are made in God’s image. Christianity teaches that Jesus was a perfect example of serving during His time on earth. Jesus Christ healed the sick, fed thousands of people, and died for all mankind. Dedicated Christians see the importance of community service to show God’s love and to further spread the Gospel.\n\nIn addition, Christian belief states that they hold dual-citizenship, both in the kingdom of Heaven and the kingdom of earth. They believe that they have a responsibility to live life to the full while on earth, reaching out to others and meeting their needs, but also live in such a way as to prepare for eternity spent in Heaven. This means that they should be invested in both kingdoms, and everything they do should incorporate this line of thinking. 2 Corinthians 9:12-13 (NIV translation of the Bible) says:\n\n\"This service that you perform is not only supplying the needs of the Lord’s people but is also overflowing in many expressions of thanks to God. Because of the service by which you have proved yourselves, others will praise God for the obedience that accompanies your confession of the gospel of Christ, and for your generosity in sharing with them and with everyone else.\"\n\nThese verses illustrate the act of meeting the needs of the community, while also acting with the Kingdom of Heaven in mind by encouraging spiritual growth in those individuals. Because Christians believe that all people are created in God's image, they believe that this means that they are a mortal representative of God to everyone they come in contact with. This adds meaning to everything that they do and say in the service of others. If they do not do their best to minister to both the physical and spiritual needs of others, they are not being good representatives of God's love.\n\nMany well-known non-governmental (NGO) community service organizations were founded by Christians seeking to put their beliefs into practice. Three prominent examples are Samaritan's Purse, Salvation Army, and Habitat for Humanity.\n\nSamaritan's Purse was inspired by a prayer of evangelist Robert Pierce, \"Let my heart be broken for the things which break the heart of God.\" After traveling through Asia and seeing first-hand the suffering of impoverished children, lepers, and orphans—in 1970, Pierce founded Samaritan's Purse. Today, Samaritan's Purse reaches millions of people across the globe by providing aid such as disaster relief, medical assistance, and child care. A notable Samaritan's Purse project is Operation Christmas Child headed by Franklin Graham.\n\nThe Salvation Army was founded by William Booth and his wife Catherine Booth in 1865. Booth was a Methodist minister and preacher on the streets of London. His tent meetings gathered crowds of drunkards, prostitutes and thieves who eventually became the first \"soldiers\" in the army, which has grown to 1,442,388 members in 126 countries. The Salvation Army's motto is \"Doing the Most Good\" and does so by providing aid such as shelter, food, clothing, spiritual training and disaster relief.\n\nHabitat for Humanity provides housing for people in need. Founded by Millard Fuller, its vision is to \"...put God’s love into action by bringing people together to build homes, communities and hope.\" Habitat for Humanity has built or repaired over 800,000 homes and served more than 4 million people worldwide since its creation in 1976. They describe their vision as \"...a world where everyone has a decent place to live.\"\n\nCommunity service also allows those participating to reflect on the difference they are making in society. Some participants of a community service project may find themselves gaining a greater understanding of their roles in the community, as well as the impact of their contributions towards those in need of service. Because community service outlets vary, those who serve are exposed to many different kinds of people, environments, and situations.\n\nWith each new community service project, some participants may gain insightful experience in a variety of areas. Participants may also internalize the information that they found personally insightful for future use. While simply performing community service is valuable to the recipients, those serving often find it beneficial to pause and reflect on how they are changing society for the better. Schools often take students on community service projects so they can learn how their individual actions affect the well-being of the public. Participants may find that serving the public fosters a more solidified view of self and purpose.\n\nThose involved in community service learning may also find that after serving the community for an extended period of time, they have an advantage in real-world experience. Eventually, the skills and knowledge obtained while working with the community may be applied in future areas of work. Community service may also increase a participant's social connectivity. Because most community service opportunities allow others to interact and work with other individuals, this service may help volunteers network and connect with others towards a common goal.\n\nPeople gain the most from their community service projects when they volunteer their time to help people that they have never interacted with before. This direct contact allows people to see life from a different perspective and reevaluate their opinions of others. Many young people who get involved in community service come out with a more well-rounded worldview.\n\nAnother benefit in participating in community service is a greater understanding and appreciation for diversity. Appreciating other cultures and breaking down stereotypes is important to becoming a responsible citizen and better person. By participating in a community service project where interaction is required, personal relationships can begin to grow. These personal relationships help people have informal and consistent interactions that through time,often breakdown negative stereotypes. These relationships can also facilitate more opinions and viewpoints surrounding various topics that help participants to grow in diversity. Stereotypes can be defined as, \"believing unfairly that all people or things with a specific characteristic are the same.\" Stereotypes often reveal themselves in quick judgments based solely off of visible characteristics. These judgments move into a biased opinion when you believe that these judgments are always true. These stereotypes can be harmful to both personal relationships and relationships within the work place. Community Service helps people to realize that everyone does not fall into these preconceived ideas. Along with breaking down stereotypes, community service work can assist people in realizing that those they are helping and working with are no different from themselves. This realization can lead to empathizing with others. Learning to understand the needs and motivations of others, especially those who live different lives from our own, is an important part of living a productive life. This leads to a view of humanity that can help a person stay free of biased opinions of others and can lead to a more diverse and ultimately more productive and thought provoking life.\n\nAs pointed out by de Tocqueville, America, in sharp contrast with other developed countries, has had a formidable ability to form associations. Civilians have a unique desire and aptitude to organize themselves apart from government to address the needs in their communities. However, making sure an effort has a positive effect on society requires clear analysis and a strategy. Analysis identifies root causes of problems that project implementation must address. Individuals, like neighborhoods, enjoy permanent change only if it is an inner one—and the greatest form of community service is encouraging that inner change.\n\nAbraham Kuyper advocated \"sphere sovereignty,\" which honors the independence and autonomy of the “intermediate bodies” in society, such as schools, press, business, the arts, etc. He champions the right of every community to operate its own organizations and manage its own groups, with the foundational belief that parents know what their child really needs, and that local people are more capable of helping fellow locals. Those who agree with his views perceive community service as a \"trampoline\" that seeks to launch their targets to better employment and lifestyle, avoiding what they see as destructive decision making for mal-established goals by poorly developed community service efforts.\n\nAmy L. Sherman, in her book \"Restorers of Hope\", suggests that community service planning should be made with the valuable opinion of the local residents, since they have firsthand knowledge of the inside realities of their community's current state. Making them a part of the movement, change or project creates in the members of the community a sense of belonging and hope. Joint effort: relationships – these make the difference.\n\n"}
{"id": "45206870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45206870", "title": "Comprehensive Model of Information Seeking", "text": "Comprehensive Model of Information Seeking\n\nThe Comprehensive Model of Information Seeking, or CMIS, is a theoretical construct designed to predict how people will seek information. It was first developed by J. David Johnson and has been utilized by a variety of disciplines including Library and Information Science and Health Communication.\n\nThe CMIS has been empirically tested in health and organizational contexts. It has inherent strengths for studying how people react to health problems such as cancer. It specifies \"antecedents\" that explain why people become information seekers, \"information carrier characteristic\" that shape how they go about looking for information, and \"information seeking actions\" that reflect the nature of the search itself.\n\nThe CMIS has been quantitatively tested and performs well when it comes to health information seeking behaviors (HISB). There are three main schemas in the CMIS. These are: Antecedents, information field, and information seeking actions. The antecedents are those factors that determine how an information consumer will receive the information. Those factors are: Demographics, personal experience, salience, and beliefs. These factors are fluid and can change during the health information seeking process. The second schema is the information fields that consist of characteristics and utilities. This schema is concerned with the channels and carriers of information. A person’s understanding is developed through the information field. The third schema involves the transformational processes and measured by the consumer’s understanding of the messages received through the information field. The final schema involves information seeking actions. This is what the consumer does as a result of the first two schemas through information seeking. There are three major dimensions: the scope, depth, and method of information seeking.\n\nThe CMIS antecedents—demographics, personal experience, salience, and beliefs—are factors that determine an individual's natural predisposition to search for information from particular information carriers. Certain types of health information seeking can be triggered by an individual's degree of personal experience with disease. In the CMIS framework, two personal relevance factors, salience and beliefs, are seen as the primary determinants in translating a perceived gap into an active search for information. Salience refers to the personal significance of health information to the individual, such as perceptions of risk to one's health, which are likely to result in information seeking action. However, people also may be motivated to gather information to determine the implications of health events for themselves and/or others related to their future activities, a factor directly related to the rapidly growing field of genetics. An individual's beliefs about the nature of a particular disease, its impacts, and level of control, all directly relate to self-efficacy, one of our key variables, and one that plays an important role in information seeking and people's more general pattern of actions related to health.\n\nThe information carrier characteristics are drawn from a model of Media Exposure and Appraisal (MEA) that has been tested on a variety of information carriers, including both sources and channels, and in a variety of cultural settings. Following the MEA, the CMIS focuses on editorial tone, communication potential, and utility. In the CMIS, characteristics are composed of editorial tone, which reflects an audience member's perception of credibility, while communication potential relates to issues of style and comprehensiveness. Utility relates the characteristics of a medium directly to the needs of an individual, and shares much with the uses and gratifications perspectives. For example, is the information contained in the medium relevant, topical, and important for the individual's purposes? In general, utility is very important for health information seeking.\n\nThere are several types of information seeking actions that can result from the impetus provided by the factors identified by the CMIS. For example, search behavior can be characterized by its extent, or the number of activities carried out, which has two components: scope, the number of alternatives investigated; and, depth, the number of dimensions of an alternative investigated. There is also the method of the search, or channel, as another major dimension of the search. For instance, an individual might choose the method of consulting a telephone information service, decide to have a narrow scope by only asking questions about smoking cessation clinics, but investigate every recommendation in detail, thus increasing the depth of the search.\n\nA key concept from the CMIS is the notion of “stages,” or “cancer involvement”. According to the CMIS, an individual may be at one of four stages regarding a cancer threat, and thereby have differing information needs and behaviors.\n\nThe first stage, \"Casual\", is characterized by a general lack of concern or interest. At this stage, individuals are not purposive in their search for cancer-related information; rather, their search is accidental and aimless, even apathetic.\nThe second stage is \"Purposive-Placid\". This is characterized by the question, “What can I do to prevent cancer?” Individuals here might have some passing interest in cancer or genetic information, but are generally still not affected or directly concerned.\n\nThe third stage is \"Purposive-Clustered\". Here, an individual will be in closer proximity to cancer. This is the point at which a person is motivated to look for practical information that will address the specific problem. For example, a first-degree relative of a recently diagnosed breast cancer patient may seek genetic screening or BRCA 1/2 testing. The person could clearly benefit from such information- seeking behavior since medical authorities acknowledge that early detection of cancer leads to earlier treatments and better treatment outcomes.\n\nThe fourth stage, \"Directed\", includes individuals who have been diagnosed as having cancer. Such individuals need knowledge for making informed decisions about treatment and management of the disease.\n"}
{"id": "18800923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18800923", "title": "Conflict early warning", "text": "Conflict early warning\n\nThe field of conflict early warning seeks to forecast the outbreak of armed conflict, or, at minimum, to detect the early escalation of violence, with the objective of preventing the outbreak or the further escalation of violence in order to save lives. \n\nInitial conceptions of conflict early warning materialized in the 1970s and 1980s but the field really emerged on the international policy agenda after the end of the Cold War. Both qualitative and quantitative approaches have been developed for conflict forecasting and conflict monitoring. Qualitative methodologies typically draw on local area experts with extensive knowledge on one country or region. This is the approach taken by the International Crisis Group, for example. In contrast, quantitative methodologies quantify conflict trends and use mathematical techniques to forecast future trends or \"events of interest\" (EOIs) such as the onset of conflicts. For example, the Integrated Conflict Early Warning System (ICEWS) project at the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) takes this approach. Some approaches to conflict early warning combine both qualitative and quantitative methodologies, such as Swisspeace's formerly operational project called FAST.\n\nThe unanticipated events of the Yom Kippur War in 1973 and that of the Falklands War in 1982 provoked a series of debates over the lack of early warning. The incident over the Falklands had taken the United Nations completely by surprise and it is said \"no map of the islands was available in the Secretariat when the invasion began\". The initial drivers, however, were humanitarian agencies \"driven by the need for accurate and timely predictions of refugee flows to enable effective contingency planning\". After the end of the Cold War, political scientists at leading academic institutions began modifying old Cold War models of conflict to understand the onset of new wars. The horrors of the 1994 Rwandan genocide also spurred increased interest in operational conflict early warning systems. The FAST project of Swisspeace and the Forum on Early Warning and Early Response (FEWER) were responses to the genocide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45087456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45087456", "title": "Declinism", "text": "Declinism\n\nDeclinism is the belief that a society or institution is tending towards decline. Particularly, it is the predisposition, possibly due to cognitive bias, such as rosy retrospection, to view the past more favourably and future negatively. “The great summit of declinism,” according to Adam Gopnick, \"was established in 1918, in the book that gave decline its good name in publishing: the German historian Oswald Spengler’s best-selling, thousand-page work \"The Decline of the West\".\"\n\nThe belief has been traced back to Edward Gibbon's work, \"The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\", published between 1776 and 1788, where Gibbon argues that Rome collapsed due to the gradual loss of civic virtue among its citizens, who became lazy, spoiled and inclined to hire foreign mercenaries to handle the defence of state. He believed that that reason must triumph over superstition to save Europe's superpowers from a similar fate to the Roman Empire.\n\nSpengler's book \"The Decline of the West\", which gave Declinism its popular name, was released in the aftermath of the First World War and captured the pessimistic spirit of the times. Spengler wrote that history had seen the rise and fall of several \"civilizations\" (including the Egyptian, the Classical, the Chinese and the Mesoamerican). He claimed these go in cycles, typically spanning 1,000 years. Spengler believed that not only is Western Civilization in decline, but that decline is inevitable.\n\nThe United States in particular has a history of predicting its own downfall, beginning with European settlement. So called American declinism has been a recurring topic in the politics of the United States since the 1950s.\n\n“America is prone to bouts of 'declinism,'” \"The Economist\" has noted. Historian Victor Davis Hansen has identified several successive stages of American declinism. During the Great Depression, out-of-work Americans viewed the proud, dynamic “New Germany” with envy. In the 1950s, the success of Sputnik 1 and the spread of Communism led Americans to fear they were falling behind the Soviet Union. In the 1970s, Americans fretted over Japan's economic boom; two decades later, the European Union seemed the wave of the future. In the 21st century, America's worries have focused on the rise of China, with its massive exports and new megacities. Yet one after another of these concerns, Hansen points out, proved unfounded: “Fascism was crushed; Communism imploded; Japan is aging and shrinking; the European Union is cracking apart.”\n\nIn a 2011 book, Thomas L. Friedman and Michael Mandelbaum argued that the United States was in the midst of “its fifth wave of Declinism.” The first had come “with the 'Sputnik Shock' of 1957,” the second with the Vietnam War, the third with Jimmy Carter’s “malaise” and the rise of Japan, the fourth with the ascendancy of China.\n\nAmerican declinism can suddenly overtake commentators who had previously taken a sanguine view of the country's prospects. Robert Kagan has noted, for example, that the pundit Fareed Zakaria, who in 2004 “described the United States as enjoying a 'comprehensive uni-polarity' unlike anything seen since Rome” had, by 2008, begun “writing about the 'post-American world' and 'the rise of the rest.'”\n\nIn a piece which appeared in \"The Nation\" on 13 June 2017, author Tom Engelhardt described Donald Trump as America's \"first declinist candidate for president\".\n\nDeclinism has been found to be rather widespread in the United Kingdom. In a 2015 survey, 70% of Britons agreed with the statement that “things are worse than they used to be,” even though at the time Britons were in fact “richer, healthier and longer-living than ever before.” However, it was also mentioned that many of the things that older people mourn from their youths were no longer existent in modern society.\n\nBritish historian Robert Tombs suggested that the United Kingdom has faced several 'bouts' of Declinism, as far back as the 1880s when German competition in manufactured goods was first felt and then again in the 1960s and 1970s, with economic worries, rapid decolonisation and a perception of dwindling power and influence in every field. Tombs however, concluded that \"Declinism is at best a distortion of reality\" and denied suggestions that Britain was no longer the great power it once was.\n\nIn France, declinism has been described as a \"booming industry\" with popular authors such as Michel Onfray writing books and articles exploring failings of France and the West. French Declinsim has been related to the counter-Enlightenment of the early 19th century, and also to the late 1970s with the end of three decades of post World War 2 economic growth. In modern times, the phenomenon has picked up velocity and cut across the political spectrum with several variations of “déclinisme” emerging, from Catholic reactionaries to nonreligious thinkers questioning national identity and political corruption.\n\nDeclinism has been described as “a trick of the mind” and as “an emotional strategy, something comforting to snuggle up to when the present day seems intolerably bleak.”\n\nOne factor in declinism is the so-called “reminiscence bump,” meaning that older people tend “to best remember events that happened to them at around the ages of 10-30.” As one source puts it, “[t]he vibrancy of youth, and the thrill of experiencing things for the first time, creates a 'memory bump' compared with which later life does seem a bit drab.” Gopnick suggests that “the idea of our decline is emotionally magnetic, because life is a long slide down, and the plateau just passed is easier to love than the one coming up.” Citing the widespread love of “old songs,” he writes: “The long look back is part of the long ride home. We all believe in yesterday.”\n\nAnother factor is the so-called positivity effect, meaning that “as people get older, they tend to experience fewer negative emotions, and they’re more likely to remember positive things over negative things.”\n\nBoth of these factors can lead people to experience declinism. But so, contrarily, can the “negativity bias,” meaning that “emotionally negative events are likely to have more impact on your thoughts and behaviours than a similar, but positive, event.”\n\nAlan W. Dowd quotes Samuel P. Huntington as saying that declinism “performs a useful historical function” in that it “provides a warning and a goad to action in order to head off and reverse the decline that it says is taking place.” Dowd himself agrees, saying that declinism at its best “is an expression of the American tendency toward self-criticism and continual improvement.”\n\nJosef Joffe, on the contrary, emphasizes the fact “that obsessively fretting about your possible decline can be a good way to produce it.” Similarly, Robert Kagan has expressed concern that Americans are “in danger of committing pre-emptive superpower suicide out of a misplaced fear of their own declining power.”\n\nDeclinist literature includes:\n\n"}
{"id": "19371086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19371086", "title": "Dissemination", "text": "Dissemination\n\nTo disseminate (from lat. \"disseminare\" \"scattering seeds\"), in the field of communication, means to broadcast a message to the public without direct feedback from the audience. \n\nDissemination takes on the theory of the traditional view of communication, which involves a sender and receiver. The traditional communication view point is broken down into a sender sending information, and receiver collecting the information processing it and sending information back, like a telephone line.\n\nWith dissemination, only half of this communication model theory is applied. The information is sent out and received, but no reply is given. The message carrier sends out information, not to one individual, but many in a broadcasting system. An example of this transmission of information is in fields of advertising, public announcements and speeches. Another way to look at dissemination is that of which it derives from the Latin roots, the scattering of seeds. These seeds are metaphors for voice or words: to spread voice, words, and opinion to an audience.\n\nIn a scientific context, dissemination is defined as making projects results available to the scientific community, policy makers and industry – using scientific language prioritizing accuracy. In terms of content, it covers the results of the research project, happens only when results are available and targets a specialist audience in order to enable take-up and use of results.\n\nDissemination can be powerful when adding rhetoric or other forms of persuasiveness to the speech. According to John Durham Peters, who wrote \"Communication as Dissemination,\" \"making a public offering is perhaps the most basic of all communicative acts, but once the seeds are cast, their harvest is never assured... The metaphor of dissemination points to the contingency of all words and deeds, their uncertain consequences, and their governance by probabilities rather than certainties.\" In other words, dissemination of words to multiple people can take on multiple meanings to each individual depending on the experience, the attitude, the knowledge, the race or even the gender of the listener. All of these aspects can distort the message that the sender is disseminating towards the public. Depending on the circumstances, the surroundings and the environment the listener is receiving this message in can also have an effect on the outcome of the meaning of the message received. This interference is also known as \"noise\" in the traditional model of communication theory. Noise can distort the original meaning of a message.\n\nFurthermore, John Durham Peters explains that \"broadcasting information to an open ended destination is a feature of all speech. The metaphor of dissemination directs our attention to those vast continents of signification that are not directly interactive.\" Dissemination basically sends information to an audience, without direct contact to the receiver, and without a direct response or clarification method that a conversation or dialogue would have. \n\nIn policy development, mainstreaming is seen as going a step further than dissemination, in that it tries to embed change in policy and practice, rather than just publishing information.\n\n"}
{"id": "4578274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4578274", "title": "Dromedary bag", "text": "Dromedary bag\n\nA dromedary bag is a collapsible plastic bladder for holding water for drinking. Backpackers carry dromedary bags in areas where water is not readily available or is not clean enough to drink. Dromedary bags are useful when traveling through the desert, but are generally too heavy for extended trips. The opening sequences of the film \"Wild\" demonstrate the heaviness of a backpack laden with water.\n\nNot to be confused with the hydration pack, dromedary bags are able to carry larger amounts of water. They are much more effective at distributing water amongst a group rather than personal use only. The dromedary bag was invented by Sir Thomas Mitchell whilst exploring South east Queensland and seeing Aborigines carrying water in kangaroo skins.\n"}
{"id": "6639133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6639133", "title": "Economy", "text": "Economy\n\nAn economy (from Greek οίκος – \"household\" and νέμoμαι – \"manage\") is an area of the production, distribution, or trade, and consumption of goods and services by different agents. Understood in its broadest sense, 'The economy is defined as a social domain that emphasises the practices, discourses, and material expressions associated with the production, use, and management of resources'. Economic agents can be individuals, businesses, organizations, or governments. Economic transactions occur when two parties agree to the value or price of the transacted good or service, commonly expressed in a certain currency. However, monetary transactions only account for a small part of the economic domain.\n\nEconomic activity is spurred by production which uses natural resources, labor, and capital. It has changed over time due to technology (automation, accelerator of process, reduction of cost functions), innovation (new products, services, processes, expanding markets, diversification of markets, niche markets, increases revenue functions) such as, that which produces intellectual property and changes in industrial relations (for example, child labor being replaced in some parts of the world with universal access to education).\n\nA given economy is the result of a set of processes that involves its culture, values, education, technological evolution, history, social organization, political structure and legal systems, as well as its geography, natural resource endowment, and ecology, as main factors. These factors give context, content, and set the conditions and parameters in which an economy functions. In other words, the economic domain is a social domain of human practices and transactions. It does not stand alone.\n\nA market-based economy is one where goods and services are produced and exchanged according to demand and supply between participants (economic agents) by barter or a medium of exchange with a credit or debit value accepted within the network, such as a unit of currency.\n\nA command-based economy is one where political agents directly control what is produced and how it is sold and distributed.\n\nA green economy is low-carbon, resource efficient, and socially inclusive. In a green economy, growth in income and employment are driven by public and private investments that reduce carbon emissions and pollution, enhance energy and resource efficiency, and prevent the loss of biodiversity and ecosystem services.\n\nA gig economy is a term often used to describe when short-term jobs are assigned via online platforms.\n\nToday the range of fields of the study examining the economy revolve around the social science of economics, but may include sociology (economic sociology), history (economic history), anthropology (economic anthropology), and geography (economic geography). Practical fields directly related to the human activities involving production, distribution, exchange, and consumption of goods and services as a whole, are engineering, management, business administration, applied science, and finance.\n\nAll professions, occupations, economic agents or economic activities, contribute to the economy. Consumption, saving, and investment are variable components in the economy that determine macroeconomic equilibrium. There are three main sectors of economic activity: primary, secondary, and tertiary.\n\nDue to the growing importance of the economical sector in modern times, the term \"real economy\" is used by analysts as well as politicians to denote the part of the economy that is concerned with the actual production of goods and services, as ostensibly contrasted with the \"paper economy\", or the financial side of the economy, which is concerned with buying and selling on the financial markets. Alternate and long-standing terminology distinguishes measures of an economy expressed in real values (adjusted for inflation), such as real GDP, or in nominal values (unadjusted for inflation).,\n\nThe English words \"economy\" and \"economics\" can be traced back to the Greek word (i.e. \"household management\"), a composite word derived from (\"house;household;home\") and νέμω (\"manage; distribute;to deal out;dispense\") by way of (\"household management\").\n\nThe first recorded sense of the word \"economy\" is in the phrase \"the management of œconomic affairs\", found in a work possibly composed in a monastery in 1440. \"Economy\" is later recorded in more general senses, including \"thrift\" and \"administration\".\n\nThe most frequently used current sense, denoting \"the economic system of a country or an area\", seems not to have developed until the 1650s.\n\nAs long as someone has been making, supplying and distributing goods or services, there has been some sort of economy; economies grew larger as societies grew and became more complex. Sumer developed a large-scale economy based on commodity money, while the Babylonians and their neighboring city states later developed the earliest system of economics as we think of, in terms of rules/laws on debt, legal contracts and law codes relating to business practices, and private property.\n\nThe Babylonians and their city state neighbors developed forms of economics comparable to currently used civil society (law) concepts. They developed the first known codified legal and administrative systems, complete with courts, jails, and government records.\n\nThe ancient economy was mainly based on subsistence farming. The Shekel referred to an ancient unit of weight and currency. The first usage of the term came from Mesopotamia circa 3000 BC., and referred to a specific mass of barley which related other values in a metric such as silver, bronze, copper etc. A barley/shekel was originally both a unit of currency and a unit of weight, just as the British Pound was originally a unit denominating a one-pound mass of silver.\n\nFor most people, the exchange of goods occurred through social relationships. There were also traders who bartered in the marketplaces. In Ancient Greece, where the present English word 'economy' originated, many people were bond slaves of the freeholders. The economic discussion was driven by scarcity.\n\nIn Medieval times, what we now call economy was not far from the subsistence level. Most exchange occurred within social groups. On top of this, the great conquerors raised venture capital (from \"ventura\", ital.; \"risk\") to finance their captures. The capital should be refunded by the goods they would bring up in the New World. Merchants such as Jakob Fugger (1459–1525) and Giovanni di Bicci de' Medici (1360–1428) founded the first banks. The discoveries of Marco Polo (1254–1324), Christopher Columbus (1451–1506) and Vasco da Gama (1469–1524) led to a first global economy. The first enterprises were trading establishments. In 1513, the first stock exchange was founded in Antwerpen. Economy at the time meant primarily trade.\n\nThe European captures became branches of the European states, the so-called colonies. The rising nation-states Spain, Portugal, France, Great Britain and the Netherlands tried to control the trade through custom duties and (from \"mercator\", lat.: merchant) was a first approach to intermediate between private wealth and public interest.\nThe secularization in Europe allowed states to use the immense property of the church for the development of towns. The influence of the nobles decreased. The first Secretaries of State for economy started their work. Bankers like Amschel Mayer Rothschild (1773–1855) started to finance national projects such as wars and infrastructure. Economy from then on meant national economy as a topic for the economic activities of the citizens of a state.\n\nThe first economist in the true modern meaning of the word was the Scotsman Adam Smith (1723–1790) who was inspired partly by the ideas of physiocracy, a reaction to mercantilism and also later Economics student, Adam Mari. He defined the elements of a national economy: products are offered at a natural price generated by the use of competition - supply and demand - and the division of labor. He maintained that the basic motive for free trade is human self-interest. The so-called self-interest hypothesis became the anthropological basis for economics. Thomas Malthus (1766–1834) transferred the idea of supply and demand to the problem of overpopulation.\n\nThe Industrial Revolution was a period from the 18th to the 19th century where major changes in agriculture, manufacturing, mining, and transport had a profound effect on the socioeconomic and cultural conditions starting in the United Kingdom, then subsequently spreading throughout Europe, North America, and eventually the world. The onset of the Industrial Revolution marked a major turning point in human history; almost every aspect of daily life was eventually influenced in some way.\nIn Europe wild capitalism started to replace the system of mercantilism (today: protectionism) and led to economic growth. The period today is called industrial revolution because the system of Production, production and division of labor enabled the mass production of goods.\n\nThe contemporary concept of \"the economy\" wasn't popularly known until the American Great Depression in the 1930s.\n\nAfter the chaos of two World Wars and the devastating Great Depression, policymakers searched for new ways of controlling the course of the economy. This was explored and discussed by Friedrich August von Hayek (1899–1992) and Milton Friedman (1912–2006) who pleaded for a global free trade and are supposed to be the fathers of the so-called neoliberalism. However, the prevailing view was that held by John Maynard Keynes (1883–1946), who argued for a stronger control of the markets by the state. The theory that the state can alleviate economic problems and instigate economic growth through state manipulation of aggregate demand is called Keynesianism in his honor. In the late 1950s, the economic growth in America and Europe—often called Wirtschaftswunder (ger: \"economic miracle\") —brought up a new form of economy: mass consumption economy. In 1958, John Kenneth Galbraith (1908–2006) was the first to speak of an affluent society. In most of the countries the economic system is called a social market economy.\n\nWith the fall of the Iron Curtain and the transition of the countries of the Eastern Block towards democratic government and market economies, the idea of the post-industrial society is brought into importance as its role is to mark together the significance that the service sector receives at the place of the industrialization, as well\nthe first usage of this term, some relate it to Daniel Bell's 1973 book, \"The Coming of Post-Industrial Society\", while other - to social philosopher Ivan Illich's book, \"Tools for Conviviality\". The term is also applied in philosophy to designate the fading of postmodernism in the late 90s and especially in the beginning of the 21st century.\n\nWith the spread of Internet as a mass media and communication medium especially after 2000-2001, the idea for the Internet and information economy is given place because of the growing importance of ecommerce and electronic businesses, also the term for a global information society as understanding of a new type of \"all-connected\" society is created. In the late 2000s, the new type of economies and economic expansions of countries like China, Brazil, and India bring attention and interest to different from the usually dominating Western type economies and economic models.\n\nThe economy may be considered as having developed through the following Phases or Degrees of Precedence.\n\nIn modern economies, these phase precedences are somewhat differently expressed by the three-sector theory. \n\nOther sectors of the developed community include :\n\n\nThere are a number of ways to measure economic activity of a nation. These methods of measuring economic activity include:\n\n\nThe GDP - Gross domestic product of a country is a measure of the size of its economy. The most conventional economic analysis of a country relies heavily on economic indicators like the GDP and GDP per capita. While often useful, GDP only includes economic activity for which money is exchanged.\n\nAn informal economy is economic activity that is neither taxed nor monitored by a government, contrasted with a formal economy. The informal economy is thus not included in that government's gross national product (GNP). Although the informal economy is often associated with developing countries, all economic systems contain an informal economy in some proportion.\n\nInformal economic activity is a dynamic process which includes many aspects of economic and social theory including exchange, regulation, and enforcement. By its nature, it is necessarily difficult to observe, study, define, and measure. No single source readily or authoritatively defines informal economy as a unit of study.\n\nThe terms \"under the table\" and \"off the books\" typically refer to this type of economy. The term black market refers to a specific subset of the informal economy. The term \"informal sector\" was used in many earlier studies, and has been mostly replaced in more recent studies which use the newer term.\n\nThe informal sector makes up a significant portion of the economies in developing countries but it is often stigmatized as troublesome and unmanageable. However the informal sector provides critical economic opportunities for the poor and has been expanding rapidly since the 1960s. As such, integrating the informal economy into the formal sector is an important policy challenge.\n\nEconomic research is conducted in fields as different as Economics, Economic sociology, Economic anthropology, or Economic history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3720589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3720589", "title": "Entertainment technology", "text": "Entertainment technology\n\nEntertainment technology is the discipline of using manufactured or created components to enhance or make possible any sort of entertainment experience. Because entertainment categories are so broad, and because entertainment models the world in many ways, the types of implemented technology are derived from a variety of sources. Thus, in theatre, for example, entertainment technology practitioners must be able to design and construct scenery, install electrical systems, build clothing, use motors if there is scenery automation, provide plumbing (if functioning kitchen fixtures are required, or if \"singing in the rain\"), etc. In this way, the entertainment technology field intersects with most other types of technology.\n\nTraditionally, entertainment technology is derived from theatrical stagecraft, and stagecraft is an important subset of the discipline. However, the rise of new types and venues for entertainment, as well as rapidly advancing technological development, has increased the range and scope of its practice.\n\nEntertainment technology includes:\n\n\nIn animation and game design, the phrase \"entertainment technology\" refers to a very real world of entertainment experiences made possible by the advent of primarily computer-mediated digital technologies.\n\nEntertainment Technology can be traced back to the “Pre-digital Age.” The invention of the first phonograph machine, which is used to record and playback sound, dates back to 1877 by inventor Thomas Edison. There has been a significant progression from that antiquated modality of entertainment. From silent films (which also gave way to the art of creative storytelling using moving pictures) to the digital age, in which we now see growth on a global scale and, relative to earlier inventions, an extremely fast pace. By comparison, from the invention of the phonograph machine in 1877 to the invention of the first motion picture camera by Louis Lumiere in 1895 shows a gap of 18 years between significant entertainment technology inventions. Whereas compact discs were introduced in the 1980’s and within the next 10 years, satellite television was introduced. More recent developments in entertainment technology are sometimes considered to be a “race” in terms of which company will develop and distribute their product first. Knowing what we have available to us and where it all began can be used as a footnote in our ever-increasing development of entertainment and other technological advances.\n\nSociety has completely been changed and advanced in many different ways by all the advancements in entertainment technology. Ranging from how companies get their product name out and get customers to buy into that product, to how people come into contact with one another and how we converse. Media and entertainment have become such a huge part of everyone’s life. We are all invested in some kind of media whether it is a tv show or a vlog and the producer of those are all very aware of the consumption of their product and will try to advertise it in as many ways as possible. They will reach out and promote their form of entertainment by having it on multiple platforms. Media companies will share their product on many different popular websites and forms of social media and ask its consumers to share it as well, generating more views and continuously advancing their products notoriety. Millions of dollars have been spent on Artificial Intelligence. Companies use AI because it is so detailed and precise with all of its obtained knowledge, they will use it to help market their brand because AI knows exactly what people like and what they want to see and will put together the final product that will succeed the most. Entertainment websites and websites that sell goods maintain and expand their viewers and customers by advertising something new you haven’t seen before when you are done with what you originally visited the website for. A big reason why a company became so successful and became so popular is that they bundled everything people want into a smaller collection, instead of having a much larger bundle that only included a couple items a consumer wants. Virtual reality is giving us a new way to experience the world. You can travel to see your favorite live event anywhere in the world without even having to leave your house.\n\nA three dimensional, computer generated simulation of a real seeming environment brought on by the use of special electronic equipment. This technology is used to replace the user’s entire real world environment with a computer generated (or simulated) one.\n\nAn interactive technology that intertwines computer generated images with real world objects. These artificial images can align with or block the real world environment. This technology is used to alter the user’s perception of the real world which should not to be confused with virtual reality in which the user’s whole perception is changed.\n\nA rich visual and audio experience that provides a greater contrast than standard dynamic range. This technology is most associated with display devices, sound recording, 3D rendering, and photography. Technology like this provides a more lifelike image in the visual aspect.\n\nA device (usually a camera) that captures information about the light field that is emerging from a real life scene which is; the direction of the light rays in space and the intensity of the light in the actual environment/scene. This technology will someday surpass Virtual Reality.\n\nVideo streaming is becoming a huge part of society in this day and age and it’s only beginning to expand. Video streaming brought in a revenue of $30.29 billion in 2016 and based on projections conducted by Research and Markets, will reach an astonishing $70.05 billion in the year 2021. This projected drastic increase has caused there to be more competition in streaming, which has led to rapid growth, development, and a large increase in the amount of users. Technology is a data based driven field, and with this rapid growth the future is bright for this field. Technology has been enhancing discoveries for as long as it’s been invented. It holds the digital power to entertain, inform, and persuade. Technology will continue to provide all of these sentiments and will continue to do so for as long as developments keep forthcoming. Rapid growth and development does not only affect the consumers, but the producers. Large technology companies will have improve content quality of all while extracting maximum value of the product. Challenges for development in the media industry are how to maximize content, brands, and advertising. While also created tailoring consumers needs to enhance their experience. Consumers drive this field, companies are constantly running data about consumers preferences, relationships, habits, and locations. Technology is a growing field and with companies beginning to care more about the consumers, and with rapid growing development in this field, expect technology to take bigger steps forward in years to come.  \n\nSchools that offer programs or degrees in entertainment technology include:\n\n\nCurrently, the only university offering a degree specifically in Entertainment Engineering and Design (EED) is the University of Nevada, Las Vegas (UNLV). Because UNLV's program is in its infancy, current entertainment technologists come from a wide variety of educational backgrounds, the most prevalent of which are theater and mechanical technology. Several other institutions of higher education offer similar programs for entertainment-related ventures.\n\nA bachelor's degree in these areas will typically have a difference of only a few specialized classes.\n\nTraditionally, people interested in careers in this field either presented themselves as apprentices within craft unions, or attended college programs in theatre technology. Although both are appropriate in limited ways, the growing world of entertainment technology encompasses many different types of performance and display environments than the theatre. To this end, newer opportunities have arisen that provide a wider educational base than these more traditional environments. An article \"Rethinking Entertainment Technology Education\" by John Huntington describes new teaching philosophies that resonate with the need for a richer and more flexible educational environment:\n\n"}
{"id": "2010183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010183", "title": "Fowell Buxton", "text": "Fowell Buxton\n\nSir Thomas Fowell Buxton, 1st Baronet (1 April 1786 – 19 February 1845) was an English Member of Parliament, brewer, abolitionist and social reformer. He had connections with the Gurney family.\n\nBuxton was born at Castle Hedingham, Essex. His father was also named Thomas Fowell Buxton. His mother's maiden name was Anna Hanbury. Through the influence of his mother, who was a Quaker, Buxton became associated with the Gurney family of Earlham Hall, Norwich. He was especially close to Joseph John Gurney, his sister the prison reformer Elizabeth Fry, and their sister Hannah, whom he married in May 1807. He lived at Northrepps Hall in Norfolk.\n\nIn 1808, Buxton's Hanbury family connections led to an appointment to work at the brewery of Truman, Hanbury & Company, in Brick Lane, Spitalfields, London. In 1811 he was made a partner in the business, renamed Truman, Hanbury, Buxton & Co. He later became sole owner.\n\nAlthough he was a member of the Church of England, Buxton attended meetings of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) with some of the Gurneys. In this way he became involved in the social reform movement, in which Friends were prominent. He helped raise money for the weavers of London, who were being forced into poverty by the factory system. He provided financial support for Elizabeth Fry's prison reform work and joined her Association for the Improvement of the Female Prisoners in Newgate.\n\nBuxton was elected to Parliament for Weymouth and Melcombe Regis in 1818. As an MP he worked for changes in prison conditions and criminal law and for the abolition of slavery, in which he was helped by his sister-in-law Louisa Gurney Hoare. He also opposed capital punishment and pushed for its abolition. Although he never accomplished this last goal during his lifetime, he worked to restrict those crimes for which capital punishment was sentenced; the number of crimes punishable by death was reduced from more than 200 to eight.\n\nThomas and Hannah Buxton had eight children. Four of them died of whooping cough over a five-week period around April 1820. Another one died of tuberculosis (consumption) some time later. Hannah would send boxes of toys to the missionary Anna Hinderer in Nigeria in 1855. By 1866 her grandchildren were parcelling up toys to send to Nigeria.\n\nThe slave trade had been abolished in 1807, but Buxton began to work for the abolition of the institution of slavery. In 1823 he helped found the Society for the Mitigation and Gradual Abolition of Slavery (later known as the Anti-Slavery Society). In the House of Commons in May 1823, Buxton introduced a resolution condemning the state of slavery as \"repugnant to the principles of the British constitution and of the Christian religion\", and called for its gradual abolition \"throughout the British colonies\". He also pressured the government to send dispatches to the colonies to improve the treatment of slaves. Buxton took over as leader of the abolition movement in the British House of Commons after William Wilberforce retired in 1825.\n\nHe presented a petition to the House of Commons bearing 187,000 signatures. This had been partly organised by Priscilla Buxton in 1833, and the first two signatures were Amelia Opie's and hers. He had achieved his goal when slavery was officially abolished in the British Empire, except in India and Ceylon. Buxton held his seat in Parliament until 1837.\n\nIn 1839 Buxton urged the British government to make treaties with African leaders to abolish the slave trade. The government in turn backed the Niger expedition of 1841 (not including Buxton) put together by missionary organizations, which was also going to work on trade. More than 150 people were part of the expedition, which reached the Niger Delta and began negotiations. The British suffered such high mortality from fevers, with more than 25% of the group dying rapidly, that they cut short the mission in 1841.\nDavid Livingstone was strongly influenced by Buxton's arguments that the African slave trade might be destroyed through the influence of \"legitimate trade\" (in goods) and the spread of Christianity. He became a missionary in Africa and fought the slave trade all his life.\n\nOn 30 July 1840 Buxton was created a baronet. His health failed gradually – according to some, due to disappointment over the failed mission to Africa. He died five years later and was buried at Overstrand.\n\nOn 16 June 1824 a meeting was held at Old Slaughter's Coffee House, St Martin's Lane, London, that created the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. (It became the RSPCA when Queen Victoria gave royal assent in 1840.) The 22 founding members included William Wilberforce, Richard Martin, Sir James Mackintosh, Basil Montagu, and Reverend Arthur Broome. Buxton was appointed chairman for the year 1824.\n\n\nBuxton had a number of notable descendants (five sons and six daughters):\n\nSir Edward North Buxton, 2nd Baronet (1812–1858): married Catherine Gurney (seven sons, five daughters)\n\nThomas Fowell Buxton (1822–1908): Married Rachel Gurney (six sons, five daughters)\n\nCharles Buxton, MP (1823–1871): married Emily Mary Holland (two sons, four daughters)\n\nPriscilla Buxton (died 1852): married Andrew Johnston, MP (c. 1798–1862) (2 sons, 4 daughters)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "668903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=668903", "title": "Francis Place", "text": "Francis Place\n\nFrancis Place (3 November 1771 in London – 1 January 1854 in London) was an English social reformer.\n\nHe was the illegitimate son of Simon Place and Mary Gray, and had a rough upbringing; his father ran a London sponging-house in Vinegar Yard, near Drury Lane, and Place was born there. He was schooled to 1785 before being apprenticed to a leather-breeches maker in Temple Bar.\n\nAt eighteen Place was an independent journeyman, and in 1790 was married to Elizabeth Chad and they moved to a house near the Strand. In 1793 he became involved in and eventually the leader of a strike of leather-breeches makers, and was refused work for several years by London's master tailors; he exploited this time by reading avidly and widely. In 1794, Place joined the London Corresponding Society, a reform club, and for three years was prominent in its work, before resigning his post as chairman of the general committee in 1797 in protest at the violent tactics and rhetoric of some group members. In 1799 he became the partner in a tailor's shop, and a year later set up his own highly successful business at 16 Charing Cross.\n\nWithdrawing from politics whilst he established his business, he devoted three hours an evening after work to studying, eventually establishing such a large personal library in the back of his shop that it soon became a meeting place for radicals. In 1807 he supported Sir Francis Burdett, 5th Baronet, a Parliamentary candidate for Westminster, which allowed him to come into contact with such theorists as William Godwin, James Mill, Robert Owen, Jeremy Bentham, Joseph Hume and John Stuart Mill. When Place retired in 1817 (with a steady stream of income from his shop, now run by his children), he lived for several months with Bentham and the Mills at Forde Abbey.\n\nIt was around this time that he became involved in the movement for organised, public education, believing it to be a means of eradicating the ills of the working class. In the early 1820s he also became a Malthusian, believing that as the population increased it would outstrip the food supply. He successfully associated Malthus with the idea of birth control (which Malthus himself had opposed despite his fears of overpopulation). Despite himself having fathered fifteen children, he advocated the use of contraception, although was not specific about in what forms. It was on this topic that he wrote his only published book, the influential and controversial \"Illustrations and Proofs of the Principles of Population,\" in 1822. The earliest national birth control organization was founded in England in 1877 as a result of his thinking and activities. \n\nPlace also lobbied successfully for the 1824 repeal of the Combination Act, which helped early Trade Unionism, though new restrictions were soon introduced. Oddly, Place himself regarded Trade Unionism as a delusion that workers would soon forget about if they were allowed to try it.\n\nIn 1827 he entered a long period of depression after the death of his wife from cancer. In February 1830 he married Louisa Chatterley, a London actress. Also in this year, Place helped support Rowland Detrosier, a working class radical activist who also sought to distance himself from socialism. Through Place, Detrosier would be introduced to figures such as Bentham and J.S. Mill, who in turn introduced him to Thomas Carlyle. Detrosier's activities and writings would be influential amongst Manchester Radicals and the later Chartists. He was also active in the agitation that led to the Reform Act of 1832, holding up the recent revolution in Paris as an example of what could happen if reform wasn't allowed by legal means.\n\nHaving lost much of his money in 1833 in bad investments, Place had to move from Charing Cross to Brompton Square, and lost his regular contact with the Reformist middle-class. However, he remained politically active, working against the stamp tax and involving himself in the London Working Men's Association, within which in 1838 he and William Lovett drafted the document that would become the People's Charter. It then became evident that many Chartists were willing to use violent means, and when Feargus O'Connor replaced Lovett as the effective leader of the movement, Place ceased to be involved in Chartist activities. On rescinding his involvement with the Chartists, he became involved in the movement to repeal the Corn Laws.\n\nFor the next two decades he wrote his autobiography and organised the immense collection he had made: notes, pamphlets, newspapers and letters. In 1851 he separated from his wife and on 1 January 1854 died in the home of his two unmarried daughters in Hammersmith.\n\nPlace is listed on the Reformers Memorial in Kensal Green Cemetery in London.\n\nHis pamphlets, letters, magazine and newspaper articles throw light on the social and economic history of the nineteenth century. His hoarding of documents create an important archive. The British Library currently holds these documents in fifty-four reels of micro-film as the Francis Place Collection.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44659639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44659639", "title": "Gendered racism", "text": "Gendered racism\n\nGendered racism is a form of oppression that occurs due to race and gender. It is perpetuated due to the prevalence of perceptions, stereotypes, and images of certain groups. Racism is defined as the belief that all members of each race possess characteristics or abilities specific to that race. Racism functions as a way to distinguish races as inferior or superior to one another. Sexism is defined as prejudice, stereotyping, or discrimination on the basis of sex. Gendered racism differs in that it pertains specifically to racial and ethnic understandings of masculinity and femininity, as well as along gendered forms of race and ethnic discrimination.\n\nFundamentally, age, class, and gender are intersecting categories of experience that affect all aspects of human life. Thus, they simultaneously structure the experiences of all people in society. At any moment, race, class, or gender may feel more salient or meaningful in a given person's life, but they are overlapping and cumulative in their effects on people's experiences. This emphasizes that it is difficult for an individual to differentiate which aspect of their identity is being attacked. It may be impossible for an individual to assess whether discrimination is due to gender or race. Both of these constructs make up the individual's identity, and they intersect with one another. Because people have intersecting social identities, it is important to focus on how these identities shape an individual's experiences.\n\nThe term gendered racism was originally coined by sociologist Philomena Essed, and refers to the simultaneous experience of both racism and sexism. According to Essed, racism and sexism \"intertwine and combine under certain conditions into one hybrid phenomenon\". Gendered racism also encompasses what is known as \"double jeopardy\". Double jeopardy in this case can be defined as a disadvantage an individual faces due to aspects of their identity. \nGendered racism is seen through society's stereotypical portrayals of men and women of color. For example, African American men may be seen as criminals and absent fathers, Latino women may be seen as feisty and exotic, Asian women may be viewed as submissive and docile, and African American women may be portrayed as Mammy figures, promiscuous, and emasculating. These stereotypes coincide with the images that are pervasive in the media, which influences public opinions on people of color. For African American women, gendered racism has manifested in multiple ways, and continues to do so. Their challenges include prejudice, mistreatment, and economic disadvantage.\n\nAs a means of coping, African American women relied heavily on the support of the black community. They also coped by overachieving or being overly successful, and thinking positively. Research demonstrated that the coping mechanisms employed by African American women were not always beneficial because they heightened distress rather than decrease it. Possible ways to cope with gendered racism include education, in which African American women are provided with a space to openly discuss their experiences and develop strategies to better handle situations when they are being discriminated against. Another research experiment was conducted in order to assess how black female college students cope with gendered racial microaggressions. Microaggressions are the everyday verbal, nonverbal, and environmental slights, snubs, or insults, whether intentional or unintentional, which communicate hostile, derogatory, or negative messages to target persons based solely upon their marginalized group membership.\n\nThe results from these focus groups showed that there were five coping strategies employed: two resistance coping strategies, one collective coping strategy, and two self-protective coping strategies. The two resistance coping strategies were using one's voice as power and resisting Eurocentric standards. When Black women use their voice as power they are actively speaking up and addressing the microaggressions in order to assert power in the situation. In order to resist Eurocentric standards black women are compelled to shy away from the traditional standards of beauty as well as dominant ideologies held by the larger society.\n\nThe collective coping strategy proved to be leaning on one's support networks in which individuals find solace through interactions with friends and family. The women who utilized this coping strategy spoke about the comfort they found in having support from other women who had similar experiences. The two self-protective coping strategies used were becoming a Superwoman of sorts and becoming desensitized and escaping. Self-protective coping involves strategies that are used to minimize the stressful effect of gendered microaggressions. Black women who cope by becoming a Black Superwoman take on multiple roles to demonstrate their strength and resilience. Other women cope by becoming desensitized and escaping, which involves downplaying the seriousness of the situation and attempting to find a way out.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29931264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29931264", "title": "Gustav Lilienthal", "text": "Gustav Lilienthal\n\nGustav Lilienthal (October 9, 1849 – February 1, 1933) was a German social reformer, a pioneer in building and construction technology (Prefabricated buildings), inventor of different Construction sets (e. g. Anchor Stone Blocks) and involved in the pioneering work of his brother, Otto Lilienthal in aviation.\n\n"}
{"id": "8024980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8024980", "title": "Index of urban planning articles", "text": "Index of urban planning articles\n\nUrban, city, or town planning is the discipline of planning which explores several aspects of the built and social environments of municipalities and communities:\n\nAncient Chinese urban planning\n- American Institute of Certified Planners (AICP)\n- American Planning Association\n- Athens Charter\n\nBroadacre City\n\nCircles of Sustainability\n- Canadian Institute of Planners\n- Concentric zone model\n- Coving (urban planning)\n- Crime prevention through environmental design\n\neGovernment\n- Environmental design\n- Environmental planning\n\nFloor Area Ratio\n\nGarden city movement\n- Geographic information system (GIS)\n- Grid plan\n\nHUD USER - Hudson's village model\n\nInternational Society of City and Regional Planners\n\n\"Journal of Transport and Land Use\"\n\n\nLand use conflict\n- Land use planning\n- Landscape architecture\n- Linear city\n- List of planning journals\n\nManhattanization\n- \"Manual for Streets\" (in the UK)\n- Metropolitan planning organization\n- MONU - magazine on urbanism\n\nNew Pedestrianism\n- New town\n- New Urbanism\n\nOnline land planning\n\nPedestrian zone\n- Planning Institute Australia\n- Prague Institute\n- Principles of Intelligent Urbanism\n- Public open space\n\nRadical planning\n- Regional Planning\n- Regulatory Barriers Clearinghouse\n- Royal Town Planning Institute\n\nSetback\n- \"SimCity\" series\n- Smart growth\n- Spatial planning\n\nTerminating vista\n- Town and Country Planning Association\n- Town and Country Planning in the United Kingdom\n- Transferable development rights\n- Transit Oriented Development\n- Transportation Planning\n\nUnified settlement planning\n- Unitary urbanism\n- United States metropolitan area\n- Urban design\n- Urban forest\n- Urban forestry\n- Urban Land Institute\n- Urban planning education\n- Urban planning in Africa\n- Urban planning in ancient Egypt\n- Urban planning in Australia\n- Urban planning in China\n- Urban planning in France\n- Urban planning in Japan\n- Urban planning in communist countries\n- Urban planning in the European Union\n- Urban planning in Shanghai\n- Urban planning in Singapore\n- Urban Planning Society of China\n- Urban plans in Iran\n- Urban reforestation\n- Urban renewal\n- Urban sprawl\n- Urban village\n- Urbanized area\n- Urbanomics\n\nVancouverism\n\nWorld Cities Summit\n- World's most livable cities\n\nZoning\n\n"}
{"id": "8724959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8724959", "title": "Joseph Rowntree (philanthropist)", "text": "Joseph Rowntree (philanthropist)\n\nJoseph Rowntree (24 May 1836 – 24 February 1925) was an English Quaker philanthropist and businessman from York. Rowntree is perhaps best known for being a champion of social reform, partner and friend of Charles Booth, and his time as a chocolatier at family business \"Rowntree's\", one of the most important in Britain. Even as a powerful businessman, he was deeply interested in improving the quality of life of his employees; this led to him becoming a philanthropist, pursuing many charitable causes. In 1904 he created three trusts, the Joseph Rowntree Village Trust (JRVT) which was originally set up to build and manage the garden village of New Earswick, the Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust (JRCT) and the Joseph Rowntree Social Services Trust (JRSST). The latter two were both set up to effect social reform, the difference between them being that whereas the Charitable Trust was set up as a charity, the Social Services Trust was set up as a limited company so that if necessary it would be able to undertake social and political work not legally allowed by a charitable Trust. He suggested that only the JRVT would be permanent but in fact all the trusts are still in existence although the Social Services Trust has changed its name to the Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust and with the separation of the Joseph Rowntree Housing Trust from the Village Trust in 1968, there are now four trusts that exist today.\n\nRowntree was born the son of Sarah and Joseph Rowntree, on Pavement Street in York where his father owned a grocer's shop. He attended Bootham School. At fourteen he accompanied his father on a visit to Ireland, and witnessed the effects of the potato famine. This experience was to provide the grounding for his political views and business ideas later in life.\n\nHe started working in his father's grocery business as an apprentice the following year, and after his father's death in 1859 he took over the running, jointly managing the business with his brother John Stephenson Rowntree.\n\nIn 1869 he joined his brother, Henry Isaac Rowntree, who owned a chocolate factory in York. When Henry Isaac died in 1883, Joseph became the owner of the company. Joseph pursued his progressive ideas within the running of Rowntree's, in the design of the new factory opened in 1881, and in the business practices followed therein, including the founding of one of the first Occupational Pension Schemes.\n\nThe company, Rowntree's, grew from 30 to over 4,000 employees by the end of the 19th century making it Britain's eightieth largest manufacturing employer. It merged with John Mackintosh and Co. in 1969 and was taken over by Nestlé in 1988.\n\nHe had two marriages, to Julia Eliza Seebohm in 1862 who died in 1863, and then to her cousin Emma Antoinette Seebohm in 1867 with whom he had six children. The social investigator Seebohm Rowntree was one of their children.\n\nJoseph Rowntree's grave, along with many other members of his family, can be seen in the Quaker cemetery within the grounds of The Retreat on Heslington Road, York.\n\nPhilosophical and political views: Joseph Rowntree was a supporter of liberal values, and was anxious to improve the quality of life of his employees. He provided them with a library, free education, a works magazine, a social welfare officer, a doctor, a dentist and a pension fund.\n\nThe Joseph Rowntree School was built in York in 1942 by the Joseph Rowntree Village Trust. In 2010 the school relocated to new premises costing £29 million. Students refer to it as \"Jo Ro\".\n\nA campaign was started in summer 2012 to put a statue of Joseph Rowntree at a prominent site in the centre of York, with a Facebook page – \"A Joseph Rowntree statue for York City Centre\" – that stated: \"York should be proud of its greatest son! This campaign aims to place a statue of Joseph Rowntree, philanthropist, social reformer, and chocolatier, in Parliament Square, York, on the site of the repulsed and now-demolished toilet block.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19886911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19886911", "title": "Krishna Nath Sarmah", "text": "Krishna Nath Sarmah\n\nKrishna Nath Sarmah (1887–1947) was a renowned nationalist and social reformer from Assam. After graduating with degrees in science and law, he started a legal practice in 1917. Inspired by Mahatma Gandhi, he joined the freedom struggle instead. Along with Tarun Ram Phukan, Nabin Chandra Bardoloi and Gopinath Bardoloi, he was one the forerunners in the Indian freedom struggle in Assam.\n\n"}
{"id": "49947894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49947894", "title": "Leo Szilard Lectureship Award", "text": "Leo Szilard Lectureship Award\n\nThe Leo Szilard Lectureship Award (originally called the Leo Szilard Award) is given annually by the American Physical Society (APS) for \"outstanding accomplishments by physicists in promoting the use of physics for the benefit of society\". It is given internationally in commemoration of physicist Leo Szilard.\n\nIt is often awarded to physicists early in their careers who are active in areas such as environmental issues, arms control, or science policy. the recipient is given $3,000 plus $2,000 travel expenses and is expected to lecture at an APS meeting and at educational or research laboratories, to promote awareness of their activities.\n\nThe award is given yearly and was first presented in 1974.\n\n"}
{"id": "1583078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1583078", "title": "List of gairaigo and wasei-eigo terms", "text": "List of gairaigo and wasei-eigo terms\n\nThis is a selected list of \"gairaigo\", Japanese words originating or based on foreign language (generally Western) terms, including \"wasei-eigo\" (Japanese pseudo-Anglicisms).\n\nMany of these words derive from Portuguese, due to Portugal's early role in Japanese-Western interaction; Dutch, due to the Netherlands' relationship with Japan amidst the policy of \"sakoku\" during the Edo period; and from French and German, due to France and Germany's cultural and scientific prominence during Japan's modernization in the Meiji period.\n\nHowever, most come from English, the dominant world language today. Due to the large number of western concepts imported into Japanese culture during modern times, there are thousands of these English borrowings. These English words are informally referred to as having been \"Nipponized\". \n\nJapanese vocabulary also includes large numbers of words from Chinese, borrowed at various points throughout history. However, since the Japanese language has such strong historical ties to the Chinese language, these loans are not generally considered \"gairaigo\". \nMany loan words are in fact \"pseudo-borrowings\": despite their links to foreign language words, the word forms as used in modern Japanese are not used in the same way in their languages of origin. In fact, many such terms, despite their similarity to the original foreign words, are not easily understood by speakers of those languages (e.g. \"left over\" as a baseball term for a hit that goes over the left-fielder's head, rather than uneaten food saved for a later meal as in English—or \"famikon\" ファミコン from \"Family computer\", which actually refers to the Nintendo Entertainment System).\n\nSee the list of Japanese terms mistaken for gairaigo for details of words or terms mistaken for foreign loan words and false cognates.\n\nDue to the extent of Japanese borrowings, particularly from English, this list focuses mainly on pseudo-borrowings and commonly used loan words from languages other than English (which are often mistaken for English words in Japan). Most loan words (and all modern loans) are transcribed in Katakana, a kana (Japanese syllabary) whose usage approximates English italics. Older loans may be written using Ateji, with Kanji used to represent their phonetic readings without necessarily inheriting their meaning. In words composed of both a loan and native Japanese, the Japanese can function as a morpheme within a compound (and would generally be written in Kanji if possible), or can be attached to the foreign word to inflect or otherwise modify it, as if it were okurigana (which is written in Hiragana).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "433170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=433170", "title": "Lists of active separatist movements", "text": "Lists of active separatist movements\n\nPresented below is a list of lists of active, separatist movements:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27357307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27357307", "title": "Mailroom", "text": "Mailroom\n\nA mailroom (US) or post room (UK) is a room in which incoming and outgoing mail is processed and sorted. Mailrooms are commonly found in schools, offices, apartment buildings, and the generic post office. A person who works in a mailroom is known as a mailroom clerk or mailboy and the head person (sometimes the only person) is called the postmaster. The mailroom is responsible for a company's incoming and outgoing mail. A mailroom clerk prepares outgoing mail and packages prior to their being sent out via the post office or other carrier. \n\nIn a large organization, the mailroom is the central hub of the internal mail system and the interface with external mail. The postmaster manages the department, clerks assist them and mailboys deliver mail for other employees in different departments using a mail cart or a trolley doing regular rounds throughout the day. Sometimes the mailboys will trolley sort using the departmental slots on the trolley to reduce work at the central hub and to speed internal mail.\n\nIn a small organization, or within a department or a large organization, a mailroom can be associated with the breakroom; these rooms can be combined into one. For instance, a mailroom can contain an area for employees to take a break. Besides pigeon-hole messageboxes, this area might have a kitchenette with a coffee maker, microwave, table and chairs, refrigerator, sink, pantry, or oven.\n\n"}
{"id": "23025574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23025574", "title": "Making Sense of Abstinence", "text": "Making Sense of Abstinence\n\nMaking Sense of Abstinence is a collection of 16 lessons for teaching about sexual abstinence in the context of comprehensive sexuality education. According to the Minnesota Organization on Adolescent Pregnancy, Prevention, and Parenting, it is \"a curriculum that takes abstinence beyond a one-dimensional scope of 'just say no,'...[utilizing] positive and engaging activities to help young people think about abstinence in a way that values their ability to make decisions.\"\n\nSample lessons include such titles as \"So What's An Abstinence Anyway?\" \"Hey, Mom? Hey, Dad? Hey...Gram? Can We Talk about Abstinence?\" \"Just Say Know,\" \"Masturbation: A Touchy Subject,\" \"Handling Horny,\" and \"Some Day: Making the Transition from Sexual Abstinence\".\n\nThe manual has received praise from sexuality educators for expanding the way sexuality education teaches about abstinence, and for teaching the subject in a positive way, unlike other fear-based approaches. For example, the online journal \"Sexual Intelligence\" praised \"Making Sense of Abstinence\" for \"not treating kids like robotic idiots.\"\n\nAbstinence-only advocates have criticized the manual for including such topics as outercourse and masturbation, behaviors they believe should not be acknowledged. Critics also claim that teenagers should not learn information to protect themselves when their abstinence decisions change.\n\nThe authors of \"Making Sense of Abstinence\" state that neither the \"Just say no\" approach, nor the \"Always say yes,\" is appropriate for abstinence education. Rather, they emphasize that teens need complete information to help them make the best decisions for themselves.\n"}
{"id": "45329986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45329986", "title": "Margaret Polson Murray", "text": "Margaret Polson Murray\n\nMargaret Smith Polson (\"née\" Murray; Paisley July 20, 1865 – January 27, 1927 Montreal), better known as Margaret Polson Murray, was a Canadian social reformer, magazine editor and founder of the Imperial Order Daughters of the Empire.\n\n"}
{"id": "18761837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18761837", "title": "Mediology", "text": "Mediology\n\nMediology (French: \"médiologie\"), broadly indicates a wide-ranging method for the analysis of cultural transmission in society and across societies, a method which challenges the conventional idea that 'technology is not culture'. The mediological method pays specific attention to the role of organisations and technical innovations, and the ways in which these can ensure the potency of cultural transmission - and thus the transformation of ideas into a civilisational worldview capable of sustained action.\n\nThe term was first coined and introduced in French as \"médiologie\" by the French intellectual Régis Debray in the \"Teachers, Writers, Celebrities\" section of his book \"Le pouvoir intellectuel en France\", (Editions Ramsay, 1979). The English form of the term became more widely known and respected in the English-speaking world with the publication of the key text on mediology in English, Debray's \"Transmitting Culture\" (University of Columbia Press, 2004). Mediology was taught for the first time in the Sorbonne (Paris) in 2007.\n\nThe practice of mediology is not a science, and thus is able to range across academic disciplines. The main areas involved are those of longitudinal history (the history of technologies, the history of the book, the histories and theories of aesthetics) and also research in communications and information theory.\n\nMediology is not a narrow specialist area of contemporary academic knowledge (as media sociology is), nor does it aspire to be a precise science of signs (as semiotics does). It differs from the models put forward by communication studies, in that its focus is not isolated individuals and a fleeting few moments of communication. Instead mediologists study the cultural transmission of religions, ideologies, the arts and political ideas in society, and across societies, over a time period that is usually to be measured in months, decades or millennia. Debray argues that mediology \"would like to bring to light the function of medium in all its forms, over a long time span - since the birth of writing. And without becoming obsessed by today's media.\"\n\nMediology must thus closely examine the methods used for the memorising, transmission, and displacement of cultural knowledge in any milieu. But it must balance its understanding of these with an equally close study of our individual modes of belief, thoughts, and competing social organisations. Mediology must further understand that such transmission is not simply happening within a lofty linguistic or textual discourse, but that transmission takes an equally valid concrete form in which \"material technologies and symbolic forms\" combine to produce things such as rituals, architecture, flags, special sites, customs, typefaces and book bindings, smells and sounds, bodily gestures and postures, all of which have a potent anchoring role in cultural transmission among ordinary people.\n\nDebray further points to the need to consider the role in transmission of all manner of non-media technical-cultural inventions, especially those of new forms of transportation. He gives the historical example of the bicycle, which he suggests was historically associated with: the rise of a democratic rational individualism; a new role for women in advanced societies; and the new kinetic ideas expressed in early modernist art and cinema.\n\nA mediologist might thus make an examination \"within a system\" (e.g. of systems of book production, of authors and publishers), or of \"the interaction between systems\" (e.g. how painting and early photography influenced each other), or even of \"the interactions across systems\" (e.g. the ways in which symbolic transmission of systematic knowledge is brought to intersect with the material history of actual transportation - such as desert trading routes and ancient religion, telegraph and railroad, the radio and airplanes, television and satellites, mobile phones and cars).\n\nDebray is generally critical of some of the ideas of Marshall McLuhan (whom he sees as being overly technologically determinist), and of the French sociologist Pierre Bourdieu. He also tries to step beyond Antonio Gramsci, in that he suggests that an ideology cannot be comprehended in ideological terms alone.\n\nCriticisms of mediology in English so far have been found in two short book reviews and one article. The first, by the screenwriter Yvette Bíró (\"Wide Angle\" magazine, Vol.18, No.1, January 1996), was a four-page book review of Debray's \"Vie et Mort de l'Image\", in which she claimed to have discerned \"traces of a strong, vulgar Marxist school of thought\".\n\nThe second review, by Pramod Nayor of the University of Hyderabad (\"Journal for Cultural and Religious Theory\", Vol.8, No.1, Winter 2006) was a review of the English translation of \"Transmitting Culture\" (2004). In concluding the review Nayor notes the similarities of some aspects and directions of mediology to Birmingham School cultural studies ranging from \"Raymond Williams through Stuart Hall\". Nayor also notes that recent philosophers and historians of science - he cites Bruno Latour, Eugene Thacker and Dwight Atkinson - have also examined science in relation to \"intersecting cultural, ethnic, economic and iconographic 'bases' of the transmission of culture\"\n\nAn article by Steven Maris in \"Fibreculture\" No.12 similarly suggests that Debray is too firmly embedded in \"the French academic scene\" and that thus \"Debray's explicit engagement with other national scholarly traditions of media, communications and cultural studies in the works mentioned above is minimal\". Maris also notes that mediology \"predates much of the [current academic] interest in networked cultures and new media\".\n\nPhysicists Alan Sokal and Jean Bricmont have criticized Debray's work for using Gödel's theorem as a metaphor without understanding its basic ideas, in their book \"Fashionable Nonsense\". Debray engaged in dialogue with Bricmont in a 2003 book titled \"À l'ombre des lumières : Débat entre un philosophe et un scientifique\", which so far has not been translated into English.\n\nDespite such criticisms, the six-volume \"New Dictionary of the History of Ideas\" (2004) wrote of Debray that \"His achievement is to have synthesized these earlier arguments into a practice with a powerful political project ahead of it.\" (Vol.4, page 1394).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18934741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18934741", "title": "Outline of communication", "text": "Outline of communication\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to communication:\n\nCommunication – purposeful activity of exchanging information and meaning across space and time using various technical or natural means, whichever is available or preferred. Communication requires a sender, a message, a medium and a recipient, although the receiver does not have to be present or aware of the sender's intent to communicate at the time of communication; thus communication can occur across vast distances in time and space.\n\n\n\n\n\nTheories of communication\n\nHistory of communication\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30405742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30405742", "title": "Plug &amp; Pray", "text": "Plug &amp; Pray\n\nPlug & Pray is a 2010 documentary film about the promise, problems and ethics of artificial intelligence and robotics. The main protagonists are the former MIT professor Joseph Weizenbaum and the futurist Raymond Kurzweil. The title is a pun on the computer hardware phrase \"Plug and Play\".\n\nComputer experts around the world strive towards the development of intelligent robots. Pioneers like Raymond Kurzweil and Hiroshi Ishiguro dream of fashioning intelligent machines that will equal their human creators. In this potential reality, man and machine merge as a single unity. Rejecting evolution's biological shackles tantalisingly dangles the promise of eternal life for those bold enough to seize it. But others, like Joseph Weizenbaum, counterattack against society's limitless faith in the redemptive powers of technology, questioning the prevailing discourses on new technologies and their ethical relationships to human life. The film delves into a world where computer technology, robotics, biology, neuroscience, and developmental psychology merge, and features roboticists in their laboratories in Japan, the USA, Italy and Germany.\n\nSince antiquity, mankind has dreamed of creating brilliant machines. The invention of the computer and the breathtaking pace of technological progress appear to be bringing the realisation of this dream within the grasp of humans. Robots were to do the housework, look after the children, care for the elderly, and go to war. Former MIT professor Joseph Weizenbaum, creator of ELIZA, has become a harsh critic of their visions of technological omnipotence.\n\nProduction of the film started in 2006 and ended in 2009. The death of the main protagonist Joseph Weizenbaum on March 5, 2008, fell in this period. The international festival premiere was at FIPA 2010 in Biarritz, France. Since then the film has been invited to 27 film festivals, among them the Seattle International Film Festival, Vancouver Film Festival, Visions du Réel. The theatrical release in Germany was on Nov. 11, 2010.\n\nThe film won the Bavarian Film Award 2010 for \"best documentary\", the Grand Prix of the Jury for the best film at the Paris International Science Film Festival, the Primer Premio for best film at the Mostra de Ciencia e Cinema in La Coruña (Spain), and the Science Communication Award at the International Science Film Festival Athens. It was also chosen as the best international film at the 46th AFO, Science Documentary Festival in Olomouc, Czech Republic, in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "11022357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11022357", "title": "Problematic integration theory", "text": "Problematic integration theory\n\nProblematic integration theory is a theory of communication that addresses the processes and dynamics of how people receive, evaluate, and respond to information and experiences. The premises of PI are based on the view that message processing, specifically the development of probabilistic and evaluative orientations (our perceptions of something's likelihood of occurring and its value, respectively), is a social and cultural construction. In situations where there is agreement between probabilistic orientation (a person's constructed belief about an object's likelihood, i.e., how likely something is to occur) and evaluative orientation (a person's constructed belief about an object's value), integration is in harmony, i.e., not problematic. However, when there is disagreement between these orientations about an object (i.e., an event, thing, person, idea, outcome, etc.), then integration becomes problematic. This disharmony leads to conflict and discomfort, which can manifest itself as cognitive, communicative, affective, and/or motivational.\n\nAustin Babrow first introduced the theory of Problematic Integration (PI) in 1992. Babrow brought together a diverse and interdisciplinary literature (from the field of communication and related disciplines, like psychology, sociology, and philosophy) to serve as building blocks for his new theory. Among the theoretical underpinnings that support PI are: uncertainty reduction theory; the theory of belief in a just world; analysis of decision-making; the theory of and motivation and self-esteem; and cognitive dissonance. However, despite integrating elements from these theories, PI has striking differences (e.g., unlike URT, PI does not assume that uncertainty is an undesirable situation, nor does it suggest that resolution of uncertainty is always necessary or desirable).\n\nProblematic Integration is a type of message-processing communication theory that relates to theories of decision making and persuasion. Problematic Integration Theory (PI) proposes that: (1) people orient themselves to the world by forming both probabilistic and evaluative orientations; (2) that probability and evaluation are not independent from one another; (3) that probability and evaluation are socially based and socially constructed, and that probability and evaluation are integral to our daily experience; and, (4) that integration of these orientations can be problematic. Probabilistic orientation is an assessment of the likelihood of an event or outcome. Evaluative orientation is an assessment of the favorability of an outcome. Often, assessments of probability and value are cooperative and easily integrated. However, as the theory's title implies, there are occasions when integration becomes problematic. PI proposes that integration becomes more difficult as:\n\nEssentially, problematic integration is what we experience when our probabilistic and evaluative orientations conflict with one another, causing instability and disharmony. Conflict arising from problematic integration may or may not be significant. The more important a value and the more central an issue (or object, to use PI terminology) is to one's beliefs or cultural values, the more likely that problematic integration will cause greater discomfort.\n\nBabrow identified four distinct manifestations, or forms, of problematic integration:\n\nThe first of these integrative predicaments, divergence, arises when there is a discrepancy between what we believe to be true or to be likely to occur and what we want to be true (the desired outcome). Ambiguity arises when the probability or value of an object (i.e., situation, outcome, thing, etc.) is unclear or highly uncertain. Babrow explained, that “in ambiguous situations, neither the outcome, nor the probability of the outcome is known, though the latter has restrictions” (Babrow, 1992, p. 112). Uncertainty occurs when an unknown factor obscures or complicates the development of one's orientation (probability and evaluation) toward an outcome. Ambiguity has also been described as uncertainty about what is unknown. Ambivalence is borne from one of two conditions: (1) an individual is forced to choose between two similarly valued alternatives; or (2) an individual is forced to choose between mutually exclusive alternatives. The last form of PI, impossibility, occurs upon the realization or belief that an outcome is will not happen. Impossibility is recognized as different from a form of divergence, because only impossibility denotes a sense of certainty. Responses to impossibility can range from a sense of futility, to one of increased motivation to deny the impossibility. All of these situations give rise to conflict.\n\nCommunication is both a source of, a medium, and a method for resolving conflict. Communication is a source of problematic integration in that knowledge and evaluative orientations are the result of communication, probabilistic and evaluative orientations are based on and developed through message and meaning-making (forms of communication), and communication is itself \"an object of thought\" and is therefore an object \"of probabilistic and evaluative orientations.\" It is also possible that a person experiencing problematic integration will seek new information or new sources of information to bolster or reinforce a desired probabilistic or evaluative orientation. This could also be seen engaging in as a form of cognitive dissonance. Communication is seen as a medium of problematic integration because communication inherently involves or is based on probabilistic and evaluative orientations, or communication is about probability and value. Communication is influenced by and formed from culture; thus, communication is a medium of PI, as and the formation of probabilistic and evaluative orientations derives from cultural frameworks. Lastly, communication is a resource for PI as we try to resolve and manage conflict caused by problematic integration through communication (internal, interpersonal, etc.).\n\nBecause communication may be a source, medium, and/or method for resolving problematic integration, it is possible for conflict to manifest as \"extended chains\" of problematic integration. Such extended chains occur through forms, foci, and layers of experience. By extended chains, it is meant that experiences of problematic integration and efforts to resolve problematic integration may lead to development of a new form of PI. As conflict between probability and value develops around a focal point (or topic), it can lead to conflict regarding a new topic (e.g., stress and anxiety about earning an end-of-year bonus at work can lead to new worries about personal finances, sense of self-worth, and/or one's status and career prospects at work). Problematic integration becomes shared (or chained) through layers of experience when people discuss and relate their struggles with others. In this process of communicating our conflicts, others may share in our problematic integration through empathy and sympathy. Babrow proposed that communication becomes more important to resolve problematic integration as the conflict or integration becomes more difficult.\n\nAs mentioned above, Problematic Integration Theory is a type of communication theory that examines how we make meaning of information and experiences, and how we handle uncertainty. PI differs from Uncertainty Reduction Theory and other axiomatic and predictive communication theories in a number of ways. PI proposes that there are numerous and varied meanings of the term uncertainty. Unlike URT, PI predicts that experiencing uncertainty does not automatically lead to a desire to reduce the uncertainty. Further, PI proposes that: (1) uncertainty is not always \"bad; (2) uncertainty has a single or narrow meaning; (3) reduction of uncertainty is not always possible; (4) any resolution of uncertainty is not necessarily final; and, (5) integrative dilemmas do not necessarily have an identifiable or singular cause.\n\nProblematic Integration Theory (PI) falls under the socio-psychological and socio-cultural communication traditions. PI began with a focus on intra- and inter-personal contexts, but has been applicable in many contexts, including interpersonal, small group, and organizational; thus, it has a broad scope of application. PI is considered an interpretive/hermeneutic approach of theory rather than positivistic/empirical (i.e., predictive) or critical.\n\nBabrow's theory shares some common ideas with Uncertainty Management Theory (UMT), which was developed by Dale Brashers (2007, A theory of communication and uncertainty management. In B. Whaley & W. Samter (Eds.), Explaining communication theory (pp. 201–218). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum). For a comparison of the perspectives, see Bradac (2001).\n\nThe complexity of PI and the multiplicity of its manifestations makes it difficult to operationalize, measure, and apply. However, this breadth of scope also indicates that it may have extremely wide-ranging applications and opportunities for research. Because the concepts within PI are based on cultural definitions, PI is seen as being overly responsive to external conceptual influences; thus, making it potentially falsifiable.\n\nPI has been used within the realm of Health Communication studies in order to assess methods of educating, and communicating with, patients facing a variety chronic or life-threatening conditions. In 2003, Babrow received the prestigious Woolbert Award for scholarship of exceptional originality and influence from the National Communication Association for his work with PI.\n\nPI has been used extensively in analysis of the health care system, particularly in regard to communication between health care providers and patients. The health-care system inherently involves communication between health-care providers (e.g., doctors, nurses, various therapists, dietitians, social workers, counselors, etc.), patients, and members of the patient's social and support network (e.g., family members, friends, members of support groups, etc.). Because understanding and communicating diagnoses, prognoses, treatment plans, expectations, and more can be complicated and because this communication relies on the communication skills of the various people involved, health-care situations offer ample opportunity to examine problematic integration. Research in this area has revealed that information is used to decrease and increase uncertainty, depending on the situation. In some cases, patients may seek information to reduce stressful uncertainty. However, in other cases, the care team and the patient may need to increase uncertainty in order to increase optimism and allow for re-evaluation of a given situation. PI has been used to study communication involving various medical issues, including breast cancer, the treatment of diabetes in the elderly, end-of-life issues, and pregnancy.\n\nProblematic Integration has also been used to evaluate organizational communication. Organizations, comprising networks and hierarchies of individuals, by their very nature, create complex webs of various dynamic social and cultural relationships. Moreover, most organizations do not exist for themselves, but for an external audience, client, or consumer; thereby, increasing the nature, types, and numbers of relationships. Communication within these relationships will very likely give rise to instances of uncertainty. In the context of such complex systems of communication, PI takes on a much different appearance than intrapersonal situations. An organization's structure, system design, and strategy can create, maintain, or help reduce problematic integration.\n\nOne area of this study has been problematic integration arising from internal bureaucracy or organizational rules or objectives and how this conflict involves matters of formal rationality (a quantitative calculation of an action or choice) or substantive rationality (a value judgment of consequences of an action or choice).\n\nIn examining marketing strategies for tourism, PI has been used to suggest methods for decreasing uncertainty for potential customers and thereby increasing transactions from the on-line shoppers for the related retail businesses (\"converting lookers to bookers\").\n\nAs mentioned above, PI lends itself to application to a broad scope of issues. A few other examples of areas of interest to which PI has been applied include:\n\nBabrow, Austin S. (1992). Communication and problematic integration: Understanding and diverging probability and value, ambiguity, ambivalence, and impossibility. \"Communication Theory\", 2(2), 95-130.\n\nBerger, C. R. (1986). Uncertain outcome values in predicted relationships: Uncertainty reduction theory then and now. \"Human Communication Research\", 13, 34-38.\n\nBerger, C. R. (1987). Communicating under uncertainty. In M. E. Roloff & G. R. Miller (Eds.), \"Interpersonal processes: New directions in communication research\". Beverly Hills, CA: Sage.\n\nBerger, C. R., & Calabrese, R. J. (1975). Some explorations in initial interaction and beyond: Toward a developmental theory of interpersonal communication. \"Human Communication Research\", 1, 99-112.\n\nEinhorn, H. J., & Hogarth, R. M. (1987). Decision making under ambiguity. In R. M. Hogarth & M. W. Reder (Eds.), \"Rational choice: The contrast between economics and psychology\" (pp. 41–66). Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.\n\nFestinger, L. (1957). \"A theory of cognitive dissonance\". Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.\n\nHines, S.C., Babrow, A.S., Badzek, L., & Moss, A. (2001). From coping with life to coping with death: Problematic integration for the seriously ill elderly. \"Health Communication\", 13(3), 327-342.\n\nLerner, M. J. (1980). \"The belief in a just world: A fundamental delusion\". New York: Plenum.\n\nRaynor, J. O., & McFarlin, D. B. (1986). Motivation and self-esteem. In R. M. Sorrentino & E. T. Higgins (Eds.), \"Handbook of motivation and cognition: Foundations of social behavior\" (pp. 315–349). New York: Guilford.\n\nWest, Richard and Turner, Lynn; \"Introducing Communication Theory: Analysis and Application\", McGraw Hill, 2010, Print.\n"}
{"id": "49011983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49011983", "title": "Process Thinking", "text": "Process Thinking\n\nProcess thinking, also known as \"the process\", is a philosophy that emphasizes preparation and hard work over consideration of outcomes or results, and is particularly popular in professional sports. Practitioners of process thinking focus on the present instead of past events or future outcomes, and believe that all actions one takes in life, regardless of how trivial they may seem, affect the desired outcome. The philosophy was popularized by American football coach Nick Saban.\n\nThe step-by-step mechanism of process thinking is a prominent part of cognitive behavioral thinking, which was developed by psychiatrist Aaron Beck. In the 1960s, Beck developed a therapy which relies on the idea that thoughts affect feelings, and that good mental habits are systematically built up one step at a time.\n\nNick Saban formulated process thinking as it pertains to American football with the help of psychiatry professor Lionel Rosen while Saban was the head coach at Michigan State University. Saban and Rosen broke down complicated tasks like football games—and entire seasons—down into smaller, more manageable pieces. Rosen emphasized that the average football play lasts only seven seconds so coaches and players should concentrate only on those seconds, take a rest between plays, then do it all over again.\n\nDuring his time with LSU, the Miami Dolphins, and later the University of Alabama, Saban refined this systematic approach and extended it to include all aspects of managing a football program, which he calls \"the process.\" A key element of Saban's process, often stylized \"The Process\", is clearly defined expectations for his players not only on the field, but also academically and personally (including a dress code), which are monitored year-round.\n\nNick Saban's Process featured in Ryan Holiday's \"The Obstacle Is the Way\", where it drew comparisons to Stoic philosophy.\n\nSaban has led his teams to numerous conference championships and six national championships, five of them with Alabama and one with LSU. Much of the credit for Saban's sustained success has been given to the Process.\n\nOther coaches, players and general managers such as Head Coach of the Chicago Bears John Fox, Texas A&M Aggies Football coach Jimbo Fisher and University of Texas head basketball coach Shaka Smart have also asked their teams to “follow the process.”\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35420542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35420542", "title": "Project Hieroglyph", "text": "Project Hieroglyph\n\nProject Hieroglyph is an initiative to create science fiction that will spur innovation in science and technology founded by Neal Stephenson in 2011.\n\nStephenson framed the ideas behind Hieroglyph in a World Policy Institute article entitled \"Innovation Starvation\" where he attempts to rally writers to infuse science fiction with optimism that could inspire a new generation to, as he puts it, “get big stuff done.”\n\nStephenson says that \"a good SF universe has a coherence and internal logic that makes sense to scientists and engineers. Examples include Isaac Asimov's robots, Robert Heinlein's rocket ships, and William Gibson's cyberspace. Such icons serve as hieroglyphs—simple, recognizable symbols on whose significance everyone agrees.\"\n\nStephenson partnered with Arizona State University's Center for Science and the Imagination which now administers the project.\n\nIn September 2014, the project's first book, Hieroglyph: Stories and Visions for a Better Future, edited by Ed Finn and Kathryn Cramer was published by William Morrow. Contributors to the book include Neal Stephenson, Bruce Sterling, Madeline Ashby, Gregory Benford, Rudy Rucker, Vandana Singh, Cory Doctorow, Elizabeth Bear, Karl Schroeder, James Cambias, Brenda Cooper, Charlie Jane Anders, Kathleen Ann Goonan, Lee Konstantinou, Annalee Newitz, Geoffrey Landis, David Brin, Lawrence Krauss, and Paul Davies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "615394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=615394", "title": "Robert D. Putnam", "text": "Robert D. Putnam\n\nRobert David Putnam (born 1941) is an American political scientist. He is the Peter and Isabel Malkin Professor of Public Policy at the Harvard University John F. Kennedy School of Government. Putnam developed the influential two-level game theory that assumes international agreements will only be successfully brokered if they also result in domestic benefits. His most famous (and controversial) work, \"Bowling Alone\", argues that the United States has undergone an unprecedented collapse in civic, social, associational, and political life (social capital) since the 1960s, with serious negative consequences. In 2010, he co-published an article in which he noted that the trend had moved the other way; he continued to advocate a push towards more social capital but he felt his famous thesis (\"Americans are now bowling alone\") was no longer true. In March 2015, he published a book called \"Our Kids: The American Dream in Crisis\" that looked at issues of inequality of opportunity in the US.\n\nRobert David Putnam was born on January 9, 1941, in Rochester, New York, and grew up in Port Clinton, Ohio, where he participated in a competitive bowling league as a teenager. Putnam graduated from Swarthmore College in 1963 where he was a member of Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity. An outstanding student, he won a Fulbright Fellowship to study at Balliol College, Oxford, and went on to earn master's and doctorate degrees from Yale University, the latter in 1970. He taught at the University of Michigan until joining the faculty at Harvard in 1979, where he has held a variety of positions, including Dean of the Kennedy School, and is currently the Malkin Professor of Public Policy. Putnam was raised as a religiously observant Methodist. In 1963, Putnam married his wife Rosemary, a special education teacher and French horn player. Around the time of his marriage, he converted to Judaism, his wife's religion.\n\nHis first work in the area of social capital was \"Making Democracy Work: Civic Traditions in Modern Italy\", a comparative study of regional governments in Italy which drew great scholarly attention for its argument that the success of democracies depends in large part on the horizontal bonds that make up social capital. Putnam writes that northern Italy's history of community, guilds, clubs, and choral societies led to greater civic involvement and greater economic prosperity. Meanwhile, the agrarian society of Southern Italy is less prosperous economically and democratically because of less social capital. Social capital, which Putnam defines as \"networks and norms of civic engagement\", allows members of a community to trust one another. When community members trust one another, trade, money-lending, and democracy flourish.\n\nIn 1995 he published \"Bowling Alone: America's Declining Social Capital\" in the \"Journal of Democracy\". The article was widely read and garnered much attention for Putnam, including an invitation to meet with then-President Bill Clinton and a spot in the pages of \"People\". Some critics argued that Putnam was ignoring new organizations and forms of social capital; others argued that many of the included organizations were responsible for the suppression of civil rights movements and the reinforcement of anti-egalitarian social norms. Over the last decade and a half, the United States had seen an increase in bowlers but a decrease in bowling leagues.\n\nIn 2000, he published \"Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community\", a book-length expansion of the original argument, adding new evidence and answering many of his critics. Though he measured the decline of social capital with data of many varieties, his most striking point was that many traditional civic, social and fraternal organizations – typified by bowling leagues – had undergone a massive decline in membership while the number of people bowling had increased dramatically.\n\nPutnam makes a distinction between two kinds of social capital: bonding capital and bridging capital. Bonding occurs when you are socializing with people who are like you: same age, same race, same religion, and so on. But in order to create peaceful societies in a diverse multi-ethnic country, one needs to have a second kind of social capital: bridging. Bridging is what you do when you make friends with people who are not like you, like supporters of another football team. Putnam argues that those two kinds of social capital, bonding and bridging, do strengthen each other. Consequently, with the decline of the bonding capital mentioned above inevitably comes the decline of the bridging capital leading to greater ethnic tensions.\n\nIn 2016, Putnam explained his inspiration for the book, by saying,\nCritics such as the sociologist Claude Fischer argue that (a) Putnam concentrates on organizational forms of social capital, and pays much less attention to networks of interpersonal social capital; (b) Putnam neglects the emergence of new forms of supportive organizations on and off the Internet; and (c) the 1960s are a misleading baseline because the era had an unusually high number of traditional organizations.\n\nSince the publication of \"Bowling Alone\", Putnam has worked on efforts to revive American social capital, notably through the Saguaro Seminar, a series of meetings among academics, civil society leaders, commentators, and politicians to discuss strategies to re-connect Americans with their communities. These resulted in the publication of the book and website, \"Better Together,\" which provides case studies of vibrant and new forms of social capital building in the United States\n\nPutnam theorizes a relation in the negatives trends in society. He envisions a uniting factor named social capital; originally coined by social theorist Alexis deToqueville as a strength within America allowing democracy to thrive due to the closeness of society, \"trends in civic engagement of a wider sort\". Putnam observes a declining trend in social capital since the 1960s. The decreasing in social capital is blamed for rising rates in unhappiness as well as political apathy. Low social capital, a feeling of alienation within society is associated with additional consequences such as:\n\n\nIn recent years, Putnam has been engaged in a comprehensive study of the relationship between trust within communities and their ethnic diversity. His conclusion based on over 40 cases and 30,000 people within the United States is that in the short term, other things being equal, \"more\" diversity in a community is associated with \"less\" trust both among and within ethnic groups. Putnam describes people of all races, sex, socioeconomic statuses, and ages as \"hunkering down\", avoiding engagement with their local community as diversity increases. Although limited to American data, his findings run counter the contact hypothesis which proposes that distrust declines as members of different ethnic groups interact, and conflict theory which suggests that while distrust \"among\" ethnic groups rises with diversity, distrust \"within\" ethnic groups should decrease. Putnam found that even when controlling for income inequality and crime rates, two factors which conflict theory states should be prime causal factors in declining inter-ethnic group trust, more diversity is still associated with less communal trust. Further, he found that low communal trust is associated with the same consequences as low social capital. Putnam says, however, that \"in the long run immigration and diversity are likely to have important cultural, economic, fiscal, and developmental benefits.\"\n\nPutnam published his data set from this study in 2001 and subsequently published the full paper in 2007.\n\nPutnam has been criticized for the lag between his initial study and his publication of his article. In 2006, Putnam was quoted in the \"Financial Times\" as saying he had delayed publishing the article until he could \"develop proposals to compensate for the negative effects of diversity\" (quote from John Lloyd of Financial Times). In 2007, writing in \"City Journal\", John Leo questioned whether this suppression of publication was ethical behavior for a scholar, noting that \"Academics aren't supposed to withhold negative data until they can suggest antidotes to their findings.\" On the other hand, Putnam did release the data in 2001 and publicized this fact.\n\nPutnam denied allegations he was arguing against diversity in society and contended that his paper had been \"twisted\" to make a case against race-conscious admissions to universities. He asserted that his \"extensive research and experience confirm the substantial benefits of diversity, including racial and ethnic diversity, to our society.\"\n\nIn 2007 he briefly met Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi to discuss the role of civil society in the Libyan political context.\n\nHe has been a member of Phi Beta Kappa since 1963, the International Institute of Strategic Studies since 1986, the American Philosophical Society since 2005 and the National Academy of Sciences since 2001. He has been a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences from 1980 and a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy from 2001 and was a Fellow of the National Academy of Public Administration, 1989–2006 and Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, 1974–1975 and 1988–1989. Other fellowships included the Guggenheim 1988–1989; the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars 1977 and 1979; Fulbright 1964–1965 and 1977; SSRC-ACLS 1966–1968; Ford Foundation, 1970; German Marshall Fund, 1979; SSRC-Fulbright, 1982; SSRC-Foreign Policy Studies, 1988–1989 and was made a Harold Lasswell Fellow by the American Academy of Political and Social Science. Robert Putnam was a fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations 1977–1978 and a member since 1981. He was a member of the Trilateral Commission from 1990 to 1998. He was the President of the American Political Science Association (2001–2002). He had been Vice-President 1997–1998.\n\nIn 2004 the President of the Italian Republic made him a Commander of the Order of the Star of Italian Solidarity. He was awarded the Johan Skytte Prize in Political Science in 2006 and a Wilbur Lucius Cross Medal by the Yale Graduate School of Arts and Sciences in 2003, he was a Marshall Lecturer at the University of Cambridge in 1999 and was honored with the Ithiel de Sola Pool Award and Lectureship of the American Political Science Association.\n\nHe has received honorary degrees from Stockholm University (in 1993), Ohio State University (2000), University of Antwerp (also 2000), University of Edinburgh (2003) LUISS Guido Carli University (2011).\n\nIn 2013, he was awarded the National Humanities Medal by President Barack Obama for \"deepening our understanding of community in America.\"\n\nIn 2015, he was awarded the University of Bologna, ISA Medal for Science for research activities characterized by excellence and scientific value.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51125237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51125237", "title": "September 11 National Day of Service", "text": "September 11 National Day of Service\n\nThe September 11 National Day of Service and Remembrance or 9/11 Day is a federally-recognized day of unity and charitable service, annually observed throughout the United States and in other countries around the world on the anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks. It has grown to become the largest annual day of charitable service in the United States.\n\nAccording to the nonprofit MyGoodDeed, which founded the September 11 National Day of Service and Remembrance (\"9/11 Day\") in 2002, the goal of \"9/11 Day\" is \"to keep alive the spirit of unity and compassion that arose in the immediate aftermath of the September 11 attacks in tribute to the individuals lost and injured in the attacks, and the many who rose in service in response.\" The idea of making September 11 an annual day of service was first conceived in the winter of 2001 by David Paine, a former marketing executive from New York City. In the Spring of 2002 David was joined by his friend Jay Winuk, who had lost his brother Glenn Winuk in the attacks at the World Trade Center, and together they formed the nonprofit group called One Day's Pay. In 2007, the name of the organization was officially changed to MyGoodDeed. In 2009, MyGoodDeed successfully led an effort to designate September 11 under federal law as a National Day of Service and Remembrance, which occurred as part of passage of the bipartisan Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act by the United States Congress, and later, by an amendment to the Patriot Day Presidential Proclamation by President Barack Obama, which formally recognized and established September 11 as a National Day of Service and Remembrance. The Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act authorized the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), a federal agency, to assist the 9/11 community in building awareness of and support for \"9/11 Day\" through its national service programs. In 2011, on the 10th anniversary of the September 11 attacks, MyGoodDeed, CNCS and the Points of Light Institute/HandsOn Network joined together to organize the largest day of charitable service in U.S. history, with more than 32 million Americans participating, according to research conducted by Horizon Consumer Science on behalf of MyGoodDeed. Today, 9/11 Day continues to engage nearly 30 million Americans annually in various forms of charitable service, including volunteering, donations to charities, and simple good deeds.\n\nActivities by volunteers on this federally-recognized National Day of Service and Remembrance happen all across the nation, and include lesson plans that engage tens of thousands of students of all ages in service activities; coast-to-coast blood drives; meal packing projects; painting and refurbishing homes; food drives; reclaiming neighborhoods; helping communities prepare for disasters; and countless other activities that support and honor those lost and injured on 9/11; veterans, soldiers, military families, and rescue and recovery workers, including first responders. Among the largest projects held annually are two large-scale hunger relief projects, one in New York City and another at the National Mall in Washington, DC, which mobilize a total of more than 7,000 volunteers who together pack over two million meals for individuals at risk of hunger. In Boston, thousands join together on 9/11 at the Rose Kennedy Greenway to assemble care packages for military personnel. Participants are encouraged to use the hashtag #911Day when posting online about the day.\n\n\nOfficial web site, http://911day.org\n"}
{"id": "25663140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25663140", "title": "Sex toy party", "text": "Sex toy party\n\nA sex toy party is a usually female-only gathering where participants learn about and buy sex toys. It is a type of party plan, similar to Tupperware parties.\n\nThe party may start with an icebreaker game, then a sex toy representative, or 'facilitator', displays and discusses the products. Although the discussion is sexually explicit, euphemisms such as 'button' for clitoris are common. The participants examine and talk about the products, with the option of purchasing them from the representative in a private room at the end of the party. Other merchandise such as bath salts, aromatherapy, and body paints are more commonly sold. The representative receives commission based on the sales from the party. There are thousands of representatives of sex toy party companies in the United States.\n\nSex toy parties began in the 1970s, and became increasingly popular in the late 1980s and early 1990s. The marketing practices of sex toy parties have encouraged alternative sexual practices. The popularity of sex toy parties has suggested to be related to self-help and self actualization.\n\nAccording to research studies conducted by scientists such as Debby Herbenick and Michael Reece of Indiana University, sex toy representatives are often asked for advice on sexual health, and many have a background working in sex education, health, education, or sexuality. Some romance companies do permit males at their sex toy parties.\n\nA woman was arrested in Texas in December 2003 on obscenity charges for hosting a sex toy party for undercover narcotics officers, but the case was dismissed by the judge in July 2004.\n"}
{"id": "56784437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56784437", "title": "Sexual harassment in the military", "text": "Sexual harassment in the military\n\nSexual harassment in the military is unwanted sexual behaviour, which is defined as threatening, offensive, or otherwise upsetting to others in a military setting. The behaviour is more common in the military than in civilian life. Women are substantially more likely than men to experience sexual harassment in the armed forces. Other groups at higher risk include child cadets/recruits and military detainees.\n\nSexual harassment is unwanted sexual behaviour which is threatening or otherwise upsetting to others. Some example definitions in use by state armed forces are:\n\nSexual harassment in the military includes a broad spectrum of behaviour. Undirected behaviours that affect the working environment, such as sexist jokes and the prominent display of pornographic material, may constitute sexual harassment, as do directed behaviours targeted at one or more individuals, such as unwanted sexual advances and sexual assault. Research in Canada has found that a culture of undirected sexual harassment increases the risk of directed sexual harassment and assault.\n\nIn the British army, a woman told the following story to researchers in 2006:‘A friend was out on an exercise when a group of men ducked her head in a bucket of water and each time she came up for breath she had to repeat “I am useless and I am a female”. She told the story and said it was a joke but I could see she was upset.’In the Canadian armed forces, demeaning attitudes to women are pervasive, according to the \"Deschamps Review\" of 2015:'Interviewees reported regularly being told of orders to “stop being pussies” and to “leave your purses at home” [...] The use of the word “cunt”, for example, is commonplace, and rape jokes are tolerated. [...] A commonly held attitude is that, rather than be a soldier, a sailor or an aviator, a woman will be labeled an “ice princess”, a “bitch”, or a “slut”. Another saying is that women enter the CAF “to find a man, to leave a man, or to become a man”.'A woman in the French army, pseudonymised by the \"Independent\" newspaper as Captain Carole, was raped by her commanding officer:'It was months before I could pronounce the word \"rape\"... I blamed myself. I said: \"We are trained in hand to hand combat. Why didn’t I stop him?\" But when that happens you are terrorised.'\n\nStudies of sexual harassment have found that it is markedly more common in military than civilian settings. Several reasons for this have been suggested. A Canadian study found that key risk factors associated with military settings are the typically young age of personnel, the isolated locations of bases, the minority status of women, and the disproportionate number of men in senior positions. Other Canadian research has found that an emphasis in military organisations on conformity, obedience, and hierarchical power relations, combine to increase the risk, particularly to personnel of low rank, who are less able than others to resist inappropriate expectations made of them. The traditionally masculine values and behaviours that are rewarded and reinforced in military settings are also thought to play a role.\n\nCanadian research has also found that the risk of sexual misconduct increases during deployment on military operations.\n\nWhile some male personnel are sexually harassed, women are substantially more likely to be affected. Women who are younger and joined the military at a younger age face a greater risk, according to American, British, Canadian, and French research.\n\nCadet forces are military youth organisations for younger teenagers based in communities and schools, and are common around the world. There is some evidence from the UK, where hundreds of complaints of the sexual abuse of cadets have been recorded since 2012, and from Canada, where one in ten complaints of sexual assault in the military are from cadets, that these institutions are susceptible to a culture of sexual harassment.\n\nIndividuals detained by the military are particularly vulnerable to sexual harassment. During the Iraq War, for example, personnel of the US army and US Central Intelligence Agency committed a number of human rights violations against detainees in the Abu Ghraib prison, including rape, sodomy, and other forms of sexual abuse. Another example is the detention of two Iraqi men on a British warship at the start of the Iraq War, when they were made to strip naked and were then sexually humiliated.\n\nAlthough the risk of sexual misconduct in the armed forces is widely acknowledged, personnel are frequently reluctant to report incidents. For example:\n\nSince the number of official complaints represents only a fraction of sexual harassment in the military, armed forces that have committed to reduce prevalence produce periodic estimates of its extent using anonymised surveys.\n\nWomen affected by sexual harassment are more likely than other women to suffer stress-related mental illness afterwards. Research in the US found that when sexual abuse of female military personnel is psychiatrically traumatic, the odds of suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) after deployment on operations increase by a factor of nine.\n\nResearch in the US has found that personnel affected by sexual harassment are somewhat less likely to develop depression or PTSD if a formal report leads to effective action to address the issue.\n\nThe military leadership in some countries has begun to acknowledge a culture of sexual misconduct in the armed forces. For example:\n\nWidespread reports of sexual harassment in the Australian armed forces led to the establishment of the Defence Abuse Response Taskforce to investigate complaints from women between 1991 and 2011. It received 2,439 complaints, of which it deemed 1,751 to be plausible.\n\nA Royal Commission into institutional child sexual abuse was established in 2012, which investigated widespread allegations of historical abuse in the navy. The Commission took evidence from 8,000 individuals and reported in 2017 that many recruits of both sexes and from the age of 15 had been repeatedly sexually abused by older recruits between 1967 and 1971, including by anal gang rape, and in some cases young recruits had been forced to rape each other. The practice was ‘tolerated’ by senior staff, according to the Commission.\n\nAccording to official statistics gathered by \"Maclean's\" magazine, the Canadian military police received an average of 178 complaints of sexual assault between 2000 and 2014, representing an estimated 10% of all cases.\n\nIn 2014, the ombudsman of the Canadian armed forces described sexual harassment in the institution as 'a huge problem'.\n\nIn 2015, after widespread allegations of sexual misconduct in the military, a major official report, the \"External Review into Sexual Misconduct and Sexual Harassment in the Canadian Armed Forces\" (the \"Deschamps Review\"), was published. It found that sexual harassment was commonplace and embedded in military culture, and that pervasive degrading attitudes to women and LGBTQ personnel were jeopardising their safety. The \"Deschamps Review\" also criticised the armed forces for a culture of dismissiveness. One male interview told the Review, for example: \"Girls that come to the Army know what to expect.\" It stated that senior NCOs are frequently seen as tolerating sexual harassment and discouraging the individuals affected from making a complaint.\n\nThe following year, in 2016, a major study of 43,000 Canadian armed forces personnel reported that 27% of female personnel reported at least one incident of sexual assault since they joined the military, and 5% of female regular armed forces personnel reported the same in the previous 12 months (equivalent to approximately 960 women per year).\n\nThe extent of sexual harassment in the French armed forces first came to light in 2014 when 35 cases of sexual harassment and assault were detailed in \"La Guerre Invisible\", a book by Leila Minano and Julia Pascual. According to the \"Independent\" newspaper, the armed forces had not been required to report incidents or to keep statistics, and an official report acknowledged that awareness of the problem had been institutionally suppressed.\n\nFollowing concerns expressed in 2004 by the UK Equal Opportunities Commission (now the Equality and Human Rights Commission) about persistent sexual harassment in the British armed forces, a number of anonymised, official surveys have been undertaken. The first, in 2006, found that a male-dominated culture sexualised women and diminished their military competence. Among the comments made to researchers by male personnel about their female counterparts were: ‘Ok there are a few exceptions but on the whole they [women] shouldn’t be here.’; 'They're all lesbians or sluts.'; and 'They are emotionally unstable.' The report found that 15% of women had had a 'particularly upsetting' experience of sexual harassment in the previous 12 months; the proportion rose to 20% in the youngest age group. A similar survey in 2009 found the 8% of women in the army had had a ‘particularly upsetting’ experience in the previous 12 months, and the most recent survey, in 2015, found that 13% of women reported the same.\n\nIn 2017, a BBC \"Panorama\" documentary found multiple cases of the sexual abuse of cadets from age 11 during the 1980s, and reported that the victims and their parents were discouraged from making a formal complaint or contacting the police. The Ministry of Defence paid £2 million in 2012 and 2013 to settle allegations of the child sexual abuse of military cadets, and between 2012 and 2017 recorded a further 363 allegations, of which 282 were referred to the police.\n\nIn 2017, the Department of Defense reported that an estimated 14,900 military personnel were sexually assaulted in 2016, of whom 6,172 made an official complaint. According to an article published in \"Medscape\", up to 80% of women in the armed forces have been sexually harassed, and 25% have experienced a sexual assault.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "222291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222291", "title": "Social history", "text": "Social history\n\nSocial history, often called the new social history, is a field of history that looks at the lived experience of the past. In its \"golden age\" it was a major growth field in the 1960s and 1970s among scholars, and still is well represented in history departments in Britain, Canada, France, Germany, and the United States. In the two decades from 1975 to 1995, the proportion of professors of history in American universities identifying with social history rose from 31% to 41%, while the proportion of political historians fell from 40% to 30%. In the history departments of British and Irish universities in 2014, of the 3410 faculty members reporting, 878 (26%) identified themselves with social history while political history came next with 841 (25%).\n\nThe older social history (before 1960) included numerous topics that were not part of the mainstream historiography of political, military, diplomatic and constitutional history. It was a hodgepodge without a central theme, and it often included political movements, like Populism, that were \"social\" in the sense of being outside the elite system. People's history was sometimes so Marxist that non-Marxists were alienated by it. Social history was contrasted with political history, intellectual history and the history of great men. English historian G. M. Trevelyan saw it as the bridging point between economic and political history, reflecting that, \"Without social history, economic history is barren and political history unintelligible.\" While the field has often been viewed negatively as history with the politics left out, it has also been defended as \"history with the people put back in.\"\n\nThe \"new social history\" exploded on the scene in the 1960s, quickly becoming one of the dominant styles of historiography in the U.S., Britain and Canada. The French version, promulgated by the Annales School, was very well organized and dominated French historiography, and influenced much of Europe and Latin America. Jürgen Kocka finds two meanings to \"social history.\" At the simplest level, it was the subdivision of historiography that focused on social structures and processes. In this regard it stood in contrast to political or economic history. The second meaning was broader, and the Germans called it \"Gesellschaftsgeschichte.\" It is the history of an entire society from a social-historical viewpoint.\n\nIn Germany the \"Gesellschaftsgeschichte\" movement introduced a vast range of topics, as Kocka, a leader of the Bielefeld School recalls:\n\nAmericanist Paul E. Johnson recalls the heady early promise of the movement in the late 1960s:\n\nThe Social Science History Association was formed in 1976 to bring together scholars from numerous disciplines interested in social history. It is still active and publishes \"Social Science History\" quarterly. The field is also the specialty of the \"Journal of Social History\", edited since 1967 by Peter Stearns It covers such topics as gender relations; race in American history; the history of personal relationships; consumerism; sexuality; the social history of politics; crime and punishment, and history of the senses. Most of the major historical journals have coverage as well.\n\nHowever, after 1990 social history was increasingly challenged by cultural history, which emphasizes language and the importance of beliefs and assumptions and their causal role in group behavior.\n\nThe study of the lives of ordinary people was revolutionized in the 1960s by the introduction of sophisticated quantitative and demographic methods, often using individual data from the census and from local registers of births, marriages, deaths and taxes, as well as theoretical models from sociology such as social mobility. H-DEMOG is a daily email discussion group that covers the field broadly.\n\nHistorical demography is the study of population history and demographic processes, usually using census or similar statistical data. It became an important specialty inside social history, with strong connections with the larger field of demography, as in the study of the Demographic Transition.\n\nBlack history or African-American history studies African Americans and Africans in American history. The Association for the Study of African American Life and History was founded by Carter G. Woodson in 1915 and has 2500 members and publishes the \"Journal of African American History,\" formerly the \"Journal of Negro History.\" Since 1926 it has sponsored Black History Month every February.\n\nEthnic history is especially important in the U.S. and Canada, where major encyclopedias helped define the field. It covers the history of ethnic groups (usually not including blacks or Native Americans). \nTypical approaches include critical ethnic studies; comparative ethnic studies; critical race studies; Asian-American, and Latino/a or Chicano/a studies. In recent years Chicano/Chicana studies has become important as the Hispanic population has become the largest minority in the U.S.\n\nLabor history, deals with labor unions and the social history of workers. See for example Labor history of the United States The Study Group on International Labor and Working-Class History was established: 1971 and has a membership of 1000. It publishes \"International Labor and Working-Class History\". H-LABOR is a daily email-based discussion group formed in 1993 that reaches over a thousand scholars and advanced students. the Labor and Working-Class History Association formed in 1988 and publishes \".\"\n\nKirk (2010) surveys labour historiography in Britain since the formation of the Society for the Study of Labour History in 1960. He reports that labour history has been mostly pragmatic, eclectic and empirical; it has played an important role in historiographical debates, such as those revolving around history from below, institutionalism versus the social history of labour, class, populism, gender, language, postmodernism and the turn to politics. Kirk rejects suggestions that the field is declining, and stresses its innovation, modification and renewal. Kirk also detects a move into conservative insularity and academicism. He recommends a more extensive and critical engagement with the kinds of comparative, transnational and global concerns increasingly popular among labour historians elsewhere, and calls for a revival of public and political interest in the topics. Meanwhile, Navickas, (2011) examines recent scholarship including the histories of collective action, environment and human ecology, and gender issues, with a focus on work by James Epstein, Malcolm Chase, and Peter Jones.\n\nWomen's history exploded into prominence in the 1970s, and is now well represented in every geographical topic; increasingly it includes gender history. Social history uses the approach of women's history to understand the experiences of ordinary women, as opposed to \"Great Women,\" in the past. Feminist women's historians have critiqued early studies of social history for being too focused on the male experience.\n\nGender history focuses on the categories, discourses and experiences of femininity and masculinity as they develop over time. Gender history gained prominence after it was conceptualized in 1986 by Joan W. Scott in her article \"Gender: A Useful Category of Historical Analysis.\" Many social historians use Scott's concept of \"perceived differences\" to study how gender relations in the past have unfolded and continue to unfold. In keeping with the cultural turn, many social historians are also gender historians who study how discourses interact with everyday experiences.\n\nThe History of the family emerged as a separate field in the 1970s, with close ties to anthropology and sociology. The trend was especially pronounced in the U.S. and Canada. It emphasizes demographic patterns and public policy, but is quite separate from genealogy, though often drawing on the same primary sources, such as censuses and family records. \n\nThe influential pioneering study \"Women, Work, and Family\" (1978) was done by Louise A. Tilly and Joan W. Scott. It broke new ground with their broad interpretive framework and emphasis on the variable factors shaping women's place in the family and economy in France and England. The study considered the interaction of production, or traditional labor, and reproduction, the work of caring for children and families, in its analysis of women's wage labor and thus helped to bring together labor and family history. Much work has been done on the dichotomy in women's lives between the private sphere and the public. For a recent worldwide overview covering 7000 years see Maynes and Waltner's 2012 book and ebook, \"The Family: A World History\" (2012). For comprehensive coverage of the American case, see Marilyn Coleman and Lawrence Ganong, eds. \"The Social History of the American Family: An Encyclopedia\" (4 vol, 2014).\n\nThe history of childhood is a growing subfield.\n\nFor much of the 20th century, the dominant American historiography, as exemplified by Ellwood Patterson Cubberley (1868-1941) at Stanford, emphasized the rise of American education as a powerful force for literacy, democracy, and equal opportunity, and a firm basis for higher education and advanced research institutions. It was a story of enlightenment and modernization triumphing over ignorance, cost-cutting, and narrow traditionalism whereby parents tried to block their children's intellectual access to the wider world. Teachers dedicated to the public interest, reformers with a wide vision, and public support from the civic-minded community were the heroes. The textbooks help inspire students to become public schools teachers and thereby fulfill their own civic mission.\n\nThe crisis came in the 1960s, when a new generation of New Left scholars and students rejected the traditional celebratory accounts, and identified the educational system as the villain for many of America's weaknesses, failures, and crimes. Michael Katz (1939-2014) states they:\n\nThe old guard fought back and bitter historiographical contests, with the younger students and scholars largely promoting the proposition that schools were not the solution to America's ills, they were in part the cause of Americans problems. The fierce battles of the 1960s died out by the 1990s, but enrollment in education history courses and never recovered.\n\nBy the 1980s, compromise had been worked out, with all sides focusing on the heavily bureaucratic nature of the American public schooling.\n\nIn recent years most histories of education deal with institutions or focus on the ideas histories of major reformers, but a new social history has recently emerged, focused on who were the students in terms of social background and social mobility. In the U.S. attention has often focused on minority and ethnic students. In Britain, Raftery et al. (2007) looks at the historiography on social change and education in Ireland, Scotland, and Wales, with particular reference to 19th-century schooling. They developed distinctive systems of schooling in the 19th century that reflected not only their relationship to England but also significant contemporaneous economic and social change. This article seeks to create a basis for comparative work by identifying research that has treated this period, offering brief analytical commentaries on some key works, discussing developments in educational historiography, and pointing to lacunae in research.\n\nHistorians have recently looked at the relationship between schooling and urban growth by studying educational institutions as agents in class formation, relating urban schooling to changes in the shape of cities, linking urbanization with social reform movements, and examining the material conditions affecting child life and the relationship between schools and other agencies that socialize the young.\n\nThe most economics-minded historians have sought to relate education to changes in the quality of labor, productivity and economic growth, and rates of return on investment in education. A major recent exemplar is Claudia Goldin and Lawrence F. Katz, \"The Race between Education and Technology\" (2009), on the social and economic history of 20th-century American schooling.\n\nThe \"new urban history\" emerged in the 1950s in Britain and in the 1960s in the U.S. It looked at the \"city as process\" and, often using quantitative methods, to learn more about the inarticulate masses in the cities, as opposed to the mayors and elites. A major early study was Stephan Thernstrom's \"Poverty and Progress: Social Mobility in a Nineteenth Century City\" (1964), which used census records to study Newburyport, Massachusetts, 1850-1880. A seminal, landmark book, it sparked interest in the 1960s and 1970s in quantitative methods, census sources, \"bottom-up\" history, and the measurement of upward social mobility by different ethnic groups. Other exemplars of the new urban history included Kathleen Conzen, \"Immigrant Milwaukee, 1836-1860\" (1976); Alan Dawley, \"Class and Community: The Industrial Revolution in Lynn\" (1975; 2nd ed. 2000); Michael B. Katz, \"The People of Hamilton, Canada West\" (1976); Eric H. Monkkonen, \"The Dangerous Class: Crime and Poverty in Columbus Ohio 1860-1865\" (1975); and Michael P. Weber, \"Social Change in an Industrial Town: Patterns of Progress in Warren, Pennsylvania, From Civil War to World War I.\" (1976).\n\nRepresentative comparative studies include Leonardo Benevolo, \"The European City\" (1993); Christopher R. Friedrichs, \"The Early Modern City, 1450-1750\" (1995), and James L. McClain, John M. Merriman, and Ugawa Kaoru. eds. \"Edo and Paris\" (1994) (Edo was the old name for Tokyo).\n\nThere were no overarching social history theories that emerged developed to explain urban development. Inspiration from urban geography and sociology, as well as a concern with workers (as opposed to labor union leaders), families, ethnic groups, racial segregation, and women's roles have proven useful. Historians now view the contending groups within the city as \"agents\" who shape the direction of urbanization. The subfield has flourished in Australia—where most people live in cities.\n\nAgricultural History handles the economic and technological dimensions, while Rural history handles the social dimension. Burchardt (2007) evaluates the state of modern English rural history and identifies an \"orthodox\" school, focused on the economic history of agriculture. This historiography has made impressive progress in quantifying and explaining the output and productivity achievements of English farming since the \"agricultural revolution.\" The celebratory style of the orthodox school was challenged by a dissident tradition emphasizing the social costs of agricultural progress, notably enclosure, which forced poor tenant farmers off the land. Recently, a new school, associated with the journal \"Rural History,\" has broken away from this narrative of agricultural change, elaborating a wider social history. The work of Alun Howkins has been pivotal in the recent historiography, in relation to these three traditions. Howkins, like his precursors, is constrained by an increasingly anachronistic equation of the countryside with agriculture. Geographers and sociologists have developed a concept of a \"post-productivist\" countryside, dominated by consumption and representation that may have something to offer historians, in conjunction with the well-established historiography of the \"rural idyll.\" Most rural history has focused on the American South—overwhelmingly rural until the 1950s—but there is a \"new rural history\" of the North as well. Instead of becoming agrarian capitalists, farmers held onto preindustrial capitalist values emphasizing family and community. Rural areas maintained population stability; kinship ties determined rural immigrant settlement and community structures; and the defeminization of farm work encouraged the rural version of the \"women's sphere.\" These findings strongly contrast with those in the old frontier history as well as those found in the new urban history.\n\nThe historiography of religion focuses mostly on theology and church organization and development. Recently the study of the social history or religious behavior and belief has become important.\n\nSocial history has dominated French historiography since the 1920s, thanks to the central role of the Annales School. Its journal \"Annales\" focuses attention on the synthesizing of historical patterns identified from social, economic, and cultural history, statistics, medical reports, family studies, and even psychoanalysis.\n\nSocial history developed within West German historiography during the 1950s-60s as the successor to the national history discredited by National Socialism. The German brand of \"history of society\" - \"Gesellschaftsgeschichte\" - has been known from its beginning in the 1960s for its application of sociological and political modernization theories to German history. Modernization theory was presented by Hans-Ulrich Wehler (1931-2014) and his Bielefeld School as the way to transform \"traditional\" German history, that is, national political history, centered on a few \"great men,\" into an integrated and comparative history of German society encompassing societal structures outside politics. Wehler drew upon the modernization theory of Max Weber, with concepts also from Karl Marx, Otto Hintze, Gustav Schmoller, Werner Sombart and Thorstein Veblen.\n\nIn the 1970s and early 1980s German historians of society, led by Wehler and Jürgen Kocka at the \"Bielefeld school\" gained dominance in Germany by applying both modernization theories and social science methods. From the 1980s, however, they were increasingly criticized by proponents of the \"cultural turn\" for not incorporating culture in the history of society, for reducing politics to society, and for reducing individuals to structures. Historians of society inverted the traditional positions they criticized (on the model of Marx's inversion of Hegel). As a result, the problems pertaining to the positions criticized were not resolved but only turned on their heads. The traditional focus on individuals was inverted into a modern focus on structures, the traditional focus on culture was inverted into a modern focus on structures, and traditional emphatic understanding was inverted into modern causal explanation.\n\nBefore World War II, political history was in decline and an effort was made to introduce social history in the style of the French Annales School. After the war only Marxist interpretations were allowed. With the end of Communism in Hungary in 1989. Marxist historiography collapsed and social history came into its own, especially the study of the demographic patterns of the early modern period. Research priorities have shifted toward urban history and the conditions of everyday life.\n\nWhen Communism ended in 1991, large parts of the Soviet archives were opened. The historians' data base leapt from a limited range of sources to a vast array of records created by modern bureaucracies. Social history flourished. The old Marxist historiography collapsed overnight.\n\nSocial history had a \"golden age\" in Canada in the 1970s, and continues to flourish among scholars. Its strengths include demography, women, labour, and urban studies.\n\nWhile the study of elites and political institutions has produced a vast body of scholarship, the impact after 1960 of social historians has shifted emphasis onto the politics of ordinary people—especially voters and collective movements. Political historians responded with the \"new political history,\" which has shifted attention to political cultures. Some scholars have recently applied a cultural approach to political history. Some political historians complain that social historians are likely to put too much stress on the dimensions of class, gender and race, reflecting a leftist political agenda that assumes outsiders in politics are more interesting than the actual decision makers.\n\nSocial history, with its leftist political origins, initially sought to link state power to everyday experience in the 1960s. Yet by the 1970s, social historians increasingly excluded analyses of state power from its focus. Social historians have recently engaged with political history through studies of the relationships between state formation, power and everyday life with the theoretical tools of cultural hegemony and governmentality.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16052460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16052460", "title": "Social information processing (theory)", "text": "Social information processing (theory)\n\nSocial information processing theory, also known as SIP, is an interpersonal communication theory and media studies theory developed in 1992 by Joseph Walther. Social information processing theory explains online interpersonal communication without nonverbal cues and how people develop and manage relationships in a computer-mediated environment. While the term has traditionally referred to those communications that occur via computer-mediated formats (e.g., instant messages, e-mails, chat rooms), it has also been applied to other forms of text-based interaction such as text messaging. In computer-mediated environments, interpersonal relationship development may require more time to develop than traditional face-to-face (FtF) relationships. Social information processing theory argues that online interpersonal relationships may demonstrate the same relational dimensions and qualities as FtF relationships. These online relationships may help facilitate interactions that would not have occurred face-to-face due to factors such as geography and intergroup anxiety.\n\nBeginning in the 1990s, after the advent of the Internet and the World Wide Web, interest grew in studying how the Internet impacted the ways people communicate with each other. Joseph Walther, a communication and media theorist, said that computer-mediated communication (CMC) users can adapt to this restricted medium and use it effectively to develop close relationships. Walther understood that to describe the new nature of online communication required a new theory. Social information processing theory focuses on the social processes that occur when two or more people are engaged in communication, similar to theories such as social presence theory, social penetration theory, and uncertainty reduction theory. What makes SIP different from these theories is its distinct focus on communication mediated solely by information and communications technologies. While other media theories exist, such as media richness theory and uses and gratifications theory, SIP specifically focuses on \"relationships\" entirely mediated online.\n\nUnlike some theories that are rooted in other theoretical perspectives from various fields of study, SIP was conceptualized, in part, by addressing the shortcomings of other theories that addressed communication mediums. These theories are termed cues filtered-out theories. Cues filtered-out theories refer to theories that address the lack of nonverbal cues as being detrimental to online relationship development. Walther's research critiqued past methodological and conceptual problems with theoretical thinking. He subsequently worked toward establishing an interpersonal communication theory that more accurately reflected the intersection among communication, online environments, the self and relationships. Two of those theoretical perspective that influenced Walther's theory are social presence theory and media richness theory. Walther believes that both SPS and MRT suffer from a limited understanding of relational life online. He argues that if interactants communicate enough times and with sufficient breadth and depth, nonverbal communication does not remain paramount in relationship development.\n\nOne of the most important aspects of online interaction is the presentation of Self. Tory Higgins (1987) described three main forms of self: actual self, ideal self, and ought self. \"Actual self\" is the set of qualities and characteristics that person actually possesses, the \"ideal self\" contains the attributes that a person hopes to someday achieve, and the \"ought self\" contains the attributes that a person believes he/she should possess.\n\nCarl Rogers (1951) posited that there was another form of self, one that is not concerned with the future like the ideal and ought self. He called it the true self: a present form of self that exists psychologically and is not always fully expressed within social settings like the actual self.\n\nBargh, McKenna, and Fitzsimons (2002) conducted an experiment to test how the actual self and true self are expressed by people in face-to-face and computer-mediated interactions, and found that the actual self was more accessible following an initial face-to-face interaction, while the true self was more accessible following an initial interaction online. From the results of their study, the researchers concluded that people tend to like each other better when they meet online instead of meeting face-to-face.\n\nSocial information processing researchers like Joseph Walther are intrigued by how identities are managed online and how relationships are able to move from one of superficiality to one of intimacy. Three assumptions related to the SIP theory are listed below:\nThe first assumption rests on the premise that computer-mediated communication is a unique opportunity to build interpersonal relationships with others. The CMC systems are vast and almost always text based. It has been identified as \"an organic setting\" and it can be both synchronous and asynchronous. CMC is clearly different than face-to-face communication, but it offers an unparalleled opportunity to meet someone whom you would never meet FtF. Moreover, relationships established via CMC systems also prompt emotions and feelings we find in all relationships. Finally, since CMC systems are available around the globe, the uniqueness of being able to cultivate online relationships with someone who is very far away cannot be ignored.\nThe second assumption alludes that impression management is essential in online relationships and participants undertake efforts to ensure particular impressions. Researchers have found that social networking sites (SNS) like Facebook are filled with people who wish to provide a number of different self-presentations to others. Thus, how others present and manage themselves online remains important on various SNS and on numerous CMC system platforms.\nThe third assumption of SIP states that different rates of information exchange and information accrual affect relationship development. Social information processing theory is suggesting that although the messages are verbal, communicators \"adapt\" to the restrictions of online medium, look for cues in the messages from others, and modify their language to the extent that the words compensate for the lack of nonverbal cues.This third assumption reflects Walther's contention that given sufficient time and accrual of messages, online relationships have the same capacity to become intimate as those that are established face to face. In addition, online comments are usually delivered rather quickly and efficiently. Further, these messages \"build up\" over time and provide online participants sufficient information from which to begin and develop interpersonal relationships.\n\nSocial information processing theory describes computer-mediated communication as a process including three phases: impersonal, to interpersonal, and finally to hyperpersonal.\n\nIn the \"impersonal phase\", due to the lack of nonverbal cues, CMC is believed to be more task-oriented than traditional face-to-face communication. Since the content is not influenced by social and emotional influence, it can avoid overly personal interpersonal interaction, promote rationality by providing essential discipline, facilitate the efficiency of group work through getting rid of peer pressure and hierarchy, and ultimately, create a more \"democratic\" atmosphere within organizations.\n\nIn the \"interpersonal phase\", the nonverbal cues are lean and as the communication time increases, the exchange of social information increases accordingly. The anticipation of future communication may make communicators to look for more information about the other. This mechanism leads to similar immediacy, similarity, composure, and receptivity as in FtF communication.\n\nIn the \"hyperpersonal phase\", The sender uses the process of selective self-presentation. People who meet online have a better opportunity to make a favorable impression on the other. This is because the communicators can decide which information they would like to share about themselves by controlling their self-presentations online, giving them the power to disclose only their good traits. SIP has, at its core, impression management. Communication Scholars define impression management as either a strategic or unconscious effort to influence another's perception. Much of the earlier research on impression management focused on FtF communication and the nuances with meeting someone. A person's self-image was viewed as important in relational development. Later applications of impression management were undertaken once online communication began.\n\nSelective-Presentation is not as likely to occur in FtF communication due to the ability to observe all the obvious traits in person. The receivers may idealize the senders based on making attributions from available paralingual cues found in the message. This process is enhanced with asynchronous exchanges, letting both sender and receiver have ample time to consider the messages sent and received. In the absence of FtF contextual cues, the likelihood of over-attributing given information of the sender is increased, often creating an idealized image of the message sender. This is also known as social-identity-deindividuation (or SIDE). For example, over-attribution is also found in online dating. While reading a perspective date's profile, the reader is likely to see themselves as similar to one another and therefore become more interested than they originally would have been. Finally, the feedback process addresses the reciprocal influence of the senders and the receivers. They develop impressions and intimacy as a result of their interaction.\n\nThe hyperpersonal perspective is more than saying that an online relationship is intimate. Walther, in a number of different scholarly venues, articulated its complexity and some other scholars elucidate the four components he studied: senders; receivers; channel; and feedback. These four also constitute many of the models of communication.\nAccording to Walther, senders have the ability to present themselves in highly strategic and highly positive ways. This self-presentation is controlled and it serves as a foundation for how CMC users get to know one another. The fundamental underpinning of this component of the hyperpersonal perspective is affinity seeking. That is, senders provide information online that prompts affinity in others.\nAt the core of this component in the hyperpersonal perspective is attribution. Attributions are those evaluations and judgements we make based on the actions or behaviors of others. The receiver tends to attribute and, according to the theory, the receiver may \"overattribute\", which means that a receiver is likely to think that a sender has more similarities than differences. Further, a receiver may experience an overreliance on the minimal cues available online and forget that the relationship he or she has with a sender is based on words.\nThe asynchronous nature of CMC allows online participants to think about texts or emails before sending them. Further, prior to sending messages, you can rewrite them for clarity, sense, and relevancy. Online asynchronous experiences allow for \"optimal and desirable\" communication, ensuring that the messages are of high quality. Walther contends that the more relational the affection or more desirable the other communicator is, the more editing in message composition.\nWalther interprets feedback as behavioral confirmation, which is a \"reciprocal influence that partners exert\". In communication theory, we refer to this as self-fulfilling prophecy. This prophecy essentially is a tendency for an individual's expectation of a target person to evoke a response from that person which, in turn, reaffirms the original prediction. Walther's hyperpersonal perspective acknowledges a feedback system this way: \"When a receiver gets a selectively self-presented message and idealizes its source, that individual may respond in a way that reciprocates and reinforces the partially modified personae, reproducing, enhancing, and potentially exaggerating them\". Because cues in an online environment are limited, the feedback that does occur is often exaggerated or magnified.\n\nThe four components—sender, receiver, channel, and feedback—suggest that the hyperpersonal perspective is a process which is ongoing and dynamic. Walther concludes that SIP is a \"process\" theory because both information and interpersonal meaning is accumulated over time, providing online partners an opportunity to establish a relationship.\n\nTwo researches were carried out by Walther and his colleagues from 1992 to 1994, focusing on the channel management of the computer-mediated communication. Summary of the two experiments are as followed.\n\nAround the time in 1992 when Walther produced and published the Social Information Processing theory, he and his colleagues conducted an experiment, examining the effects of time and communication channel—asynchronous computer conferencing versus face-to-face meetings—on relational communication in groups. Prior research on the relational aspects of computer-mediated communication has suggested strong depersonalizing effects of the medium due to the absence of nonverbal cues. Past research is criticized for failing to incorporate temporal and developmental perspectives on information processing and relational development. In this study, data were collected from 96 subjects assigned to computer conferencing or face-to-face zero-history groups of 3, who completed three tasks over several weeks' time. Results showed that computer-mediated groups increased in several relational dimensions to more positive levels and that these subsequent levels approximated those of face-to-face groups. Boundaries on the predominant theories of computer-mediated communication are recommended, and principles from uncertainty reduction and social penetration are discussed.\n\nLater, Walther and his colleagues did follow-up research. Previous research on the interpersonal tone of computer-mediated communication shows different effects using longitudinal computer-mediated groups than are found in research using one-shot groups, even before the developmental aspects associated with time can accrue. One factor distinguishing these approaches is the anticipation of future interaction experienced by longitudinal groups. This research reports an experiment assessing the relative effects of anticipated future interaction and different communication media (computer-mediated versus face-to-face communication) on the communication of relational intimacy and composure. Asynchronous and synchronous computer conferencing and face-to-face groups were examined. Results show that the assignment of long-term versus short-term partnerships has a larger impact on anticipated future interaction reported by computer-mediated, rather than face-to-face, partners. Evidence also shows that anticipation is a more potent predictor of several relational communication dimensions than is communication condition. Implications for theory and practice are identified.\n\nSeveral theorists have explored the differences in intimacy developed through CMC versus face-to-face communication. Walther is convinced that the length of time that CMC users have to send their messages is the key factor that determines whether their messages can achieve the same level of intimacy that others develop face-to-face. Over an extended period the issue is not the amount of social information that can be conveyed online; rather, it is the rate at which the information builds up. Any message spoken in person will take at least four times longer to communicate through CMC. When comparing 10 minutes of face-to-face conversation with 40 minutes of CMC, there was no difference in partner affinity between the two modes. Anticipated future interaction is a way of extending physiological time, which gives the likelihood of future interaction and motivates CMC users to develop a relationship. Relational messages provide interactants with information about the nature of the relationship, the interactants' status in the relationship, and the social context within which the interaction occurs.\n\nThe \"shadow of the future\" motivates people to encounter others on a more personal level. A chronemic cue is a type of nonverbal cue not filtered out of CMC and indicates how one perceives, uses, or responds to issues of time. Unlike tone of voice, interpersonal distance, or gestures, times is the one nonverbal cue that cannot be filtered out of CMC. For example, a person can send a text message at a certain time of the day and when a response is received he or she can gauge how much time elapsed between messages. Social information processing theory says that a prompt reply signals deference and liking in a new relationship or business context. A delayed response may indicate receptivity and more liking in an intimate relationship; partners who are comfortable with each other do not need to reply as quickly.\n\nMeanwhile, Walther, with his colleagues, conducted another investigation which examined how computer-mediated communication (CMC) partners exchange personal information in initial interactions, focusing on the effects of communication channels on self-disclosure, question-asking, and uncertainty reduction. Unacquainted individuals (N = 158) met either face-to-face or via CMC. Computer-mediated interactants exhibited a greater proportion of more direct and intimate uncertainty reduction behaviors than unmediated participants did, and demonstrated significantly greater gains in attributional confidence over the course of the conversations. The use of direct strategies by mediated interactants resulted in judgments of greater conversational effectiveness by partners.\n\nOthers, such as Dr. Kevin B. Wright, examined the difference in developing and maintaining relationships both exclusively and primarily online. Specifically, Wright has found the effectiveness of \"openness and positivity\" in online communication versus avoidance in offline relationships.\n\nWalther and Parks noticed that people often meet offline after having first met online. Sometimes these experiences are positive, and other times negative. They are dissatisfied with existing theories' ability to explain these phenomena. To fill in the theoretical gap, Walther and Parks adopt the original concept of warranting presented by Stone, describing connections between one's self and self-presentation as a continuum rather than a binary, moderated by anonymity. They suggested that the potential for anonymity resulted in the potential for a discrepancy along this continuum. The greater this potential discrepancy, the more compelling it is for observers to be skeptical of information provided by the individual about the self. Warrants, as described by Walther and Parks, are perceived reliable cues that observers use to gauge how one's true identity matches that which is presented online.\n\nAccording to Walther, \"Warranting pertains to the perceived legitimacy and validity of information about another person that one may receive or observe online.\" Over the years, individuals have come to learn a lot about each other through online discussion groups or online role-playing games. Many have also started to gain an understanding of another person through \"personal homepages and other forms of online interaction and self-presentation, including online dating sites.\" However, with the introduction of many online social media sites such as Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn, there are many opportunities for people to interact using CMC. As such, there are many factors – photographs, videos, and the ability to build your own profile – that set social media apart from the text-only CMC that Walther originally studied. For example, if a person describes him or herself as a quiet, reserved person but friends add pictures of him or her out at a bar with a large group of people. These two ideas contradict each other. How the person processes this contradiction is the main idea of Walther's warranting theory.\n\n\"If the information we're reading has warranting value, then it gives us reason to believe it is true.\" This value is defined as the extent to which the cue is perceived to be unaltered by the target. Warrants that are very difficult to manipulate by the user are considered high in warranting value. They are more likely to be accepted as truth. An example of this is information added to your profile by others because the owner cannot easily change it (Others-generated warrants). Partial warranting is another example. It is information that, though provided by the user, contains easily verifiable facts. The numerical information, such as height, weight, age, or address constitutes as partial warranting, as these figures are easily checked and provide little room for gray area. Low warrant information is easily manipulated and therefore less believable. It is much more questionable in terms of accuracy (Walther & Parks, 2002). An example of this is information self-reported on personal profile pages. These can range from interests and hobbies, to other personal details (also known as constraining information, which is not easily verified but restricts identity).\n\nWalther, Van Der Heide, Kim, Westerman, and Tong (2008), wanted to explore if the attractiveness of friends, as well as what these friends said on an individual's profile, had an effect on social attraction. They investigated the topic by assigning random participants to view fake Facebook pages.\n\nThis experiment had two phases. In the first phase, researchers displayed two comments from friends of a profile with neutral content. The small profile pictures of commenting friends were either attractive or unattractive, and the comments suggested either socially desirable or socially undesirable behaviors. It was found that social attractiveness was positively correlated with the physical attractiveness of commenting friends (Walther et al., 2008). This indicates that the simple observable presence of others in one's social network may be enough to make social judgments. In the second phase, researchers tested the effects of self-generated information against information generated by others. Walther et al. (2009) compared subjects reactions to fake Facebook profiles and their judgments of extroversion and introversion. Profiles contained either self-generated information suggesting the profile owner was introverted or extroverted, and others-generated statements suggesting the owner was introverted or extroverted. Information suggesting introversion was considered negative while information suggestion extroversion was considered to be positive. Walther et al. (2009) found that while others-generated statements do indeed have an effect on observer judgments, the effect did not override self-generated information or negativity effects.\n\nHis experiments confirmed that people value high warrant information. It found that credibility levels and attractiveness were swayed by comments made on the profile by people other than its owner. It also confirmed his beliefs by comparing high and low warrant information and finding that friends' remarks were valued higher than the owner's claims in regards to physical attractiveness and outgoingness. These studies have found that, unlike email, communication comes from both the owner and other users of social media and viewers do not give these two opinions equal value.\n\nSynchronous communication refers to interactions that occur in real-time, where participants in a conversation are actively communicating while online at the same time. Examples of online synchronous communication would be text messages and other instant messaging platforms, as well as internet telephony, such as FaceTime and Skype. Asynchronous communication, on the other hand, occurs when conversation participants are not online at the same time, and messages are left for the other to receive. Examples of online asynchronous communication include voicemails, emails, blogs, and social media sites.\n\nA 2011 study in Finland suggested that it is synchronicity, not online social use in general, that separates generations in the Digital Age. The study collected data from a survey of over 600 people, ranging from age 15–65, and categorized its participants by 3 distinct generations: Digital Immigrants, or DI (born before 1989); the First Digital Generation, and 1DG (born between 1980–1989, who were exposed to early digital technologies at a relatively young age), and the Second Digital Generation, or 2DG (born after 1990, who mostly grew up with digital technologies). A survey revealed multiple differences in online communication methods between 1DG and 2DG. First, 75% of 1DG reported using online blogs (an asynchronous method), while 59% of 2DG reported using it. Also, 48% of 1DG reported using instant messaging (a synchronous method), while 77% of 2DG reported using it. Of the other 3 online methods tested (internet calls, social networking sites, and discussion forums), 2DG had the highest usage rate of the three generations. DI had significantly lower results for each method except internet calls, which was within 12% across all 3 generations. This data reveals that everyone is using the internet for social purposes, but that younger generations of the Digital Age prefer synchronous communication methods, while older generations tend to use asynchronous communication more often.\n\nBurgoon, Chen, and Twitchell (2010) also conducted an experiment to test how synchronicity affects online interactions. They had their participants conduct team-oriented tasks, and used different methods of communication to observe how people perceived their fellow team members. They proposed that synchronicity affects interactivity, and the results of the experiment supported their hypothesis. They observed that synchronous forms of communications allow for increased mental and behavioral engagement between parties, allowing participants to feel a stronger sense of connection, presence, identification, and social awareness in the conversation.\n\nSocial information processing theory has been used to study online relationships in a variety of contexts. Since the late 1990s, the Internet has increased the amount of totally-mediated interactions making the possibility of developing and sustaining an entire relationships online more possible.\n\nSome early studies looked at e-mail discussion groups while more contemporary research has found a great deal attention placed on social media networks such as Facebook and online dating sites. These situations are significant to observing SIP and the hyperpersonal perspective in action.\n\nIn relation to romantic relationships, several studies and subsequent theories have stemmed from SIP, combining it with theories such as Social Penetration Theory (SPT) or Relational Dialectics to further examine how modern day relationships are formed and sustained. Scholars Nicole Ellison, Rebecca Heino, and Jennifer Gibbs conducted such a study and formed their own theory in their article Managing Impressions Online: Self-Presentation Processes in the Online Dating Environment which utilized both SIP and SPT to examine the development of modern relationships from online acquaintances to intimate partners.\n\nScholars James Farrer and Jeff Gavin from Sophia University in Japan examined the online dating process and dating relationship development to test the SIP theory. This study examines the experiences of past and present members of a popular Japanese online dating site in order to explore the extent to which Western-based theories of computer-mediated communication and the development of online relationships are relevant to the Japanese online dating experience. Specifically, their study examines whether social information processing theory is applicable to Japanese online dating interactions, and how and to what extent Japanese daters overcome the limitations of CMC through the use of contextual and other cues. Thirty-six current members and 27 former members of Match.com Japan completed an online survey. Using issue-based procedures for grounded theory analysis, they found strong support for SIP. Japanese online daters adapt their efforts to present and acquire social information using the cues that the online dating platform provides, although many of these cues are specific to Japanese social context.\n\nIn 2011, scholar Daria Heinemann analyzed the effects of SIP in the 1998 movie \"You've Got Mail\", and developed an activity to foster the teaching of SIP to students.\n\nIn business contexts, social information processing has been used to study virtual teams as well as the ways viral marketers influence the adoption of products and services through the Internet.\n\nMani R. Subramani and Balaji Rajagopalan pay special attention to the SIP applied to real-world online marketing and promotion activities. The background which stimulate their academic interests is that online social networks are increasingly being recognized as an important source of information influencing the adoption and use of products and services. While the potential of viral marketing to efficiently reach out to a broad set of potential users is attracting considerable attention, the value of this approach is also being questioned. Social information-processing theory provides a useful lens to examine the interpersonal influence processes that are the hallmark of viral marketing since it views the social network as an important source of information and cues for behavior and action for individuals. Prior studies examining the diffusion of innovations and the transmission of ideas in social networks have viewed the interpersonal influence as occurring largely from face-to-face interactions. However, interpersonal influence in viral marketing occurs in computer-mediated settings and is significantly different from that occurring in conventional contexts in several ways.\n\nThere needs to be a greater understanding of the contexts in which this strategy works and the characteristics of products and services for which it is most effective. What is missing is an analysis of viral marketing that highlights systematic patterns in the nature of knowledge-sharing and persuasion by influencers and responses by recipients in online social networks. To this end, they propose an organizing framework for viral marketing that draws on prior theory and highlights different behavioral mechanisms underlying knowledge-sharing, influence, and compliance in online social networks.\n\nSIP has also been used to study learning in entirely online classes examining the ways that students develop relationships with the instructor and with each other. Dip Nandi, Margaret Hamilton, and James Harland from RMIT University did research on asynchronous discussion forums in fully online courses. Their study focuses on the online discussion process between the students and the instructors, as both senders and receivers, through the CMC channel with the asynchronous nature.\n\nFully online courses are becoming progressively more popular because of their \"anytime anywhere\" learning flexibility. One of the ways students interact with each other and with the instructors within fully online learning environments is via asynchronous discussion forums. However, student engagement in online discussion forums does not always take place automatically and there is a lack of clarity about the ideal role of the instructors in them. In their research, Dip Nandi and his colleges report on their research on the quality of discussion in fully online courses through analysis of discussion forum communication. They have conducted the research on two large fully online subjects for computing students over two consecutive semesters and used a grounded theoretic approach for data analysis. The results reveal what students and instructors consider as quality interaction in fully online courses. The researchers also propose two frameworks based on our findings that can be used to ensure effective online interaction.\n\nSocial information processing theory has also been used to examine the development of aggressive behavior in children in recent years. Theories of aggressive behavior and ethological observations in animals and children suggest the existence of distinct forms of reactive (hostile) and proactive (instrumental) aggression. Toward the validation of this distinction, groups of reactive aggressive, proactive aggressive, and nonaggressive children were identified. Social information-processing patterns were assessed in these groups by presenting hypothetical vignettes to subjects.\n\nKenneth A. Dodge and Nicki R. Crick from Vanderbilt University did research on the social information bases of aggressive behavior in children. In their study, the ways that basic theories and findings in cognitive and social psychology (including attribution, decision-making, and information-processing theories) have been applied to the study of aggressive behavior problems in children are described. Following an overview of each of these theories, a social information-processing model of children's aggressive behavior is outlined. According to this model, a child's behavioral response to a problematic social stimulus is a function of five: steps of processing: encoding of social cues, interpretation of social cues, response search, response evaluation, and enactment. Skillful processing at each step is hypothesized to lead to competent performance within a situation, whereas biased or deficient processing is hypothesized to lead to deviant social behavior Empirical studies are described in which children's patterns of processing have been found to predict individual differences in their aggressive behavior The implications of this body of work for empirically based interventions aimed at reducing children's aggressive behavior are discussed.\n\nWhile the theory revolves around the basis of interpersonal interaction from a socio-psychological perspective, communication scholars and academics use a positivistic (or empirical) approach to knowing in their study of SIP theory, meaning they rely heavily on numbers and data sets when striving to reach conclusions.\n\nDespite the fact that social information processing theory offers a more optimistic perspective through which to perceive of and analyze online interactions, the theory is not without its criticisms. Even though Walther proposed that users of computer-mediated communication (CMC) have the same interpersonal needs met as those communicating face-to-face (FtF), he proposed that the lack of visual cues inherent in CMC are disadvantages to be overcome over time. Thus, more time is needed for interactants to get to know one another, although he maintains that the same intimacy can be reached, just over a longer amount of time. In their research on social cues and impression formation in CMC, Martin Tanis and Tom Postmes found that when initial impressions in CMC are negative, it is questionable and not guaranteed that people will pursue future interaction which negates the idea that more personal and positive relationships will develop over time in CMC relationships.\n\nMany of Walther's initial hypotheses relied on the assumption that positive social behaviors would be greater in face-to-face interactions than those in CMC. In a 1995 study, Walther used this hypothesis but added that any initial differences in socialness between the two media would disappear in time. Walther was surprised to find that his results turned out to be contrary to this prediction. The results showed that, regardless of time-scale, CMC groups were rated higher in most measures of relational communication than those participating in the FtF condition.\n\nRobert Tokunaga has presented a cultural value flaw in the SIP theory. An additional support for this claim is that there is research on intercultural communication that suggests the amount of exchange of self-disclosures in CMC is shaped by cultural values. Also, Tokunaga's study found that individualistic cultural values were able to fit inside the SIP theory while collectivist cultural values did not.\n\nSome originally argued that the scope of SIP Theory was too broad, since the realm of CMC is so expansive. However, the theory has evolved and been refined over years of research, and has developed more specificity within the discussions of online relationships, such as the topics of warranting and hyperpersonal perspectives.\n\nAnother area of SIP that has received some criticism relates to its testability. Walther has been a self-reflective critic of his own theory. First, Walther acknowledges that SIP has not fully acknowledged nor clarified the role of the issue of time in CMC relationships. Second, in discussing the hyperpersonal perspective, Walther admits that not all of the theoretical components of his hyperpersonal approach have been researched sufficiently. Third, in examining the warranting hypothesis, Walther, Brandon Van Der Heide, Lauren Hamel, & Hillary Shulman accept the fact that high warranting value may exist on those matters that have strong social desirability. For example, physical attractiveness is a highly desirable trait in the United States, making it socially desirable. So, as Walther accepts, online communicators would seek corroboration for those qualities that society deems important or desirable. Whether or not other less socially desirable qualities are prone to warranting overtures is not fully explained.\n\nTo summarize, social information processing theory arrived in the communication discipline at the time that the rest of the research world was starting to examine the Internet for its possible influence on interpersonal communication and human relationships. Thus, Joseph Walther is somewhat of a scholarly prophet, forecasting the importance of looking at online relationships in the early 1990s. Although a few criticisms emerge in SIP, people cannot ignore the fact that Walther's theory remains a pivotal framework to consider as we envision future relationship development in an uncertain technological time.\n\nThe label 'social media' has been attached to a quickly growing number of Web sites whose content is primarily user-driven. These communities are large-scale examples of SIP. Navigating the 'social' world of information online is largely a product of interpersonal connections online, and has prompted the creation of aggregating, or collaborative sources, to help assist collective groups of people sort through information. Learning about others through the concept of \"seamless sharing\" opens another word for SIP. Some computer tools that facilitate this process are:\nThe process of learning from and connecting with others has not changed, but is instead manifested on the Internet. There are many different opinions regarding the value of social media interactions. These resources allow for people to connect and develop relationships using methods alternative to the traditional FtF-exclusive past, thus, making CMC more prevalent amongst social media users.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3425953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3425953", "title": "Social innovation", "text": "Social innovation\n\nSocial innovations are new strategies, concepts, ideas and organizations that aim to meet social needs resulting from working conditions, education, community development, and health. These ideas are created with the goal of extending and strengthening civil society. Social innovation includes the social \"processes\" of innovation, such as open source methods and techniques and also the innovations which have a social purpose—like activism, online volunteering, microcredit, or distance learning.\n\nProminent innovators associated with the term include Pakistani Akhter Hameed Khan, Bangladeshi Muhammad Yunus, the founder of Grameen Bank which pioneered the concept of microcredit for supporting innovators in multiple developing countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America, and also inspired programs like the Infolady Social Entrepreneurship Programme of Dnet (A Social Enterprise). \n\nSocial Innovation has an inter-sectoral approach and is universally applicable. Social Innovations are launched by a variety of actors, including research institutions, companies and independent organizations, which tend to use their respective definitions of Social Innovation. Therefore, it is worth discussing what distinguishes it from other forms of social work or innovation. \n\nSocial Innovation focuses on the process of innovation, how innovation and change take shape (as opposed to the more traditional definition of innovation, giving priority to the internal organization of firms and their productivity). It likewise centers on new work and new forms of cooperation (business models), especially on those that work towards the attainment of a sustainable society.\n\nThe Young Foundation, in order to distinguish between social and business innovation, stressed that social innovation is developed and diffused via organisations, whose primary purposes are not centred on mere profit maximisation. The Bureau of European Policy Advisers more precisely defined social innovation as socially oriented in both ends and means. According to these influential definitions, social innovation is characterised by: the capacity to address social needs that traditional policy seems increasingly unable to tackle; the empowerment of groups and individuals; and the willingness to change social relations. Hence, social innovation is often presented as a way to increase the quality of social services and their cost-effectiveness, offering equivalent, if not superior, outcomes despite considerable budget constraints.\n\nSocial innovation can take place within government; the for-profit sector, the nonprofit sector (also known as the third sector), or in the spaces between them. Research has focused on the types of platforms needed to facilitate such cross-sector collaborative social innovation.\n\nSocial entrepreneurship, like social enterprise, is typically in the nonprofit sector excluding both for-profit and public organizations. Both social entrepreneurship and social enterprise are important contributions to social innovation by creating social value and introducing new ways of achieving goals. Social entrepreneurship brings \"new patterns and possibilities for innovation\" and are willing to do things that existing organizations are not willing to do.\n\nSocial innovation is often an effort of mental creativity which involves fluency and flexibility from a wide range of disciplines. The act of social innovation in a sector is mostly connected with diverse disciplines within the society. The social innovation theory of 'connected difference' emphasizes three key dimensions to social innovation. First, innovations are usually new combinations or hybrids of existing elements, rather than completely new. Second, their practice involves cutting across organizational or disciplinary boundaries. Lastly, they leave behind compelling new relationships between previously separate individuals and groups. Social innovation is also gaining visibility within academia.\n\nSince 2014, a subdomain of social innovation has been defined in relation to the introduction of digital technologies. The subdomain is called digital social innovation and refers to \"a type of social and collaborative innovation in which innovators, users and communities collaborate using digital technologies to co-create knowledge and solutions for a wide range of social needs and at a scale and speed that was unimaginable before the rise of the Internet\".\n\nSocial innovation was discussed in the writings of figures such as Peter Drucker and Michael Young (founder of the Open University and dozens of other organizations) in the 1960s. It also appeared in the work of French writers in the 1970s, such as Pierre Rosanvallon, Jacques Fournier, and Jacques Attali. However, the themes and concepts in social innovation existed long before. Benjamin Franklin, for example, talked about small modifications within the social organization of communities that could help to solve everyday problems. Many radical 19th century reformers like Robert Owen, founder of the cooperative movement, promoted innovation in the social field and all of the great sociologists including Karl Marx, Max Weber and Émile Durkheim focused attention on broader processes of social change. Other theories of innovation became prominent in the 20th century, many of which had social implications, without putting social progress at the center of the theory. Joseph Schumpeter, for example, addressed the process of innovation directly with his theory of creative destruction and his definition of entrepreneurs as people who combined existing elements in new ways to create a new product or service. Beginning in the 1980s, writers on technological change increasingly addressed how social factors affect technology diffusion.\n\nThe article \"Rediscovering Social Innovation\" mentions how social innovations are dependent on history and the change in institutions. The article discusses the ten recent social innovations reflecting current change to include:\n\nOver the last two decades social innovation has gained significant popularity as a strategy to tackle new social risks including population ageing and its health correlates (Hubert, 2010; Mulgan et al., 2007, 2010; Murray, Caulier-Grice and Mulgan, 2010). However, as other concepts recently developed within the academic debate – among them, social capital (Ferragina, 2012) – social innovation might soon turn out to be simply another way to juxtapose the qualifier \"social\" to the private sector jargon, in order to avoid heated discussions on structural inequalities (Grisolia and Ferragina, 2015).\n\nIn the context of ‘neoliberal austerity’, a strong call in favour of social innovation might hide the attempt to shift public attention from structural deficiencies and disparities to individual and group responsibility, following the vision: \"doing more with less\". In order to guarantee universal coverage and universal social rights, however, the welfare state system cannot be managed with the logic of mere cost-effectiveness alone (Grisolia and Ferragina, 2015). A Universal coverage is the precondition for any well-functioning economy, not the other way around. As such, the enhancement of \"politically motivated policies under the pretence of budget cuts\" can be particularly dangerous in its consequences for population health (Kleinert and Horton, 2013, p. 1074). Social innovation per se might not be able to substantially tackle pressing social needs. Rather, the all-innovating and self-empowering jargon currently in vogue might disguise a dangerous inattention to structural inequalities, adversely affecting health outcomes across the board, but especially of the poorest. Among the therapies prescribed by the neoliberal orthodoxy – liberalisation, deregulation, devolution, individual or group empowerment – social innovation might soon reveal itself as a convenient buzzword, an eclectic concept to dissimulate political choices, legitimated by the doctrine of budgetary constraints. The redistribution of resources \"from past to present generations\" – keeping constant the overall public spending – and the shift from a \"transfer-based\" to a \"service-based\" welfare state would represent a truly innovative approach to social policy, offering a credible and responsible alternative to the magic wand of social innovation.\n\nAcademic research, blogs and websites feature social innovation, along with organizations working on the boundaries of research and practical action. Topics include:\n\n\nThe US created an Office for Social Innovation in the White House, which is funding projects that combine public and private resources. with foundations that support social innovation. In 2010, the US government listed 11 investments made by its 'Social Innovation Fund', with public funding more than matched by philanthropic organizations. This fund focuses on partnerships with charities, social enterprises, and business. Moreover, educational institutions are now increasingly supporting teaching and research in the area of social innovation. In addition to pioneered efforts by institutions such as the Harvard Business School's Initiative on Social Enterprise (launched 1993) and Said Business School's Skoll Centre for Social Entrepreneurship (launched 2003), INSEAD and other universities now offer short-term programs in Social Innovation, and a few such as Cambridge Judge Business School, University of Cambridge and Goldsmiths, University of London offer Masters courses dedicated entirely to the study of theory and practice in relation to social entrepreneurship and innovation.\n\nPublic policy makers support social innovation in the UK, Australia, China and Denmark, as well. The European Union’s innovation strategy was the first well-funded research and development strategy to emphasize social innovation.\n\nIn 2002, the South Australian government, led by Premier and Social Inclusion Minister Mike Rann, embraced a ten-year social innovation strategy with big investments and a focus on reform in areas such as homelessness, school retention, mental health and disability services.\n\nThe Common Ground and Street to Home homelessness initiatives and the Australian Centre for Social Innovation were established in Adelaide and many reforms trialed in South Australia have been adopted nationally throughout Australia. This initiative, headed by Monsignor David Cappo, South Australia's Social Inclusion Commissioner, was advised by 'Thinkers in Residence' Geoff Mulgan and New York social entrepreneur Rosanne Haggerty.\n\nLin and Chen, in \"The Impact of Societal and Social innovation: a case-based approach\" have argued that social innovation's goal is to produce actions that are \"socially valuable and good for many\".\n\nIn governance, its main role is to enhance and maximize the trust of citizens through active involvement in society, whether in the public or private sphere. Social innovation's role in curbing corruption is carried out through two main mediums. Firstly, it is institutionalized through actors (in the public and the private sectors), and secondly, it is executed with new tools available, specifically ICTs.\n\n\"Corruption cannot be tackled from the top, it has to be confronted from the grassroots\" according to John Githongo, a Kenyan member of Transparency International. The Stanford Social Innovation Review develops that grassroots innovations emerge through a combination of social and ethical capital. That is especially true when the system in which they lie fails to accommodate to people's needs.\n\nIn the fight against corruption, individuals or groups of citizens have used their position to lead battles against corruption. An example is the case of RosPil.net, a crowdsourcing website relying on anonymous tips and alerts to uncover and expose corruption in Russia, whether in the private or the public sector. The collective action permits a growing flow of information and offers, on a daily basis, around three promising tip-offs.\n\nAnother example is the initiative Agenda Pública, a Civil Society Organisation, which is paving way for transparent governance in Brazil by relying on the education of the country's public administrators, specifically in more remote and isolated rural areas. Agenda Pública trained more than 5,000 administrators in policy development and basic infrastructure, in order to promote effective parameters for transparency. They do so by making sure that environmental needs and basic financial, education and overall health are met to circumvent bribing.\n\nA UNDP study conducted amongst women grassroots organization around the world demonstrated that \"79% of women are better able to stand up against corruption if affiliated with a community group\". Another poll suggested that electing women into power in countries heavily affected by corruption should be strongly accompanied by an affiliation to a mobilized grassroots women's group. Moreover, 83% of female respondents gave preferences to organized women's leadership to pursue anti-corruption policies. Innovation lies mainly in the introduction of programmes facilitating access to information as well as a governance agenda designed to augment women's engagement in participatory monitoring.\n\nRich and Moberg in \"Beyond Governments\" claim that companies need to take the largest step against corruption and must engage in collective governance in order to include public policy and standards in their core business. It would be way to promote good practices, specifically socially responsible investing.\n\nFor example, in 2006, the corporate sector fully funded and instigated the creation and development of the Business Code of Conduct for Combating Corruption in Malawi. It is considered an anti-corruption task force which works hand in hand with local groups, members of governments, civil society and the media.\n\nAnderson, Wu and Cho argue that good governance and its benefits can be extrapolated through effective e-governance. The simplification of administrative task and open data transparency, coupled with a clear policy on corruption can have a substantial impact.They also advocate for the strengthening of the delivery of services by the public sector.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the government introduced in 2016 the Open Government National Action Plan with one of the main aim being improved transparency. One of the main commitments is the establishment of an Anti-Corruption Innovation Hub. It is the use of social innovation to mobilize social actors and entrepreneurs against corruption. It is perceived that it will \"catalyze and connect [an] innovation approach\" while promoting the sharing of good practices. Their plan of action has been supported by Switzerland, Indonesia, Spain, Georgia, Australia, the UAE, France and Norway.\n\nIn Kosovo, Support to Anti-Corruption Efforts in Kosovo (SAEK) has been developed in order to strengthen the capacities of the Kosovo Anti-Corruption Agency (KAA). They are using innovative ICT, web2.0 and social media technologies as a way to connect the government and younger generations by utilizing the potential of new technologies as well as \"giving citizens the opportunity to voice concerns, share observations online and to make these visible to the public while raising the awareness on the level and form of corruption occurring in Kosovo\". SAEK is considered a success as in the year it was launched, more than 1024 cases of corruption were reported (with half of them now resolved).\n\nAccording to the Inter-Agency Task Force on Financing for Development (part of the United Nations): \"in addition to being an important technology sector in its own right, information and communication technology (ICT) is important for linking agents in the innovation system\".\n\nOpen data is currently arising as a corruption-fighting mechanism. Indeed, as transparency in government data increases and becomes accessible to all, there will be opportunities for better accountability as it will increase the odds of uncovering governmental misconduct (specifically in government activities, budgets and expenditures for citizens). Its applications are various, including but not restricted to: following the money, open contracting, changing incentives and enabling cross-sector collaboration.\n\nIn 2015, one of the G20 priorities was to reduce corruption and to promote good governance. The Anti-Corruption Working Group (ACWG) developed the Anti-Corruption Open Data Principles in order to leverage open data as one of the key actions to create and foster accountability and transparency. The principles are directly derived from the International Open Data Charter, which specifies the release and use of government data to reduce the reach of corruption.\n\nTransparency International and the Web Foundation carried out a study on certain member countries of the G20 (Brazil, France, Germany, Indonesia and South Africa) to evaluate the effect of the principles on their fight against corruption.\n\nIn Indonesia, for example (Corruption in Indonesia), it is estimated that corruption has cost up to IDR 31,077 trillion to the country. Through public information availability, the country has tried to foster and promote its anti-corruption actions by utilizing its legal and institutional frameworks. Nonetheless, the access to datasets remains scarce while the lack of education amongst staff and citizens impedes the use of data as a tool against corruption.\n\nData mining was a crucial tool used in the famous anti-corruption investigation of the Panama Papers by way of the initiative of the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists. The amount of data reached was 2.6 terabytes or 11.5 billion documents. The implementation of a graph database allowed for better efficiency in the research and analysis of the documents as it found hidden links between accounts and owners that would have been hard to dig up otherwise. Mar Cabra, ICIJ Data Editor, claimed that the software used made them feel like: \"we [had] superpowers\".\n\nSocial media is amongst the newest factors that has been shown by researchers to reduce the impact of corruption.\n\nSocial media platforms have created a multi-way communication which contradicts the one-way channel of traditional media. It enables individuals to share experiences in a quick and cheap manner through its platforms. It facilitates exchanges of geographically separated individuals which makes it an important tool as a dialogue platform.\n\nIn many countries, cases of human rights violations and corruption have started to come out publicly. They challenge the status quo of the government holding the monopoly over information.\n\nThe World Economic Forum established in 2014 that social media could be a useful tool to drive anti-corruption because of its ability to advance commentary and information provision to the population. It is also useful because of its key role in investigating through collective action participation. They use the example of I Paid A Bribe, an Indian website inviting users to input their daily contact with corruption and whether they paid a bribe or not to a public servant.\n\nPetty corruption can be fought by the emergence of cashless payments, and more generally in a cashless economy.\n\nIn Kenya, M-Pesa was launched to allow people to transfer money through mobile phones. It is used by almost two-thirds of the population and is gaining momentum as it is opening its technology to other countries (Tanzania for example).\n\nAs traffic police is seen as one of the most notorious sources of corruption, M-Pesa proposed to create cashless payments on public buses to avoid the extortion of bribes.\n\nWhile there are currently some logistical and regulatory problems preventing it from getting traction, mobile banking is seen as a potential tool to fight petty corruption, specifically if it is accompanied by the proper framework for legislative action and good governance.\nLiterature on social innovation in relation to territorial/regional development covers innovation in the social economy, i.e. strategies for satisfaction of human needs; and innovation in the sense of transforming and/or sustaining social relations, especially governance relations at the regional and local level. Beginning in the late 1980s, Jean-Louis Laville and Frank Moulaert researched social innovation. In Canada CRISES initiated this type of research. Another, larger project was SINGOCOM a European Commission Framework 5 project, which pioneered so-called \"Alternative Models for Local Innovation\" (ALMOLIN). These models were further elaborated through community actions covered by KATARSIS and SOCIAL POLIS. More recent works focus on the societal role of the economic life in terms of innovations in social practices and social relations at the local and regional levels. Social Innovation, therefore, is increasingly seen as a process and a strategy to foster human development through solidarity, cooperation, and cultural diversity.\n\nThe EU funded URBACT programme is designed to help cities to exchange and learn around urban policies. The URBACT methodology can be seen as a social innovation action planning approach. A typical URBACT network would have ten cities working on a specific theme such as active inclusion or regenerating disadvantaged neighbourhoods. They examine good practice and then working through a local support group use the results to inform their local action plan.\n\nThe Social Innovation Europe initiative, funded by the European Commission's Directorate General for Enterprise and Industry, was set up to map social innovation at a European level, by creating a directory of grass-roots examples of social innovation from across the 27 member states.\n\nThe European Commission funded the SELUSI study between 2008 - 2013 that looked at over 550 social ventures and examined how these insights can spark change and innovation at a much larger scale. It looked at business models of social ventures in five countries - UK being one of them – identifying which specific practices evolved by social ventures are particularly successful, and how and by whom – be it social enterprise, public sector body or mainstream business – they can be most effectively scaled-up.\n\nThe European Commission has launched a new initiative (project) in 2013 under FP7 funding, with the aim to build a network of incubators for social innovation across regions and countries. This network facilitates identification of 300 social innovation examples and facilitates its scaling. The network is organised in a way to identify new models for scaling of social innovations across various geographical clusters in collaboration with each other, communicating the ideas, finding the tools and funds, developing business plans and models in order to promote the new promising ideas throughout Europe.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17334301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17334301", "title": "Social photography", "text": "Social photography\n\nSocial photography is a subcategory of photography focusing upon the technology, interaction and activities of individuals who take photographs. Digital cameras, photo sharing websites and the Internet have enabled new tools and methods of social networking while consumer trends such as flashpacking and adventure travel have led to a worldwide increase in socially connected photographers.\n\nThe proliferation of easy-to-use open source blogging methods, inexpensively-priced equipment and content management system applications has led to an increase in photography for social change and amateur photojournalism.\nSome extensions of social photography include geotagging and online mapping, while online social networking destinations like Facebook have led to an increase in the popularity of technology employing the real-time transfer of images. Where Facebook allows for users to instantly upload a picture from their mobile phone to their profile, there have recently been a number of services sprouting up that allows users to create real time photo streams. \n\nA wireless digital camera enables photographers to connect to cellular networks or other hotspots to share photos, print wirelessly and save photos directly to an image hosting website. Geographic areas serviced by outdoor WiFi networks permit extended applications for geocaching which can include the use of Global Positioning Systems and smartphones.\n\nSome news networks and online broadcasters encourage viewers to send in photographs of live, breaking and current events, enabling citizen journalists and amateur photographers to participate in the news gathering process.\n\nSome business companies started to look for individuals who can take images opposed to stock-photos that would help evolve their brand and this is typically done through social photography. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "22021031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22021031", "title": "Social translucence", "text": "Social translucence\n\nSocial translucence (also referred as \"social awareness\") is a term that was proposed by Thomas Erickson and Wendy Kellogg to refer to \"design digital systems that support coherent behavior by making participants and their activities visible to one another\".\n\nSocial translucence represents a tool for transparency in socio-technical systems, which function is to\n\nSocial translucence is, in particular, a core element in online social networking such as Facebook or LinkedIn, in which they intervene in the possibility for people to expose their online identity, but also in the creation of awareness of other people activities, that are for instance present in the activity feeds that these systems make available.\n\nSocial translucence mechanisms have been made available in many web 2.0 systems such as:\n\nParticipation of people in online communities, in general, differ from their participatory behavior in real-world collective contexts. Humans in daily life are used to making use of \"social cues\" for guiding their decisions and actions e.g. if a group of people is looking for a good restaurant to have lunch, it is very likely that they will choose to enter to a local that have some customers inside instead of one that it is empty (the more crowded restaurant could reflect its popularity and in consequence, its quality of service). However, in online social environments, it is not straightforward how to access to these sources of information which are normally being logged in the systems, but this is not disclosed to the users.\n\nThere are some theories that explain how this social translucence can affect the behavior of people in real-life scenarios. The American philosopher George Herbert Mead states that humans are social creatures, in the sense that people's actions cannot be isolated from the behavior of the whole collective they are part of because every individuals' acts are influenced by larger social practices that act as a general behavior's framework. In his performance framework, the Canadian sociologist Erving Goffman postulates that in everyday social interactions individuals perform their actions by collecting information from others first, in order to know in advance what they may expect from them and in this way being able to plan how to behave more effectively.\n\nAccording to Erickson et al., social translucent systems should respect the principles of visibility (making significant social information available to users), awareness (bringing our social rules to guide our actions based on external social cues) and accountability (being able to identify who did what and when) in order to allow people to effectively facilitate users communication and collaboration in virtual environments. Zolyomi et al. proposed the principle of identity as a fourth dimension for social translucence by arguing that the design of socio-technical systems should have a rich description of who is visible, in order to give people control over disclosure and mechanisms to advocate for their needs. McDonald et al. proposed a system architecture for structuring the development of social translucent systems, which comprises two dimensions: types of user actions in the system, and a second describing the processing and interpretation done by the system. This framework can guide designers to determine what activities are important to social translucence and need to be reflected, and how interpretive levels of those actions might provide contextual salience to the users \n\nIn the same way that in the real-world, providing social cues in virtual communities can help people to understand better the situations they face in these environments, to alleviate their decision-making processes by enabling their access to more informed choices, to persuade them to participate in the activities that take place there, and to structure their own schedule of individual and group activities more efficiently.\n\nIn this frame of reference, an approach called \"social context displays\" has been proposed for showing social information -either from real or virtual environments- in digital scenarios. It is based on the use of graphical representations to visualize the presence and activity traces of a group of people, thus providing users with a third-party view of what is happening within the community i.e. who are actively participating, who are not contributing to the group efforts, etc. This social-context-revealing approach has been studied in different scenarios (e.g. IBM video-conference software, large community displaying social activity traces in a shared space called NOMATIC*VIZ), and it has been demonstrated that its application can provide users with several benefits, like providing them with more information to make better decisions and motivating them to take an active attitude towards the management of their self and group representations within the display through their actions in the real-life.\n\nThe feeling of personal accountability in front of others that social translucence can report to users can be used for the design of systems for supporting behavior change (e.g. weight loss, smoking cessation), if combined with the appropriate type of feedback.\n\nBy making the traces of activity of users publicly available for others to access it is natural that it can raise users concerns related to which are their rights over the data they generate, who are the final users that can have access to their information and how they can know and control their privacy policies. There are several perspectives that try to contextualize this privacy issue. One perspective is to see privacy as a tradeoff between the degree of invasion to the personal space and the number of benefits that the user could perceive from the social system by disclosing their online activity traces. Another perspective is examining the concession between the visibility of people within the social system and their level of privacy, which can be managed at an individual or at a group level by establishing specific permissions for allowing others to have access to their information. Other authors state that instead of enforcing users to set and control privacy settings, social systems might focus on raising their awareness about who their audiences are so they can manage their online behavior according to the reactions they expect from those different user groups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41139002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41139002", "title": "Sociology of Revolution (book)", "text": "Sociology of Revolution (book)\n\nSociology of Revolution is a book by Russian American sociologist Pitirim Sorokin. Sociology of revolution as branch of sociology was developed by Thomas Hobbes in \"Leviathan\". to a certain extent earlier than Sorokin. Hobbes lived and created in the period of English Revolution. In the opinion by Hobbes, \"the war of all against all\" (\"Bellum omnium contra omnes\") begins in the period of revolution and of Civil War, when all men threaten by each man, when each man has the right to all things by right of strong man, when \"Man Is Wolf to Man\" (\"Homo homini lupus\") Sorokin had generalized the data about the new revolutions, unknowns for Hobbes – French Revolution, Russian Revolution (1917), etc.\n\nWilbur Cortez Abbott wrote in work \"The Working of Revolution\". that Sorokin has worked, so to speak, in a laboratory of revolution. Sorokin was, indeed, not able to set down his conclusions in Bolshevist Russia; Sorokin was banished from Russia in 1922, Sorokin wrote his book in the more hospitable atmosphere of Czecho-Slovakia\". Sorokin was head of the department of sociology in the University of Petrograd, he was one of the leaders of the moderate revolutionary party, he was a member of the All-Russian Peasants' Soviet and of the Constituent assembly \" in 1917-1918. Sorokin had been imprisoned three times, condemned to death and finally exiled by Bolshevist government for that. What is the result of his study of Russian revolution? Book of Sorokin is, briefly, the most damning indictment of Bolshevist regime. This book is a careful study of revolution in general. It is one of the best descriptions of revolution ever written—that of Thucydides on Corcyra—as it is with the events in France of the eighteenth century or Russia in the twentieth. Revolution is reversion of civilized people to savagery.\n\nThe book \"Sociology of revolution\" was conceived by Sorokin in the years of Russian Civil War in 1917–1922. Sorokin started writing of this book in Prague in 1922. This book was published in the US in 1925.\n\nSorokin was entitled the privatdozent of Petrograd university in January, 1917 . Sorokin became the editor of the newspaper of Socialist Revolutionary Party and the personal secretary of the prime minister Alexander Kerensky after February Revolution. Sorokin was arrested by Bolsheviks as the deputy of the Russian Constituent Assembly on January 2, 1918, Sorokin was compelled to disappear from the authorities after release from bolshevist prison. Then Sorokin had published the open letter in newspaper in which Sorokin states a failure of tactics of Socialist Revolutionary Party and Sorokin declares a gap with this party. Vladimir Lenin focused the attention on this letter in the Lenin's known article \"Valuable Recognitions of Pitirim Sorokin\". Sorokin stopped being engaged in political activity and Sorokin resumed own teaching activity. The authorities didn't like its devastating Sorokin's review about work of Nikolai Bukharin \"The theory of a historical materialism\". Later the set of the Sorokin's book \"Hunger as a factor in Human Affairs\" was destroyed. Sorokin was arrested as the representative of \"bourgeois professorate\" and forced out from Russia under the threat of execution in 1922. Sorokin appeared in the US for this reason.\n\nThe theory of revolution was developed in Marxism too. Lenin's theory about the reasons for revolution, about the revolutionary situation resembles the Sorokin' theory partly, but theories of Lenin and Sorokin differ each other in the estimation of the value of this phenomenon as revolution sharply. Lenin considered that revolution is good; revolutions are \"the festivals of the oppressed and the exploited\". Revolution is only method for such revolutionaries as Marx, Engels and Lenin to receive the authority without the elections, since the capitalist dictatorship not allow a communist party to win in democractic elections. Marx named the revolutions as \"the locomotives of history\". Sorokin and Hobbes considered that revolution is very bad. Sorokin considered that the revolution is the severe social illness, which can lead to death of social organism suddenly, that revolution is the worse method of an improvement of the life of masses. The revolutionaries promise to masses \"gold mountains\" in the words, but masses receive the hunger, the epidemics and the executions of innocent people in reality. The negligible results of revolution are reached by enormous price.\n\nSorokin proposes other methods of improvement and reconstruction of the social organization:\n\n\nThe conclusion: These canons are observed even under the erection of bridges and breeding of cattle. The inhabitant of distant planet, who observed the cataclysms of Russian revolution, could conclude that the cows and bridges are valued more expensively on the Earth than human life.\n\nFor the comparison it is possible to give Lenin's opinion about the reasons for revolutionary situation:\n\nSorokin named two reasons for the revolution:\n\n\nWhy does the suppression of base instincts lead to the revolution always? Because it forces man to search the exit from the desperate condition. The hunger weakens the brakes, which retain by man from the theft, eating of low-quality food from the dustbin, robbery and murder.\nThe law-abiding citizen becomes thief and bandit because of the hunger, worker becomes beggar, the believer ceases to be fasted and aristocrat goes to the market to sell the trousers. The complete disappearance of brakes in the behavior of people can lead to the disintegration of the society, when man tears away \"the framework\" of civilized behavior completely and this man convert into the beast, which it is permitted all (the murder, violence, robbery).\n\n\nThese are the authentic reasons for revolution, and excuse can be completely different (the quarrel around the religious dogmas or convocation of General States). Ideology determines the selection of the slogans (\"holy earth\", \"true faith\", \"republic\" or \"socialism\"). Ideology determines the selection of popular heroes—Jesus Christ, Jan Hus, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Martin Luther, Karl Marx, Leo Tolstoy or Karl Liebknecht. Ideology determines the selection of basic idea (interpretation of gospel, national idea, the theory of surplus value or capitalist exploitation). Ideology determines the selection of emblem (\"red Phrygian cap\" is the identification mark of French revolutionary—Jacobins, \"black shirt\" is form of the Italian fascists of Benito Mussolini, \"pentagonal red star\" is sign of membership in the Red Army).\nWhat social groups do become revolutionary at first of all and why?\nThose estates and social groups will be most revolutionary, which have the largest quantity of jammed instincts and, on the contrary, this estates and social groups will be enemies of revolution, which have not jammed instincts completely or which have a small quantity of jammed instincts. Therefore, Bolsheviks could keep on soldiers and workers by the revolutionary ideas easy, and aristocrats were against the revolution always. There were 95% of population on the side of the revolution in February 1917 in Russia, and then some social groups started opposing revolution escalation, these groups wanted that the government brought an order. Even peasants and sailors had risen against the Bolsheviks in Kronstadt In 1921. Soviet government had held the authority under these conditions only cause of the terrible fatigue from the cataclysms of Civil War and cause of concessions in the form of the New Economic Policy.\n\nThe disorganization of authority and social control means the incapacity of government to crush the rebellion, to remove the conditions, which cause the dissatisfaction of population, to cleave the mass on the part and to set them against each other by the principle \"divide and rule\", to direct the way out of energy for masses into another no-revolutionary \"river's bed\" according to the principle \"to open the valve so that the boiler would not explode\". The atmosphere of pre-revolutionary epochs amazes by observer with weakness of the authorities and with degeneration of the elite always. Chronicler Ipuwer wrote about the weakness of authority of pharaohs on the eve of the Egyptian revolution of the epoch of average kingdom: \"There is no ruler in the country. But where is ruler? Had ruler fallen asleep? Ruler had lost the force and ruler is not support to us\". The same situation was in Russia in 1917. There was not one sane and imperious minister, ecrepit Ivan Goremykin, incompetent Boris Stürmer, mad Alexander Protopopov and mad Vasily Virubov is the entire gallery of mediocre rulers and cynical dwarfs, this is the result of the complete degeneration of elite. History \"suffers\" cruel and injurious governments until they are able to operate the state, but history will carry severe verdict to powerless and parasitic governments. The degeneration of elite becomes inevitable, when elite converts into the caste, when social \"lifts\" are switched off and way is closed for the innate rulers to upward with help of artificial barriers on the way of circulation into the members of elite. Talented premier-minister Sergei Witte was undergone dislike in side of Nicholas II of Russia repeatedly. When revolutionary explosion occurs, then pitiless revolutionary broom clears out entire social rubbish (aristocrats—degenerates). \"Upstarts\" from the bottoms rush to upward on the social ladder through the enormous slot in the social sieve of selection. This sieve exists on each floor of social ladder during the normal period of existence of society, when there is no revolution in society. Therefore, new elite builds the new \"sieve\" at the second stage of revolution, under protection of which the upstarts, who reached the social top, merge with the remainders of the old aristocracy, which are left for transfer of experience of control over people. New Bolshevik \"sieve\" passed to upward only those, who were \"from the machine tool\" or \"from the wooden plough\", and new Bolshevik \"sieve\" rejected to downward all rest people.\n\nRevolution has two stages. There is a mad energy output at the first stage of revolution, but the person is not the Perpetuum mobile therefore mass apathy and fatigue comes sooner or later. The vigorous group or the tyrant can seize power at the second stage of revolution easily, using this weakness and they can restore an old regime. The second stage is a stage of \"reaction\" or \"restraint\". Reasons generating this stage, are strengthening of hunger, crime, requisitions, epidemics, \"wars of all against all\". People face a dilemma: or to be lost, continuing revolutionary uproar, or to bring an order at any cost. Examples \"creators of an order\" are Vladimir Lenin, Maximilien de Robespierre, John Zizka, Oliver Cromwell, Augustus, Napoleon, who are able to bring an order \"an iron fist\" after the period of revolutions or reforms. Society which isn't capable to develop with help of peace reforms, is compelled to pay a tribute for revolution at a rate of considerable part of the population. It is possible to draw a conclusion that peace reform is much better, than a social revolution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9602807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9602807", "title": "Thematic interpretation", "text": "Thematic interpretation\n\nThematic interpretation is an approach to heritage interpretation originally advocated by Professor William J. Lewis (University of Vermont) and subsequently developed by Professor Sam H. Ham (University of Idaho). In the thematic approach, an interpreter relies on a central theme (i.e., a major point or message) to guide development of a communication activity or device. In presenting the activity or device, the thematic interpreter develops the theme in such a way that it will be highly relevant to an audience. According to studies, presenting a strongly relevant theme greatly increases the likelihood an interpreter will succeed in provoking an audience to think about theme-related issues.\n\nBeginning in the early 2000s, the thematic approach has been adopted widely in persuasive communication campaigns aimed at impacting environmental behaviors, especially those related to energy and water consumption, and in occupational safety and risk communication programs. In the broader fields of sustainable development and risk communication, the term \"thematic communication\" (rather than thematic \"interpretation\") is often used. The two approaches, however, are identical, and both are linked largely to Ham's (1992) book, \"Environmental Interpretation\".\n\nThe thematic approach to interpretation was popularized in the book Environmental Interpretation (1992) by Dr. Sam H. Ham (University of Idaho) which has become standard reading for many students of interpretation and interpretive tour guiding. Prior to Dr. Ham's book, two additional contributors to the field of Interpretation are its founder, Freeman Tilden and his book, \"Interpreting Our Heritage\" (1957) and Dr. Grant W. Sharpe (University of Washington) and his work, \"Interpreting the Environment\".\n\nHam formally presented the thematic approach for the first time in his 1992 book, wherein he outlined the \"EROT\" (Enjoyable, Relevant, Organized, Thematic) framework. Drawing heavily on persuasive communication research, Ham refined the EROT framework in the early 2000s and renamed it the TORE model of thematic interpretation. The most detailed presentation of the TORE model is in \"Interpretation-- Making a difference on purpose\" which Ham published in 2013.\n\nThere are obvious parallels between Ham's view of thematic interpretation and those of Freeman Tilden who is widely considered the founder of the field of interpretation. The most important parallel is that both see interpretation as a process aimed at provoking audiences to do their own thinking and thereby develop their own subjective understanding of the world. This is in contrast to the view that interpretation instructs audiences to know or accept the interpreter's understanding of things.\n\nBoth Tilden and Ham appear to be strongly influenced by the views of constructivist learning theorists--with Tilden influenced by John Dewey, and Ham influenced by cognitive constructivist Jean Piaget and social constructivist Lev Vygotsky. In the spirit of constructivist learning theory, Dewey, Piaget, and Vygotsky saw learning as the result of knowledge that is created inside a learner's own head, rather than being \"put\" there by an educator. Both Tilden, and later, Ham, advocated a very similar view in the field of interpretation. According to both of them, when interpretation is strongly relevant to its audience, it is likely to provoke thinking and elaboration.\n\nIn everyday reality, the practice of thematic interpretation involves theme-based communication by interpretive naturalists, zoo and museum educators, guides, docents, park rangers, and other communicators in natural and cultural settings. Typically interpreters are required to present complex and potentially dry subject matter to non-technical voluntary audiences (often consisting of tourists) in an interesting and engaging way. The thematic approach can involve any method that increases the relevance of an interpreter's theme to an audience, for example, comparisons, analogies and stories that link unfamiliar things to the things an audience already cares about.\n\nThematic interpretation also refers to an event in some high school competitive speech leagues such as the California High School Speech Association and the National Christian Forensics and Communications Association. \"TIers\" present multiple \"cuttings\" from published works on a common theme; they can be of humorous and/or dramatic intent. The entire speech including an introduction and transitions should not exceed ten minutes. Contestants are judged based on the appropriateness of their selections and their portrayal of the characters. Another defining characteristic of Thematic Interpretation is the use of a single binder, containing the literature, as a prop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27868897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27868897", "title": "Torsten Rudenschöld", "text": "Torsten Rudenschöld\n\nTorsten Rudenschöld (March 30, 1798 - May 27, 1859) was a Swedish educator and social reformer.\n\n"}
{"id": "56419774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56419774", "title": "Whisper network", "text": "Whisper network\n\nA whisper network describes a chain of information privately passed between people, typically a list of powerful people in an industry alleged as being sexual harassers or abusers. The information is often shared between women by word of mouth, online in private communities, in forums, via spreadsheets, and sometimes using crowd-sourced documents. The stated purpose of maintaining these lists is to warn potential victims of \"people to avoid\" in their industry. Whisper networks also purportedly help victims realize they are not alone so they can find each other and come forward together about a serial abuser. The term \"whisper network\" was newly popularized during the #MeToo movement after several private lists were published outside private networks, for example the Shitty Media Men list, the California State Capitol list, and the Harvey Weinstein Google doc. Karen Kelsky created a less controversial list called \"Sexual Harassment In the Academy: A Crowdsourced Survey\" which had grown to over 2000 entries by the end of 2017, and includes stories without actually naming the accusing and accused parties. Kelsky said she hoped the list would help demonstrate the scope of sexual misconduct in the academic field, and it has resulted in the investigation of twelve men at the University of Michigan.\n\nPublishing whisper networks to the public has been widely criticized for spreading unsubstantiated rumors which can damage reputations, though there continues to be debate on the best alternatives to anonymous sharing for women who have been punished or ignored by official channels yet would still like to warn other women. It has been noted that certain vulnerable groups rarely get access to these private lists, for example women who are young and women of color. As a result, these groups rarely receive any protection from whisper networks unless they are published. The main problem with trying to protect more potential victims by publishing whisper networks is determining the best mechanism to verify allegations. Some suggestions have included strengthening unions in vulnerable industries so workers can report directly to the union, maintaining industry hotlines which have the power to trigger third-party investigations, and creating public systems that allow anonymous reporting with the ability to connect victims who report the same perpetrator. Several apps have been developed which offer various ways for women to report sexual misconduct, and some of these apps have the ability to connect victims with each other. Sex workers regularly share “bad date lists” and St. James Infirmary Clinic (which offers health and safety services for sex workers), created a “Bad Date” app that allows sex workers to anonymously log incidents with clients who have threatened, extorted, robbed, or been violent, potentially warning other sex workers in the future.\n"}
{"id": "242029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=242029", "title": "Word of mouth", "text": "Word of mouth\n\nWord of mouth or viva voce, is the passing of information from person to person by oral communication, which could be as simple as telling someone the time of day. Storytelling is a common form of word-of-mouth communication where one person tells others a story about a real event or something made up. Oral tradition is cultural material and traditions transmitted by word of mouth through successive generations. Storytelling and oral tradition are forms of word of mouth that play important roles in folklore and mythology. Another example of oral communication is oral history—the recording, preservation and interpretation of historical information, based on the personal experiences and opinions of the speaker. Oral history preservation is the field that deals with the care and upkeep of oral history materials collected by word of mouth, whatever format they may be in.\n\nStorytelling often involves improvisation or embellishment. Stories or narratives have been shared in every culture as a means of entertainment, education, cultural preservation and in order to instill moral values.\n\nThe earliest forms of storytelling were thought to have been primarily oral combined with gesture storytelling for many of the ancient cultures. The Australian Aboriginal people painted symbols from stories on cave walls as a means of helping the storyteller remember the story. The story was then told using a combination of oral narrative, music, rock art, and dance.\n\nTraditionally, oral stories were committed to memory and then passed from generation to generation. However, in literate societies, written and televised media have largely replaced this method of communicating local, family, and cultural histories. Oral storytelling remains the dominant medium of learning in some countries with low literacy rates.\n\nOral tradition (sometimes referred to as \"oral culture\" or \"oral lore\") is cultural material and traditions transmitted orally from one generation to another. The messages or testimony are verbally transmitted in speech or song and may take the form, for example, of folktales, sayings, ballads, songs, or chants. In this way, it is possible for a society to transmit oral history, oral literature, oral law and other knowledges across generations without a writing system.\n\nSociologists emphasize a requirement that the material is held in common by a group of people, over several generations, and thus distinguish oral tradition from testimony or oral history. In a general sense, \"oral tradition\" refers to the transmission of cultural material through vocal utterance, and was long held to be a key descriptor of folklore (a criterion no longer rigidly held by all folklorists). As an academic discipline, it refers both to a set of objects of study and a method by which they are studied—the method may be called variously \"oral traditional theory\", \"the theory of Oral-Formulaic Composition\" and the \"Parry-Lord theory\" (after two of its founders). The study of oral tradition is distinct from the academic discipline of oral history, which is the recording of personal memories and histories of those who experienced historical eras or events. It is also distinct from the study of orality, which can be defined as thought and its verbal expression in societies where the technologies of literacy (especially writing and print) are unfamiliar to most of the population.\n\nOral history is the recording of personal memories and histories of those who experienced historical eras or events. Oral history is a method of historical documentation, using interviews with living survivors of the time being investigated. Oral history often touches on topics scarcely touched on by written documents, and by doing so, fills in the gaps of records that make up early historical documents. Oral history preservation is the field that deals with the care and upkeep of oral history materials, whatever format they may be in.\n\nLong-established systems using word-of-mouth include:\n\n"}
{"id": "29071145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29071145", "title": "World news", "text": "World news\n\nWorld news or international news or even foreign coverage is the news media jargon for news from abroad, about a country or a global subject. For journalism, it is a branch that deals with news either sent by foreign correspondents or news agencies, or – more recently – information that is gathered or researched through distance communication technologies, such as telephone, satellite TV or the internet.\n\nAlthough in most of the English-speaking world this field is not usually regarded as a specific specialization for journalists, it is so in nearly all the world. Particularly in the United States, there is a blurred distinction between world news and \"national\" news when they include directly the national government or national institutions, such as wars in which the US are involved or summits of multilateral organizations in which the US are a member.\n\nAt the birth of modern journalism, most news were foreign, as registered by the courants of the 17th century in West and Central Europe, such as the \"Daily Courant\" (England), the \"Nieuwe Tijudinger\" (Antwerp), the \"Relation\" (Strasbourg), the \"Avisa Relation oder Zeitung\" (Wolfenbüttel) and the \"Courante Uyt Italien, Duytsland & C.\" (Amsterdam). Since these papers were aimed at bankers and merchants, they brought mostly news from other markets, which usually meant other nations. In any case, it is worthy to remark that nation-states were still incipient in 17th-century Europe.\n\nFrom the 19th century on, with newspapers already established in Europe, the United States and a few other countries, innovations in telecommunications such as the telegraph made news from abroad easier to be spread. The first news agencies were then founded, like AFP (France), Reuters (UK), Wolff (currently DPA, Germany) and the AP (US).\n\nWar journalism is one of the best known subfields of world news (although war coverage can be national for the media of belligerent countries themselves).\n\nThere are essentially two types of reporters who do foreign reporting: the foreign correspondent (full-time reporter employed by a news source) and the special envoy (sent abroad to cover a specific subject, temporarily stationed in a location).\n\nThe correspondent is a reporter based in a foreign city (often the capital of a country) covering a region, a country or sometimes even an entire continent. He or she regularly files stories to the news editor. He/she gathers materials for these stories from local officials, members of the community, and the local media, as well as from events he/she directly witnesses. Correspondents typically stay in touch with the local community and maintain contacts with other journalists and correspondents in order to identify strategic sources in the government, among diplomats, members of the military and other organizations on the ground who may provide important information.\n\nThe number of foreign correspondents has dropped significantly over the past 20 years or more. Often, a media company is either uninterested or unable to afford to support a single correspondent, such as in many developing countries. In some places, they cannot obtain visas due to political constraints, or otherwise dangerous conditions prohibit a media company from stationing a reporter there. In recent years, the drop in foreign correspondents has been due to cutbacks within media companies (often, but not always, a result of economics alone). Among English language newspapers, only eight daily newspapers have full-time correspondents in more than ten foreign stations, four from the US, three from the UK and one from India: \n\n35 – \"Wall Street Journal\" (US): Baghdad, Bangkok, Beijing, Beirut, Berlin, Brussels, Buenos Aires, Dubai, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, Istanbul, Jakarta, Jerusalem, Johannesburg, Kabul, Kuala Lumpur, Lagos, London, Manila, Mexico City, Moscow, Mumbai, New Delhi, Paris, Prague, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, São Paulo, Seoul, Shanghai, Singapore, Taipei, Tokyo, Toronto, Zurich\n\n24 – \"New York Times\" (US): Baghdad, Beijing, Beirut, Berlin, Cairo, Caracas, Dakar, Hong Kong, Islamabad, Jakarta, Jerusalem, Johannesburg, Kabul, London, Mexico City, Moscow, Mumbai, Nairobi, New Delhi, Paris, Rome, São Paulo, Shanghai, Tokyo\n\n19 – \"Financial Times\" (UK): Beijing, Berlin, Bombay, Brussels, Dubai, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, Jakarta, Jerusalem, Moscow, Mumbai, New Delhi, New York, Paris, Taipei, Tokyo, Shanghai, Sydney, Washington\n\n17 – \"Washington Post\" (US): Baghdad, Beijing, Berlin, Bogotá, Cairo, Islamabad, Jerusalem, Kabul, London, Mexico City, Moscow, Nairobi, New Delhi, Paris, Shanghai, Tehran, Tokyo\n\n15 – \"The Guardian\" (UK): Accra, Bangkok, Beijing, Berlin, Brussels, Kabul, Islamabad, Jerusalem, Los Angeles, Madrid, New York, Paris, Rome, Tehran, Tokyo\n\n13 – \"The Daily Telegraph\" (UK): Beijing, Brussels, Jerusalem, Kabul, Los Angeles, Moscow, Nairobi, New Delhi, New York, Paris, Shanghai, Sydney, Washington\n\n13 – \"Los Angeles Times\" (US): Baghdad, Beijing, Beirut, Cairo, Islamabad, Jerusalem, Johannesburg, Kabul, London, Mexico City, Moscow, New Delhi, Seoul\n\n12 – \"The Hindu\" (India): Addis Ababa, Beijing, Colombo, Dhaka, Dubai, Islamabad, Kathmandu, London, Moscow, Paris, Singapore, Washington \n\nWhen reporters working abroad have no permanent labor contract with media outlets, they are called stringers. Since they have no salary, stringers usually produce material for several different companies at once.\n\nA news agency is an organization of journalists established to supply news reports to news organizations: newspapers, magazines, and radio and television broadcasters. Such an agency may also be referred to as a wire service, newswire or news service. The bulk of major news agency services contains foreign news.\n\nThe major news agencies generally prepare hard news stories and feature articles that can be used by other news organizations with little or no modification, and then sell them to other news organizations. They provide these articles in bulk electronically through wire services (originally they used telegraphy; today they frequently use the Internet). Corporations, individuals, analysts and intelligence agencies may also subscribe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32270625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32270625", "title": "Youth Public Chamber of Russia", "text": "Youth Public Chamber of Russia\n\nYouth Public Chamber of Russia (YPC) — (In Russian: Молодежная общественная палата) is the institute of civil society, uniting leaders of the youth wings of political parties, young leaders of big non-governmental organizations, young journalists, young businessmen, artists and sportsmen. YPC was founded in 2006.\n\nThe initiators of the Youth Public Chamber creation are leaders of youth wings of political parties «United Russia», «Communist Party of the Russian Federation», «Liberal Democratic Party of Russia», «People's Party of the Russian Federation», Social Democratic Party of Russia, leaders of 30 non-governmental organizations, young politics Dmitriy Gudkov, Alexey Rogozin, Alexey Navalny, Maria Gaidar, journalist Sergey Evdokimov, political scientist Pavel Svyatenkov and others. Under the Youth Public Chamber exists board of trustees, which includes members of the Government of Russia, leaders of political parties, members of Public Chamber of Russia and famous Russian politicians. It was announced, that by the means of this council the Youth Public Chamber advance its own bills, which influence government youth policy.\n\nThe Youth Public Chamber implements national programs «The Youth City», «SMS for Life», implements projects in the field of public health services, child protection, and youth public policy.\n\nYouth Council of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation was founded at the initiative of the Youth Public Chamber and Russian Union of Youth and with support of the Russian Government in 2009. The Council is the advisory board at the organization. It chairs all participating countries in rotation. Among the first specific projects under discussion is the creation of the youth camp on the lake Issyk Kul in Kirgizia.\n\nThis program provides free sms-informing of young pregnant women about the pregnancy period. It is based on advice on healthy lifestyle for women in different periods of the pregnancy, legal advice for future mothers and advice on childcare during the first months of life. Medical recommendations were prepared by highly skilled experts of D.O.Ott scientific research institute of obstetrics and gynecology. National program «SMS for life» was approved by the participants of the First International Congress of perinatal medicine, which was held in Moscow 16.06.2011. Leading accoucheurs-gynecologists of the world highly appreciated efficiency of the program and recommended it to implementation at regional level.\n\nThe high cost and inaccessibility of residential property for citizens precisely is the most serious problem for young families in Russia today. One of the main reasons that causes high prices on residential property is corruption. The Supervisory Board that acts within the Program scope consists of representatives from the legislative and executive bodies of Russia and allows to remove corruption component out of the Program implementation.\nThe main goal of the Program is to construct small satellite towns where young families can purchase their first homes at the lowest price possible as well as work in the emerging industries. The residents of these towns will be able to work without actually leaving the town because of construction of complex residential property as well as complete set of social and business infrastructure.\n\nThe Youth Public Chamber holds annual competition of the children's and youth literature of a name of A.N.Tolstoy.\nThe competition is held jointly with the Union of Writers of Russia and urged to lift and strengthen prestige of scientific and art creativity in consciousness of the young reader in Russia and in the countries of near and far abroad, to tap new talents among writers, poets, the publicists writing in Russian. Beginning and skilled writers can participate in competition without age and place of residence restriction.\n\n"}
